[{"Title":"Look out! It's a rubber raptor!","Date":"29 October 2000","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Here in England, we've not had the pleasure of seeing Carnosaur 1+2 and the film is just titled Primal Species.  Without the precedent of such un-doubtedly classic prequels, I had no idea what the film would be like (except for some guesswork based on the video cover).Nothing much needs to be said about the film except that it is one of the worst of the worst of the worst films ever.  Not that that's a huge criticism.  It's extremely entertaining.  To be honest the sight of those men in rubber dinosaur costumes was funnier than many proper comedies.  Equally funny is the swat team leader's constant smirk and attempts to sound hard.  The main death's were enjoyable too, firstly because the sight of fake monsters chewing on people is funny, and secondly because it meant that another annoying character had been wiped out.For an alternative night's entertainment, I would recommend this in a double-bill with something like Demolition University.  You'll laugh till you ache or simply fall asleep.  Either way, you'll be happy. "},{"Title":"Good entry, definitely worth a look for fans of the series","Date":"13 August 2004","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  `Carnosaur III Primal Species' is an above-average quality sequel in this series of the films.**SPOILERS**A team of terrorists hijacks a top-secret military convoy, thinking they have captured weapons-grade plutonium. Instead, the convoy was carrying dinosaurs, and the dinosaurs attack and kill the squad of terrorists. A military recovery team learns the convoy is stopped in a warehouse on the local waterfront, and immediately goes out to retrieve it. The dinosaurs attack the squad, leaving only three soldiers. Back at their headquaters, their captain (Scott Valentine) refuses to go back unless they kill the dinos, but the scientist in charge of the operation (Janet Gunn) orders them to merely capture the dinos. Heading back out to the warehouse, the team gets additional help with a Marine Task Force. Together, they still can't control the dinosaurs. They finally find a way to get them under control luring them out to a ship, sailing them out to see and blowing the ship up.    The Good News While this film won't win any awards for its FX, the dinos are still pretty realistic. It's still pretty better than the first one, but the second one is the most realistic of the movies. This film isn't as gory as some would believe, but only a few scenes are actually gory. There is the traditional limb ripped off and even some bloodsplatter, but this is the driest of the three films. The locale of the movie is a nice change, making the switch to a warehouse instead of in an open area like the first one. It was also very good in designing suspense. There was a lot of scenes were you were waiting for a dinosaur to pop out of somewhere and take a bite out of someone, and more often than not, that did happen. I have to give a film some recommendation when it delivers on suspense that it sets up.  The Bad News For some reason, this had some scenes that could've been taken out of the movie, despite the fact that it's barely over 1 hr. and 20 mins. The scenes showing the Soldiers and the Marines getting to know each other could've been trimmed, and several other small scenes could've been cut out. Also, there are a lot of shots of very obvious puppet dinosaurs shown. The T-Rex at the end is a very good example. It looked real in only a few seconds in the whole film. In fact, the dinos are only in a few minutes of the movie. They were missing for most of the movie. I counted only about a half-hour worth of screen time for the dinos. This should've been dragged out far longer for a film about dinosaurs, and it being so short in the first place, would've only made the film that much better. The recasting of Rick Dean, who was Monk in part two as Polcheck in this one, was a nice touch but confusing, as he seems to play the same role in both movies a wise-cracking soldier who doesn't seem too interested in the rules of the situation.The Final Verdict If you don't mind watching about a half-hours' worth of dinosaurs in an 1hr. and 20 min movie, this isn't that bad of a movie. It may leave you confused why it's so long with so many scenes that could've been cut out, but it is still a worthwhile edition to the series.Rated R Graphic Violence, Adult Language. "},{"Title":"Gore galore!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A group of military troops are trapped in a wear-house where they are killed-off by killer reptilian menaces.Although thedinosaurs are a bit unconvincing,there is some great gore; lots of severed heads and blood splatters,making this one fun b-movie. And actually, the script and direction are not that bad, and the acting and production values are not that bad,when compared to other direct-to-video titles released around the time. Also be on the look-out for a strange (but truly unique) musical score by Kevin Kiner. "},{"Title":"Primal Species is brilliant","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  All Jurassic Park fans should love this. It's a low budget Jurassic Park only scarier and gorier. It starts off with a few pathetic terrorists trying to steal Uranium to build a weapon but when opening what they've stolen they find out that it's 2 Velociraptors. They've also stolen an asexual reproducing T-rex which appears later in the film. Their mistake proves fatal. The army investigate it. They find out about the Carnosaurs but they have to capture them alive. This proves difficult.The special effects weren't great but at least they didn't hide the dinosaurs so the audience could barely see them.This film is gory so if your squeamish avoid this film at all costs and there is enough gore to satisfy gore hounds. This film is also scary and suspenseful. I recommend this film to all those people who loved Jurassic Park. If you see it and its cheap, buy it! 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Fun B movie nothing more, nothing less!","Date":"15 August 2008","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Third & final installment to the killer Dinosaur series, has a group of soldiers under attack by the prehistoric predators whom are still more determined than ever to make man the extinct species. Banning together the soldiers attempt to end the terror once & for all. CARNOSAUR 3 was yet another cheesy B movie treat in the very entertaining CARNOSAUR series. Again the special effects despite the obvious low budget, were well done, the acting was good & the directing held up as well, which is something most B movies cannot lay claim to. There's plenty of suspense & some good action scenes so fans of the first two won't be disappointed, true it may be the weakest in the series, but it never intended to compete with JURASSIC PARK in the first place. A great way to end the series!*** stars "},{"Title":"A b-movie with spirit","Date":"17 May 2007","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A series of B movies that unlike the usual formula, actually get BETTER as they go along. I have all 3 Carnosaur films on DVD, and I can be honest about them. The first one almost sucks. Luckily it has a few cool parts and grisly special effects to keep it going. The second one has better story and action, raising the standard of the film to good, and by the time we reach Carnosaur 3 Primal Species, we've officially hit good, short, dumb fun. With a perfect mix of Dinosaurs (that actually look pretty nice, especially the T-Rex), with good dialog for the kind of movie it is, a second straight to video sequel, lots of action and humor, it makes you laugh and smile with pure middle-of-the-night-entertainment. If you wanna watch Jurassic Park that bad, then watch it, but don't bitch about how this is a rip-off, because it's not. The book that the original Carnosaur movie is based off of, came six years before Crichton's Jurassic Park was published, so back off it, and enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Carnosaur 3 Primal Species (1996)","Date":"18 October 2008","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" ******SPOILERS*******Terrorist are terrified when the cargo that they stole was genetically engineered dinosaurs,now they send in a team of Commandos to kill the dinosaurs. My ratings for this movie.ACTING4/10.THE acting isn't that good especially the main actor in the movie,it's like they made him eat lemons.SPECIAL EFFECTS3/10.These are the worst dinosaurs i have ever seen.They look rubbery.But the kills scenes are the highlight of this film.CREATURE MAKEUP10/10.The Raptors in the movie are a lot scarier than the JP Raptors. But the main problem is are the SFX,if the SFX of this movie are a bit more convincing they could take on the JP Raptors any time.MUSIC10/10.An incredible music score by Kevin Kiner.ACTION5/10.Gives quite an amount of action,horror and suspense.DIRECTING6/10.Acceptable directing from Jonathan Winfrey.THE FINAL VERDICT This is a really fun b-movie except for the FX,i don't care about how people think of this movie.I recommend it "},{"Title":"Were they serious??!!??","Date":"10 December 2005","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of the most hilariously bad movies I have ever had the privilege to see.I watched this on DVD with a bunch of friends one Friday night and we just couldn't stop laughing from start to finish.The story is simple enough terrorists hijack a convoy they think is carrying weapons grade uranium, but it's actually carrying a bunch of man-eating dinosaurs. Easy mistake to make. Cue a startlingly incompetent team of Army Special Forces to tackle the prehistoric beasts. They are led by Colonel Rance, played by Scott Valentine; a man who seems to have perfected 'Smell the fart' acting, as advocated by Joey in Friends.There's plenty of gore and an awful lot of shooting, but unfortunately Rance's team seem to have a problem aiming their weapons in the general direction of a horde of giant, lumbering monsters. Also, the lights always seem to flicker and go out whenever a Velociraptor attacks (preumably so we can't see how bad the creature effects are).Having said all that, we all had a great deal of fun betting on who was going to get their head bitten off next.As a Jusassic Park / Aliens style action adventure this movie stinks worse than a dinosaur's crotch, but as ludicrous, tongue-in-cheek entertainment it's a roaring success. "},{"Title":"fantastic...","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What makes the Carnosaur so frightening is that it kills for the sake of killing.  The army kills and destroys for national security.  The terrorists kill for their own personal benefit.  But the Carnosaur... it just kills!  If the carnosaurs killed exclusively for dietary purposes (i.e. they were hungry, they didn't get enough protein/calcium/fat/B-vitamins), they wouldn't necessarily eat humans.  The scene in Carnosaur 3, in which the soldiers bait the dinosaur with non- human meat and the Carnosaur instinctively attacks the humans exemplifies how Carnosaurs do not follow their stomachs.  If the Carno were hungry, it would have just went for the leg of ham (or whatever the hell the soldiers used for bait), but instead it went for the far inferior human meat.   They are called Carnosaurs not because they eat meat, but because they are far different from the reptiles that walked the earth eons ago.  They are much more unscrupulous, depraved, stealthy, sexy and cunning than the large clumsy animals seen in Jurassic Park.  The Carnosaur is the chthonic species of what we refer to as Dinosaur.  Beware their wrath.   "},{"Title":"Love it!","Date":"21 July 2013","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have loved this film since I was about twelve! The Dinosaurs are ridiculously designed by the awesome John Buechler, but they have the watchable charm and unique-ness that most of his rubbery creations have; the acting is BAD, but there's no one in it I don't want to watch, they're all likable actors and actresses; there's so much blood and gore it could have been shot over the naff sets from a fire-hose, the script is really unimaginative but the cast make it work in a strange sort of way and it's Roger Corman!There are many things wrong with it but I think it's a great way to spend an hour and a half. It's thrilling, involving, and fun. Watch the film! "}{"Title":"Fine effort though there's some problems overall","Date":"16 November 2012","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Receiving word of a terrorist unit at work in the area, a Special Forces unit goes to investigate and finds the terrorists had unintentionally intercepted a shipment of genetically-engineered dinosaurs and races to corral them before they escape.This here wasn't all that bad of an effort, though it's definitely the weakest of the whole series and has its share of faults. One of the biggest issues in the film is the fact that there's an extreme lack of dinosaur action present, as the short running time barely has them even in the movie and the majority of the scenes are all placed at the end which is quite inexcusable for a film about dinos to begin with. Having the film mostly centered around the two military units getting to know each other and forced to work with each other to contain the dinosaurs makes this one quite hard to really get interested in, since the film's main focus is elsewhere instead of on the main point, and the endless scenes of them getting to know each other gets quite exhaustive after a while. As such, the common factor of having the dinosaurs look like puppets is quite hard to get over, though by this time in the series it should be required knowledge going on that's what's going to be featured. There's still some good dinosaur action at the end where they're trapped in the cargo hold of the ship, which means that there's the exploring of the cramped quarters to exploit in terms of suspense and the usual liberal doses of blood and gore on display, as well as in the first big action scene where they escape and menace the terrorists in the warehouse, but otherwise this is the blatant low-end of the series.Rated R Graphic Violence and Adult Language. "},{"Title":"Killer dinosaurs have never been so hilarious!!!!!","Date":"21 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The third installment of the Carnosaur trilogy features a bunch of Keystone Kops-quality military commandos trying to kill two Velociraptors and a T-Rex. I give it a 4 out of sheer sympathy and my affinity for dinosaurs. The movie is definitely the worst of the trilogy, it really can't be taken seriously. More significantly, however, watching this movie I can't help but notice some interesting parallels between the Carnosaur and Xtro trilogies. The first installment in both franchises is a dark, disturbing film that has become a cult classic, the second is an Alien ripoff, and the third is a tongue-in-cheek, almost slapstick (whether intentional or not) movie that has you rolling on the floor laughing. Also, like the Xtro franchise, all the Carnosaur movies are completely unrelated to one another. They they only carry the franchise name to drum up interest in the sequels, I guess. Obviously Carnosaur and Xtro have two different production groups at work here, but if you've seen all three movies of both franchises you find yourself referring back and forth between the two. "},{"Title":"''If you see anything bigger than a donkey shoot it''.  ** out of *****","Date":"17 January 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Primal Species comes from B Movie legend Roger Corman and as such everybody who watches this needs to realise that this is a Low Budget B Movie and it knows it.A bunch of terrorists high-jack a Lorry and kill an entire army doing so, they believe it to hold uranium, but No..... It contains two Dino's with a taste for Human Flesh... Then a Crack team, who might as well be called Delta Force get called in.OK, This ain't Jurassic Park, and Yes The Dino's are never clearly seen because it's obviously a guy in a Costume that's not too dissimilar to Barney the Dinosaur - only slightly LESS terrifying,but come on guys this had about 1% of Jurassic Park's Budget and as such does what it can.Does this deserve to be in the bottom 100?....HELL NO!!! I think the nearly half of voters who give this a 1 - are being WAY WAY overly harsh, it's much closer to a 4... it's actually a lot better than a whole host of other movies not in the Bottom 100, and has a similar production value to a Sci-Fi Channel Production. (again Movies which get a overly harsh time from critics here on IMDb)The acting is as expected in a B Movie although none of the actors take it that seriously, neither does the scriptAll in All it's an enjoyable B Movie - Not for Film Snobs** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Ignore this. . .","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well here I go with another B industry movie. It's sad enough to see some badly made films but I don't care if a B industry or C industry produces the film. Show some effort in your work. The characters are really bad. The acting isn't in question in this one (surprise), but plot is. How can a tight-knit squad witness two of their fellow soldiers butchered, and then go on as if nothing happened. What sickened me was how the writer even threw in the remaining members a scene where they joke about how nice the doctor's ass was. Give me a break.  "},{"Title":"Still sort of good on a B-movie type of level.","Date":"3 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The entire Carnosaurs-series often gets made fun of but in all truth and honesty, they are somewhat enjoyable for what they are and not all that bad at all, with the exception of the first movie.The thing that I particularly like about the series is that none of the movies are related and each movie is basically a new story, with different characters and settings. It makes the series incredibly differs and makes each movie feel new and fresh. It also totally isn't necessary to watch the previous two movies, before you watch this one. Every one of them can be watched independently from each other.But no, don't worry, I'm not completely crazy. Of course this is not a great movie by any means but it at least is fun and also very self aware. Thing with this movie and all of the previous ones as well, is that it knows that its bad. Especially also the actors seem to be very well aware of this. Because of this, the movie never gets awkward but simply enjoyable to watch instead.Now, the whole idea of the movie itself is quite stretched out however. The characters for the longest time are very busy with a whole bunch of stuff, expect for trying to find and kill the dinosaur. The movie too often really isn't going anywhere with its story, or any of its characters. Still, this doesn't make the movie annoying or anything. Just a tad bit ridicules but it strangely enough adds to the movie its entertainment value at the same time.The action and killings are being somewhat disappointing but then again, I wasn't expecting too much from it anyway. After all, the entire series isn't exactly known for its creativity and originality.It's watchable enough as a B-movie flick but it of course is far from being a great movie as well!4/10 http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"This guy is carved up like Thanksgiving Turkey. - Quality dialogue = quality film, doesn't it?","Date":"30 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Carnosaur 3 Primal Species starts as an American army convoy is ambushed by a gang of terrorists thinking that it is transporting uranium, the terrorists kill everyone & drive off in the trucks. They stop at a warehouse on a dock where they're leader Dolan (Cyril O'Reilly) opens one of the trucks expecting to find the uranium, instead they discover genetically reconstructed Dinosaurs that attack & kill them all. Meanwhile the army has sent Colonel Rance Higgins (Scott Valentine) & his anti-terrorist unit in to sort things out, unfortunately they are attacked by the Dinosaurs as well & half of the squad is wiped out. The warehouse & dock is sealed off so the Dinosaurs cannot escape & Rance is told he & his team are to capture the Dinosaurs so blonde scientist Dr. Hodges (Janet Gunn) can continue her experiments on them, without weapons, with only a few men & orders to bring the Dinosaurs back alive Rance has his work cut out just to not end up as Dinosaur food let alone complete his mission without further loss of life & it becomes apparent that it's not exactly clear who is hunting who...Quickly following Carnosaur 2 (1995) which itself followed Carnosaur (1993) & directed by Jonathan Winfrey (who apparently has a part in the film as someone called Bob although I don't remember anyone by that name) the Carnosaur series of films aren't getting any better are they which Carnosaur 3 Primal Species proves beyond any shadow of a doubt. I now have had the 'pleasure' of sitting through all three Carnosaur films & actually in chronological order too! Lucky me. This time round the scripting duties went to Rob Kerchner & it's basically a mix of ideas & rip-offs from Aliens (1986), Jurassic Park (1993) & Deep Rising (1998) (yes I know Carnosaur 3 Primal Species was made a couple of years before Deep Rising), I'd probably put Carnosaur 3 Primal Species as the worst of the series.. The film is far too predictable & by-the-numbers I mean there's the Dinosaurs, the team of military soldiers who can't use their weapons & the final 30 minutes which has the soldiers & Dinosaurs hunting each other within the confines of a huge ship. That's all there is to it really, a few people are killed by the Dinosaurs before the hero saves the day & gets the girl, the end. All the trappings & shortcomings of the low budget horror film are here, annoying character's, bad one-liners, stupid decision making, illogical plots, bad special effects & poorly researched science. However, having said that while I wouldn't describe Carnosaur 3 Primal Species as a good film at least it's short at 80 odd minutes, it moves along at a fair pace & isn't too boring, it's perfectly watchable in a (really) bad sort of way & as long as you have sufficiently low expectations it might keep you quiet for an hour & a bit.Director Winfrey obviously doesn't know how to shoot special effects as the Dinosaur scenes are the worst in the entire Carnosaur series, the T-Rex at the end looks pathetic. It looks like something made by kids as part of a school project from paper mache! The Velociraptors are just guys in poor looking rubber suits that don't seem to have any movement in them at all, Winfrey tries to use quick edits & strange camera angles to try & cover up some of the suits deficiency's & inject some life, pace, threat & menace into them. He fails on all counts. The blood & gore has been toned down in Carnosaur 3 Primal Species, there are a few mutilated bodies, some severed limbs & various bit part character's have they're arms & heads bitten off.Technically the film is average, there isn't much style to it & the special effects really are embarrassing at times. The music rips-off the theme from Predator (1987). The acting wasn't great & you could tell everyone in front of the camera knew they were making crap.Carnosaur 3 Primal Species is an OK way to pass the time if you like bad low budget horror films much like myself, however there's very little here by which I could recommend it to any normal member of society. To add to his long list of credits Roger Corman produced. The opening ending suggests that a further Carnosaur sequel could be made, I can hardly wait... Like the other Carnosaur films footage from this was edited into another Dinosaur themed Roger Corman beauty called Raptor (2001). "},{"Title":"When Jurassic Park Meets Die-hard...","Date":"16 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" CARNOSAUR was a blatant rip-off/mish-mash of JURASSIC PARK, THE THING, THE CRAZIES, and ALIEN. CARNOSAUR 2 was basically JP and ALIENS. In keeping with the formula, CARNOSAUR 3 PRIMAL SPECIES combines JP and Die-hard. Third time around, things are starting to feel run-of-the-mill. But here it goes On a huge cargo ship, international terrorists seize it and expect to find crates of weapons in the hold. At the same time, a group of hardened soldiers come onboard the ship to take out the terrorists. However... yep, dinosaurs with hearty appetites. Overall, the humans give ho-hum performances. There's quite a bit of humor that falls flat. There's not really much action. And the dino footage is mainly recycled stuff from the earlier two movies. It's entertaining, I'll give it that. But it's best enjoyed if you're planning to mock it, ala MST3K. Either way, be ready to howl with laughter! "},{"Title":"Third and worst installment of an otherwise enjoyable series.","Date":"26 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Monster fans might get some minor excitement over the third and final entry in producer, Roger Corman's Jurassic Park parody/rip-off about carnivorous dinosaurs (hence the title) munching on military macho types while scientists pursue their agendas for the hungry reptiles used as unstoppable biological weapons. Its a premise that worked well on a modest budget with laughable creature effects and plenty of gore for the first couple of films, but now it seems that all of the originality and ambition has been exhausted in a final attempt to cash in on a sequel-happy studio franchise. Rubbery-looking monsters, nonstop Warsploitation clichés, and amateurish performances are just a few reminders that the 1990's direct-to-video craze has been long swept under the carpet resulting in many rare out-of-print digital copies making their way across the Internet. The 'Carnosaur' trilogy is one of those long forgotten series of films that fall into that category. Its too bad that the series ended on a ridiculous note such as this. Billed as 'Primal Species', this is so predictable and washed-out that it doesn't even really matter if Scott Valentine's war face is hilarious, or if watching moronic cops and brainless bad guys getting chewed up by what looks like a toy T-Rex you had as a child is your thing. The direction is incompetent, and the editing is a disaster. The monsters get very little screen-time as the camera clumsily fumbles around the action, and minimal bloodshed and gore give this last installment an unsatisfactory grade. Its laughable at best. "},{"Title":"Pretty bad","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Like all Carnosaur movies, this is a joke. The way the dinosaurs move, reminds me of when my sister plays with her dolls, because they cannot be any stiffer or more fake-looking than they were.The plot had no sense whatsoever. I mean, first they're on a bus, then in a warehouse then, all of a sudden, they're on a boat. And let's be serious, does it make sense that a couple of dinosaurs can stay together on a van, or on a ship? I thought dinosaurs were the biggest animals, and now they can fit on a moving van. It sounds stupid even when you think about it.The only reason for which I gave this a 3, is because it's still entertaining. I found it better than the first one (haven't watched the second yet). Just, don't rent it. I saw it on TV and it's a good thing I did because I wouldn't have wanted to waste money renting it. "},{"Title":"...Wow...","Date":"9 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of the funniest movies i've ever seen. I rented it as a joke, expecting to get a giggle out of the first few scenes, and let me just say I've never laughed so hard in my life. The first scene where ninjas randomly pop out of the air and start a huge and ridiculous fire fight is one of the most incredibly funny stupid action movie moments of my life. This is not a dinosaur movie, but more a movie that makes fun (and doesn't mean to at all) of the action genre. I didn't see the first two, but judging by the complexity of the plot, I don't think there's to much I missed. If you wanna see a movie that goes great with a six pack or any herbal remedy, than I insist you rent this movie and sit back and watch a 100 years of advancement in cinema get thrown in the trash and get shat on by carnosours "}{"Title":"Horrid but funny !!!","Date":"21 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Everything in this film is bad , the story , the acting , the effects but its funny , funny , funny !!!Scott Valentine with the army uniform thats ten sizes too big is so bad with the permanent attempt at a scowl on his face as the leader of a special ops group its hilarious ! The ''terrorists'' are as scary and realistic as the ''raptors'' , this is so phoney and bad at everything it tries you have to laugh .The part where the giant T-REX who somehow snuck on board a ship and then somehow got below is blown up and you see the metal pole sticking up where its head was is the perfect ending .If your into bad films , this is the pot of gold , the mona lisa of b-b-bad !!! "},{"Title":"Carnosaur 3 Primeval laughs","Date":"2 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK..... This is the third in the series of carnosaur. Lets star with the dinosaur puppets! In the start of the film you cant See the Dino's cause when the body count starts you can only See the Dino's eye vision, pretty smart to hide the bad puppets! and maybe in 16 minutes forward on the film some special force team with Scott Valentine as the leader Rance, the team walks into the warehouse and then they begins to find body parts and dead body's after the Dino rampage, after a while some big box comes failing on the team and you can hear a velociraptor scream, pretty creepy!!! and then a black girl walks forward and now one blooper is found! It pops up a raptor hand and slashed her face but if you pause when the raptor hand comes you can See that its just a guy with a hand puppet!? WTF! The story is simple. 1. Some terrorist's attacks some truck cause they though It wash some weapons in there. 2. They where dead wrong it seams to be ten tons raptor and one giant t-Rex in there! How did the t-Rex fit in there??? 3. Rance and some nerds will kill the dinosaurs! Sadly some stupid blond girl told him to capture one of them alive=( 4. Holy Jesues the raptors have wheels on their feats! 5. The Dino's is now on a boat in the pacific. 6 Strange i didn't know that the t-Rex had a strange thing on hes neck??? 7. THE END. The film is good if you want a good laugh. 5/10 "},{"Title":"More Like Carnosaur £3.50","Date":"10 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I haven't seen the first two - only this one which is called Primal Species in England. I don't think I'll be bothering to look them out though.This is an awful film. Terrible acting, bad dialogue, cheap rubber monsters. Everything about it is so nasty. The most sympathetic characters die really quickly and leave you with the annoying ones, especially one called Polchak, who is an incredible jerk. No-one like that would survive 5 minutes in the army. He lasted for ages but I was pleased when he finally got his head got chewed off - I was having nightmares he was going to survive. The Colonel was rubbish too - all moody pouts and clueless shouting. And the specky Doctor looked and acted like she was out of a porno. I was waiting for her to take her glasses off, shake her hair and turn into a vamp, but she didn't. Pity that, as it would've livened the film up no end.Didn't Roger Corman used to make half decent films once? "},{"Title":"If you've never seen a movie before, you'll LOVE this one!","Date":"13 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If this is your first time experiencing the wonders of cinema, if you've never seen a Moving Picture before, you'll think this movie is a child of the gods. BUT if you've seen a movie, a TV show, even Barney the Dinosaur, then you won't be very impressed by this film. Heck Barney the dinosaur was even more realistic than the dinos in this flick.Now I like B movies. I just watched The Giant Gila Monster right before I watched this swill, and I liked that movie much better. It works as a B movie. It has lamer dialog,hokier acting, cheesier effects and an honest to gosh real Gila Monster as the monster! Carno 3 just doesn't pack much of a B movie punch. It has some gore, and that Polchek guy comes close to being funny a few times but this movie is underwhelming, almost....flaccid. It's the Little Engine That Couldn't of Dinosaur movies. I'm not saying you shouldn't watch the movie. Some people can watch gum drying on a sidewalk and feel entertained. If you're one of those people, then give this movie a shot. "},{"Title":"Not worth it.","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Carnosaur was a useless film which tried to capitalize on Jurassic Park. So what made them want to make a sequel? Beats me. Then they made a third movie which makes you think of finding thr person who dreamt the whole premise up and kill him. Yes I'm afraid this is a bad movie with no plot crap acting fake looking Dinosaurs and other horrible flaws. I suppose you don't need the Dinosaurs looking real if the plots good and actings good but this looks like it was made in Roger Cormans garage. So when you are looking through BlockBuster for a film that looks entertaining don't pick up Carnosaur 3 because it has no potential for a movie.    "},{"Title":"The acting is worse than in a Porn.","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  My friend and I have this gag going on that we each buy horrible DVDs for eachothers birthday.  Well, this was my present.  We watched it together and could not stop laughing at the terrible acting.  It even came to the point where we had to rewind and repeat a portion of the movie when the terrorist(whatever?) is in the back of the cop car and the cop calms him down by pointing a finger at him and scolds him telling him to stay calm and wait there.  You must see the scene to realize the pathetic atempt at any sort of story.  The dinosaurs appear to be on wheeled carts.  The filmwork is absolutely pathetic and to a point funny.  Adding special effects for no reason other than the movie is horrible.  IT was quite a gag gift... but don't ever rent this with the expectations of seeing something that won't make you laugh. "},{"Title":"Carnosaur tries one last time, and predictably, fails.","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Oh boy.  You know, it was bad enough that the first movie was made.  And then the second one came out, and that was just unbearable.  But this is the last straw.  Yet AGAIN the diabolical, despicable dinos have survived, and they've been shipped to the coast via a terrorist.  And yet AGAIN after a few  unintelligible seconds of gore and guts, a team is sent in to destroy the baddies.  They heard the 'saurs onto a ship and set sail, for much more than a 3-hour tour.  Well, as expected, things go horribly wrong and the people are eaten like sloppy Joe's.  The ending is a carefully planned out and efficient plan to blow the ship they're on to bits.  So much for being inconspicuous.  I just hope they made some kind of treaty that there will NEVER be a fourth Carnosaur, or may Todd have mercy on us all.  "},{"Title":"One Good Thing About It = The Short Running Time","Date":"20 September 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Primal Species (1996, Dir. Jonathan Winfrey) International terrorists get a surprise when their cargo turn out to contain living dinosaurs. The army commando team now have to think fast, if they want to prevent the extinction of the human species, instead of the reptiles.You look at the cover and you gain your first impressions of the film. That is pretty much it. The acting is only just acceptable from a few characters. The story is poor, with the whole film based on the army and the marines trying to kill the dinosaurs. This film came out three years after 'Jurassic Park'. Instead, this film looks to have come out 13 years before 'Jurassic Park'. The dinosaurs costumes are so poorly made, and i do mean costumes. There are obviously people dressed up, and this film makes no attempts at hiding this. A scene when a dinosaur runs down a corridor is created in a way, in which it looks like someone is riding the creature. The is one good thing, which comes out of this film. The short running time. At only 1 hour and 15 minutes, it doesn't waste too much of your life, but still try to avoid it altogether.It's like a Friday the 13th Nightmare. - Officer (Brian Currie) "},{"Title":"so bad you should watch it","Date":"2 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is the worst movie i have ever seen... it is humorous how bad it is.. the entire time i was watching it i half expected music to start and the doctor starts dancing..(i've seen porno's with a better plot) When the raptor was trying to get in the door i think someone was throwing a plastic doll against the door from about 2 feet away. But as i said it is so bad you need to watch it so that you can see just how bad it is me explaining it isn't going to do anything compared to if you watch it .. i don't recommend renting it but if it comes on TV watch it for about 30min just to see what i mean. I couldn't watch more than 30min but if you can sit through the whole thing then you have some good willpower "},{"Title":"See the first two instead...","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Carnosaur 1 and 2 are two of my all-time favorite movies, but I have to admit that part 3 bites.  It lacks the originality and creepiness of part one and the suspense and entertainment factor of part 2.  It is just another brainless gore/action flick with no interesting characters or decent acting. The special effects are on the same level of the first two, so you know they aren't going to help.  It may be worth seeing if you are a die-hard Carnosaur fan like me, or if you are looking for a good cheese flick but otherwise, just avoid it.  I give Carnosaur 3 ** out of ****. "}{"Title":"Avoid it!","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In general I like dinosaur movies but this one is pure crap. No script, no dialogues, no acting. And the brave colonel Rance trying to show he is tough and so curving his mouth resembles as a twin brother the stupid Proctor from the Police Academy. So this was a complete waste of time (fortunately not waste of money as I saw the film on TV). And I really cannot understand 7 people who graded this sh*t 10. They must've joked. My advice, if you see this title run from it! "},{"Title":"Beyond a doubt, the worst film I've ever seen.","Date":"11 May 2008","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't know where to start; the acting, the special effects and the writing are all about as bad as you can possibly imagine. I can't believe that the production staff reached a point where they said, Our job is done, time for it's release. I'm just glad the first two in the series never made it as far as the UK. I would actually recommend watching this film just so you can appreciate how well made most films are.I don't know how any of the other IMDb users could find it scary when the terrifying dinosaurs waddle down corridors with rubber arms flailing around. "},{"Title":"corman's dinos keep getting better and better","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  the first was decent, part two was good, part 3 ROCKS. Roger corman salutes every famous sci-fi horror ever made with this oneNote u may want to notice that the guy who played Monk in part two is back this time as Polchek an equally funny character "},{"Title":"This is the 2nd best movie I've seen on the str8 to video scene!","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I actually own this movie I thought it was so good. True the special effects weren't that good but the characters were great. And while some parts were rather unbelievable and some just down right stupid the movie made up for it in the end, I mean Polcheck alone is enough reason to at least record the movie off TV, it just sux that he dies...oh well. I love str8 to videos I think that often times they have better actors/actresses and plots. This for example had better actors and plot and special effects than Titantic which sucked! Personally I give this mutha an 8! In case your wondering the 1st best movie ever is Death Machine. "},{"Title":"A movie mostly about nothing","Date":"2 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" First of all, there're only about 30 seconds of total moving carnosaur footage in this movie, and I'm not kidding.The reason is obvious, this is not a high budget film that can afford expensive CGs to animate the dinosaurs. So they have to be really creative in trying to make a rubber dinosaur look like its moving, and they attempt to do this by quick cuts, shaky camera motion, and lots of strobe lighting. So this movie ends up being lots of marines being scared, acting dumb, and shooting lots of bullets, and almost no footage of the dinosaur itself.From start to finish, it's one scene after another of scared marines, and usage of America's favorite solutions to any problem of this sort - military force. It's a pretty dumb movie even for a movie of this sorts. You will be solely disappointed if you are looking for a good dino action in this one. "},{"Title":"I fell of the chair!","Date":"30 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I just couldn't stop laughing!! This movie is incredibly funny and stupid! But, never mind that, it is very entertaining! In this film, you don't need to pay attention to anything! The acting is the same - LAME! The dinosaurs are the same - RUBBER (Oh, my I could see the stick that holds T-Rex head for a moment.) The raptors are the same from the Carnosaur 2, T-Rex is also the same, but... in some scenes his head looks kinda stuffed and it looks like some kind of project failure from kindergarten. Action is fast, sometimes too fast, actually I talk about fast editing, they edited it so fast, so that we cannot see the rubber dinosaurs, but OOPPS! to late, they are rubber! Well, only things interesting here is to see Rick Dean in this sequel.What can I say... don't rent it... watch it on TV, with friends, it is much more entertaining! "},{"Title":"lol, great a ratarded T-REX!!!","Date":"26 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK I had higher hopes for this Carnosaur movie simply because it seemed like the sequels were getting better as they came out. I did like Carnosaur 2 better than 1. I figured well this one is newer so it must be better right? Well... I quickly learned I was wrong. I was extremely confused with the casting. They brought back Rick Dean for another spotlight character and Michael MacDonald as a police officer. Now for Rick dean lol, in Carnosaur 2 I thought he fit the role pretty well and wasn't really annoyed by him, now in Carnosaur 3 wow they placed him as an elite soldier. Now we are getting goofy here. The movie actually started out pretty good with a decent gun fight and dinos escaping out of there little freezer trucks, but as soon as Scott Valentines team showed up we had a mix of a romantic comedy with very funny performances from retarded and floppy dinosaurs.I'll start with the raptors first, they had there tails drag the ground, which in the second one they were up in the air which looked more common for a dinosaur that can run up to 50-60 mph. Now when they ran they wiggled back and forth and the heads didn't move at all. there hands were floppy all over the place and since they were extremely poorly shot by the director they looked stupid and out of place.The t-rex was extremely pathetic, they would of been better off using the one from the previous 2 movies. At least that one looked somewhat frightening. The one in this film looked like it was smiling all the time. The legs when it walked was hilarious, like it was john wayne in the old west all stiff legged and stuff. LOL another thing I noticed is that the hands did not move, they were stuck next to its body so it looked and sounded (god the sound effects were awful) retarded!!! Now if I was the director and realized that I had this to work with maybe I would of maybe tried a little bit harder to hide the fakeness fact. As for the rest of the movie, well this was the sloppiest and loudest military team I have ever seen. The weapons they used wouldn't make sense for the scenario. They even had an arm wrestling scene inside the warehouse where the carnosaurs were roaming, now I was tickled at this scene because I thought that while this stupidity was going on that the Dinos would get in there and cause some damage. Instead the director wasted about 7 minutes of our time. I would like to look at this movie as the 3 stooges of dinosaur movies. You have retarded military, retarded dinosaurs, retarded scenario and you have a wonderful 83 minutes to spend of your day watching this.Now I'm not saying I wouldn't watch this, bc actually i do recommend everyone see this movie that wants 83 minutes of pure entertainment. It may seem like I'm ranting but really I'm hyping this movie up to what it is. Its really a lot of fun to watch because while watching this you think to yourself, did the director really make this seriously? "},{"Title":"Not Hard Enough","Date":"9 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm afraid I was not hard enough to watch the whole of this movie. It's one of the few movie that I have ever sold off, but now seeing these IMDb comments, I am beginning to regret it.I suppose that an A movie is a feature film and a B movie is an old-fashioned support film. I don't think this qualifies as a B movie. It must be something a level or so below.It starts off with an army unit escorting a container from somewhere to somewhere else. I started to worry when I saw their uniforms. They looked like pyjamas. But since then I have seen other American army outfits wearing similar things so perhaps the pyjamas were not that ridiculous. One soldier urinates from the back of the flatbed truck. Then the terrorists ambush the convoy and all the soldiers are killed. Quite a statement about the military.When the terrorists open the container to release the beast, there is the only good bit that I saw in the film. When you don't really have any kind of a dinosaur apart from a plastic head and no way to animate it, it was quite well done to use black and white stills tilted at different angles.I didn't like the specialists brought in. They were too indisciplined. They messed about too much. They didn't take the threat of the plastic dinosaur head seriously enough, so how could the audience. The head bands against a door in the warehouse. If it can escape from the warehouse the whole world could be doomed.I think a film about plastic dinosaurs threatening the world would be more imaginative than dinosaurs threatening it.I'd say that the only film I have seen worse than what I saw of this one was what I saw of The Wrecking Crew, which was also made in a warehouse or abandoned factory. "},{"Title":"Return of the Rubber Lizards","Date":"15 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Arg. The shuffling dinosaurs are back to take another bite out of our sanity in this all-awful third film. This time, European terrorists(Irish I'd say) hi-jack an army convoy supposed to be transporting uranium. They pull into a shipyard, open the truck and discover our old friends the carnosaurs. Pandemonium comes visiting then when the rubber dinos chomp the terrorists, the cops and some marines. The whole film seems to be (again) largely inspired from Alien(as Carnosaur 2 was) with the pathetic marines going through the claustrophobic shipyard? guns at the ready. This third opus is probably the driest and ungoriest film of the lot, with only one spurt of blood when a rubber dino rips a marine's head off. The dinos are stiff, shuffling creatures as usual and the T-Rex sounds like an enraged elephant when it roars(it also appears to have no eyes). One of the goofiest scenes of the film is when the coppers arrive on the scene they enter the building where the hijacked truck is kept and hear some weird noise coming from another truck. On opening it, surprise! The Rubber Reptile Gang burst out and devour them. Why were the dinos locked up in the second truck after escaping from the first? How did they get locked in as the truck door could only be locked from the outside? What was the point of filming this scene???? Oh bother, who cares? Both thumbs down for the Over-sized Rubber Iguanas. "},{"Title":"Bad Idea","Date":"27 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Now, don't take me wrong, i loved this movies quite a bit, but the only thing is the dinosaurs sucked.For a low budget film, everything was pretty good, like the explosions and being able to get all that equipment.There problem was that they released it in the year when The Lost World Jurassic Park was. This was a bad idea and there was no competition between them.Overall this movie turned out pretty good, the quality was not as its best. The story was weird, like where the hell did the dinosaurs come from? But the gore was awesome!If you are a Aliens or Jurassic Park fan then this is worth the watch - but don't expect anything too good. "}{"Title":"You know whats going on before the characters...","Date":"22 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is probably one of the worst wanna be a low budget hit films to credit the dinosaur genre. The film is so predictable you could go away, cook yourself dinner, go answer the phone or whatever and when you're back you'll know exactly what has happened. The special effects are so poor you would have thought Lego bricks were used and the super fast dinosaurs were so tame that it makes a pet dog look like a super predator. The acting is over cooked. They try so hard, yet there just isn't enough character behind them to get into the characters and as for the scientist... Yeah okay we know exactly whats going to happen to the blonde chick in glasses. Stereotypical was created for films like this. If you want to watch this film, I suggest you aren't in as a serious mood as the cast and crew obviously were. And if you are really really into dinosaurs and know everything in the world about them, don't watch it, you might break the screen - the facts are that far off. "},{"Title":"Does anybody out there seriously expected something from this?","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Carnosaur 3 is bad... awfully bad. Bad to the point where it is funny. How matter how much I try to convince myself, I just can't believe anyone in this world could find this entertaining for serious reasons. I mean, come on, even the cover is bad! OK, the special effects are absolutely ridiculous. Those Carnosaurs are really ridiculous. A scientist tells the soldiers that they move incredibly fast, yet when you see them run, they run at the speed of... an actor in a rubber suit trying to run as much as he can. And the explosions are funny(there is no other word to describe it). At the beginning, a bullet hits a Jeep AFTER a guys says What was that?... And the other explosions are also laughable. But the worst thing is the screenplay and the so-called story. You don't expect a good story(or, I don't think anyone renting this movie expects a good movie) but at least the story has to try to make sense. I mean, how hard is it to make a story about dinosaurs killing people at least coherent. Incredibly hard if you look at this. Oh, and if you think that it's easy to makes believable commandos as your characters, tell it to the writers of this awful, awful piece of crap. I mean, what sick human being would make cheap jokes after one of his buddies is dead? And they do lots of it. And if you think that a movie about dinosaurs killing soldiers can only be at least action-packed, WAKE UP!!! This movie is incredibly dull. The carnosaurs(who invented this lame name anyway?) attack(in boring action sequences where you don't see much happening). The soldiers think of how to beat them(in incredibly funny scenes where they try real hard to be serious but can't seem to convince even just one second). So, then, they attack the carnosaurs, but their idea doesn't work(another laughable action sequence). Back to planning(with a few lame jokes thrown in) in another ridiculous scene. And this goes on, and on, and on. And let's not forget the acting which is about as convincing as the special effects... and the story... Oh OK, this movie simply sucks from A to Z. "},{"Title":"A Riot.","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I really hope that Concorde/New Horizons wasn't trying to make a serious horror, or even action movie when they made Carnosaur 3. The movie is flat-out silly from start to finish. Even the humor in C3 is funny because it's bad. Definitely a high water mark in the 'So Bad it's Good' genre. If you enjoy the very worst of the worst, this is for you. "},{"Title":"Just as bad as the others.","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay, I remember watching the first one, and boy did it suck. After watching it, I just laughed it off and told myself, oh boy, just another low budget B-movie.  I'll never see a part 2 to this one.  Then, about 1 1/2 years later, there came part two.  It sucked even more.  But, I just laughed it off again and said, there's no way I'm ever gonna see a part 3 to this one.  Then, about 1/2 a year later, part 3 came out.  I was stupid enough to rent it and boy, I just snapped after watching it.  God, I never actually realized how much movies can suck these days.  Just save yourself $7.50 and don't rent the whole series.  Trust me, it's worth every penny.     "},{"Title":"Why even bother reviewing this movie?","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Carnosaur 3 Primal Species (1996) D Jonathan Winfrey. Scott Valentine, Janet Gunn, Rick Dean, Anthony Peck, Rodger Halston, Terri J. Vaughn, Billy Burnette. Why even bother reviewing this movie? Another stupid dinosaur movie in which top secret military guys discover those lethal (and very fake-looking) prehistoric monsters running around killing people in gory ways. The original was bad enough, the sequel was even worse. This falls somewhere in between, though unrelated to either of the previous CARNOSAUR films. RATING 2 out of 10. Rated R for graphic violence and gore, grisly images, and profanity.  "}]