[{"Title":"Bad In A Good Way!","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"50 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Usually I'm the first person to label this sort of movie. Look at it, you'd think it was bad. It's got the usual assortment of action movie clichés and conventions. The John Woo directed action scenes stretch over the top at times, there's the mentally unstable talkative nemesis and yes even one of those bombs that graces us with a digital readout. All prerequisites for movies of this type and saying all that I'd usually be complaining by now. Yet for one reason I can't. This movie entertained me. It finds a way to come together in a really enjoyably manner and I'm happy with what I got. I can't bad mouth it.Nothing got in my way of everlasting enjoyment of seeing people die, bombs going off and the baritone guitar instrumental. It just all clicks from the get-go. If your reading this you don't need me to recycle the plot summary. It's of a trivial nature. Good action, decent cast and a fun atmosphere go a long way with Travolta ultimately holding it all together. He plays his role over-the-top and delivers some fantastic lines. It doesn't hurt that him and Slater tango well neither. If Travolta attempted this movie now instead of when he did - it wouldn't work. He's done too many goody-goody roles to come back down to this. Laws of nature will not allow him to make another good movie where he plays a bad guy. Chances are anyone else than Travolta in Broken Arrow and you'd be reading a completely different review right now too. A guilty pleasure if there ever was one. "},{"Title":"Good mindless fun","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"44 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  John Travolta stars in this mindless thriller in which he steals a nuclear weapon and its up to Christian Slater and Samantha Mathis to save the world.. Overall a good action flick with a leave your brain at home plot..Travolta goes slightly over the top with his character but is still good..Slater is ok and Mathis does what she can with what little the script gives her.. on a scale of one to ten... 6 "},{"Title":"Classic John Woo!","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"38 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" If you want an action film in which the hero has a personality, and the bad guy has an even better personality, take a look at Broken Arrow.  John Woo's choreographed action is not as dramatic as the Matrix-clone films that are so common today.  He is great at creating interesting relationships between heroes and villains, and this film is a good example.John Travolta is terrific.  Christian Slater breaks typecast by playing a nice, sane soldier doing his duty.  The love interest isn't an idiotic supermodel playing a nuclear scientist or something, but a park ranger, also doing her duty.  She is cute, earthy, and actually believable.If you want a film that will repeat every aspect of every other military adventure film you have ever seen, you will be disappointed.  If dialog bores you, skip this film.  If you like action movies filmed entirely in parking garages and spooky allies, then you will not appreciate the settings in this film in America's majestic West. "},{"Title":"Engaging waste of time.","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"31 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" There are so many stupid action movies out there -- mind-numbing, explosion-filled, cartoonish, slow-motion-bodies-falling, gore, ugly guns, special f/x, mismatched heroic couple of mixed sex, wisecracking villain -- and I've SEEN so many that I'm beginning to be able to tell the difference between them.This is one of the better ones. The plot has John Travolta as the smiling treacherous heavy, and Christian Slater as the true-blue captain in the USAF out to spoil Travolta's plot to blow up Denver with a kidnapped nuclear device. There is a cute red head thrown fortuitously together with Slater. She has nice plump lips, big blue eyes, and the tightly tailored slacks of a Park Ranger. Very nice. We watch her from below as she climbs the ladder on the side of a boxcar. There's no reason for her to be IN the movie except to have her climb boxcars, roll down sandy hills, and so on.But then there's no particular reason for ANYTHING to be in the movie. What I mean is that if you found it necessary to leave the room for a minute or two -- a knock on the door, a tug on the trigonal, whatever -- you would find that you hand't missed much when you returned. None of the characters changes in any way. There is no dialogue worth remembering. There are some unusual special effects but if you've missed one example it's okay because another is right around the corner. I particularly enjoy the scene in which the exploding bomb takes out the helicopter.I've sat through this thing three times and I am now convinced it has turned the higher reasoning centers of my brain into tofu. That's why I genuinely like it. I like it for Travolta's toothy reptilian grin, for Slater's imitation of Jack Nicholson, for the ripoffs from Indiana Jones, for the gorgeous Utah scenery, for the rocketing diesel train, Lake Powell, the redhead climbing the ladder, the fist fights, the bouncing Humvees, the civilian who proudly announces he used to be a lieutenant in the ROTC at Yale, the redhead climbing the ladder, the bodies of people who tumble in slow motion towards the camera as a fireball explodes behind them (three times), the redhead climbing the ladder.I just like it, that's all. Anybody up for some sesame oil? "},{"Title":"Far-fetched but entertaining","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"27 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  In his TV Movies and Video Guide, Leonard Maltin asks, Why was this movie made?  The answer is simple  To entertain the people.  I was certainly entertained by this far-fetched action thriller, due in no small part to John Woo's imaginative direction of the action sequences.  John Travolta overdoes the psycho routine, hamming it up when some restraint would have made for a more believable performance, but his considerable charm sees him through.  Christian Slater, an actor who hasn't impressed me as anything more than a Jack Nicholson wannabe, makes a surprisingly commendable hero. This movie is junk food, of course, but it's very tasty indeed. "},{"Title":"Under-Rated Action Flick","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"23 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Broken Arrow is a good action film about a Stealth pilot (John Travolta) who steals nuclear weapons one night during a practice mission.  His goal is to sell the weapons back to the United States government by blackmailing them.  Old partner Christian Slater is willing to stop Travolta at all costs with the help of ranger Samantha Mathis.  Howie Long makes an impressive film debut as Travolta's evil henchman.  The screenplay is smart enough to work and the direction is fast and furious.  A film that is about as good as it can be.  4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"John Woo-light","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"21 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  John Woo's continued attempt to translate his foreign success into Hollywood gold sees him take on bigger stars than Van Damme in Christian Slater and the resurrected star of Travolta.  Slater and Travolta play pilots testing a new bomber, when one of them decides to steal the missiles on board the other must begin a personal fight to stop him.As with Hard Target this is a solid enough action movie but it really could have been made by anyone, Woo's style only really comes through in a few scenes (the birds eye view of the opening boxing match, double handed gun play).  This is a shame because the action scenes only occasionally get better than average.The plot is weak and relies a lot on coincident and luck to keep things moving.  This is quite insulting to an audience because it just shows that the script writers couldn't fix the plot as a workable story and decided to try and get this past.  Travolta overplays the villain well, but perhaps overdoes the ticks and the madness a bit too much to be believable.  Slater clearly wants to be like Keanu was in Speed but doesn't convince as an action hero, Mathis is cute but that doesn't make her performance good - she pretty much a non-entity and doesn't really have much chemistry with Slater.Again a solid action movie that is OK for a Saturday night, but with the stars, the budget and a director of this calibre you can't help but feel this was a missed opportunity. "},{"Title":"Dumb But What Did You Expect ?","Date":"4 May 2005","Score":"15 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Like nearly every other in this genre BROKEN ARROW is dumb with a capital DUM . It suffers from a myriad of plot holes and factual errors that anyone who has surfed the net looking through sites dedicated to the military will be able to spot at once . One early example is when the pilots eject and control have no idea to their fate . It's a well known fact that pilot suits contain a homing beacon so pilots who eject on missions can be instantly traced We as an audience are supposed to forgive this ignorance and this audience member found it very easy to . Yeah it's a Hollywood movie from the 1990s so we're treated to very unlikely plot twists in a movie where the good guy and an innocent woman just doing her job have to stop bad guys so get ready for firefights , explosions and the obligatory scene of a countdown BROKEN ARROW might not be a classic action adventure movie ( It's a little too formuliac ) but it's better than most from the 1990s . Travolta purposely does an impression of Tom Cruise except he's a bad ass and Christian Slater may seem an unlikely action hero but he's far more convincing than Steven Seagal or even Keanu Reeves . John Woo directs in a workman like manner and though it's not his best movie Woo does treat us to some spectacular and grisly deaths "},{"Title":"John Woo hones his craft here in America","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"16 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  John Woo, after his many Hong Kong efforts, came to America and made Hard Target (1993), which due to studio interference and bad taking of direction by Jean Claude Van Damme, wasn't as good as it could have been. Woo got a bad reputation due to his conflicts with both the MPAA and Universal, and it took him awhile to get this one off of the ground. Woo had never worked with special effects, so he was treading into new territory. Luckily, he got two great leads, Christian Slater (soon to be in Windtalkers), and John Travolta (Face/Off). They take his direction well, and each gives a good performance. As the traditional villain's henchman, which I like to call Indestructable Villain Sidekick, Howie Long gives a good performance, and dies a good death too. I never appreciated this movie that much until watching it tonight, and I realized, this is probably the most action-packed movie in a long time. It takes only about 6 minutes to get going, and then, boom! boom! boom! Action sequence after the other, no let-down in between. This movie has plently of shootouts, explosions, and great innovative twists (kicking the rear blade of a helicopter to knock a gun out of one's hand) to make a action movie good. John Woo's cinematography, the great shared moments (the 20 dollar bill and whatnot) are what makes this one a great action movie. Another thing that makes this flick great is that it gave Woo the power to get Face/Off, his best Hollywood outing, the greenlight. I'm looking forward to Windtalkers and love all of Woo's movies.9 outta 10. "},{"Title":"BROKEN ARROW's one heck of a joy ride!","Date":"12 May 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" My Take Mindless, balls-to-the-wall action thriller. Grab on to that chair.BROKEN ARROW may be required to take a deep long breath, because when it starts, it's a ripping action-packed joy ride complete with guns, explosions, action heroes, great baddies, helicopters, jeeps, chases and all under the great helm of Hong Kong action god John Woo, here having a filed day with special effects, stunts and style. It may be off on implausibility, but you won't need much to think about once the theater gets dark. And when the theater does get dark, and the film starts, the action just keeps pouring in. Woo delivers style over substance (there's more action here than plot), but what style! This is one of the finest piece of action escapism in years, it's also one of the most stylish ones.John Travolta and Christian Slater star as two military pilots who volunteers to transport two nuclear warheads via Stealth Bomber jet. Turns out, the true reason is Maj. Deakins (Travolta), who is still in a grudge after being passed from promotion for a long time, is out to steal the two bombs and hold the for ransom. When he ejects his partner Capt. Riley Hale (Slater) and crashes the jet in the middle of the desert, Hale is out to stop his old partner from detonating the nuclear bombs if his demands of a large amount of cash is met. Samantha Mathis co-stars as a local sheriff Terry Carmichael who gets caught up in the entire mess, and ends up helping Hale out to stop Deakins from going ballistic (there are very few romantic in-turns between the two, just for the good of it).The film runs at 108 minutes, and Woo doesn't let things up. There's action here and action there. It's wall-to-wall full of action and less plot in comparison. The film's plot resembles that of the previous year's hit SPEED, which may due to the writer being Graham Yost, who also wrote that recent blockbuster hit. But who cares, both films take liberty from the DIE HARD films, and they both turned up well. In the matter of execution, this derivative affair is brought with style and pure wall-to-wall action and thrills. And, under Woo's hands, the action is done with style and freshness.Although with a large amount of violence, Woo is the kind of action who treats them like paint in his canvas. Action fans will be pleased by how who treats the heart-pounding excitement and pure action as his ballet . It's action filmdom as a form of art. Highly recommended!Rating **** out of 5. "}{"Title":"typical plot carried out effectively","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"20 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Broken Arrow is not an original movie, it's an action movie that's made to thrill audiences, not to leave them deep in thought. It manages to rise to the head of the pack thanks to great acting, directing and an excellent score.2 U.S. army officers, Major Vic Deakins(John Travolta) and Captain Riley Hale(Christian Slater) are assigned to fly a jet plane carrying 2 live nukes to conduct a test. During the flight Deakins reveals his true intent, ejects the stunned Hale out of the plane, and releases the nukes before crashing it.This comes to the alert of park ranger Terry Charmical(Samantha Mathis) who immediatly sets out to find what is going on. Once the nukes are dropped Col. Max Wilkins(Delroy Lindo) is faced with bringing down Deakins and right hand man turncoat soldier Arvid Kelly(Howie Long) with the help of pencil pusher Giles Prentice(Frank Whaley).Travolta is great in an over the top but very entertaining role, and Slater does a good job as an action hero. Mathis is slightly miscast though, and should probably stick to her other hit films. Howie Long effectively plays Kelly with very little skill and no expierence, but his size helps give him on screen presence. Delroy Lindo is effective as the confident military officer, although Frank Whaley, despite being a good actor, is rather annoying in his roleAll in all if your looking for a great way to spend almost two hours, then sit down and watch this movie. It's definately a movie worth watching several times over **** 1/2 out of *****  "},{"Title":"exhilarating action from John Woo","Date":"3 February 2008","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" a madman has stolen two nuclear warheads and threatens to detonate them over a populated area if his demand for money is not met.that's the gist of the story.it stars John Travolta,Christian Slater,Samantha Mathis and Delroy Lindo,to name a few.it's a pulse pounding thriller from John Woo(mission Impossible 2).there's obviously a lot of action,and suspense,and the movie goes right down to the wire.John Travolta is good,as is Christian Slater,but i really liked Samantha Mathis,who i feel is and underrated actress.the action scenes are are exhilarating,though admittedly over the top.but for thrills,you can't beat it.for me,Broken Arrow is an 8/10 "},{"Title":"Action Packed and Underrated","Date":"2 September 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Broken Arrow is one of my favorite movies and perhaps one of the most underrated movies ever.It feature a lot going for it, Good cast, good plot and very good directing.The plot of Broken Arrow centers around two pilots Captain Riley Hale (Christian Slate) and Major Vic 'Deak' Deakins (John Travolta) are order to fly a B-3 Bomber carrying two live nuclear warheads however Deakins ends up betraying Hale and is working a deal to sell the stolen nuclear warheads.He eject Hale from the plane and meets with his team to sell the nukes.However Hale survives the attack and begins working with Park Ranger Terry Carmichael (Samantha Mathis) and it is up to them to put a stop to Deakins and his men before it is too late.Director John Woo did a really good job with the camera angles for the action scenes and knew exactly what to do at the right moment.The Action scenes in this film are very good it goes to show the 90s were good to action films. The Scene where the plane fly over Terry and she falls backward the shot was very well done. My personal favorite scene in this movie is when Hale and Terry first meet and they get into a fight that scene was set up just right and they end up joining forces.There are a lot of tense moments in the film and you will be wondering what would happen nextPlus the writing for the film has some smart one liners and they actually made the story and characters enjoyable. John makes a twisted villain, Samantha does pretty well in this film and Christian shows how well he could do given the right people.The score in the film matches the story and action in the film's final fight it really shows. The Stunts are very good as well and it just goes to show that the film does what it can. Plus the creative work that went into the action scenes is smart.Plus the climax of the film is balance really well. Broken Arrow just does a lot to make it a worthy film in the action series and it should get more creditWith a good story, good action scenes and John Woo directing it should be right up there with the best films of the 90s I give Broken Arrow an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Off the rails action fun","Date":"17 August 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Broken Arrow, the lesser known John Woo actioner with John Travolta (Face/Off being the favoured sibling) is an adrenaline blast of pure popcorn movie enchantment. From beginning to end we are treated to pulse pounding fighter jet chases, delightfully cheesy dialogue, bone crunching man to man combat, and endless shootouts bathed in the bloody, nerve shattering glory that only the 90's could deliver. Woo brings his operatic grace out to the desert, and amongst the constant brutish blunt force trauma, his pointed touch is unmistakable. John Travolta gives a loony toons worthy performance that's so far over the top, he shatters the ceiling and blasts off into orbit, grimacing like the joker hijacking an F18. He knows he's in camp territory too, and milks it. He plays Deakins, a jaded lunatic Air Force pilot who absconds with two deadly nuclear warheads, intent on selling them to radicals. Christian Slater is Hale, his second in command, who finds himself on a warpath with Travolta as he chases him through the desert. Woo and team surgically remove any unnecessary, dragging plot lines and distill their process to one simple formula action. Furious quantities of it too, and indeed Slater finds himself constantly hopping trains, emptying clips into countless paramilitary cannon fodder and taking down helicopters he scarcely finds time to breathe. He gets support in the obligatory female lead, feisty park ranger Terry Carmichael (Samantha Mathis holds her own amongst the boys splendidly). Woo is an action maestro, and he unleashes a hell storm of beautifully staged set pieces and delirious fight scenes for fans of the genre to bask in. Accompanied by Hans Zimmer's thunderous, effortlessly cool score, it's a real treat. Supporting our three leads are Kurtwood Smith, Chris Mulkey, Bob Gunton, Frank Whaley, Howie Long, Delroy Lindo and Daniel Von Bargen filling out the respective genre archetypes that we love to see. It doesn't have the 007 esque class or panache of Face/Off, but it has plenty of sound and fury to slake anyone's lust for gaudy, excessively enjoyable slash and burn action that's off the rails. "},{"Title":"A fast and thrilling action flick from John Woo!","Date":"3 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is a good old fashion action flick from director John Woo, where John Travolta plays corrupted Air Force Major Vic 'Deak' Deakins who intentionally crash lands a U.S. plane holding two nuclear warheads. He demands $250,000,000 from the government in return for the warheads and his co-pilot, Captain Riley Hale (Christian Slater) and U.S. park ranger Terry Carmichael (Samantha Mathis) attempt to stop him.This movie has some good direction and a fast-paced plot that kept the story interesting and captivating. The acting was OK for the most part and, from what I remember, there is much edge-of-your-seat excitement seeing Hale pit against Deakins in the warhead mission after he gets beaten by Deakins in a boxing match earlier in the movie. Travolta portrayed a very sneaky and formidable villain and Slater gave a heroic portrayal of the protagonist. Overall, it's a good action flick to pass the time.Grade B "},{"Title":"Features Plenty of Action!","Date":"10 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Broken Arrow is your typical John Woo movie because it does deliver the thrills. As John Woo's first big budget film, he does a decent job. While the story may not be consistent and the film seems to be a little overlong, there is plenty of action and explosions to keep action junkies happy. Given the fact that there are two big stars to carry the film, it's not a bad film at all.John Woo's film is about two bombers named Hal and Deakins who are stealth bombers and are assigned to an exercise that features live nuclear weapons. But the weapons are eventually stolen by a surprising turn of events and that may cause some serious trouble if weapons are not found.Christian Slater and John Travolta are the two main stars of the film and they do a solid job. I sometimes find it hard to see Travolta as a baddie and he does well overall. But, I can't help mention that there is this cheesy scene when we first discover he is indeed the bad guy. Slater does really good and he is the guy we love to root for.Overall, this is a good movie that certainly doesn't back down on the action. In fact, the final forty minutes of the film is just action. But being a Woo film, the action is wonderfully staged and often engaging. A weak-ish story does not really hinder this film all too much. I rate this film 8/10. "},{"Title":"Broken Arrow A Solid Action Film","Date":"18 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Broken Arrow is a solid action film with equally impressive performances from both John Travolta and Christian Slater. The film is directed by John Woo. He's a popular Hong Kong director the man behind films like Face/Off, Paycheck, and Mission Impossible 2. John Travolta and Christian Slater are great in their roles as Deakins and Hale two friends turned adversaries after a training exercise goes awry. Travolta is terrific as the villain and Slater makes for a believable hero. Their scenes together are worth seeing it alone. The rest of the supporting cast including Samantha Mathis as Park Ranger Terry Carmichael, Delroy Lindo as Colonel Max Wilkins, and everyone else in the film are good in their roles. With the plenty of action, drama, suspense, thrills, and some humor Broken Arrow is an entertaining thrill ride with great performances by it's lead actors. A well made action thriller thats sure to please any fan of the genre. "},{"Title":"One of my favourite overblown 90's action flicks!","Date":"9 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Broken Arrow starts as pilots Captain Riley Hale (Christian Slater) & Major Vic Deakins (John Travolta) board a Stealth bomber equipped with two nuclear missiles, they fly the Stealth over the Utah desert in what was supposed to be a routine mission to monitor radiation levels but Deakins tries to kill Hale in an attempt to steal the nuclear weapons. Hale manages to eject from the Stealth before Deakins kills him, Deakins then drops the unarmed bombs & ejects himself leaving the plane to crash. Having witnessed the crash park ranger Terry Carmichael (Samantha Mathis) goes to investigate & finds Hale, meanwhile Deakins has managed to trick the army into thinking the nuclear weapons have been breached & therefore rescue teams cannot be sent in. With easy access to the bombs he intends to bribe the Government into paying a ransom or he'll use them to wipe out half of the country, that is unless Hale & the park ranger can stop him & his men...Directed by John Woo Broken Arrow was his second American action film after the fabulous Hard Target (1993), I personally rate Broken Arrow, & Hard Target for that matter, as one of my favourite over-the-top action flicks from the 90's & for that I apologise to no-one. The script by Graham Yost is as action packed as they come, there's loads of shoot-outs, fights, explosions, crashes, vehicular mayhem & near misses. Most people seem to think the basic story is pretty far fetched & I have to agree but it's by no means sillier than a lot of 90's action flicks like Speed (1994) for instance. What I like about it is that it moves along like a rocket & there isn't enough time between all the fights & explosions for small things like plot holes to make any huge difference. I also liked the character's here, the relationships between Hale & the sexy park ranger & between Hale & Deakins in particular, I just thought the character's & the way they were written & developed were better than the average action flick with themes like friendship & betrayed. I liked it, a lot.Director Woo knows how to turn in a decent action flick & he doesn't disappoint here, while the unmistakable style of his earlier Hong Kong films may have been slightly sterilised by Hollywood the set-pieces in his films still remain very impressive. Broken Arrow probably has more helicopters being blown up & crashing than any other single film I think I've ever seen. Some of the explosions are huge, the fights are varied & well staged & most of the action is done the good old fashioned way on set in camera with real stunt men & real explosions rather than awful CGI computer effects which have become commonplace. The only scene which really made me cringe was when Hale falls off the back of the truck & he then picks himself up, runs after it, catches it up & jumps on the back! I don't think so, the truck itself had at least a 10 second head start before we even discuss how slow it would have to have been going for Hale to physically run after it & catch it up. The violence isn't too excessive, there's not much blood in it & the violence isn't sadistic or gloating as in say a lot of Steven Seagal films.With a supposed budget of about $65,000,000 Broken Arrow is well made with that Hollywood polish about it, the special effects are good & there's plenty of big bangs & explosions for the money. The acting is alright, I liked Travolta (who was apparently paid $7,000,000 for this) as the villain in particular but he does come across as a bit theatrical at times, I thought Mathis was fine as the love interest although I thought Slater was a bit bland & forgettable as the hero.Broken Arrow is a great action film, it has a good cast, great action scenes, loads of explosions, better than usual character's & it moves along at a good pace. I thought it was great & it's as simple & straight forward as that. "},{"Title":"Straight out of the Cinema Merde movement.","Date":"24 July 2009","Score":"15 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" What a pointless piece of crap. A film whose dialog is comprised exclusively of tag-lines. Acting as nuanced as that which might be found on an infomercial. A plot as contrived and preposterous as any one might find in a rejected RoadRunner cartoon script.This film has it all, culminating in a death scene as silly as you'll ever see. The plot involves the theft of a set of nuclear weapons which Christian Slater is trained to disable. These nuclear weapons have a keypad you can set for thirty minutes. Can you, dear reader, explain to me the rationale for such a feature on a nuclear warhead? This film's plot devices come from a world where physics and logic have not yet been invented.This film does make you think.It's horrible. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece of Action Movie","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"27 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  After Terminator 2 this is one of the best directed action thrillers I have seen and it finds for ever a place in my best of DVD collection. There are two masters for action movies for me John Woo and James Cameron. The stunts were great and all very real executed. I mean there doesn't exist any cartoonish scenes as we see today in the cinema at times. John Travolta did perhaps after Face Off one of the best jobs in his career. If you liked it I highly recommend the other broken arrow film called The Sum of All Fears. Broken Arrow is incredibly underrated and should be classified as T2. For all action fans a must see, you won´t be disappointed.My wife and I vote 9.5/10.  "}{"Title":"Brainless Fun with Diluted Woo!","Date":"19 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" As an avid fan of Hong Kong cinema, I'm never been overly happy or excited when one of my heroes makes a move to Hollywood. I've always had this thing were I believe the big fat US execs are drumming their fingers together thinking of ways to knock this foreign film maker down a peg or two, especially if they generally make better pictures than most Hollywood directors!Which a lot of them do.When John Woo, who made quite possibly some of the finest films in not just HK cinema history, but overall, got his big break in Hollywood with Hard Target, I knew this would be the beginning of the end for him.Jumping on to Broken Arrow, and along with Face Off, these seemed to be the final passing moments of a cinematic master...Long gone were the wow factors such as Hard Boiled, The Killer, and Bullet In The Head, had given us. Now, Hollywood were pounding the crap out of Mr. Woo to spit out what we know as typical Hollywood blockbusters, most of which work on a visual level but are a flop to both their studios and their fans!The first problem that hit me with Broken Arrow, was the over-rated John Travolta. This odd looking man overacts his way through this flick with pure cheese as his guide dog, that lends itself to a cartoon like bad guy for the duration.Slater actually comes across quite well, and handles the action scenes enjoyably which shows. The park ranger was okay. She wasn't anything exciting, but got stuck into her role which impressed. I for one, would have put Cynthia Rothrock in her place that would have lent itself for more hard action scenes and some kick ass moments.Overall, Broken Arrow does pass the time enjoyably enough. I'm used to real John Woo movies, and in this we get a few moments that hark back to that. My husband was yelling and jumping quite a bit with certain close calls of action, scenes of terror and such, but I had yet to get overly excited much like when I watch A Better Tomorrow or any of his other classics.Its almost like Hollywood refused to let Woo bring what he does best to the table. They say action, yes by all means, but the brotherhood and drama of his own films is what really screams Woo and we don't really see that in his Hollywood junk.Broken Arrow is fun. Its not perfect fun, but it does have its moments! "},{"Title":"Some roll-your-eyes parts, but delivers the goods","Date":"30 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I was 18 years late, but I finally got around to catching 1996's Broken Arrow. I remember there was talk about it at the time and then it quickly fell into near-obscurity.The title -- Broken Arrow -- refers to a nuclear warhead that's been lost. The plot revolves around a duel between two Airforce pilots, Deakins (John Travolta) and Hale (Christian Slater) Deakins steals two warheads in the Utah desert while Hale teams up with a good-looking park ranger (Samantha Mathis) to stop Deakins and his sinister cohorts.I have to admit that I usually don't like mindless action flicks, like 2001's The Mummy Returns, mainly because the stories are shallow and nothing more than an excuse to string together endless absurd action sequences. For an action film to work, the story & writing have to capture the attention of the viewer, like Raiders of the Lost Ark and Terminator 2 Judgment Day, both superb examples of the genre. I was pleased when the plot of Broken Arrow pulled me in and the film took me for a good ride. No, it's not great like those other two films, but then not many action films attain their level of expertise.Roger Ebert complained that Travolta makes an unconvincing villain. Poppycock. Travolta easily owns the role, swaggering around in over-confident non-glory. He's one of those villains you both hate and enjoy to watch. Surprisingly, Slater makes a quality protagonist and believable action hero. And Mathis is just a pleasure to behold from beginning to end. Some complain that she's somehow annoying, but I feel the opposite She totally enhances the movie. How so? She's a likable and comely protagonist, pure and simple. How exactly is she annoying? She falls upon a questionable situation and reacts in a cautionary way. Once Hale wins her trust and she understands the situation it's easy to root for her. Moreover, she looks great in tight ranger pants climbing a railcar, lol. So where's the problem? There are other positives, like the great location cinematography (shot in Utah, California, Arizona and Montana); the outstanding score and the wall-to-wall fun action scenes. Unfortunately, this last positive also morphs into a negative. There are so many action scenes that you'll start laughing at the screen. I can't help but wonder how the park ranger suddenly transforms into Indiana Jones. Was she in serious training in her spare time? Also, in order to include as many over-the-top action scenes as possible the filmmakers completely omit details, like how is it that the ranger goes utterly undetected on the boat? They don't even show.But these types of things don't matter much in an action movie like this; it's all about going for a fun ride and Broken Arrow delivers the goods from most angles.The film runs 108 minutes.GRADE B "},{"Title":"I say god-damn what a rush.","Date":"27 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" There's no denying that in order to make it in Hollywood, John Woo had to abandon much of what made his Hong Kong films so special a unique blend of emotional characterisation combined with themes of loyalty and honour and outrageous over-the-top violence. That said, I still get a kick out of Broken Arrow, the director's second US effort the plot might be your typically dumb US action nonsense, full of glaring plot holes, but the film still displays enough of Woo's cool visual style and expertly choreographed action to make it a cut above the competition.Working with big Hollywood stars and a massive budget, Woo pulls off some ridiculously outrageous comic-book action, building to a glorious orgy of violence aboard a speeding train carrying a live nuclear device to Denver, with only fighter pilot Capt. Riley Hale (Christian Slater) and park ranger Terry Carmichael (Samantha Mathis) to save the day. None of what precedes this silly scenario makes much sense, but check your brain at the door before viewing and you'll have a blast with the brilliantly choreographed hyper-kinetic gun-play, impressive stunt sequences, massive explosions, and John Travolta's absolutely bonkers performance. "},{"Title":"Suspension of Disbelief Highly Recommended ! You have Been Warned !","Date":"27 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" John Woo directs this current day Thriller about the abduction of two nuclear bombs for ransom. That part is not too far-fetched, but the rest of the film is highly unbelievable.Vic Deakins(John Travolta) and Capt Riley Hale(Christian Slater) pilot a stealth bomber that has nuclear weapons. Travolta, the bad guy, wants to steal the nukes, along with the people who fund this project, and hold the U.S. for ransom. O.K. , then it really gets crazy with action, and multiple sub-plots, that range from the ridiculous to the sublime.Car chases with gun fights, train chases with gun fights and regular fights galore. Helicopter chases with gun fights, and more!Riley is rescued in the desert by Park Ranger Terry Carmichael(Samantha Mathis) and the hi-jinx ensue. More car chases and plenty of guns shooting every which way. So, on a believability scale it gets a -2, on an Action scale, it gets a 10 ! So, if you want a highly action packed flick that doesn't want you to think, then enjoy this film, BUT , if you require a little more insight and thought process, then you probably want to skip this movie.Film run time 108 minutes, bathroom breaks allowed. "},{"Title":"John Woo when he was good!!!!","Date":"17 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Now you know when a film has you and is entertaining. Usually for me the indications are....1) I'm not bored 2) I'm not yawning 3) i don't have to make an excuse to goto to the toilet even when I don't need to. This film did not have me doing any of these things.John Woo during the early to mid 90's had a range of good films in Hollywood before he went stupid during the 2000's. This along with Hard Target, Face/Off, Once a Thief and Mission Impossible 2 was one of them.From the get go this movie had Woo written all over it....the slow motion shots, the double guns, John Travolta, and the Mexican stand off - although this time with a gun and a knife. From the opening boxing match, to the underground nuclear explosion and the climax on the train this movie thrilled.Admittedley, as other commentators have pointed out...this is a run of the mill action movie which is elevated by John Woo, Travolta and Slater to above average. I hate to say this but I could watch this a second time and still not get bored with it.Overall, this movie did do it for me. Great to have a pizza and a six pack on a Saturday night DVD fest with the guys. "},{"Title":"my start.....","Date":"15 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Okay, so I've seen a lot of rated R movies before this and well before I turned 18. But I remember seeing the previews on TV, but not being able to see it in theaters because I was too young, so when it came out on video, I would ride my bike down to the video store to rent it countless times a month. Surprisingly, the folks liked it too and didn't mind me watching it over and over. At first I thought it was over the top, but I really liked the soundtrack(by Hans Zimmer, one of my favorite composers), and as I watched it more for the soundtrack, the over all experience of the movie grew on me. The theme for Travolta's character just made him the badass his character needed to be. Slaters unlikely role as the scrawny hero worked out for the betterment of the film and his character. Long's only good film appearance as the muscular right hand man fit him to the T. John Woo's affinity for action movies is exemplified in this film. Mathis's role as the female element was believable(she didn't come off as a dit and one could see her has a park ranger because her proportions weren't medically exaggerated). The shootout in the mine, the Humvee chase, the Helicopter pursuit of slater and Mathis, the opening scene with a fight in the cockpit of the stealth bomber, and the climatic train sequence made this a cool movie. So what if it wasn't Oscar material, not every movie is, and the ones that aren't are the most entertaining. I now attribute this movie as my start into movie loving and becoming a connoisseur. "},{"Title":"John Woo's best!!!!","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This was Woo's second American film after he did Hard Target and it had to be his best.  It starred my favorite actor Cristian Slater and I just wanna say that he kicked the living s**t out of John Travolta at the end of the movie.  I was 11 years old when I first saw this movie, and it has been my favorite action thriller ever since.  I recommend this film to all John Woo fans. "},{"Title":"A Good see altogether","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The film has some excellent dialogues, special effects and scenes, which are a must see. It's a good flick to watch, and John Travolta steals the show. Samantha Mathis has a very small role. Christian Slater is good as usual. Other actors have performed on-the-average. "},{"Title":"John Woo..... is there anything he can't do?","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  **SPOILERS**Wow. That's just about the only thing I can think of by describing this masterpiece of an all American movie! This certainly qualifies under the Mindless Action catergory but in the end it plays out well. I am a die hard John Woo fan, through good and bad (though I have yet to see a bad film of his) he has always pulled through to my expectations. After a strong Hollywood debut by directing 1993's phenomenal Hard Target it was about John Woo's time to show that he has what it takes to make a big budget Hollywood action movie. And it shines through beautifully. It was obvious that in this movie Woo didn't focus a lot of his Shoot-outs that look more like a slow motion ballet that we have seen in his earlier Hong Kong films and his extraordinary Hollywood film Face/Off which would come out a year later. But to a lot of people disliked this movie because it didn't contain his certain style of gunplay really overlook the smaller things. I'll get back to those in a little bit. The plot is a relatively good one that's basic, but isn't basic enough to make us think that the writers thought that seven year old's will be viewing this movie. But this type of basic plot is seen quite often in John Woo movies because he knows that people arn't going to see his movies for top notch plots but for seeing a movie that is full of his views and beliefs about how an action movie should be made. Well anyways, the movie starts out with a boxing match between two competing United States Air Force pilots. Vic Deakins (John Travolta in a very well played out role) and Riley Hale (Christian Slater in not his best role - True Romance and The Contender take that honor - but still played out convincingly). Well by the end Hale is KO'd by Deakins and we move right into the main plot. Now I've heard many senseless babble about how the whole beginning was unnecessary and a waste of time but you have to realize that the writers and John Woo put that there in order to set up two things (1. that Deakins and Hale are tough competitors and (2. it brings in the whole significance of the $20 bill which turns up throughout the movie. Back to the plot. Deakins and Hale are ordered to fly a B3 stealth bomber on a simulation run over the Utah desert to test out it's stealth capabilities and to take a map of the terrain. But what adds on to this flight is that they're carrying two nuclear warheads in their payload. Now apparently these are some big nukes because they're described as 81's, and I'm not too keen on my nuclear weapons but apparently these are some big nukes or as Christian Slater calls them Ooooo 81's, crowd pleasers! So they both fly out in the B3 and since I don't want to spoil the plot I'll just say that one of them has an evil plan brewing involving these two nukes. WARNING! SPOILER! DON'T READ ON IF YOU DON'T WANT TO KNOW TOO MUCH OF THE PLOT! One of them drops the nukes and ejects the other while in turn he also ejects before crashing the $2 billion aircraft. What follows is a barrage of action sequences that I feel play out well to suit the plot. There's a rush of side actors such as Delroy Lindo as the unfortunate person who has the job to find out exactly what happened that night to the two pilots and two nukes. Samantha Mathis also appears as a strong hearted park ranger who's stuck in all this mess. And unfortunately Howie Long makes his major Hollywood film debut in this movie (stick with sports casting buddy, acting's not your thing). But through the rush of side actors and action sequences we never forget what John Woo was accomplishing through this movie. You can see his gunplay really shine through during the whole underground mine sequence where bodies gracefully flit about while pumping other people full of bullets. Also I have to give him my compliments on the excellent direction and choreography through the whole final half an hour shoot-out on the train. SUPERB! Also I have to say that the final death sequence in the movie is amazingly original (I'm not saying it's plausible) it's just something you wouldn't expect and really that's what you want in a movie. What you have to realize is that John Woo has made a solid, very solid action movie here. Don't think about what he's done before, think about the movie by itself as an action movie. You can still find Woo's directorial touches to the movie. Such as the feeling of partnership between Travolta and Slater in the beginning, and the whole significance of the $20 bill. Neither of them seem satisfied with doing something unless there's a $20 down. Look deep and you can find these things and a whole lot more. Also the scenery is very beautiful throughout the whole film. The serene desert landscape with the jutting mountains painting the backdrop. I believe that the tagline is quite true to the movie Prepare to Go Ballistic which really describes how I felt upon seeing this movie. It's surprising, original, well thought out, well acted out (exclusion of Howie Long I'm afraid) and utterly beautiful as only John Woo can. 10/10  "},{"Title":"A sinematic masterwork","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Broken arrow has been critisized by some as being corny, boring and stupid. In order to understand a deep and compelling movie like this, you have to be aseasoned movie viewer and a consumate film guru. This film does not havecheesy special effects it is merely shot like an old fashioned opera - where the effects on stage are clearly not meant to be realistic in any way. What thisprovides is a chance to savor the acting talents of Travolta and Slater. Their development in this movie is a fine example of a pair of actors who havereached their peak. One could easily compare this masterpiece to one of thehighest rated movies of all time...The Battleship Potemkin. I've seen this movie several times, but each time I am still brought to tears at the end of the movie. Such a heroic ending to such a sadistic plot. Being in the military for most of my life, I can appreciate the inner struggles that Travolta and Slater no doubt had to go through to play their roles effectively in this masterpiece. The score adds to the tension and drama in this movie as well. If you want a good action flick, throw away Saving Private Ryan and all those other duds, pick up a DVD ofBroken Arrow and prepare to go on an emotional and physical rollercoaster ride that if your're not careful, could leave you in a fiery, catatonic state. Wow!! 10 out of 10 for Travolta/Slater, 9 out of 10 for the flick. Bravo ! "}{"Title":"One of the best action films ever to be made!","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  As the first ever John Woo i saw it blew me away. The acting, directing, music, etc... All fantastically blended into a unique piece of film making which produced a monumental film. Broken Arrow is a film that should be bought and cherished for ever.  "},{"Title":"disappointing considering the crew","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Frustrated by having spent years and years of being passed up for promotion, disgruntled and maniacal Air Force officer Travolta crash lands a U.S. plane in the middle of the Utah desert where he and his accomplices hold two nuclear warheads for ransom. The only ones who can stop him are his junior officer/co-pilot (Slater), who forms an unlikely team with a reluctant park ranger (Mathis), to try and thwart his diabolical scheme. Woo's one of a kind action scenes make the film worth watching, but they're outweighed by a mediocre script with too many improbabilities and excessive coincidences. Travolta's sinister villain is terribly overacted, and more laughable than menacing. ** "},{"Title":"Escapist Woo","Date":"31 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Broken Arrow was my first John Woo movie, so you can imagine the impact of such an action virtuoso on a 15 year-old's mind and the soft spot I've had for this movie ever since. It created quite the thirst.Getting down to it, the movie's memorable mostly because of John Travolta, who's clearly relishing the bad guy role here. It's a balls-to-the-wall performance (keeping with the tone of the movie) as he feasts on the scenery in almost every one of his minutes on screen. Seriously, the guy's working on a higher level than the rest of the cast, and walks away with the movie from the more earnest Slater.Aside from the delectable Samantha Mathis, it's all slo-mo shootouts and explosions. Bottom line, good old-fashioned cheap thrills.7/10 "},{"Title":"John Travolta steals the show","Date":"6 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I was rooting for John in this movie to succeed in his plan. I knew that wasn't going to happen but the movie had Christian Slater going up against him. I find Slater to be OK but incredibly bland, the kind of actor who is just there but doesn't add much to the movie in terms of acting or charisma. Travolta on the other hand is overacting and having so much fun being the bad guy I wanted him to kick Slater's ass and ride off into the sunset. Of course this is a typical 80s/90s action movie so the good guy wins and gets the girl but even though Travlolta's character dies he goes out in style. The movie overall is super cheesy and fun, this is what an action movie should be, not the super serious, wannabe realistic schlock we get today. This is balls to the wall fun directed by John Woo who knows how to make a good, fun action flick and make it so corny its laughable but that is the point. Not as good as Hard Target or Face/Off but damn good, solid 7/10. "},{"Title":"John Woo action with Graham Yost script and Travolta villain","Date":"27 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":""}{"Title":"A John Woo Action Flick from Hollywood","Date":"5 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" When somebody doesn't like a movie they really do try to pull out every bad mistake it in. After reading Ebert's review of Broken Arrow I have come to realise that he is a brainless moron that just raves on for a long time. I still think that his reviews are a little deeper, but I think that he was a little too scathing on Broken Arrow. Anyway, if the film was that bad, why did he give it a 2 out of 4 and not a 0 like he did to North.Broken Arrow is a simple action film about a man that steals two nuclear bombs and uses them to blackmail the government. This movie basically contains four helicopters blowing up, a young park ranger who happens to be a woman, and lots of machine gun fights. This is not a bad thing, but compared to Woo's Hong Kong movies, Broken Arrow does not make the grade. The only interesting character is Deakins (John Travolta) who turns traitor after twenty years in the airforce and being over looked so many times for promotion. Hale (Christian Slater) is Deakins' co-pilot and is like a younger brother to Deakins. Deakins knows all about Hale and thus is able to predict every move of his. This make is a little interesting.The interesting thing about Deakins is that we begin by not know what he really is like. We think that Deakins and Hale will be the bad guys, but then we discover that he is the force behind the theft of the bombs and that our original impression was not correct. Beyond that the characters are fairly shallow and don't even seem to show the depth that the characters in Woo's Hong Kong movies and Face Off seem to have. This just reinforces my belief that John Woo's best movies are the ones he writes himself. "},{"Title":"Mindless fun with an awesome Travolta","Date":"5 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The only reason this movie is worth watching is because of John Travolta, who is at his absolute funniest, as far as I'm concerned. Basically, Broken Arrow is a combination of good, solid action and some great Travolta scenes & one-liners. The girl is OK, Slater just plain annoying.As far as the story goes the very average storyline you'd expect in an action movie like this, although I would rate the terrible plot below average even for this kind of movie. All in all, definitely worth watching if you can ignore the last 10 minutes. Must see if you're a Travolta fan, in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Don't shoot at the nuclear weapons!","Date":"26 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This John Woo action thriller reunites Christian Slater and Samantha Mathis, who played very different characters in 'Pump Up the Volume, as US Air Force pilot Captain Riley Hale and Park Ranger Terry Carmichael who find themselves in a race against time to prevent Hale's erstwhile colleague Major Vic Deakins, played by John Travolta, from getting away with two nuclear warheads he has stolen after staging a crash in the desert. Over the course of the film there is almost constant action as the two officers struggle for possession of the weapons this means plenty of shootouts, car chases, fights and exploding helicopters!The plot may have a few holes in it and if one thinks about it for too long there are plenty of unlikely occurrences but that doesn't matter as the action seldom lets up and that action is always stylish as one would expect from former Honk Kong Action supreme John Woo. Slater and Travolta are great as the two airmen; particularly the latter as is often the case the villain gets the best lines. Samantha Mathis puts in a feisty performance as the Park Ranger who finds herself dragged into helping Hale after she finds him in the desert following him being force to eject from the plane. The action is accompanied be a good sound track from Hans Zimmer; the music is never over the top but fits perfectly with the stylish action. Those people used to John Woo's earlier works such as 'The Killer' and 'Hard Boiled' might find the action here relatively tame but I enjoyed it and heartily recommend it to those looking for a fun action thriller that doesn't take itself too seriously. "},{"Title":"Battle is a highly fluid situation.","Date":"27 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Broken Arrow is directed by John Woo and written by Graham Yost. It stars John Travolta, Christian Slater, Samantha Mathis, Delroy Lindo, Bob Gunton and Howie Long. Hans Zimmer scores the music and Peter Levy is director of photography.Vic Deakins (Travolta) and Riley Hale (Slater), two air force friends, about to become enemies as one of them goes rogue and steals two nuclear missiles. Ladies and Gentlemen, we have a Broken Arrow, and America is in danger.John Woo berserker with Travolta going over the top. OK, lets not be too judgemental about such things, but expecting anything less than no brain explosive cinema is tantamount to stupidity. That said, even the blockiest of action blockbusters should have some sort of character depth from which the audience can begin to be involved with. Broken Arrow doesn't have that, Woo and Yost forgo such things and just launch into an hour and forty five minutes of adrenalin rushes, set around a good guy versus bad guy premise with Samantha Mathis dragged along side the good guy for the token female interest. The absence of any wit in the script is particularly galling, especially since Travolta's mugging cries out for some corny throw away lines. But for action seekers, at least, Broken Arrow is undeniably good trashy fun. Woo knows how to string action sequences together, and he also has this knack of making gun-play and carnage almost balletic. Cast wise it's best just to buy into Travolta enjoying himself, but Slater you sense is taking it all far too serious. Mathis is admirable given the scant flesh written onto her characters bones, while Gunton and Lindo are badly underused. Zimmer's score is part Western, part Octane, and Levy's (and his team) photography around Utah's scorched vista's is very accomplished and easy on the eye.Don't think about it too much and the discerning action fan should enjoy it. 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Better than average thriller with some really good performances","Date":"23 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" First of all I am a big John Woo fan, I loved Hostage and I still think that Mission Impossible II is the best of the three. This was the first film I'd seen with Christian Slater in and I thought he was very good. The show was very much stolen by John Travolta though, his performance was fantastic- insane, sadistic and looking like he was having fun in the process. Like Woo's other films it's a little unbelievable, but also very brutal at times and very suspenseful. It can be laughable at times, but I don't think you can really take the whole film seriously, it's good for relaxing, an above-average thriller. "},{"Title":"An Explosive Action flick!","Date":"3 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" John Woo is one of the most famous and imaginative Directors of our time, and he has Directed two of my most favorite films, Broken Arrow and Face/off. Major Vic Deakins (John Travolta) and Commander Riley Hale (Christian Slater) are two Pilots on an exercise Mission with a new Government Jet two Nukes (Bombs),to test if the plane is noticed on the Army Base's Radar and Infomation screens, but Vic has something else in mind, he plans on stealing both of the Nukes and exploding Salt Lake City, so he tries to kill Riley, but then pushes Riley up in the air by pulling an emergency lever, and sending Riley in to the desert. Deakins then pulls his own lever, and parachutes to land, with Riley doing the same, and with the help of his right hand man Emit Kelly (Howie Long), Vic carries out his plan, unless he gets $250,000,000 from the Government. The next morning, Riley is discovered by local Park Ranger Terry Carmichael (Samantha Mathis), and asks for her help in stopping Vic from blowing up Salt Lake City, but they then discover that Vic is actually sending the Nukes to Denver Colorado, and only have limited time to stop him from killing Millions of innocent people...Both John Travolta and Christian Slater do very well in this film, and are supported well by, Samantha Mathis, Howie Long and Delroy Lindo. John Woo should be very proud that he made such an amazing and Action - packed film.I enjoyed the whole, film and i recommend it to any John Woo fan, regular Movie Buff, or just a Hardcore Action Movie fan, you will enjoy Broken Arrow. So if you haven't seen it, go rent it, buy it, it's an action packed ride to the finish. "},{"Title":"John Travolta is at one of his bests, so is John Woo","Date":"12 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" In comparison with some recent soap bubble and pretty slow paced action movies, Broken Arrow is a very good action movie, even if it is plain. Its rating is pretty low by the way. However, without any comparison, it is the same, a well made action movie from an action expert, John Woo. It starts with a boxing scene which I think that probably the most fresh one I have ever seen. Owing to its editing, you feel like you punch or you are punched. As for John Travolta, I liked the character a lot and every time, it it fun to watch. Honestly, without him, the movie might have been run of the mill. His smoking cigarette style and his mimics are unforgettable. The scene which he tries to break the bomb is one of my favorites. There is a very long action sequence in a cave that recalls The Rock. As we expected from a John Woo movie, a lot of bullets, acrobatic acts etc. almost all it has. I like the explosion scene, too, again especially for John Travolta. Despite, the movie and the characters seem shallow, I believe that one of his best performances of John Travolta is here. The relationship between Riley and Terry is very cliché (generally, there is a supporter of the hero in action movies and it is often a female), but this is not so important. The last part of the movie is again a very long action sequence and some moments feed on other John Woo movies like MI-2, but I did not like the end, it was disappointing and a bit weird. Against all these, a lot of fun. "},{"Title":"Broken Arrow is Broken-Spirited **1/2","Date":"10 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" John Travolta smokes it up as a psycho-army man with nuclear weapons within his cache in this 1996 routine nonsense. Didn't Travolta swear off cigarettes after his phenomenal performance in 1977's Saturday Night Fever?Christian Slater co-stars as his fellow aviator taken in by Travolta's fiendish plot to steal nuclear warheads and then sell them to someone representing terrorist organizations. While the premise is a good one, the film soon dissolves into a shoot-up fest between the good guys and the bad guys. Along the way, Slater finds a romantic interest in the girl he finds when he is ejected from the plane.Broken arrow refers to the idea when nuclear reactors are missing. There is a lot of things broken in this picture. "},{"Title":"Seriously what was going on","Date":"7 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" OK, decent enough movie for the action but why did the park ranger suddenly turn from a normal cop to a rambo navy SEAL who can throw a hammer so strongly that in terms of physics should have had a recoil enough to throw herself back 10 foot? and why do we have the horrible generic bad guys e.g. Freeze Generic un-bad guy holds onto gun Freeze -10 seconds Freeze Hero finds a sudden hidden weapon makes a quip and kills them using italso what was with the nuke shockwave that moved at like 1 mphAction was good apart from a few of the generic scenes (see above)I suppose I've just seen so many good guy wins agaisnt all odds movies that i want to see a bad guy wins scenario =/ "},{"Title":"Woo's Action","Date":"2 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The second (US) cinema outing from John Woo. It ain't bad, the action is thrilling, as you would expect it. The story is kinda lightweight and the acting is OK. But if you watch the movie you will do so, more likely because you're interested in the action part of it.And it delivers, but as the story isn't engaging and there is not much tension build, you kinda will be yearning for more. If you know (and love) his earlier (HK) films (like I do), even more so. For an American movie is is pretty good. On more problem that I have (but that's entirely me) I don't really think Travolta is good in it (I don't really think he's much of an actor, although occasionally he has a good role -> Pulp Fiction) "}{"Title":"Action, too much of it, SLOWly. Arrrggghhh...","Date":"11 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Arrrggghhh...here are my first impressions of the movie1. Action-packed - yes. But too much of it. 2. Slow pace - too much footage to show little real script progress. 3. Doesn't look real at all. OK, I know it's a movie. It's fiction. But hey, too many coincides and Good Luck on part of the military officer and park ranger. 4. Stretched out sequences. Seriously, the train sequence could have been shrunk to 7 minutes and nobody would've shed a tear. But hey, they stretched out the sequence to such a long one that it becomes boring.You can avoid the movie and you won't miss a thing. I guess I had set my expectations too high from this John Woo movie. "},{"Title":"Absorbing thriller","Date":"4 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Not sure why John Travolta's character goes nuts in this movie, or if he's always been that way and has covered it up. Must say he makes an excellent 'bad guy', the kind of baddie you actually like. He's also in great shape in this movie (as is Christian Slater). The female lead is also excellent.This movie has JT and his crew of excellent hand-picked cohorts steal a couple of nuclear warheads (for profit, what else)? It's then up to his ex-friend played by Christian Slater to stop him ably helped by a park ranger of all things played by Samantha Mathis.The movie moves along at a fast pace and is full of action and excitement. I didn't talk all through it. John Travolta is absolutely excellent in this movie and is undoubtedly the star. There are some plot holes, but suspend your disbelief and you're in for a couple of hours of non-stop entertainment. "},{"Title":"It's the villain who makes this movie so good.","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" It has to be said that I was forced to watch this movie by an old boyfriend of mine, it really didn't look like my kind of thing but John Travolta's excellent performance had me hooked.Travolta is the kind of villain all movies should have, from his fantastic one-liners to the final showdown at the end he makes the movie worth watching.Slater makes a good hero but he is definitely not equal to Travolta but his teaming up with Samantha Mathis (as the innocent civilian who comes along for the ride) is well done and the two have obvious on screen chemistry.On the whole a good movie but it would have been nothing without Travolta. "},{"Title":"Awesome John Woo Film, With Lots Of Fantastic Action Scenes, A Cool Story And 2 Amazing Performances From John Travolta And Christian Slater!","Date":"16 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is an awesome John Woo film, with lots of fantastic action scenes, a cool story and 2 amazing performances from John Travolta and Christian Slater!. All the characters are fantastic!, and it's very thrilling throughout!, plus John Travolta and Christian Slater are simply amazing in this!. It's quite an underrated action film, and all the characters were very likable, plus the opening was really cool!.The final fight between Travolta and Slater was awesome, and i thought Slater and Samantha Mathis had fantastic chemistry together, plus Travolta cracked me up throughout the film!. I also loved the mind games between Travolta and Slater, and The plot was really cool!, plus i can't believe critics were so harsh on this film, it's action people!, ans i found it to be a lot of fun to watch!.If your an action movie lover you are bound to love it sure it may have a ton of holes, but it's tons of fun to watch!. This is an awesome John Woo film with lots of fantastic action scenes a cool story and 2 amazing performances from Travolta and Slater, and i say it's a must see!. The Direction is wonderful!. John Woo does a fantastic job here, with amazing camera work, incredible angles, lots of other stylish shots and he kept the film at a very fast pace!. There is quite a bit of blood and violence. We get TONS of extremely bloody gunshot wounds,hammer hit to the had,harsh bloody beatings,gory wounds, and a helicopter slices someone open (very bloody), and other minor stuff. The acting is wonderful!. John Travolta is AMAZING as always and is amazing here!, he is extremely menacing, cracked me up throughout, had some awesome lines, was quite intense, played the i'm slowly going insane role extremely well, and added a lot of charisma and screen presence, he was amazing!. (Travolta Rules!). Christian Slater is also AMAZING as always, and is amazing here, he is extremely likable, had fantastic chemistry with Samantha Mathis, had a very good sense of humor was very convincing, and you really start to root for his character i loved him!. (Slater Rules!). Samantha Mathis is excellent with what she had to do, she was very cute, likable and had fantastic chemistry with Slater i liked her lots!. Delroy Lindo is always fantastic, and does his usual stuff, and it was just awesome as always, although i wished he had more to do he was still fantastic though!. (Delroy Rules). Bob Gunton,Frank Whaley,Howie Long and Kurtwood Smith all do what they have to do well. Rest of the cast do fine. Overall a must see!. **** out of 5 "},{"Title":"underrated!","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie seems to never be talked about however it's one of the better action movies of the 90's if you ask me. Lots of great explosions, good fight scenes, shoot outs it has it all! I hate Christian Slater but John Travolta's excellent performance makes up for it, he's such a great actor and he plays a great bad guy, not many in hollywood can equal him in that role, he's just as good in Swordfish. I'd recommend this highly to anybody that just likes movies period! 9/10, the only thing keeping it from a 10 is Slater heh.  "},{"Title":"Average Action Film","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  John Travolta does an outstanding job in his role as this movie's main villain. He emits a sort of creepy charisma that is multiplied by his seemingly benign Midwest accent. It is often unclear as to whether or not this character, Deakins, is genuinely insane, or if he's simply excited about his evil plot of holding Denver hostage with a stolen nuclear weapon. The rest of the film is so-so. Some of the sets look remarkably fake, and I can name several characters that the the writers might have done well to leave out. 2.5 out of 5   "},{"Title":"Very similar to Speed, Under Seige II, the Rock....","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  And of course Woo's very own, later 'Face Off'.  This was no better and no worse than the rest listed here. You can add in 'the Peacemaker', 'Con Air', 'Cliffhanger' and you would def. be in the same ballpark. All of these are enjoyable, cartoony, violent as old hell, implausible-Wile E Coyote/A Team level credibility I say-and interchangeable too. The usual stuff-Kurtwood Smith as a Pentagon Suit, some John Cusack/Frank Whaley type suited guy butting heads with the brass, trains/buses/exploding copters, pretty, miscast brunette in distress/action role(Bullock/Mathis), slo-mo racing down the hall/tunnel away from the onrushing fireball, etc..the wisecracks, etc. all there.I liked Travolta as the baddie, thought Mathis-in general underrused-did fine but was miscast somewhat, Howie Long was fun in his limited way, and Slater-never better. He's fine.See this if you liked the Rock or Face off or Speed...**1/2 outta ****.  "},{"Title":"Significant career step","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  A significant step in the resurrection of the career of John Travolta, Broken Arrow is a preview of the evil side of his character that he portrayed later so masterfully in Face Off, when required to take over the personality of Nic Cage's character.Christian Slater is the foil to Travolta's plan to hold the American government to ransom with the nuclear threat that he possesses, and if more than a little predictable, this is still reasonably well constructed as a good vs evil action film.The supporting cast backs up the two well, and there are some stunts that make this entertaining, if not anything that you could ever take that seriously as a motion picture. "},{"Title":"Not Woo`s finest hour, but entertaining","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Broken Arrow is John Woo`s second American film.  John Woo in America isn`t and will never be as good as John Woo in HongKong. Broken Arrow is quite predictable, Christian Slater isn`t as bad as usual, and John Travolta delivers a stunning performance as the villain. You can easily see that this is a John Woo-movie, with its smoothly directed actionscenes, but this movie lacks the pace I`ve come to expect from a John Woo-movie. But in the world of American action-movies, Broken Arrow can stand out as a different action-movie. 8/10 "},{"Title":"OK","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This film was pretty straight forward but had great action. John Travolta is brilliant as the PSYCHO and Ex-Best Friend of Christian Slater as the other fighter pilot who tries to stop him from doing his dirty work with the Nuclear Weapons. One of John Woo's Best! *1/2/*** (OK AND A HALF) "}{"Title":"Excellent acting by Travolta, Slater and Mathis.","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  John Travolta is an actor who has worn many hats in his career. It is good to see him yet in yet another area, the bad guy.  I was surprised at how well he did.  His acting abilities coupled with those of Christian Slater and Samantha Mathis made this film very enjoyable. I have seen this movie many times and will enjoy seeing it again and again. "},{"Title":"Perhaps a Case of Style Overcoming Substance","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Although Broken Arrow manages to be consistent with the action and presents some well crafted action sequences, they ultimately can't over-shadow some flaws with the story.  The movie is littered with some holes in the story.  For example, there really isn't a thorough explanation towards why one of the characters needs to get arrested and presents a character who switches sides with virtually no explanation.  The story is also shallow with handling the motives towards the main thread in the plot and that's the theft of nuclear weapons.  Broken Arrow will occasionally show on creativity with the action (even going over the top in the process) but the movie somehow is unable to generate a real sense of excitement, the action tends to play out in a predictable manner.   "},{"Title":"awesome action","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie rocked. The acting of Travolta, and Slater were also great too. The action was so cool and non-stop especially all the explosions. The acting of Delroy Lindo and Howie Long were also good too. John Woo can direct some kick ass action sequences and i give this a 10. "},{"Title":"Frighteningly believable.","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This action flick by directing mastermind John Woo is pure genius. Travolta is the best possible actor for the psychopathic Deakins.The plot is fairly simple with Good Vs. Bad easily distinguished. Hale (Slater), with support of the a park ranger (Mathis) battle across the desert to recover two stolen nuclear weapons stolen from the US Army.Despite the bit about the nuclear weapons, this is a kind of film where you want to see the baddies come up on top. "},{"Title":"Explosive, action packed roller coaster!","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Deakins (Travolta) and Hale (Slater), two military pilots fly a stealth bomber and one of them (got to see it to find out which one) steals the nuke. The other, who was ejected from the stealth teams up with park ranger Carmichale (Manthis) and try to get back the nuke. Also includes Howie Long as one of the villains. Fast moving, explosive and incredible screenplay give this film its charm. 10 out 10, a hit! "},{"Title":"Interesting!","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  John Travolta plays a pilot who steals a couple of nukes and intends to blow everyone up unless the Govt pays him what he wants..Christian Slater plays the good guy..ie Travolta's partner who tries to stop him from ruining our lives, and Samantha Mathis plays a park ranger who gets caught up in the middle of all this macho stuff! Actually, she doesn't do too bad a job. As usual, Travolta steals the show, playing the physo bad guy. But while, Travolta and Mathis hold their own, Slater plain and simple...looks like a complete moron! This guy can't act to save his life! All in all, Broken Arrow is an interesting movie to watch, if only to see John Travolta put in another impressive performance. "},{"Title":"Very Average","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The film promised so much but in the end the dodgy plot and inappropriate use of actors spoilt it. Travolta is an unconvincing maniac and Slater and Mathis who have sparked so nicely together in the past don't create the same hold on the screen. All in all 6 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The movie is great.Travolta is perfect as Vic Deakins.But it looks like Christian Slater is a little bit lost.He doesn't fit in in action-films.He was great in Robin Hood and Interview with the vampire.OK True Romance was great but this and Hard Rain are not the best Slater-films.Samantha Mathis is NOT believable in her role.Delroy Lindo is good (as usual).John Woo and John Travolta seems to be a great combination.Face/Off is also a very good movie.I think that Woo is gonna make MissionImpossible 2.Travolta makes it cool to be crazy. I think that Keanu Reeves would be better as Riley Hale.But if you like Slater see True Romance it´s a hell of a good movie. The music by Hans Zimmer is excellent.  "},{"Title":"Loads of non-stop action","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Take these ingredients and mix them together John Woo, John Travolta, Christian Slater, Samantha Mathis, killer music, loads of non-stop action including multiple explosions, a smart script and what do you get? 1996's Broken Arrow.  This could have been just another big bang action flick but John Woo takes the high octane action to another level, very much like he did with Face Off.  If you want pure adrenaline-rush action, this is your film.  My rating 9 "},{"Title":"John Woo hits America hard.","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Broken Arrow is a fun film, but it is not great.  John Woo does amazing directing, and Travolta has fun with his character, but Slater doesn't seem to fit and Mathis' character is useless.  The story is that of a traditional action flick, but again, Woo has a great visual style and makes the film flow.  An impressive American debut. RATING = 7 of 10  "}{"Title":"standard plot - good movie","Date":"13 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the two movies I have seen for which Travolta was the right choice (the other is Pulp Fiction). He can only play very cool people, and this is exactly what he has to do here. Broken Arrow has a standard plot a man steals two A-Bombs and then blackmails a USA. As John Woo could not take this seriously, the movie is very funny. And the actors do a good job. My vote seven out of ten. "},{"Title":"Travolta makes a great villain","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  John Travolta is brilliant as the psychotic villain in this and when he was Castor Troy in Face/Off.  He should stick to roles like these instead of things like Michael.As far as the movie as a whole is concerned, I enjoyed it in spite of a few things.  Christian Slater is a terrible actor, Samantha Mathis' character seemed to have no real purpose other than to make things more difficult for Slater, and John Woo's direction. John Woo over-uses slow motion more than any director I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"The Arrow? it's broken, but not too much","Date":"12 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  two military pilot Travolta decides to steal two thermo-nuclear bombs. Slater must stop him. the logic suggests that the need of many are more important than the single one, but not in this film (and not in Hollywood, see The PeaceMaker for example) where the life of a woman (Mathis) is more important than 250.000 ones. It's nice, but too many politically correct. All the characters are too relaxed, too good, considering that the problem are two big thermo-nuclear bombs. A very good bad Travolta, a not so bad good Slater, a out of place Mathis, too thin also to be a policeman. The film could be better, but maybe it was only a test preparing Face/Off ?.  "},{"Title":"Not the best, but still pretty good","Date":"5 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is a typical plot of about a dozen movies today, and though this  movie falls in that category , it's still pretty good. Probably the  only movie I've seen with four helicopter explosions. John Travolta's  character is a little too psychotic to be believable, but it's got a cool  score.    "},{"Title":"My Favorite John Woo Film","Date":"8 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Plot Terrorists steal nuclear warheads from the U.S. military but don't count on a pilot and park ranger spoiling their plans.This is another movie that I don't get why people hate on it. This is the movie that introduced me to John Woo and got me into his filmography. Travolta is having a lot of fun as Deakins, Slater is very good as Hale who tries to stop Travolta from detonating the nuclear weapons. The supporting cast does a good job balancing the tone of the film with Samantha Mathis, Delroy Lindo, and Howie Long being the standouts. This has the best action of any of the John Woo films(yes, this beats Face/Off in my opinion). Woo is a master of action and uses it extremely well. This film also has one of my favorite action scores of all time by Hans Zimmer who captures the tone of the film beautifully.I personally feel this deserves the attention that Face/Off gets because this is more fun, but that's my opinion. If you've never seen this film I strongly recommend watching this if you want to watch a good popcorn flick. "},{"Title":"Ridiculous, cheesy and over the top, but still a fun popcorn flick","Date":"7 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Sure it's a ridiculous movie and has some laughable dialogue with some really cheesy moments. But for a action movie from the 90's, I give this movie a pass. Despite all the flaws and ridiculous aspect of this film, it's still a pretty enjoyable popcorn flick. With some good action set pieces and gunplay. Plus it was entertaining to watch playing the charismatic psycho villain. His agenda and motives aren't very clear, but he was fun to watch. In a movie like this going a bit overboard isn't necessarily a bad thing. Sure the action sequences maybe a bit outdated but it's still passable. Overall this is still a fun popcorn flick despite it's flaws.6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Ridiculous","Date":"8 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Stupid hackneyed movie, totally not worth your 105 minutes. The plot pops out of nowhere, experienced ex-Marines shooting away like stormtroopers, nuclear devices that can be turned ON and OFF by chubby little keypads and remote controls, which looks way too cute even for your sister's TV. Travolta overacts while the Slater keeps flashing his charming smile like this is some silent movie. Even Woo was aware this movie had nothing going for it, that is why he kept putting in the awesome soundtrack wherever he could. Hans Zimmer has done a great job on the track, it had me pausing the movie and rushing to try it out on my guitar. Manthis does a good job, but then again she was underwritten, also no explanations as to how a park ranger has such rad martial arts skills. And lets not even go the part where Slater lets her do the risky stuff and goes off to the authorities for help. Seriously, don't watch it. "},{"Title":"A popcorn action movie in every sense.  Totally forgettable, but passes time nicely.","Date":"2 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I enjoyed this action movie starring Christian Slater and John Travolta. Another more action type star would have helped here instead of Slater, but he does an okay job here. Not great, but certainly good enough for this film. John Travolta though is rather good as the somewhat over the top villain. A villain in a second tier type movie such as this should in fact be over the top and go all out. Throw in an ex football player Howie Long and a cute gal and you have your not quite a B, but not an A movie. The film is about two military men where one of them basically hijacks a nuclear missile with plans to use it to get money. Nothing that has not been done in countless other movies, but hey it is always a nice simple way to introduce danger to a film. You have your great action scenes as Slater's character tries his best to stop Travolta's character's scheme with the help from I believe is a park ranger or something to that effect. Just know she was cute. There are great action scenes involving a cave and a narrow escape and a nice finale on a speeding train. Once again, rather cliché, but a train always makes for a nice action scene in my opinion. Though that mode of transportation is becoming less relevant everyday and will in all likelihood disappear all together. So while this is light cinema to be sure it was still a fun movie to watch. Nothing groundbreaking, but passes the time quite well. "},{"Title":"Hard to digest  John Travolta as a villain beating Slater to pulp !!!","Date":"18 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" My admiration for John Woo grew leaps and bounds with this particular film.To my mind,Broken Arrow has set a trend of taking lead players as villains.No one could have imagined even in wildest dreams that a professional airline Pilot that is John Travolta would be playing the part of a recalcitrant baddie hell bent on achieving universal destruction.He is the only one who steals the show gradually and it is towards the end of the film that his wickedness is at the summit of its annihilating powers.The success of this film is also due to tightly controlled actions scenes.After Broken Arrow,there were hardly any good action films whose intensity matched those of this elegant action thriller.There is no doubt that Travolta steals the show.Sad but true other actors appear as dimwits whether it is Christian Slater or Samantha Mathis.It would be nice if a sequel of this film is made by John Woo.If Die hard can be a big grosser than Broken Arrow is equally capable of replicating its previous success. "},{"Title":"Simple, Thrilling and Action Packed","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Directed by John Woo and with a cast led by John Travolta and Christian Slater, you could be forgiven for wanting more than this action thriller ultimately delivers; but if take off your film critic head and just watch it for what it is you will find a movie that is acted well, packed with John Woo style over the top action and entertaining to watch.OK the story is a little hard to take seriously as are the actions of the characters in it, but it's supposed to be like this, its an un-plug your mind popcorn movie that is good fun to enjoy. It's not as good as some of Woo's later films, like MI-2 or Face off, but it's still worth watching.7/10 "}{"Title":"Not just an action film.","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" While the film undoubtedly contains most of the elements of a top action film, there is more to it than that.John Travolta delivers and excellent performance as the fighter pilot-turned-terrorist, and the role affords him some of the best lines that you are likely to hear in a film (although you have to see most of them to understand). I say Goddamn what a rush! is just electrifying when delivered by Travolta.Of course there are holes in the plot, and the 'two plucky heroes' format may be getting worn, but Woo and his cast make it work, and deliver a film that is sure to set your action muscles a-tingling! "},{"Title":"mindless,clichéd, action packed and entertaining","Date":"19 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Broken arrow is just a fun filled and action packed film. It's just guns, explosions, fight scenes for all of the movie. Fairly predictable but entertaining nevertheless. If you are with a bunch of guys who just wanna sit back eat pizza and drink, this is the action film to watch! Enjoy it light heartedly and don't expect too much.John Travolta as the baddest guy who wants money and power is excellent as usual. Christian Slater still has that heroic boyish coolness still in him and in his said lines. Worth a watch on a Friday or Saturday night in.John woo is a master of action, and he really knows how to shoot action, fight, explosive type scenes really well. I love his trademarks of a Mexican standoff and mirror reflections that alert the main character of the movie to the presence of danger. Go for it and enjoy it!My score = 6/10 "},{"Title":"Travolta vs. Slater in Broken Arrow","Date":"25 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Broken Arrow, John Woo's second U.S. feature, is perhaps as exciting as an action movie could get, but somewhere in there, much like the nuclear warheads that are the pawns of much of the film's dialogue, things get lost along the way.It could be stated that Woo is one of the most valuable directorial talents Hollywood has seen, since making his American debut on 1993's Hard Target, which starred Jean-Claude Van Damme. Woo was already an established director in his native China, with several blazing action movies to his credits. But, go through any of Woo's movies (Chinese or American) with a fine-tooth comb, and you'll be hard-pressed to find anything that doesn't show S-K-I-L-L.Fans and critics would argue that Woo's career has been wildly uneven in America, both camps being eager to make the claim that his American efforts are a mixed bag, and that 1997's Face/Off is probably the peak of his career here.1996's Broken Arrow is one of the director's most controversial American efforts, with star John Travolta playing bad guy Vic Deakins and Christian Slater as Riley Hale, the good guy. The unlikely pair star as two Air Force pilots flying a stealth bomber over the Utah desert, hauling two nuclear warheads, and things get ugly when Deakins gets the idea to steal the nukes and then sell them to some anonymous terrorist organization that plans to blackmail the government.Soon the government gets wind of the incident, as countless Washington bureaucratic stereotypes argue over how to keep the situation from the press. They eventually dub the incident a broken arrow, which is the term that's used to describe what happens when a nuclear weapon is lost. (***NOTE*** According to IMDb, the term broken arrow actually refers to when a warhead is accidentally detonated; the real term for when a weapon is lost is called an empty quiver. I guess the execs at Twentieth Century Fox thought that broken arrow had a lot more selling power to it.)What ensues of course, are plenty of stylized action scenes as the two dueling participants try to one-up the other and try to anticipate the opponent's next move. Along for the ride is Terry Carmichael (Samantha Mathis), who bears witness to the action and teams with Hale to try to stop the mad Deakins.From the get-go, the plot quickly begins to resemble Die Hard and Under Siege, in that the characters quickly dive into the archetypes developed in those two action movie classics. But under the expert and skillful tutelage of director Woo, the action is given that extra kick that elevates the material above any average qualities.The action scenes have those ultraviolent attributes that's become trademark of the director's films, complete with the duel-wielding gunplay, slow-motion actions shots, and the two men that are at constant war with one another, persistently trying to outdo the other man's actions.I certainly enjoyed Broken Arrow, despite its inconsistencies and (supposed) gaps in logic. A valiant effort, just like all of John Woo's action epics.7/10 "},{"Title":"More Proof that John Travolta Should Stick to Likeable Guys","Date":"25 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is one stupid movie.  Christial Slater can't save this turkey, despite his best efforts.  Who tells John Travolta that he can play a villian?  I guess it must be the same people that later suggested he do more of it in Broken Arrow, Battlefield Earth (do I need any other examples???) and Swordfish.  His villian portrayals are over-the-top, nauseating and excruciating.  JT needs to stick to roles where he plays someone likeable - which he does very well.Anyway, back to Broken Arrow - do yourself a favour and DON'T rent this waste of celluloid.  Please don't buy it but, if you already have then save your soul and the sanity of your loved ones and burn it - you'll probably suffer less damage from the resulting toxic fumes than you would from watching this film.If you want to see a military thriller, I'd suggest The Hunt for Red October.  If you want to see John Travolta, I'd recommend Pulp Fiction - the movie that rightfully saved his career.  If you want to see Christian Slater, there's True Romance.  If you want to see Stealth Bombers the discovery channel is a good place. "},{"Title":"Exploding Helicopters","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has a serious obsession with this nuance.  Let's count it up...hmmm...four?  Four exploding helicopter!  Please correct me if I'm wrong, but isn't four TOO MUCH!  Not even Face/Off in all its excess went that far!  That should get the FAA involved.That aside, Broken Arrow is an absurdly stupid movie that falls victim to the Woo method.  The Woo method, of course, involves solving any problems in the script with action sequences.  This doesn't help, unlike Face/Off (that's another story), and the blatant stupidity of the plot is an enormous turn off.  Christian Slater tries being an almost Indiana Jones-type character, but he's too cocky and invincible for there to be much sympathy.  John Travolta tries being villainous, but he does better as Castor Troy.Overall, not a good way to spend your time when there are so many better movies available.  2 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Struggles to entertain","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Ill keep it short and sweet.For some reason i just found it oh so boring. The acting was fine, in fact it, aside with the action was the best asset of the movie. But other than that 'Broken arrow' lacks spark. "},{"Title":"Mindless? Maybe. But action at its best!","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  OK. This movie isn't a brainteaser. A story about stealing nuclear weapons? Sounds like a serious B-movie plot made for TV.But then again, most action movies are like that. Concept movies with no real stories to tell and no real characters to develop. What they want to achieve is visual stimulation, a spectacle. And boy, this movie delivers. And, thanks to the beautiful scenery (the grand canyon) and Hans Zimmer's excellent and subtle soundtrack (which was later recycled and used completely out of place in Scream 2), it does so in unusual style. John Travolta plays the only role he is actually good at Mad villain. Later he'd give the same performance in Face/Off (also directed by John Woo). But this movie is different from Face/Off It isn't really a thriller, it's an actionfest, a visual joyride distilled to its bare basics, with oneliners replacing dialogue. You never have a shadow of a doubt about the eventual outcome. And, this being a John Woo movie, you get his trademarks Two-handed gun battles, slow-mo shots and perhaps even birds, although they weren't as memorably put in scene as usually.If you like action, you'll love this. It's by far my favourite action movie. Just don't expect realism or brains...9/10 (as eye candy action fest) "},{"Title":"Not John Woo's best film ever, but still definitely worth watching.","Date":"21 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Broken Arrow is an action movie about a pilot (John Travolta) who steals a nuclear warhead and his co-pilot (Christian Slater) who tries to stop him. A basic plot and some overacting in parts dont diminish this movie's awesome action scenes and fast-paced action. John Woo's touch is very evident in this movie which alone makes it worth watching. Overall I give Broken Arrow ***1/2 out of ****.  "},{"Title":"prepare for woo-action","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  a travolta/slater vehicle,and what do you get a high-octane gun-pumped action flick with john woo at helm,a Die-Hard-in-the-desert adventure. Now heres a film that was clearly made by people who love action movies for people who love action movies.not so confusing plot,stealth bomber pilots hotshot vic deakins(john travolta) and not-so-hotshot riley hale(christian slater)are chosen to test a top secret new toy,but vic's bored of playing by the rules,so he trys to kill his likable young co-pilot riley,crashes the plane,grabs its nuclear cargo and makes off with his henchmen buddys.Eager to save the world riley heads out after him,hooking up with superfluous ranger girl samantha mathis(slater's pump of the volume co-star)so that he too has someone too talk to. As directed by Woo,Travolta lays on an excess of sledgehammer cool,as corny and overplayed as Slater's perennial jack nicholson impersonation.While some of the action sequences are quite impressive(explosions fill the screen as woo explodes trains,planes and automobiles).Theirs plenty of stylish gunplay and some truly nasty deaths,a wild underground  mine set and all sorts of smart-ass technolgy a mild rollercoaster of a movie and quite recommended!  "},{"Title":"Cheesy but entertaining","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  With John Woo as the director of this movie you can't expect much more than great action, but as you might figure out this also the ONLY thing it has. Well, John Travolta is a very cool actor and does a great job in this movie. Although it's cheesy it has its moment and is still very entertaining...7 out of 10  "}{"Title":"Another No-Brainer........","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I don't normally watch this kind of bilge....but occasionally if there is nothing else on I'll have this type of movie on as background noise. The plots are totally ridiculous and have more holes than a sieve, and I'm sorry but I can't just sit there and let it wash over me like some viewers can. I found it unbelievable when reading other comments to find that according to some people, 'FACE OFF' was much better. 'FACE OFF' is the worst film I have ever had the misfortune to see and I am a John Travolta fan. He has definately lost his way again. Sorry both films on a par with Executive Decision, Air Force One...0/10.  "},{"Title":"One hell of a ride","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Everyone knows the basic genre of movies Drama, Comedy, Action, and Sci/fi. But there is one more little genre in there stupid action movies. Stupid action movies are diffrent from action movies.  Action movies make an attempt to be smart, and take them selves seriously.  Stupid action movies make no such attempt.Example Mission Impossible is an action movie.  Mission Impossible 2 is a stupid action movie.  Thats not an insult, that's just what it is.Broken Arrow is one of my favorite stupid action movies.  The acting is bad (except for Travolta), the plot is recycled, and the dialog is c***.  But you want to know something?  This movie rocks!I know that sounds immature and unprofessional.  I don't think the movie is great.  It is no Hamlet.  But, as far as fun stupid action movies go, I love this movie.Number 1  I love military aircraft.  Anyone who is interested in military aircraft knows the myst about the B3, the Area 51 bomber as it is sometime called.  This is the first movie, and the only movie, I've seen that has a replica B3 in it.  I almost wet myself thinking about that machine!Number 2  Travolta.  This is John Travolta at the top of his game.  Back before Lucky Numbers and Battlefield Earth, Travolta was the king of the stupid action movie villan.  Sure, his character is stupid and gives away too much to Slater (who I really hate), but he does it with such charm and style.Number 3 Woo.  John Woo.  The greatest of all action directors.  He does not disapoint.Closing Statement  Well, Broken Arrow is pretty bad.  But, its fun and entertaining.  This isn't for you independant film school people.  This is no classic film (I don't think you can even call it a film), but it is a classic stupid action movie that has touched my heart.  "},{"Title":"If you actually liked this...","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I feel sorry for you, because if you did you haven't got a clue about what movies are all about. Not only is this film stupid, it's an embarrassment to the entire world. It's totally unnecessary, nobody needs it, I feel stupid that I even watched this garbage. The only reason why BROKEN ARROW is not a very-bad film is John Woo's directing. But he's not impressing anyone here, but he's good. Just look what he had to work with A poor script and a set so incredibly boring (bang-bang in sahara) and stupid even to be an action-movie!So, what can I say. John Woo's worst? Haven't seen all his movies but I think it is. It took a while for Woo to get comfortable with the US. I mean, HARD TARGET wasn't a very good movie and this one really isn't either (but FACE/OFF was a greatgreatgreat movie). Oops, this review got longer than I thought, better just write it 100%. So, Woo's direction is w*a*d ok. Acting is VERY terrible. Nobody, not one, is doing a good job here. Slater sucks, naturally since he's one of the worlds worst actors, Samantha Mathis is so average it's annoying and Travolta is over-reacting too much, tragic since he could have been good. Now it's just a riddle why the hell did he do this movie?. The plot and screenplay is so incredibly uninteresting and stupid it ruins this already stupid movie. I'll stop here. I can't complain this much. FACE/OFF and A BETTER TOMORROW are two big masterpieces. HARD TARGET was close to be good, but why did you have to go and do BROKEN ARROW. My rating is 4/10. You saved it, man! "},{"Title":"A real movie for guys who like movies","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  With great action, explosive effects, and macho performances by the flick's 2 leads, Broken Arrow is a must for those who like a good adrenaline rush on a boring Saturday night!John Travolta and Christian Slater play Vic and Riley, two air force pilots on a training mission on board a jet containing high-octane nukes over the Nevada desert. However, Vic, a really shady dude, steals the nukes and decides to hold the whole nation hostage unless the government complies to his demands a real military promotion! So Riley, who is understandably shocked to see his partner turn Benedict Arnold, teams up with a gutsy ranger ( the hot Samantha Manthis) named Terry to stop Vic and his gang of other rebel troops, which include a bulky  muscle-head named Kelly (NFL commentator Howie Long) from an imminent nuclear barbaque.Director John Woo really lets loose in his 2nd American flick next to his decent-yet dismal Hard Target. Unlike that movie, there are more effective performances and a much more likable plot in Broken Arrow.  "},{"Title":"I say'a Goddamn what a RUSH!!!","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Definitely BROKEN ARROW is for ACTION MOVIE FANS. BROKEN ARROW HAS IT ALL, and has explosions, 'car' chases, hand-to-hand combat, gunfights, nukes, one liners such as above and a thrilling finale`.I've watched this movie about five times, and it has rank highly on my favourite action movies list.9.5/10  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good fun and well cast.","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I am a big John Travolta fan, so I decided to watch the movie, even though the trailer looked fairly mindless.  I was pleasantly surprised that the movie was well paced, beautifully photographed (with lots of nice location views of the Utah countryside, etc.) and exciting while not overtiring action sequences.  Sure, it was mindless adventure ala James Bond, but I enjoyed the banter between Travolta and Slater, and I thought that Samantha Mathis did a great job in playing a park ranger who gets drawn into the action.  She seemed believable in the part, and held her own vis-a-vis Travolta & Slater.  "},{"Title":"An Entertaining Action-Thriller","Date":"29 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Broken Arrow is an entertaining action-thriller, though it does have a lot of plot holes but the action is so fast paced and frentic that it is easy to overlook it. Though director John Woo held back on this film it still has moments of delirious mayhem. If your in the mood for an entertaining action movie I recommend Broken Arrow. "},{"Title":"Some style, no substance","Date":"2 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie, while mildly entertaining on a whiz-bang level, was really quite mediocre overall.  The script was written on a fourth-grade level (admittedly with occasional clever moments but with as many gaping holes), the characters had a depth of zero, and the acting was nonexistent.  In this respect, Bob Gunton, as the evil financier, must be singled out as turning in one of the worst performances I've ever seen -- absolutely shameful.  The special effects, though generally OK, were surprisingly poor at some points, with some of the aerial sequences scarcely looking better than a good effort from a Nintendo 64.  Finally, near the end of the movie, there was a singularly distasteful scene, involving Travolta and Carmichael, whose overtones of sexual assault were both gratuitous and unpleasant. However, all that being said, it was certainly fun on a campy level, and Christian Slater is not a bad action hero at all.  But let there be no mistake -- this is definitely a C-grade movie.  John Woo is capable of far more -- A Better Tomorrow (despite its horrible score) is certainly ten times the movie this is. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining movie!","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  John Travolta gives an incredibly mysterious and awesome performance in this movie. Christian Slater is the ideal actor for playing nice guys in movies. The story is made for an action-packed movie it is pretty common (but not bad this time). The scenario has jokes, swears, romance and conversations between the two principal characters, which are the nice guy (Slater) and the big bad killer traitor guy (Travolta). And, by the way, some of the characters are there to be shot....if you know what I mean....because, in most of the action movies, the big bad killer traitor guy has bodyguards and acolytes that you can see for about three or four seconds they try to shoot the good guy, but the good guy shoots them first! Well, if you think about it, Broken Arrow did not too many innovations...but when you watch it, you don't really care; this movie is very entertaining!!!! I give it 82%.  "},{"Title":"Better than Hard Target, Faster than Face/Off","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I've only seen John Woo's American films, and this is my favorite of them, because there is a lot more plot and character development than Hard Target, and Face/Off is a little too long with a slightly slower pace than Broken Arrow.  Top-notch action sequences, the best being the climactic train showdown between John Travolta and Christian Slater.  All actors have their moments, but this is clearly Travolta and Slater's film.Screenwriter Graham Yost is good at giving his antagonists character and some believability, and his movies have just the right amount of seriousness.  John Woo is arguably the best action director in the world, with excellent camera work that rivals that of Tony Scott.  See this film, and all other films from the aforementioned writer and director. "}{"Title":"Wonderfully directed masterpiece","Date":"26 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Broken Arrow is one of the best directed films that I have ever seen. John Woo has done an incredible job by incorporating slow-motion along with normal speed filming to create a uniquely wonderful movie.  Travolta is the MAN.  He does a phenomenal job playing psycho.  By hijacking two nuclear bombs, he threatens to make the west coast a quiet neighborhood for about 10,000 years.  Slater does a respectable job as the good guy trying to stop the madman.  The onscreen chemistry between Travolta and Slater adds to the movie's persona.  They work well together and seem believable in their performances.  The end fight scene is one of the best that I've seen. Again the use of slow-motion is a marvel.  I would strongly recommend this to a Travolta fan or to an action movie fan. "},{"Title":"Undemanding film makes for great time","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Normally, I wouldn't like a film that is so far-fetched, but there was something about this movie that I couldn't resist.  The tone was set perfectly by the boxing at the beginning, and even though it was incredibly obvious that Slater would win the eventual rematch, the action that was sandwiched between the two fights was hugely entertaining.  The leads all gave good performances, and the humor was predictably silly but still somehow fun.  If you're looking for an intelligent, thought-provoking film, this movie is sure to disappoint.  But as far as brainless entertainment goes, it doesn't get much better than this. "},{"Title":"Pretty bad","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The worst thing really is the script.  The casting's off too - the good guy v psycho thing doesn't seem to work with Slater and Travolta.  John Woo is lost somewhere in all this - one of the best action directors' talents are wasted shackled to this monster.This sort of thing can only really be done by Bruce Willis or Arnie camping it up. "},{"Title":"A typical action movie, but certainly one of the better in the genre.","Date":"8 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Broken Arrow is a typical action movie, but it is a nice one. The movie starts with John Travolta and Christian Slater in a boxing ring. I didn't know what kind of movie this was, so I thought I was going to see a movie like Rocky or perhaps Raging Bull. But I was wrong, this movie isn't about boxing at all... It's about the air force pilot Major Vic Deakins, played by John Travolta, on a test mission with a stealth bomber. He has two nuclear bombs on board which he wants to steel. He only has one problem his co-pilot and friend Captain Riley Hale (Christian Slater). He betrays him, but Hale survives the plane crash. With the help of a park ranger Hale will have to save the nukes before everything is blown away.I know, it all has been done many times before and yes it is all very Hollywood, but it is till nice to watch thanks to the actors' performances (especially Travolta), the nice special effects and stunts. I'm sure that the fans will love all the action scenes which take place really everywhere on a train, with helicopters, car chases in the desert, a lot of shooting... everything you can imagine. Even though I'm not a fan of action movies I still give it a 6.5/10. I'm sure a lot of people will hate it, but the fans of action movies certainly should watch this one. "},{"Title":"Worn, Misused, and Slightly Entertaining...","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  (some spoilers)Broken Arrow - 2.5/5 starsI first saw Broken Arrow as an in-flight movie from Heathrow to Dulles. I enjoyed it the first time, but only on second viewing did it strike me how average, misused and mediocre this film is.Christian Slater and John Travolta play US pilots who have to fly nuclear weapons cross country. Unfortunately, half way, Travolta tries to hijack the ship and shoot Slater, but fails. He releases the nukes over sandy dunes, then launches himself and Slater out of the ship.After crashing on ground, Slater teams up with a cutesy-tutesy ranger and the two go after Travolta to find out his plan.Travolta plans on stealing the nukes and making the government pay to get them back, or else he will nuke the south-west of the US. So Slater and what's-her-face end up fighting for the nukes on a speeding train.Broken Arrow borrows from just about every single action film out there, including Mission Impossible, Speed, Die Hard, and the list goes on and on. Mad Man steals nukes; makes people pay; Good Guy fights him. Seen it, right? Sadly, right. Everything is cliched, but the worst thing is that it has been done before, and ten times better. Speed was just about one of the most explosive films in recent years; Broken Arrow is just another rip-off.Director John Woo, who usually makes quite good kung-fu/slow-motion flicks (Face/Off is one of the best action films in recent years), fails here at what he usually does so easily. Some of his mistakes are classics.1. He presents us with an overused plot (as I said before), and shallow characters and dialogue. Now sometimes the dialogue is fun, like when an attack chopper is chasing Slater and the pilot says, Let's have some fun.Because if he didn't say that we'd be saying, C'mon, he's in a helicopter and he can't shoot the guy? But because he says he is playing with them, it makes it more fun to watch.There's also a part where the female lead runs at a computer nerd working on a nuclear bomb, and he grabs her and says, You thought I was a computer nerd, didn't you? Lady, I was a Navy Seal!Stuff like that is great, but the other things characters say are pretty shallow.2. With a plot (and characters) as shallow as this, he tries to make everything very dramatic and tense and symbolic. In an intelligent action film like Face/Off that works, but here the characters ARE shallow, and when we see them walking in slow motion making appearances (look at the scene where Travolta walks over a sand dune) just looks stupid. I nearly laughed when I saw Travolta filmed in slow-mo, and the whole thing with the twenty dollars is both overused and misused.3. Too many explosions for its own good actually makes the film boring after a while. Truly. We get so used to the explosions that pretty soon they just get tiring and boring. I was getting pretty tired watching this flick, and thought about flipping it off at one point.4. The ending (spoilers) involves John Travolta fighting in a train with Christian Slater over a remote control that makes nuclear bombs go off. Things like that have been done before, and while the ending is particularly messy and nice, I still have seen better endings (Face/Off, The Rock, Speed--to name more recent explosive movies).I don't hate this film, and it is okay, but I'd never strongly recommend it, mainly because it is worn, misused, and slightly entertaining, but not entertaining enough.Before I close this review, I want to address one more thing. The nuclear bomb remote. Now, hold on a sec.Does it seem odd to you that the fate of 500,000 people can be held within a single remote control? Is this what our tax-money goes towards? So computer nerds can make really large digital readouts that look like alarm clocks, with a blinking interface that looks like a cell phone? Does our money pay so some guy can hold a TV-remote and determine the fate of half a million souls?I sure hope not. "},{"Title":"Quick Reviews!","Date":"12 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is the film which proved John Woo's adaptability to Hollywood. Broken Arrow goes for the simple plot, while keeping to Woo's running themes of brotherhood, and the hate/love homosocial relationships between men. And guns, obviously. Throw in the feisty, beautiful, and highly talented Samantha Mathis and we have a winner. For Woo fans, there isn't much you haven't seen before, except now we have a bigger budget and household names.Where this stands out from other Woo films is in its length and script. It is short, with fewer breaks in action and moments of reflection than in his other movies, and the script, while simple, is accessible to all and full of great dialogue. No-one does cool like Christain Slater and John Woo, though i haven't seen Windtalkers yet. The action is the main draw here, and it is some of the best produced by Hollywood in the nineties, moving from air to land to sea via various explodable vehicles with fluidity. Cue lots of slow motion glances, balletic gunplay, and massive explosions. Travolta and Slater have a pretty good chemistry, as do Slater and Mathis. If you want classy action, give this a look. 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"My first intro to Woo was great!","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I did not know who John Woo was when I first saw this movie in the theatres. But I loved this movie. I watched it four times on the big screen. And this was even before I knew that Woo's HK works and later films were twice a extravagant.I've heard that Woo's fans didn't like this movie because it was too tame for him. (Limited double gun action and so forth) While I would have liked this movie even more if Woo went all out like in THE KILLER or HARD-BOILED, he showed that he doesn't need to depend on bullet ballet film making to create cool action scenes. Relying on a gimmick is what kills some film makers, and Woo is a man who doesn't need to rely on his creation. (WINDTALKERS is another film that doesn't need HK styled action to look good) I was glad that his other traits were able to go on film. The standoff scene with Christian Slater and Samantha Mathis where he has the gun and she has a knife was put to great effect. And even though it seems odd that a park ranger would know a thing or two about combat, it made sense for Mathis' character since she was that type of actiony person. (I'd be fighting and shooting it out if I were a park ranger.) The use of slow motion was cool too. All of the sequences of things blowing up were awesome, and didn't rely on CGI as movies of today do. (Even though some of them use it correctly.) Of course the performances of the actors were all great. What else can I say other than John Travolta's vilainous performance was slick, and that Slater made a great action hero? (I hope he's the star of another cool action film. It was nice seeing his brief role in WINDTALKERS, but he needs more.) Samantha Mathis was really cool. Wo says he's always wanted to make a strong female character, and he really came close with her. The movie also features one of the best Hollywood fight scenes with the showdown between Slater and Travolta. Even after the Asian Invasian seeing this fight scene is still a good watch. This is still on my list of best action films.10 of 10 "},{"Title":"John Woo's classic one of his best 90's action films till it's date!","Date":"22 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Disclaimer If you are a viewer that mainly prefers art-house-type movies, then you might as well ignore this review. In addition, if you're not able to take A John Woo's classic best action films from the 90's, ignore this review, as well. We'll both be better off.Broken Arrow (1996) is one of my favorite John Woo best US action films alongside Hard Target which is my first John Woo favorite film, Broken Arrow is my second favorite John Woo action film that I love to death . Hard target was his first American movie, this is his second American movie, which I think is incredible classic action thriller from the 90's I have ever saw. It is going to be 20. years since this movie come out and i still love it today more than any other movie.I love John Travolta in this movie which I think he did one of his best acting performances of his life. He acted convincing as the main villain Deakins in this movie. Broken Arrow has a great score, great actors and different style of terrorists, who stole nuclear warheads, but didn't took over some plant or building or plane or train etc.. It is completely different action movie. Christian Slater was awesome as the main hero. I love this movie and it is never too long or boring unlike Face/Off. In my honest opinion the movie to me is compared to Die Hard and it is one of John Woo's best underrated action movies but that is just my opinion. Plot When a B-3 Stealth Bomber crashes in the Utah desert during a top-secret test run, the military quickly moves in to retrieve its two broken arrows. But the situation spins wildly out of control after one of the pilots reveals the crash to be part of an incredible nuclear extortion plot. Directed by acclaimed action director John Woo, in a story by Speed writer, Graham Yost. Starring John Travolta as Major Vic Deakins a USAF stealth pilot and Christian Slater co-stars as Capt. Riley Hale, his co-pilot.There ya go that is the basic plot about this movie, it is a die hard movie in a desert heat much a like as Stallone's Cliffhanger. But with very different story and it is a stand alone movie which I love that. John Woo never liked making sequels so A Better Tomorrow II (1987) was his last sequel he made, so I am glad this movie doesn't have any sequels, remakes or reboot. In my opinion the 80's had a lot of better action movies, but the 90's had a very cool action movies too. I still love Die Hard With A Vengeance to death and still love other action movies that were made in 90's. I love Broken Arrow to death! It is my favorite John Woo movie! This is a great film recently and it is a cool action movie. It's got action, excitement and interesting characters and Legendary music. I love this film. Christian Slater as the Good guy, the Hero was cool and John Travolta was an intriguing character and hilarious, damn what a rush. The action in here is amazing. Fun action, good acting, quick pace, and entertaining. The final sequence on the train has some quality explosions and even has bad guys killed by helicopter blades. The best thing about this movie though is John Travolta who hams it up beautifully; he is having an absolute blast as Vic Deakins, former US Air Force pilot turned terrorist loon. He also has one of the most over the top and awesome bad guy deaths of all time. I have always enjoyed this movie, I never felt bored I love the action sequences on the train when Hale (Christian Slater) uses one of his martial arts to defeat Deakins (John Travolta) was spectacular he deactivate the nuclear device and kills Deakins it was outstanding. Hans Zimmer theme for Deakins ripped off movie Scream 2 for Dewey (David Arquette) theme. Hans Zimmer provides one of his greatest scores to this movie with some nice twanging guitar from Duane Eddie. I love how any time Travolta is on screen he has this hilarious guitar theme tune which is cool, but hilarious funny at the same time. Broken Arrow has Woo's trademark slow motion and double gun-play galore. I believe there is the odd pigeon thrown in for good measure too. Not entirely sure Samantha Mathis was all that great as the female love interest, but it is cool to have a Pump up the Volume reunion (1990). Which I never watched that movie before I am glad they both of the actors (Christian Slater and Samantha Mathis) worked together once more again. Overall Broken Arrow has plenty of flaws but for sheer explosive entertainment you could do a lot worse. I love the movie and could watch it on repeat. The music is also totally epic. This movie get's is a perfect 10 by me. Last Year it was hardly for my supplier of Blu-ray's to get me this movie on Blu-ray I actually have this film in Blu-ray collection this one and Stallone's Cop Land was so hard to find. I have them both on Blu-ray discs. Broken Arrow is a 1996 American action film directed by John Woo, written by Graham Yost, and starring John Travolta and Christian Slater. It deals with the theft of two American nuclear weapons.10/10 Grade Bad Ass Seal Of Approval Studio 20th Century Fox Starring John Travolta, Christian Slater, Samantha Mathis, Delroy Lindo Frank Whaley, Bob Gunton, Howie Long Director John Woo Producers Bill Badalato, Terence Chang, Mark Gordon Screenplay Graham Yost Rated R Running Time 1 Hr. 48 Mins. Budget $50.000.000 Box Office $150,270,147 "},{"Title":"Woo's worst","Date":"19 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" John Woo's 1996 thriller has to be the worst Woo film that I've seen. For some reason, the magic just wasn't all there this time, maybe Woo's heart just wasn't in it. For one, the film lacks his typical visual flair for shoot-outs and gun battles, and there is a low death toll. Secondly, the plot has to be one of the most hackneyed things I've ever seen, with the old story of someone stealing nuclear weapons. The ending even rips off UNDER SIEGE 2, but at least things pick up a bit here, with an exciting fight sequence on a train.Sure, there are a few good moments; the bit where a man has a hammer thrown in his face, a bit where a nuclear weapon explodes underground, and the finale where Slater and Travolta slug it out on board a train about to crash, but these moments are few and far between. The miscasting in the film also doesn't help. Christian Slater is more suited to playing psychopaths rather than action heroes, and frankly he just isn't very believable in the role. John Travolta overdoes his psychotic madman role too much, and comes off irritating and childish rather than in the least bit menacing. Still, it's obvious he's enjoying himself in the role, and some of that enjoyment rubs off on the viewer. There are a couple of good actors in supporting roles (including cult favourite Kurtwood Smith), and Samantha Mathis is nice as the female lead, but the pairing of Slater and Travolta just doesn't work very well.Sure, I enjoyed this film a lot the first time I saw it, but on second viewing I realised just how empty it really is. Despite a few moments of impressive chases and fights, this is nothing we've not seen before and a big disappointment. The way that every helicopter explodes in the film is pretty ridiculous too. "},{"Title":"Horrible and Cheesy as Hell, but I love it","Date":"14 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I can totally understand why a lot of people hate this movie. Basically, this movie is terrible. The dialogue is bad, cheesy, a lot of things don't make any sense and Travolta simply overacts in this one. Despite of all this, I happen to love this movie. Why? Well, for me it falls into that so bad and cheesy that it's awesome. John Woo directed this movie and his style is just a little too much for some people at times and I can understand it. In fact, I would say he went a little over the top in this one as well.The one thing I can say that this movie actually gets right in terms of good and bad is the score. Hans Zimmer composed the music of this movie and it's pretty much one of the best soundtracks of all time.To sum it up, Broken Arrow is terrible, it's so cheesy and stupid you have to leave your brain at home to enjoy it. But if you're insane like me and actually enjoy stupid, funny, cheesy 80's and 90's movies, this one is for you. "}{"Title":"it was.. OK","Date":"6 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" well at first i didn't know what to think of it, but no i have decided that is was just plain weird!!John Travolta was the only decent actor out of the entire film. The rest of them were so cheesy. And when John dies, i think that would be the most fake death i have ever seen. It was so obvious it wasn't real!! I just laughed at the movie because of how cheesy and fake it was!! But i thought it had some funny lines in it, some of the lines John says are hilarious!! I always watch Broken Arrow with my friends because we just love laughing at stupid cheesy movies!! But anyway i still liked it. It wasn't the best movie i have ever seen but i still liked it. "},{"Title":"Pretty basic comicbook-type action extravaganza...","Date":"6 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I must say that Broken Arrow did have some entertaining qualities. Christian Slater and John Travolta both started as rival military pilots, one as the good guy and one as the bad guy with evil intentions. Originally working together, their intentions differ and their differences collide after Travolta turns to the bad side and helps other ex-military officers steal two nuclear weapons from Travolta and Slater's abandoned military jet. Travolta and his crew end up racing against Slater, who has teamed himself with a female park ranger who even attempted to arrest him after he was forced to parachute out of his jet during a sky-high confrontation with Travolta. Both teams have their eyes on the nuclear warheads, with their explosive atom-splitting power that we have seen the effects of before (200,000 dead in the U.S. nuclear attack on Japan)... only, both the teams have quite different intentions. Slater, of course, plans to disarm and return the weapons to the U.S. government. Travolta plans to detonate them...This was a pretty basic comic book bubblegum-style action movie. There was lots of good special effects and vehicle/helicopter chases, machine gun battles, and explosions. It had a pretty basic plot (kind of similar to a mediocre combination of Face/Off and The Rock) and good acting... It was entertaining... still, I wish it could have been better and think it deserved maybe 6.5 out of 10 stars. Please feel free to email me with any questions or comments... "},{"Title":"Don't think, just watch.","Date":"17 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" John Travolta the star of Grease and Pulp Fiction plays the bad guy, Christian Slater is the good guy and John Woo directs. John Woo has directed allot of japan ease action films and I believe this is his American debut. The film is pretty good, and keeps you interested up until the very end.Broken Arrow is the term used to describe a nuclear device that has been lost. Major Deakins (Trovolta) is a tough U.S. Air Force pilot who is assigned to a flight mission with Captain Hale (Slater). They are to fly the B3 Stealth Bomber on war-game maneuvers over Utah loaded with two live nuclear weapons. Deakins, having been continually passed over for promotion, sells out his country and arranges to use the thermonuclear warheads under his command to blackmail the U.S. government. The only thing standing in his way is his old buddy, Captain Hale....Most of the time, a phenomenally silly and goofy action movie that has expertly staged action scenes (the director is John Woo, what do you expect?) but absolutely nothing to stimulate the intellect. So its another movie that you TURN-OFF your brain to watch.If you would rather think and watch a more plot driven film try American Beaty, Fight Club, The Usuall Suspects, The Aviator and many more. "},{"Title":"The Cinema of John Woo.","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Broken Arrow (1996) After the mild success of Hard Target, John Woo began work on two separate film projects. When those fell through (one movie was supposed to be an action film set in the jungles of Central America and another was a remake of The Killer) he worked on a film that would eventually become Broken Arrow. John Woo's transformation from Hong Kong director to Hollywood film maker is complete. Armed with a large budget and a named cast, Broken Arrow was ready to roll.Christian Slater and John Travolta star opposite each other in this run-of-the-mill action picture. The story deals with double crosses and betrayals. The fate of the free world is in the hands of Mr. Slater as Johnnie Boy snaps one day and loses a cache of nuclear war heads. Christan has to play hero as he single handedly tries to apprehend Johhnie Boy and his gang of goons. Can he do it? How much will John Woo pilfer from his own work this time? Is it a watchable movie? To find out the answers to the questions you'll have to watch Broken Arrow!An okay film. John Woo would show flashes of his former self in Face-Off but it would be all for naught when his next project rolls off of the assembly line. Too bad, know we all know who's the better film maker between John Woo and Ringo Lam after watching their total cinema portfolio.Recommended for fans of John Woo's Hollywood work. "},{"Title":"Average action flick only made interesting by the main villain.","Date":"17 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Nothing about this movie is above average. Average action, average performance's and an average story make this movie a...well, average one.It seemed like John Woo was holding back. A shame. Nowhere in the movie can you see his unique action style except for a few (too few) trademark John Woo slow motion scene's that aren't original or spectacular enough. The only really spectacular scene was the plane crash in the beginning, after that the movie only goes downhill.Who's crazy idea was it to cast Christian Slater for the role of the hero? It was an horrible choice! But luckily the movie focuses a bit more on the main villain played by John Travolta, who is about the only interesting thing about the movie. He is a really cool villain, cool enough to save this movie of being a disaster.The story is simple and not always likely and/or interesting and of course they also managed to put a female character and love story in it. Typical Hollywood-stuff.Average but still somewhat at times entertaining action-flick but in no way a must see.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Face/Off trial run #2","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"   John Woo had pretty much failed in making a mark in Hollywood, after his hugely disappointing Western debut, HARD TARGET, which only proved one thing - you can get one of the best action directors in the world, but you still can't make a good Van Damme flick.  In a sort of trial run for the outstanding FACE/OFF 2 years later, Woo made this unbelievably dumb but greatly enjoyable action-thriller, with then comeback king John Travolta and Jack Nicholson-lookalike Christian Slater. The plot is about how a demented US airforce captain (Travolta) steals the nuclear weapons he's carrying on his stealth bomber jet with young 'un Slater. However, after crash landing, Slater teams up with a bewildered park ranger, Samantha Mathis, to track down the bombs.   The script has it's moments, none of them to do with great characterisation or inspiring dialogue (although Travolta's 'Ain't that cool' inspired an entire website), but the action scenes, however mundane they are, are handled well by maestro Woo.  Travolta hams it up to the point that he looks like Vincent Price with a machine gun, and the whole silliness of the film does have a certain overpowering effect on the viewer. It's a shame that Slater, a brilliant actor of his generation, cannot quite pull off the hunky action hero role, whilst Mathis just looks totally lost throughout the movie. This is not a missed opportunity, because there was never any real potential to make a fantastic movie, but it does exactly what it says on the tin brainless, action-packed, and utterly watchable. A good little movie to kick-off Friday night's viewing.  "},{"Title":"Cheese with the occasional Woo-isms popping up once in a while.","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  * 1/2 out of ****Broken Arrow has an okay action movie premise John Travolta is Air Force Marjo Vic Deakins, who decides to betray his own country when he's passed up for a promotion, so he goes about stealing a nuclear weapon during a stealth flight with his partner, Captain Riley Haley (Christian Slater).  Not unexpected, the rest of the movie is about Haley and a park ranger (Samantha Mathis) trying to foil Deakins' mad-man plot.Broken Arrow is helmed by one of action cinema's most acclaimed directors, John Woo, and with a lavish budget and big stars on hand, you'd think he'd have created an action masterpiece.  But unfortunately, Broken Arrow is anything but, it's a routine thriller with a few good setpieces, but is awkwardly plotted, poorly acted, and directed without much of a sense of momentum or ebb and flow.The movie's not entirely without merit, there is a nice chase sequence in the desert that's actually quite exhilarating and a few signature Woo touches lend a nice sense of familiarity.  But this is overshadowed by everything else that's wrong, namely the cast.  I'm not sure who's idea it was to cast Broken Arrow, but Christian Slater is simply not action hero material.  He's also not much of an actor.  Samantha Mathis is also bland and totally unengaging as the would-be perky park ranger.  Then there's John Travolta, who clearly relishes the role of psycho villain.  It's a hammy performance for an actor who's made a career of going over-the-top, but for some reason, even he isn't much fun to watch.Broken Arrow's biggest problem is its lack of consistent momentum.  The action sequences don't really seem to build up, they're just sort of inserted here and there at any given opportunity.  Even the climactic sequence, set on board a train, doesn't deliver any genuine thrills.  And maybe it's just me, but the idea of Travolta suddenly and willingly deciding on a fistfight to finish things up struck me as pretty stupid, and yet again another example of this movie's tendency to interfere with its own building momentum.John Woo's previous films have been fairly pretentious (lots of slow-motion, lots of doves), but Broken Arrow desires to be nothing more than pure escapist entertainment.  While I absolutely realize this film should be taken as nothing more than a shallow experience, it still doesn't work as such, marred by completely uninteresting characters, silly dialogue, and mostly unexciting action.  This is one of John Woo's worst American films to date. "},{"Title":"good actors deserve better","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Like a typical John Woo film, Broken Arrow is driven by a bunch of explosive action sequences. Some of them are good, but none of them are really that impressive. Silly dialogue and lame characterizations also bring it down. John Travolta(though his acting is superb as always) has the unfortunate task of playing one of the dumbest, most un-intimidating villains of all time. A good cast does all they can, but they're helpless against bad writing. If you can put all this and a predictable ending aside, then you'll probably enjoy it for the most part. 2/4 "},{"Title":"My ass remains unkicked","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Really, is this the work of a true genius? Is this the film of a greatest action movie director in this planet? It is, but unfortunately it doesn't show. This is the 2nd Hollywood flick masterful John Woo, my man from the east directed and I admit it's lots of better than the poor Hard target (1993) - his American debut with Van Damme. Of course that's not much.Final sequence is great fun, Slater is...well, himself and Travolta is just as cool as he always is but really, it's not my point. When I first saw Broken arrow I liked it very much but I wasn't aware of what John Woo had already done in his Hong Kong years. Now when I know, this flick seems so dull and lame. How can a guy who directed some of the best action films known to man do something as basic as this? It's a big mystery to me.Face/off was a proper masterpiece (at last) and kicked ass as hard and naturally as an action film from Hollywood can do it but Broken arrow didn't succeed in the effort of kicking mine. It's not all that bad but the fact that it's Woo's work doesn't make it a good either. The man has created certain expectations by directing the finest action movies of the world and every time he makes a film that's not actually a masterpiece, he fails. Sad but true. I guess I have to look Broken arrow as a tiny little practice, Woo's attempt to adapt himself into the ways of Hollywood. "},{"Title":"A cool action flick.","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  John Woo is a respected director of Hong Kong action movies, who has now turned to Hollywood mainstream.  His debut US movie, 'Hard Target', failed to maintain all of his usual style.This is Woo's second US movie, and is an improvement on 'Hard Target'.  For a start, there's all of Woo's trademark action - slow-motion gunplay, double-gun action, dazzling stunts and massive explosions.  There's also the underlying meanings of piece hidden under the rising bodycount.There's also some talent on show.  Playing the enigmatic and truly psychotic bad guy is rising A-list star John Travolta, and he steals the film from co-star Christian Slater.  However, the improvement in the acting department only masks the unoriginal plot (stolen nuclear warhead... You can probably guess the rest) and the lack of character development.  Travolta's character is probably the only one with any emotion.All in all, Woo is getting the hang of his Hollywood ventures, and his action has and always will be maintained to a high level.  All that needs to be sorted out are the characters. "}{"Title":"Every genius stumbles now and again.","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Simply put, this is John Woo's worst film to date.  Not only does it pale in comparison to classics like The Killer and Hard Boiled, it's not a very good action/adventure on it's own terms.  Woo does what he can given the source material, but only Christ himself could turn water to wine. The screenplay seems like it was written for a straight to video production. If one is not familiar with the films of John Woo(or Hong Kong cinema in general)this would not be a proper introduction.Recommended for fans of second-rate action flicks with top-notch talent behind, and in front off, the camera.  A wasted effort. "},{"Title":"Mediocore Action Picture from John Woo","Date":"24 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  What prevents this from being the worst post-A Better Tomorrow John Woo movie is that the made for video flick Black Jack(1998) takes the sole rights.  The two moments of the film that I enjoyed was the earthquake scene and the gun battle near the end.  The problem with Broken Arrow is it seems too much like an Hollywood picture and not a John Woo picture.  Also, some of the things that made him a great action director is missing as the product seems watered down.  I thought that John Travolta should have played his character in a quiet and evil way in a similar manner as Henry Fonda's Frank in Sergio Leone's Once Upon A Time In The West.The music seems to try to reach the level of Ennio Moricone, but ends up failing in the process.  It seems that the female lead was more heroic than Christian Slater's character was as if his main purpose was to move the plot along.  This makes his previous motion picture Hard Target(1993) look like a masterpiece in comparison.  The most positive thing about this movie is it did well at the box office which proved to Hollywood execs that John Woo is the real deal(at least with giving him a little more freedom on his next feature film Face/Off(1997).  After his movie career comes to a halt, I don't think that people will remember this film(except for the fact that John Travolta played the villain) as it doesn't belong with his best...I.E. A Better Tomorrow(1986), A Better Tomorrow 2(1987), The Killer(1989), Bullet in the Head(1990), Hard-Boiled(1992), or even Face/Off(1997). "},{"Title":"Cool!?","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Well. What can i say? This film is rather typical and has the same amount of violence as many American action-thrillers. (But perhaps a little more?) Despite this, it was very enjoyable and in my opinion deserves 6.5 stars-slightly more than it actually got. I never realised that Travolta was such a good bad guy actor and almost deserved an oscar! But Christian Slater was just as good as the out and out good guy, along with Terry Carmeichel as his side-kick. The ending was short but effective, because of the pleasing lack of sentimentality and sexism. Keep up the good films, because i certainly enjoyed this one. "},{"Title":"Not bad, could be better.","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Having just watched Face/Off and Broken Arrow back to back, I have come to the conclusion that John Woo's directing is steadily increasing to a very high standard.  Unfortunately I feel that is was the script and character depth, or lack of character depth that, ultimately, is Broken Arrow's downfall.  Admittedly there is the odd scene where I contradict myself about it, and Travolta is convincing as the Baddie but its not enough.  I feel the whole story lacks real depth and other than Travolta's acting and Woo's directing, the film is rather mediocre. "},{"Title":"Much better than John Woo's first attempt in the US, but not much.","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This film was much better in that it had a better cast but suffered in the storyline department.For one, how can Vic Deakins (John Travolta) a US pliot have access to nuclear weapons? What's the deal with 'uncoded circuitboards'? Don't EMPs (Electro-magnetic pulse) travel at instant speed. They certainly didn't in the movie. Though the script had many flaws. It is John Woo's direction that saves the movie. The gunfight in the abandoned copper mine was an example of what John Woo can do.This is certainly much better than John Woo's previous movie, Hard Target. But is still below par, compared to his works in Hong Kong.Overall, it's an above average film. 'nuff said "},{"Title":"Not bad ,but at least it's a fast,fun action movie !!!","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is a about two stealth fighters who go head to over stolen missiles . It a very fast movie with a great score by Hans Zimmer(The lion king) . At least the movie gives one a idea on what the government do to get the missles back. Some of the action sequences are little over the top and so is the corny dialogue. Overall, it still my favorite one from the movie's two main stars!!!Plus you get great views of Utah in the movie!!Maybe even Zion national Park?Great fun if you like fast action movies !!! "},{"Title":"This is a bad film","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  If you want to be insulted for almost 2 hours by overacting and admirable attempts by Christian Slater to muster concern, then Broken Arrow is for you. Failing that see Hard Boiled when Woo had the courage of his convictions and made a credible action movie.  If you are discouraged by foreign flicks then rent Face Off which has an even more improbable plot, but then slick audacity will always prevail over half-hearted mediocrity.  Broken Arrow is worth seeing for the reunion of Samantha Mathis and Hard Harry but personally I'd have rather seen them make Pump Up the Volume 2 than this travesty. "},{"Title":"Worst film of 1996.  Woo works better with a smaller budget.","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  There is nothing quite like a bad action film and Broken Arrow is not a bad action film it is something exponentially worse, it is an average action film. Die Hard was a phenomenally good  movie with humour in the right places and violence in abundance yet the the appeal of the film made it accessible for all. On the other hand Stephen Seagal movies can become nuggets of delight when viewed with the right amount of derision but that is because they don't try to engage anything except the viewer's need to see fight scenes and explosions.  This is where Broken Arrow fails; by taking a ludicrous script, two mismatched actors and poorly conceived and executed action sequences it attempts to induce the audience to  care about the consequences of a comic book Travolta stealing a nuclear missile.  Had it been content to portray Slater in a much more mundane conflict with Travolta the results would probably have been more satisfactory. "},{"Title":"Bank statement movie","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  One got the feeling throughout there was nothing here but people going through the motions to collect a paycheck.  There are some talented people working here (John Woo, John Travolta, Christian Slater, Samantha Mathis) and they're all decent, but they are merely working in service of a standard story, and don't do anything to elevate it above standard.  It says something that the only one who makes an impression is Frank Whaley, who's not on screen that long.  But it must be said that without this film doing so well, Woo wouldn't have been able to make FACE/OFF, so that's in its favor. "},{"Title":"Good, but not great...","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Broken Arrow is a lesson in elementary math.One incredible director + one good actor + one bad actor + one holey plot + three editors = one good, but not great, film...Broken Arrow could have been so good, and yet, ends up without a real sense of wholeness. Someone needs to ban both Christian Slater and Samantha Mathis from Hollywood.Travolta, on the other hand, gives a sly, tongue-in-cheek performance with casual grace, and he's really the only good actor in the film.Woo, on the other hand, is having the time of his life, from the brilliantly shot opening boxing sequence to his hi-octane blend of action and excitement.Granted, Face/Off is a better film (as is almost any of Woo's Hong Kong films) but that isn't to say Broken Arrow isn't worth seeing.7/10 "}{"Title":"Good, but not great...","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Broken Arrow is a lesson in elementary math.One incredible director + one good actor + one bad actor + one holey plot + three editors = one good, but not great, film...Broken Arrow could have been so good, and yet, ends up without a real sense of wholeness. Someone needs to ban both Christian Slater and Samantha Mathis from Hollywood.Travolta, on the other hand, gives a sly, tongue-in-cheek performance with casual grace, and he's really the only good actor in the film.Woo, on the other hand, is having the time of his life, from the brilliantly shot opening boxing sequence to his hi-octane blend of action and excitement.Granted, Face/Off is a better film (as is almost any of Woo's Hong Kong films) but that isn't to say Broken Arrow isn't worth seeing.7/10 "},{"Title":"A good example of a bad movie...","Date":"10 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Why Broken Arrow failed I will never know. It had a semi-decent cast (including Christian Slater and Samantha Mathis, paired together for the third time), but the kudos in this movie go to John Travolta. Slater's character was too nauseatingly good to be believed (Slater has two roles -- the wild child and the nerd -- and this one just didn't work), and Mathis' character should have been shot in the beginning of the movie. Travolta, however, got me through nearly two hours of a holey plot, and some of the worst special effects and action direction I've ever seen. The character of Vic Deakins is almost quasi-spiritual in its mania and complete delusionality, and despite being a truly forgettable role (not unlike the dirty cop in Pulp Fiction), Travolta made a movie that should have ended up on the cutting room floor bearable. Watch the movie once for Travolta, but never pick it up again.While not having the yen for violence notable in Face/Off (the only decent Woo movie I've ever seen), also starring Travolta (this time in the dual role of a stiff jerk / sociopath), the shoot-'em-ups in this movie will keep you awake, and Travolta's shining star will keep you interested. Give it a 6 out of 10 for Travolta. Check Face/Off out for a MUCH better Travolta/Woo flick, or if you really DID like this movie for the qualities it had (because everyone has different faves), you might want to check out other stuff by John Woo, and possibly Tarantino as well. "},{"Title":"","Date":"15 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  If ever a villain was Mr. Cool, John Travolta is the one in this flick.  The sfx were a little over the top for me, and the plot was choppy and far from believable, but JT made Broken Arrow worthwhile.  There is one problem with this, however.  Who are viewers supposed to root for, Hale or Deakins?  Slater's goody-two-shoes attitude was disgusting, but as in all true action films, the bad guy always loses. "},{"Title":"an action movie with bad clichés","Date":"29 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I was kind of expecting some kind of intrigue, some decent action, and chopper crash. Got me no intrigue, your average bar-fight class action and they actually crashed ALL the choppers displayed in the movie, I mean, really?A Travolta name killer of a movie. A bit sad actually. Can be watched at 144p and not really miss a thing.And the character Travolta is playing, so desperate to look cool but it shows he hasn't really put effort into it.The action, the fighting, the montages, the explosions and the story.. pretty much nothing is convincing. There is a feel of cheap in every aspect of the shoot. "},{"Title":"Benchmark of Bad","Date":"29 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Broken Arrow serves as my wrap-around point for so bad it's good type movies. The BS plot and cornball action approach comedy but don't make it. Macho, pseudo-conflict is clichéd and boring.All in all, a terrible waste of everything talent, time, money. Are worse flicks out there? Sure, but this one provides for me a good benchmark of movie making gone bad. It's been my measuring stick for years. Hey, you like that movie Broken Arrow? (Yes/No) If the answer is No, I won't assume the answer comes from an idiot. Works great. Try it yourself at home.Behold the creatively bankrupt and authentically broken entertainment apparatus that is Hollywood! "},{"Title":"*1/2 OUT OF FIVE","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  John Travolta plays Vic Deakins an Air Force pilot who rips off nukes from the U.S Government and Christian Slater stars as Riley Hale an Air Force pilot sent to get back the nukes in this terminally dull Die Hard clone which remains John Woo's worst American movie to date. Poor acting and awful dialog make this strictly for ardent John Woo fans. "},{"Title":"Quality action packed suspense thriller","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  John Travolta is one of the great ones. He can add a sense of major intensity and believability to almost all of his roles and his sinister villain portrayal in Broken Arrow is a highlight. Several key action scenes and suspenseful turmoil propel this story of Vic Deakins (Travolta), an Air Force pilot who is assigned to a routine mission involving carrying nuclear weapons aboard his plane. Vic is drawn to violence and being an exaggerated kind of madman so he ejects his co-pilot (Christian Slater) from the plane and hooks up with some corrupt terrorist experts in a plot to set off the warheads. Slater as honest pilot Riley Hale must play the hero and disarm the weapons before their time limit runs out. Slater makes a believable hero and Travolta is great as always.      "},{"Title":"A crazed Air Force Pilot steals Nuclear missiles","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  One of the greatest action movies I have ever seen.  John Travolta's acting is great, he is so sinister I think it's one of his best movies.  I also love the director, John Woo.  He has directed some great action movies, like MI2 and Windtalkers.  For action thriller lovers, this is a must see movie.  "},{"Title":"Among the top 10 best action movies ever made, and by far John Woo at his best","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  **possible spoilers** In my opinion this is John Woo's best film of all.  This movie's action is not just mainly based on intese shoot outs, like most of Woo's other films, but consist of a blend of action packed sequences all mixed in for one of the most entertaining movies in a long time.  I simply loved watching John T. and Slater as they pit there wits and smarts agisnt each other in an intese game of cat and mouse.  As for the movies story, its as entertaining like the rest of the film, and it's a good storyline and well developed, it's also not horibly complex like lets say Mission Impossbile.  But Woo Genreally dose a good job of makeing his storylines good while not makeing them too hard to follow.Rating ***** of ***** "},{"Title":"This is the worst commercial movie ever!","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"   I just got done watching Broken Arrow and I had to tell somebody how bad this movie sucked! It is the worst movie that was widely released I have ever seen! It looks like it was made for Fox Family or something! The acting is awful, the camera angles are awful, the plot has been done 400 times, the special effects are so bad I want to run to the first toilet I see! For god sake a guy gets hit with a helicoptor blade going full force and it doesnt go through him! I will GLADLY tell ANYBODY TO PLEASE STAY AWAY FROM THIS MOVIE! GradeF, 0/0 STARZ. "}{"Title":"action masterpiece","Date":"29 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  this is on of the best action films, no, best films, ever made. christian slater and john travolta deliver their usual brilliant performances. howie long spices the movie up in his new comer role as travolta's partner in crime, bringing in some much needed comic relief and spine tingling fight sequences.(one can easily see why he was chosen to headline in firestorm) this movie delivers the pow like a derailed action train running into a nitro glycerine plant. there are people who have argued with me over the plausability of the story line, stating that the US armed forces take greater precautions to protect the world from lost nuclear weapons than is portrayed in the film. to them, i say go watch the piano, fancy pants. but if you want a powder keg of dynamite explosiveness, rent broken arrow and light the fuse. "},{"Title":"Dumb Dumb Dumb. *WARNING SPOILERS IN A WAY!*","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"      Before I start bashing this movie I need to say one thing, the only reason I put up with this sad excuse for a movie, is because Frank Whaley was in it.  Hey Frank! Great job! Keep up the good work!    This is sad excuse for a movie, even if it is an action movie, I think it could of gotten a little more complex than this.  I look at the plot, and the actors, and I sigh as I think,  This could be a synical Fail Safe, but it crashed and burned miserably.   Dumb script... oops what am I saying, this is bloody Aldous Huxley to the director.  I mean could it get any simpler Guy hijacks nukes, guy attempts to sell nukes, guy drives around desert for hour-thirty, guy sexual assaults woman.  Ohhhh! How original!!!    Things go BANG! Ohh... rapture, I get to watch shiny things go boom boom... whoopie... I feel so good.    Pitiful acting. Once again Frank, splendid job! I wish I could say the same for the rest of the cast. Hey! John Travolta, how much did you get paid to have your mug in this? Well that's to much, you know there are laws against robbery? And to the rest of the cast, whoever you are, YOU STINK!    I was ten years old when this first came out, and I would of given my left leg to see it.  But now that I'm thirteen, and have finally gotten a chance to see it, all I can say is that, THIS SUCKED!  This was the worst two hours of my life.  Avoid this even if you are into Frank Whaley, it's just not worth it. "},{"Title":"Broken Arrow","Date":"18 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Over the top John Woo action flick that works with Travolta as a devious villain, but fails miserably because of the obvious miscasting of Slater as an action star. Mathis is also way off as a park ranger, or something like a park ranger. Maybe she was looking for the set where they were filming the latest Yogi Bear movie.  "},{"Title":"This is an action classic","Date":"9 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I love John Woo. I know this movie looks different from his other films, but my story is this is the first John Woo movie I saw. Anyway, I had no idea what kind of director John Woo was, so that's why I didn't complain like every other movie hater here. But after I got to know John Woo, I noticed the action in The Killer and Face/Off was different. I don't care though. I thought Broken Arrow was an action packed, thrilling, fun filled movie. John Travolta was a great bad guy. Cristian Slater was cool as Riely Hale. I liked the kind of character he was. This movie was fast paced, so it never held up. It only stopped to give us a rest from every amazing action sequence. The whole train scene was the best part of the whole movie. This movie was one of the best action films ever made which means it ranks up with Die Hard, Speed, and The Last Boy Scout. Watch this as a fast action movie and don't go crazy over your expectations or sophisticated brain. I have a sophisticated brain, but I know how to watch a movie. "},{"Title":"My hero!","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Naturally you can't take the storyline seriously (being a Hollywood action film) but once belief is suspended this is an action-packed movie with a great soundtrack (love that guitar music)and a few nice touches of humour. I rather like Christian Slater and enjoyed him in the 'action hero' role. It was also refreshing to not have 'the big romance' between the male and female leads - just a subtle building of attraction, not detracting from the action. An enjoyable 'switch-the-mind-off' movie.  "},{"Title":"Quite simply the worst movie I've ever seen","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I've read the reviews on this website and can only conclude that the two Johns involved with this movie (Travolta and Woo) must have paid a lot of people a lot of money to register with IMDb and write 10-star reviews to balance out the more valid 1 and 2-star reviews. This movie is absolutely atrocious in every aspect directing, acting, special effects, dialog, plot-line, you name it. If Travolta were playing his role more tongue-in-cheek and the movie itself were touted as a comedy, then it might be palatable. But the movie and actor both appear to be actually taking themselves seriously, and the result is something that is just dreadful to watch. It took all my strength to actually see it through to the end all the while hoping that something redeeming would happen. It did not. Do not waste your time by seeing this movie. Use the two hours to weed your garden, mow your lawn, change the cat litter, or wash the windows. Any of those things are more enjoyable than sitting through this. "},{"Title":"Woo delivers the goods. Again.","Date":"31 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" After the pretty good Hard Target John Woo made this film, his second American production. It is better in almost every way.The plot is fairly straightforward, as most action films A renegade Air Force Officer uses a training exercise to swipe a pair of nukes and then uses them to blackmail the US Government. It is up to his co-pilot, whom he thought he killed, to stop him. Great action scenes with tradition Woo relentlessness, a good use of music, and some good lines make this a good thriller.Also worth mentioning is the finale with an awesome string of deaths for the bad guys. All on a speeding train. Rock on! 8/10Rated R violence and profanity "},{"Title":"A pile of badly conceived and written trash.","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  If anyone needs an example of how it is not ability but money and contacts that make some of the quintessential Hollywood films then this one is a great example. An inept script, very badly written makes one wonder whether the director really thought he was making a comedy. Everyone involved in this eggregious mess should be ashamed of themselves including John Woo who must have used it to upgrade himself from being a bad director to simply mediocre. "},{"Title":"I pity John Travolta","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I really can't see why an actor like John Travolta took a role in this movie. A bunch of effects can't cover up this incredible story (stealth pilot wants to steal some nuclear weapons). As one of the characters suggests in the movie You can buy a nuclear weapon for the prize of a BMW in russia. Yeah the heck, why didn't they, then we didn't have to watch this crap.John's main activity in this movie is to explain to the viewers why his actions fit in his overall scheme. But nevertheless, they make no sense.My 8 old year son called this movie boring. I agree. "},{"Title":"Not very exciting","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This must be John Woo's worst movie. The plot is thin, the dialogue is predictable. Christian Slater (who plays the hero)  is pale and lifeless. Parts of the action sequences are ridiculous &#150; Samantha  Mathis hangs on the side of a train, then under a train, yet her hair and clothes  still are in perfect order. John Travolta, cast against type as the villain, is good. But that is not enough to  justify the cost of renting this film. "}{"Title":"Very entertaining, no-brainer actioner.  Well worth the rental.","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Let's not even think about comparing this to a drama/suspense film like Face/Off.  It's not.  It's a straight action movie with some great pre-Matrix effects, decent acting (esp. Travolta) and continual movement.  Much like Speed, there is just no time for a sophisticated plot or in-depth characterization.  (The two protagonists don't even know each other's names until the last scene.)  If you don't go into this movie with highbrow expectations, you will be quite entertained.  Sometimes we all need a night off.  In case you need a reference point  I watched Art of War and Shaft (2000) on the same day and liked Broken Arrow a *lot* better.  It has no pretensions, so you won't feel disappointed. And the violence is much more integral to the plot.Thorn in my paw  Christian Slater was miscast.  He does well enough in each scene, considering the limited demands made on him, but on the whole Travolta simply overpowers him. And you tend to notice it.Extra points  Samantha Mathis has a strong role requiring decisive action and physical courage, and she plays it well. I gave it a 7/10 because it does well what it sets out to do and I enjoyed every minute  "},{"Title":"Dumbest movie ever made","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is by far, one of the worst movies I have ever seen.  It had the cheesiest plot, and John Travolta played a horrible villain.    Howie Long, an actor, GIVE ME A F***ING BREAK!!!  Christian Slater also knows how to choose the stupidest movies (ala The Flood), or to put it more simply, he's just a horrible actor.  Seeing Slater play the hero and the good guy almost made me puke!!  It is even harder for me to believe that this piece of trash was directed by John Woo, whom I believe to be one of the more talented directors in Hollywood right now.  However, he made up for it with the spectacular action movie, Face/Off.  Torturing me by making me watch this movie over and over again would be far more menacing than the Chinese water torture or any other kind.   "},{"Title":"More Holes Than A Truckload Of Old Socks","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Imagine a nuclear apocalypse movie from hardcore Asian director John Woo, written by the guy who wrote Speed, and starring John Travolta as the villain. Does it sound good? It might have made for a good pitch to a Fox executive but as a movie it's pretty damn pedestrian.The problem is that the uninspired, slow, plodding story is full of holes. There are so many errors and mistakes in the plot that you'll be hard pushed to find a more illogical and nonsensical movie. Travolta's campy performance doesn't help matters either. He seems to be under the impression that every nuance he's worked into the character is cool and slick, but Vic Deakins really is one of the most annoying bad guys of the 90s, purely on his own arrogance. Travolta is, without a doubt, miscast in the role. Deakins has clearly lost his mind, though we never feel the slightest bit of empathy for him, which is trademark of John Woo villains. But his direction is almost entirely muted too (it's practically a generic action film), with little of his usual flair. It's supposed to be fast paced, going from one climax/hair's breadth escape to the next, but it's padded out with dozens of 'helicopters just flying around' scenes.Christian Slater is simply okay as the stupidly-named Riley Hail, the hero of the flick, and the gorgeous Samantha Mathis doesn't have much to do other than stand around looking distressed and pretty. When her beautiful face isn't on screen the film truly lags, which is a tragedy for an action film.And how many helicopters did they blow up in this film? It seems as if a helicopter blows up every five minutes. It becomes so dull and repetitive. Boom! An explosion! Wow! What so interesting about the zillionth ball of flame rising into the air? The only thing that saves the movie from a lower rating is Hans Zimmer's highly exciting and atmospheric score. Without it Broken Arrow would be no ore than a Broken Movie.If you want a countryside based/railroad/ nuclear actioner then check out Under Siege 2 Dark Territory. With the exception of Seagal's acting, it's vastly superior to this on all levels. "},{"Title":"One question how did Terry get off the boat?","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Based on a glowing review from a friend, I rented this movie and sat down tonight prepared to be entertained. Tomorrow, I will demand that he reimburse me for the three dollars I wasted. Folks, this movie S-U-C-K-S. There are more factual, continuity, and common sense errors in this movie than I could even begin to list. Character development is nonexistent and the action sequences are completely forgettable, it really feels like they were scripting it as they went along. I'm assuming Travolta took the role of Major Vic Deakins because he lost a bet to Woo. If they were still taping Mystery Science Theatre, I'm sure this movie would be high on the list of films to feature in the future. I rate this movie poo out of *****. "},{"Title":"Phenomenally bad","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I imagine that Travolta really stole three nuclear bombs and used one to blow some enormous holes in the plot. This is possibly the most ludicrous, badly written, unbelievable and totally predictable piece of crap that is currently masquerading as a movie. As soon as you hear You're going on a test run with two live nuclear weapons, you can turn it off. It usually irks me when people can't suspend their disbelief for a movie, but there are limits. Of course, they never explain why the pilots are going on a routine test flight with two nukes, as that would require some scriptwriting ability , and it is clear that that was more conspicuously missing than the two nukes were. "},{"Title":"More utter junk from the meister of illogic, John Woo.","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Tremendously stupid action film. Comicstrip-like characters and imbecilic dialogues. Laughably absurd action sequences, in some of which a mere female desert ranger is better skilled in fighting than James Bond and Conan the Barbarian combined. Travolta overplays his bad-guy role in a most ludicrous way. Just the way he holds a cigarette and smokes is annoying to watch; he can't even handle a cigarette without overacting. One moronic scene follows another in this stupendous mess. John Woo is an awful director; a mindless oaf who makes love to the camera, but wipes his behind with the scripts (much like De Palma, though unlike Woo, he has made some great mob pictures in-between all his rubbish thrillers). If action is all that Woo can do - and this seems to be the case - then he is a nothing director. Still, if you think THIS is dumb, try watching Face/Off. If you'd like to read my biographies of Travolta, Slater, and other Hollywood morons, contact me by e-mail. "},{"Title":"Wow, What An Incredibly Sophomoric Movie","Date":"11 December 2006","Score":"16 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" What a sophomoric action-adventure story this turned out to be, one in which nobody can shoot straight, people aren't killed when they are supposed to be, the heroes get out of impossible situations all the time, etc., etc., all making this a movie with absolutely NO credibility.Tack on a very irritating female heroine who turns from park ranger to Rambo overnight, and it really gets ludicrous.However, there were a few bright moments. There are some great shots of the Grand Canyon and of Utah and the underground nuclear bomb explosion is spectacular with excellent sound. Then again, one can always except spectacular action shots from director John Woo. However, most of Woo's films are also dumb, like this one.John Travolta was fine in a low-key role but the rest of the cast.....forget it. It's too stupid a movie to recommend. "},{"Title":"More Than an Arrow Broken Here.","Date":"6 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Broken Arrow (1996) Dir John Woo / Cast John Travolta, Christian Slater, Samantha Mathis, Delroy Lindo, Frank Whaley Witless action film that might have worked had the filmmakers eliminated everything deemed stupid. That would pretty much require a rewrite. Title represents a damaged nuclear bomb but it could also symbolizes John Travolta's lack of loyalty. He and Christian Slater are sent on a routine flying mission. Equipped with two nuclear warheads Travolta takes control of the plane and ejects Slater. After landing he encounters a female park ranger and together they set out to find the two warheads before Travolta does. The warheads are taken to an abandoned mine shaft where Slater attempts to disarm them but in doing so he accidentally activates one. Mindless action conclusion in full brutality skillfully directed by John Woo. Travolta and Slater travel a predictable set of events. They part in the open then they race against each other to obtain the warheads before meeting in a brutal physical encounter that is predicted from their first physical encounter. Samantha Mathis is ridiculous as the wonder woman ranger. Delroy Lindo and Frank Whaley also appear but nothing of worth comes out of these roles. The film regards nuclear warheads in the wrong hands while the screenplay was certainly in the wrong hands and needed a rewrite. Score 3 / 10 "},{"Title":"Shooting at thermonuclear weapons....","Date":"5 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Travolta and Slater star as pilots who have a mission to fly a plane with nuclear weapons for test run.Overacting, Travolta attempts to kill Slater and steal the weapons, but that would finish the movie early, and it's a Woo movie, so we need a little bit of slow motion gun-play...When this movie first came out, I thought it was brilliant, Travolta was on this stupid comeback, so anything he was in made huge amounts of money until Lucky Numbers (remember Michael and Phenomenon?), and John Woo had come from the east with some major movies under his belt, it had to be good.But as the years have gone one, you begin to notice that the film is a little boring in places, and Travolta is awful in this film. Truly awful. And it doesn't help that every time we see Travoltas character, that Duane Eddy guitar piece plays, and it grates.Woo can handle the action, but he seems very restraint in this, turning the film into one of his lesser works like Paycheck, rather than Hard Target or Face/Off (i'm only mentioning his western movies).Slater is okay, but can't get a word in edge ways thanks to Travoltas stupid pantomime theatrics.Lindo and Smith add a little depth to the movie, but up until the final act on the train, it's pretty groan worthy.When I first reviewed this film back in 2007, I gave it a seven, now it's a solid five.One of those rare films that gets poorer with every viewing. "},{"Title":"This movie breaks the implausometer!","Date":"7 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Warning Will Robinson. Spoilers dead ahead!Things you can learn from this film 1) Nuclear bombs come with timing devices. 2) 6 minutes is all the time you'll need to escape a nuclear blast if you have a convenient underground river handy. 3) If you have a getaway helicopter on flatbed railway car and someone blows it up the train will be perfectly fine. It won't derail or anything. In fact you can have Christian Slater hiding directly under the thing and he'll be okay too! 4) If you steal a nuclear warhead the US government will mobilize one stupid helicopter to try and stop you. Not a battalion, not a platoon, just one helicopter and a guy with an assault rifle.Action flicks must walk a fine line between spectacle and plausibility. If the script and the director pile up too many oh-come-on moments in a film they risk losing the audience. This flick has a pile of oh-come-ons the size of K2. On the other hand, even if the production staff has gone overboard on the nonsense a movie can still be salvaged by some engaging performances on the part of its stars. Broken Arrow fails in this department too. Christian Slater plays Christian Slater and John Travolta hams it up to the point of becoming you want to punch him in his face annoying. He chews the scenery so badly that he gives Jack Nicholson's Joker in Tim Burton's Batman a run for his money. The film has the gloss and sheen that you would expect from well-budgeted Hollywood product but there is honestly nothing that goes on in it's 108 minute duration that is worth your time and effort. For Godsake, whatever you do, do not spend money on this piece of tripe. You'll just end up feeling foolish in the end. "}{"Title":"Sure it's stupid but fun","Date":"4 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Major Deak Deaker (John Travolta) gets two thermonuclear warheads from the US (under ridiculous circumstances). He plans to blow up Utah if he isn't given money. A buddy of his named Riley Hale (Christian Slater) tries to stop him with the help of park ranger Terry Carmichael (Samantha Mathis).The plot is stupid. It's full of huge lapses in logic, loopholes and questionable sequences--according to this if a nuclear warhead is blown up 2000 feet underground it will NOT harm anyone aboveground. Please! Also there are far too many sequences with people getting shot at who magically escape getting harmed. Still, this is a fun movie. If you can ignore the dumb plot you'll have fun. The movie moves so quickly you don't have enough time to question it and has plenty of incredibly exciting (it totally illogical) action. The acting is good--Slater is OK, Travolta amusingly underplays his role and Mathis is a strong independent woman who doesn't back down in a fight or cower in a corner when the bad guys attack. I hated this back in 1996 (I thought about it too much) but like it in a non-think kind of way now. Recommended for the action alone.PLEASE don't shoot at the thermonuclear weapons. "},{"Title":"Hong Kong meets Utah What a mess!","Date":"1 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Too much, too much of everything resulting in very little.Lots of adjectives come to mind in trying to describe this movie, most of all words like preposterous, ridiculous, impossible, unbelievable and in many cases, simply stupid! It all becomes clearer when you look at who directed this film; John Woo has learned the business of film-making in Hong Kong making (in my opinion) tacky Kung-Fu movies, where action and action only is the essence of every film. Quite understandably, he resorted to what he knows best in making his big-budget Hollywood debut. Unfortunately, I do not like dumb Kung-Fu movies...So, apart from the ridiculous (or non-existent) screenplay, the bad Directing and other deficiencies, we also have to contend with Travolta as a nuclear terrorist. Honestly, I do not know if he was simply miscast or whether his acting just sucked in this film. He was so believable in his role, that instead of fearing a thermonuclear detonation, I was expecting Staying Alive to start up any minute and Travolta to start dancing... So much for this movie. If you can, Skip it! "},{"Title":"Cheap Segal-clone vehicle for celebrated director","Date":"26 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" As Steven Segal was hammering out the template for the 90s action blockbuster with Under Siege, John Woo was breaking his own ground with Hard Boiled. Woo's extremely violent but anaesthetisingly romanticised Chow Yun Fat vehicle is from the same stable. But with an entirely new international market - sorry, audience - in tow the Hollywood call was inevitable.Hard Target came first... but this is the film designed for the big audience, fronted by Travolta. The whole thing takes place in the Utah desert with the exception of studio sequences for a mine and military control rooms. That's because Woo needs space in which to BLOW THINGS UP. Inbetween explosions there's an increasingly manic, wisecracking Travolta and earnest-but-dull Christian Slater. With the possible exception of Hans Zimmer's Woo-tailored score it's difficult to see if any money was spent anywhere else. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Slater's final hour...","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Christian Slater stars as Riley Hale, an air force pilot who finds himself the only able to take back a nuclear weapon from Vic Deakins (A shamelessly hammy John Travolta). Seems that Deakins is out to launch it due to him being passed up for promotions and the like. Of course aiding our hero is Samantha Mathis who is a park ranger. The problem with Broken Arrow is that it is too hollywoodized for John Woo to really work with. The premise has been done so many times that even John Woo's approach seems mundane. Sure there are some moments that excite and Woo crafts some decent suspense among the action sequences but generally you get the feeling you have seen it before and basically it is all half hearted. Worst of all is that it has Howie Long who is quite simply terrible in the role as head mercenary. The characters themselves never engage and really the movie never builds enough momentum. Certainly in comparison to Woo's HK work and even his work in Hard Target, Broken Arrow is nothing but a gigantic disappointment.* * out of 4-(Fair) "},{"Title":"Just an action film","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" OK, so I sat down to watch this movie for my second time. Why? I was in the mood for some action.John Travolta stars as a USAF Major who is planning drop of the nuclear bomb he's carrying for a test run and steal them. Unfortunately, his co-pilot and a park ranger was not part of his plans.Let's start by saying this is a 100% pure action movie. Cheesy dialog, big explosions, a chick and impending doom. Who can possibly ask for more? The writing is OK. The plot is OK, but there are holes and less logical things. The dialog is fake and cheesy at times. The characters is nice enough developed, but there could be done more work here. There are some nice touches done in the writing too, I'll give it that. All together the writing is OK. Not the best, but in no way the worst either. The story was probably just an excuse to fly helicopters and blow stuff up.The cast is very varying in their performance. John Travolta does a great job, in portraying his villain. He portray his character in an incredible way, and is such a bad ass. Christian Slater is not bad either, but not quite there. As for Samantha Mathis, we've seen better. Not all bad, but far from good. The rest of the cast is average. No one worth mentioning in particular.The film is technically good. The cinematography is good. Some cool angles and stuff and all over good. The sound editing is nice and the special effects, well being an action movie you gotta expect good special effects and you get it. Big explosions, bodies thrown through the air, crashing aircrafts, bullet hits everything is there and most of it is well done.One thing to notice is the music. Zimmer made a nice theme that follows the score through the movie. Very effective and combined with the visual, very cool.What makes this movie get a five out of ten is all the minor flaws and rather bad story it has. It's far from a good movie. The good thing is, this movie does not try to be anything it's not. It's just a simple entertaining mindless shoot 'em up action flick and not trying to be anything else it's a good one at that. Then you take the cheesy dialog and plot holes and just don't care. If you're in the mood for action you got your movie right here. "},{"Title":"Just how many movies like this do they plan to make?","Date":"1 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" For the most part, Broken Arrow is another action movie, with a bad guy stealing nuclear weapons and a good guy having to stop him. I never expected to see John Travolta as a villain, but he does an OK job in the role. Granted, I really don't see why Hollywood feels that they have to make movies involving two hours of things exploding.Anyway, this is the sort of movie that you watch solely to kill time. There's nothing that we haven't seen before. I think that most of us agree that pretty much all the cast members (among them Christian Slater, Samantha Mathis, Delroy Lindo, Frank Whaley) have done much better than this. Passable at best. "},{"Title":"Doesn't deliver the goods - 49%","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" There is some history between this film and I. It was the first movie I ever saw in an aeroplane, on a flight to Detroit to visit relatives for Christmas. The problem is, it was immediately followed by the Jerry Bruckheimer action flick The Rock and if you've seen both of these movies then you'll know which is the better. In which case, you may as well toddle off right now. If you haven't seen either of them then pay attention because Broken Arrow is a shocking effort from arguably Hong Kong's finest director John Woo. Lacking much of the Woo style and polish that propelled him into Hollywood, this is little more than a brainless, trigger-happy waste of a film that quickly runs out of steam and descends into farce.John Travolta and Christian Slater play a couple of US Air Force pilots on a routine training exercise over Utah. Whilst testing a stealth plane's abilities, Major Deakins (Travolta) takes the opportunity to steal two nuclear warheads that happen to be on board the plane (despite the fact it's a mere training exercise) by ejecting Captain Hale (Slater) out of the plane and crashing it near others in on the plan. It is soon left to Hale and an impossibly cute Park Ranger by the name of Terry Carmichael (Samantha Mathis)to recover the warheads and make them safe, while Travolta's evil plan begins to take shape. Not exactly rocket science but there you go.It's safe to say that this is one of the simplest action films I've ever seen, with a relatively small cast and a plot so basic that only the most moronic of viewers will struggle to keep up. Despite this, there are some truly awe-inspiring lapses of logic such as the hilarious scene where Travolta, seemingly having planned everything down to the last detail, can't find someone hidden beneath a blanket in a small boat. It almost takes your breath away how clichéd the whole thing is and without the usual stylistic tricks of action-master Woo (seen in stuff like MI 2), it feels like a cheap and nasty TV movie. Slater is probably the best of the performances alongside Delroy Lindo as an Air Force support guy but Travolta is in standard pantomime-bad-guy mode. For further examples, see rubbish like The Punisher or Swordfish but only if you wanted a laugh.It's such a shame that Woo's American career got off to such a dodgy start (this is the second US film he made, after the Van Damme film Hard Target). The plot and genre are hardly taxing and yet this is a real dog's dinner. Compared to something like The Rock which is not the best example of an action movie (and one I was forced to compare this to by the airline), this is an absolute waste of time, money and effort. Indeed, I'm struggling to see what attracted Woo to the project in the first place unless he was straining at the leash to work with a resurgent Travolta. Assuming you switch your brain to just above comatose levels of activity, you might enjoy the whole silliness of it all but honestly, I can't recommend anything about this picture to anyone. My advice is to stick with Woo's later material such as Face/Off or his earlier Hong Kong career such as the gritty cop film Lashou Shentan (Hard Boiled). Or you can watch another action film altogether because the chances are, it'll be better than this. "},{"Title":"The Arrow Isn't All That's Broken","Date":"4 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Broken Arrow has Christian Slater and John Travolta as two sparring Air Force pilots. Slater is a lovable hero and is very charismatic on the screen, as he should be, and Travolta is a washed-up two-bit actor who talks through his teeth and in this movie makes a horrible opponent for Slater. When two nuclear warheads are stolen by a group of terrorists, Slater teams up with the deformed yet somehow alluring Samantha Mathis (who was also with Slater in the much better film, Pump Up The Volume) to steal back the warheads. What follows is over an hour of poor computer graphics and some very unsuspenseful and uninspiring fight scenes in the wasteland of Utah. Will everything turn out alright? Will Howie Long get sacked? Will Slater and Mathis become a couple under pressure (like Keanu Reeves and Sandra Bullock in Speed)? Check it out to see. This film is not recommended. (Worst one I've been forced to watch by my friends in over a month.) "},{"Title":"Misnamed","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This film is hardly a masterpiece, though it does have some good moments and plenty of action.  Really it should have been named Broken Helicopter -- by my rough count they wreck at least 3, maybe 4, helicopters during the course of this film.Travolta is over-the-top, of course, and Slater is fine in his role.  Howie Long does a good job as the henchman.I wouldn't spend money to see this, but if it's on cable and you're in the mood for a lot of wrecked helicopters, check it out. "},{"Title":"Terrible movie...","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  If you're ready for a McGyver episode, then this is what you should watch. This movie is terrible from beginning to end. Let's not even mention the cheap Top Gun soundalike score in the background... One could expect nice cinematography from John Woo but not even... Samantha Mathis' acting was not credible one bit and God knows what Christian Slater was doing there... Fortunately there are real actors such as Chuck Norris and Jean-Claude Van Damme for this kind of movie. -)3 out of 10 (for John Travolta's acting and some (very few) creative typical John Woo action scenes) - but maybe is that too much... "}{"Title":"A stupid action movie...","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Broken Arrow is one of those stupid action movies, which do not respect the spectators' IQ.The directing was awful and the script completely unintelligent with some huge mistakes. The only thing that makes the film worthwhile to be seen is John Travolta's great acting. The music also (composed by Hans Zimmer) is very good.            "},{"Title":"The arrow points the wrong way!","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  For a John Woo film, this one is pretty redundant. It's not usual to watch two attackers point weapons at each others' faces, but BROKEN ARROW sure could use a face-lift! The acting needs better work! Neither of the two leading men can act as tough as they should, with John Travolta in the worst-case scenario. Samantha Mathis, while attempting to be the leading action lady in a few parts, suffers from a nervous breakdown. What's interesting is the suspense of preventing a nuclear catastrophe, but that premise is overridden by too many borrowed cliches from other action-adventure movies. Listen for Travolta shouting Hush! Hush! in a softer, keener voice when he's the one plotting the destruction. Woo fans can woo over FACE/OFF or any of his original material. Some things are meant to be broken, and this movie doesn't put itself back together. "},{"Title":"Woo screws up...","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  For every brilliant movie John Woo makes (The Killer, Face/Off) there seem to be at least 2 incredibly bad ones (Hard Target, Mission Impossible 2, and of course this lame piece of **** called Broken Arrow.while the action scenes are not a total loss, they could have been a lot better. Whatever good action there is, is brought down by extremely poor dialogue, a completely over-the-top bad guy (John Travolta, not as poor here as in Battlefield Earth, but coming very close), and incredibly boring hero (Christian Slater) and just way too many cliches. Do yourself a favor. Watch Face/Off instead* out of **** stars  "},{"Title":"Old-Fashioned Serial","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of a long line of idiot movies;  so called because they only appeal to morons.The only GOOD thing that can be said about it is it would make a good 15 segment serial of the 40s and 50s.As a movie,  it is totally unbelievable,  absurd, and just another vehicle for the lavish and costly action enhancement Hollywood grinds out.I would have it packaged with Return of The Atomic Man,  and shown on Saturday morning along wiith Buck Jones and The Three Mesquiteers (Retroactive to 1947) "},{"Title":"Same ol', same ol', same ol', same ol'","Date":"16 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Didn't Hollywood get this putrid mess out of their systems back in the 70's when filming all those abysmal James Bond dogs? Now they come back with a rehash of the same old crap with 2 popular actors; who, I might add, could and have done better. This turkey never left the ground it was so weighted with a dull script and terminally stupid dialogue. Had the producers cut out all the silly one liners and unrealistic footage, the show would have lasted about 10 minutes. Travolta deserves better than this, but I guess he couldn't say no to the payday. "},{"Title":"Don't bother seeing this one","Date":"28 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I never liked John Woo and this film is the epitome of bad movie making. All of John Woo's films are bad and in the same way. They have ridiculously overdone battle scene's and the rest of the film seems like it is on auto drive until they get to the next action scene.Christain Slater is a good actor but he is surrounded by incompetence and it simply brought him down with the rest of the film. The writing is awful and it has a tacked on and meaningless ending. This movie was terrible and pointless from beginning to end. I still have no idea how John Woo is still making movies, but one things for sure, he shouldn't be.  "},{"Title":"A typical John Woo film without the originality he brought from Face/Off","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I love action movies, but come on! This was beyond the prediction land, you know exactly what was going to happen in each scene. I have to give credit, I had so much fun being sarcastic with this flick. Like the cheesy cliché' slow bomb sequences, I was like NOOOOOO!!!, or John Travolta's Super Duper Bad-Ass Villain technique was too good to be true! It's like that last fight between him and Christain was Give me your lunch money!. Or John's threatening tape to the Pentagon with the images of the nuclear attack I was like Actually that was some scenes from Terminator 2 Jugdement Day, but the real attack would be a lot like that, yeah. Scary! Him commanding just $250,000,000, I mean that was a lot of money, but come on! He could have settled for another billion! D This is your typical action flick with no real decent plot. Nice try, John W., John T., and Christain, but this just didn't work.1/10 "},{"Title":"Travolta steals the show..","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Broken Arrow is nothing but a typical Hollywood action flick with lots of goofs and some interesting action sequences.......but then steps in 'JOHN TRAVOLTA' the charming villain with a killer smile......Travoltas screen presence is one thing that strikes you through the whole movie..The way he outclasses his fellow actors with his whims and fancies....(i don't think anyone remembers Christian slater to play a role in broken arrow)..So it's completely a Travolta movie....If you are a fan of his you can sit through the movie...........or else don't try to watch it.....so all he vote I gave for this is for 'John Travolta'. So If you could bear face off, you are going to bear broken arrow too........ "},{"Title":"John Travolta plays Good & Evil !","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"                   This picture started out with John Travolta (Maj. Vic Deakins),Basic,'63 and Christian Slater,(Capt. Riley Hale),WindTalkers,'02, both battling each other in a boxing ring, at first I thought it was another Rocky film.  However, as the movie got underway, I could not believe how Maj. Vic Deakins changed his personality over night, creating all kinds of havoc and lots of action.  Samantha Mathis,(Terry Carmichael) as a Park Ranger, assisted Capt. Riley Hale  in order to find out just what was going on in her National Park.  Samantha and Maj. Deakins had very little time for romance, they were kept on their toes through out the entire picture.  "},{"Title":"Mindless crapola","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This worthless collection of anti-military cliches is so bad that it actually makes Battlefield Earth look good by comparison.  It demonstrates that the writers and director were completely ignorant of nuclear weaponry, military procedures, and even basic geography.  One of the very worst movies ever made. "}{"Title":"I've seen worse","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Not the worst film, and it sure is below average. I can't stand Christian Slater, who is about as natural on screen as is Keanu Reeves, but I really thought Travolta would be better than this. Also, there are too many factual mistakes in this film to make it enjoyable.I'm a bit tired of John Woo. There's so much talk about him bringing new stuff to the action genre - but is he now? I see the same old gunfights and fistfights as I have seen hundreds of times before. Nothing new here. "},{"Title":"This is the worst film I have ever seen, ever!","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Unfortunately taking all of the best action movie cliché's and putting them end to end in one totally plot less film does not make a good movie. The way that the hero (played by Christian Slater) narrowly escapes death from everything that comes his way is laughable to the point that by halfway through the movie I was hoping he would be killed so that the film would end. Nothing in the movie comes even close to being plausible - every plot detail is riddled with holes and demonstrates the producers had a complete lack of understanding of how things work in the real world. By the end of the movie I was left wondering why I had bothered to waste my time and money to see it through to the end, had I seen the movie thinking it was intended as a comical parody of the action movie genre I might have enjoyed it a lot more.This is the worst film I have ever seen, ever! If this is the first action movie you have ever seen then you *might* love it, otherwise it should be avoided at all cost. Utterly dreadful 1/10. "},{"Title":"Broken Arrow","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I really like action films with a good villain, and this is a really good example of one of those films. Major Vic 'Deak Deakins (John Travolta) and Captain Riley Hale (Christian Slater) used to be okay friends. But Riley discovered that Deak had a secret plan to destroy a city with an atomic weapon. He is now on the run from Deak and his gang of terrorists. However he does have some help from Terry Carmichael (Super Mario Bros. star Samantha Mathis). A high action, high flying and high exploding film. The best example of Travolta's villainous role is the final showdown. Also starring Delroy Lindo as Col. Max Wilkins and Bob Gunton as Pritchett. Very good! "}]