[{"Title":"pretty funny","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"30 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Fans of the television show will probably die laughing, but some others may enjoy it also. The film focuses on Beavis and Butt-Head as they go on a cross country road trip to recover their stolen television, but unknowingly fall deep into a plot involving the theft of a man-made biological weapon. The cast of voices are a real treat, especially Robert Stack as an ATF agent. Tune in if you're in the mood for a few laughs. 3/4 "},{"Title":"even has a good story","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"27 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If you're a fan of Beavis and Butthead you will love this it's not much different from the show and it's awesome! It has a good story and some great music by White Zombie and AC/DC as well, the soundtrack is great! This movie should be in the IMDB top 250 I don't care what anybody thinks this cartoon is too fun not to enjoy "},{"Title":"One of the best films of 1996","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Beavis and Butthead Do America is as funny (if not funnier) than the television show. It looks at the two morons like never before (with intelligence). The plot involves the duo on a cross-country odyssey to score. Along the way, we overhear the voices of Robert Stack, Cloris Leachman, Eric Bogosian, Demi Moore, Bruce Willis, Greg Kinnear and David Letterman. And of course, Mike Judge (who directed, co-wrote and voiced 5 characters) who created this (God help me for saying) satirical masterpiece brings this film to a fine edge that isn't lost years later. For it's fans it's entertaining, in spots hysterically funny, and even cool to an extent; it's a film that, in a way, should get more credit than it got, but as a film on a level of 'cult' status it ranks in the background of other comedy peaks from the X-ers of the 90s. Where else will you get Dave Letterman playing former Motley Crue roadies turned drifters? "},{"Title":"Don't mis-judge Mike Judge","Date":"14 May 2006","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I know a lot of you who have never seen Beavis and Butthead probably think very little of the show based on the low-brow nature of it (I was one of them), but if you give this movie a chance you'll see that it's actually as well written and at times as, dare I say, subtle as King of the Hill.Beavis and Butthead have their TV stolen and when trying to get it back are mistaken for hit men by drunken drunk Muddy Grimes (Bruce Willis, as I was rather shocked to find out once the credits rolled), who sends them on a mission to 'do his wife' Dallas. Misinterpreting this as any horny teenagers would, B+B head to Las Vegas to carry out the terrible act. But we discover (they don't, however) that Dallas and Muddy are part of international weapons conspiracy and our two teen-aged heroes are being set-up to take the blame.So, as they take off across the country, causing absolute mayhem wherever they go, the ATF closely follow, giving full body cavity searches to everyone and anyone they meet at the order of head honcho Agent Flemming (the late Robert Stack), who comes out with some brilliant, deadpan one-liners. The set-pieces are wonderful and the mushroom-induced dream sequence by Rob Zombie looks amazing.Mike Judge's animation style also brilliant. Avoiding bright, primary colors used in shows such as The Simpsons, Family Guy and Futurama, he uses mainly softer colors, pencil-effect scenery and water-color backgrounds. It's a sort of calming, easy-going animation style that he's totally made his own.You should totally check-out this movie. Don't be put off by what you may have heard or may think of Beavis and Butthead. You'll be conning yourself out of loads of laughs if you do.And look-out for Daria Morgendorfer in the 'Lesbian Seagull' scene. "},{"Title":"Huh-huh-huh, you said anus!","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"30 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I enjoyed this film a lot more than I expected to. I was never very taken with Beavis and Butthead's short sketches on MTV, and in truth they've never really taken off in England the same way they did in the States. The somewhat obvious satire lacks the gentle wit of Mike Judge's other creation, King of the Hill, and spending 80 minutes in their company was a dubious prospect.However, ...Do America sensibly opens out the scope, taking in less broad targets. For a start, we have Beavis and Butthead's hippie teacher, who gently strums his spiritual song, Lesbian Seagull. It's a testament to the profile of the cartoon that Englebert Humperdinck gives his own rendition of this for the end titles. But best of all is their neighbour, redneck Tom Anderson (Catchphrase I'd love to get my hands on those two b******s for whacking off in my camper van), who, while not the same character, has the exact same voice, personality and appearance of Hank from Hill. Judge obviously knew when he was on to a good thing and built a series around this great character.The plot is brilliantly silly, with the two boys getting involved, unwittingly, in a plot that sees a killer virus, attempted murder and the emergence of World War III. President Clinton even makes an appearance towards the end. Movie culture is openly lambasted, starting with King Kong, and taking in an opening title sequence (theme song by Isaac Hayes, a year before South Park) that parodies both Shaft and Charlie's Angels. Look out too for the climatic slow motion sequence.Jokes are puerile, such as the two obnoxious leads laughing uncontrollably at the word wood, or another scene where a man asks the pair have you got a match? Yeah, replies Butthead, the slightly smarter of the two, my butt and ... uh ... your butt. It's childish, but it made me laugh. Not the most subtle exercise in wit, the film is still a worthwhile, and, by it's own small ambitions, successful picture.  "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"24 June 2005","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie was directed by Mike Judge (office Space). After finding out their TV is stolen, Beavis and Butthead are determined to get it back. After failing stealing a TV from school, they stumble in a seedy hotel room with Muddy Grimes lying on his bed. He gets them confused with the killers he hired to Do his wife and sends them to Las Vegas. Mike judge is a good writer/director, he has a dry sense of humor that appeals to me in most of his work (Except king of the hill, Damn that's dry!). The movie is a wild-goose-chase for Beavis and Butthead, and they stay oblivious as much as on their MTV show. I don't think any fan of the MTV show would disagree that Mike Judge did the best job possible-for this movie. "},{"Title":"funny","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I am sure if you watched Beavis and Butt-head on television you had to see this movie. Mike Judge is excellent, his stuff is very enjoyable and funny. I know a lot of people think Beavis and Butt-head are the worst thing ever, but it is down right hilarious stuff in my book. "},{"Title":"Generation X Art.","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The controversial but highly popular MTV animated series hits the big screen in this surprisingly entertaining and humorous film from the crazed mind of Mike Judge. The two dim-witted teenage friends have their television stolen and set out to find it. However it seems that a chemical weapon of mass destruction has fallen into the pair's hands. Now national security is a major issue as the two go on a long journey to some of the country's most famous locales. The authorities always seem to be two steps behind in this film that has a comedic life of its own. Interesting voice characterizations by Judge, Bruce Willis, Demi Moore, Cloris Leachman and the golden-voiced Robert Stack all match their animated alter-egos perfectly. 3.5 out of 5 stars.  "},{"Title":"A pure gut-buster","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" BEAVIS AND BUTT-HEAD DO America, in my opinion, is a pure gut-buster. I laughed really hard when Tom (Mike Judge) said, Must be them d*** buzzard-hogs, while Beavis (Mike Judge) and Butt-Head (Mike Judge) were doing their heavy metal humming. As a matter of fact, I laughed a just about every funny scene. Also, I thought that Dallas (Demi Moore) looked very pretty, even though she was one of the bad guys. In conclusion, I highly recommend this pure gut-buster to all you fans of the BEAVIS AND BUTT-HEAD TV show who have not seen the movie. You're in for a lot of gut-busting laughs, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it. "},{"Title":"Almost as funny as the series","Date":"27 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" If not just as funny, Beavis and Butthead is a very popular television show that won so many couch potato's hearts. ) Which I can understand, hey, I love them too. Now they take on America, our beautiful country. When the boy's T.V. is stolen, they try to go find a new one, but end up in the hands of a criminal mastermind that happens to be very drunk. He tells the boys when he mistakes them for the hit-man who will do his ex-wife who stole a very powerful virus that the CIA, FBI, and ATF have been dying to get their hands on and save the country. When the boys misunderstand the Muddy's, the criminal, word of do his wife, they get excited that they are getting paid to do it and they figure they can get a big screen TV, with two remotes, this is possibly one of the greatest days of their lives. When they get the wife's room, her name is Dallas, she just finds it amusing how they misunderstood the word do her, she takes the virus and sows it into Beavis's pants and send them on a tour bus heading for Washington, D.C. promising them a score when they get there.But they are in for some big surprises when they are not only being chased by Muddy and Dallas, but turn out to be the Most Dangerous Men in America and are hunted down but somehow always manage to escape the ATF. This is a hilarious movie for the true fans of Beavis and Butthead or even if you're not, you'll enjoy it. It's a fun movie with great humor that will make the most sophisticated intellectual laugh. 8/10 "}{"Title":"One small step for us, one giant trip for the heroes","Date":"16 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Beavis and Butthead was one of the many points in my childhood where I knew, I was unlike anybody else. I was entertained beyond belief by these two dimwits who knew nothing in the world outside of their couch and their television. Seeing this movie young, most likely around ten, I honestly didn't like it. I found it to be boring and I hated how Beavis and Butthead left the town of Highland and ventured out into the big world.I watched it a year later and went on to like it. This is my third viewing. Now I can fully appreciate it. I understood all the jokes, but at the same time I wished the film took place in the town of Highland, I realize that the creators and the director, respectively, had to create a plot that was very large and made to fit an eighty-five minute run time. Not the usual five to ten minute run time the MTV program was used to.At the time, this movie was the near conclusion to the MTV program that ran for five years. There was rumored to be a sequel for years, and remained in development, but never happened. Fine by me. We got something better. It took fifteen years, but in 2011 it's said that the show will return to MTV with brand new episodes poking fun at music videos and viral videos. I'm skeptical, yet my excitement is through the roof.Beavis and Butthead Do America is about the two adolescents that go in search of their missing television set. Wandering into a motel, they become mistaken by a drunk named Muddy (Willis) as the men he hired to kill his wife. Saying he hired them to do his wife, the boys believe they are being payed to have sex with Muddy's wife. The boys don't object, but then become labeled the most dangerous men in America by the FBI who are in search of a mysterious chip they call the unit. The humor isn't as racy as people would expect. It maintains a PG-13 rating, and uses it neutrally. That comes off as one of its flaws, sadly. Like the South Park movie that boasted an R rating with very foul language and sex references, clearly showed what could be on the big screen differs greatly from Comedy Central. With Beavis and Butthead Do America, it does the same thing it would've done if it were a TV movie. Even The Simpson's Movie went a little further than its FOX limits.Still, it's worth it for the pleasure of seeing one of the greatest animated duos on the big screen doing what they do best, nothing. The best thing about the teens is they get in trouble, without even trying to get in trouble. They are a victim of bad timing, but somehow avoid every possible consequence. The FBI agent orders roadblocks, they are in the middle of the desert. They order the Dream America bus to stop, they get on a Nun's bus.My favorite scene is when their peace'd out teacher tries to tell them from the bottom of his heart that having no Television actually opens a window of opportunity. He claims people need to realize that we don't need TV to entertain us. After that very near and dear moment, all they pick up is entert(ain us). Beavis and Butthead Do America has gotten better with repeated viewings, but is seems it never was boring. I think being young and dumb, the film didn't sit right with me for the reasons I stated above. After the third time, it was pretty cool.Starring Mike Judge, Demi Moore, and Bruce Willis. Directed by Mike Judge. "},{"Title":"Beavis and Butthead may never score, but this movie sure does.","Date":"4 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" After watching a couple of 'Beavis & Butthead' episodes on TV and a bunch on the Net, I instantly became a fan, and this just happened a couple of months ago.Now I really wanted to see the movie and I was unable to get the DVD and thought I would never get it.I eventually found a way.There was a site that I went to and I actually managed to watch the whole movie.What you need to know about Beavis and Butthead is that they're the most stupid duo in the history of animation.Think of Fry from 'Futurama' and Homer from 'The Simpsons' and you get Beavis and Butthead.The next thing you need to know about them is that they're addicted to television.When they find out that their set has been stolen, they go on a cross country adventure that involves a deadly poison, nuns, a man who seems to do a cavity search on any suspect or witness, and a really hot lady who's ex looks an awful like Kurt Russell from 'Death Proof'.All of this just to find their TV.Now what would you do? I'm sure you would do something simple like going to Best Buy and buy a new set instead of being hunted down by the FBI.So now you know that Beavis and Butthead are total idiots, yet their movie turns out almost brilliant.How is this possible? Beavis and Butthead's incredible stupidity makes it nearly impossible for you to take your eyes off of them.They're just that entertaining.As Butthead would say if saw this movieUh-huh-huh.This movie's cool.Uh-huh-huh.Beavis would probably sayI am the great Cornholio! I need TP for my bunghole! "},{"Title":"He did say anus","Date":"9 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" As much as I love Beavis and Butthead, I never thought they would truly find their way in a feature film. However, they manage better than I expected. The plot may not be good enough to stay interesting throughout, but the dry wit makes up for it all. I was expecting to have a complete burn-out from all the typical trademarks the show brought us, but these guys just make it all so bearable, they can get away with a lot of otherwise groan-inducing moments. The double entendres are really coming from all sides here (heh, I said coming), and still they get me every time. Why do I laugh at a line like he said anus? Because it's pretty goddamn funny, probably. Of course this movie also entertains because it's such an outcast among movies, much like the show was an outcast among shows. This is just not like anything I've ever seen, it has an extra quality I can't put my finger on. As far as adaptations of famous cartoons go, this ranks pretty high. "},{"Title":"You may wonder how can wood get so hard?","Date":"6 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Beavis and Butthead Do America is filled with vulgar humour, sadistic or otherwise bizarre characters and a convoluted plot insane enough to make no sense. These are some of the movie's finer qualities. If you didn't like the main duo to begin with then this will do nothing to convince you otherwise. But why should it?Mike Judge has managed to fill out the 75 or so minutes well without making it drag, and he's done it with style. Since he cannot change the simplistic, constantly sniggering leads he has done the most logical thing he could by surrounding them with a plethora of multi-faceted characters tied together with a conspiracy plot that takes them into other locations where their simple-but-effective double-entendre humour can flourish. Previous characters make a return and are given some development where relevant to the plot.It all starts inauspiciously enough - the hard rock obsessed teenagers awake one day, still on their couch, to find their beloved television is missing. Not smart enough to put the pieces of the puzzle together to catch the thieves in the act, they try and steal one from their school. Wandering around town ever more desperate, they somehow manage to usurp the television thieves, but not in the way you might expect. This lands them right in the thick of it, and the unassuming pair make their way through. Hilarity ensues on a regular basis.In my opinion as a would-be critic, we need more films like these. Certainly there are plenty of gross-out movies, some of them also animated (as a side note the animation here is a nice balance between the original show and something more polished) but there are few that can take simple toilet humour and dress it up so well, making it more than just a guilty pleasure to enjoy after a few beers and/or a joint. This is right up there with the finer moments of South Park for such an achievement, and can easily be considered Beavis and Butt-Head's crowning moment of funny and/or awesome.Overall this is a fun, feelgood comedy which doesn't require all your brainpower to enjoy to the fullest, though an extra watch or two might throw up a few sight gags or subplot references that you missed the first time around for whatever reason(!) The plot seems somehow relevant too, considering that it also deals with an issue that has been a headline grabber in post-9/11 society. But not without a couple of sniggers along the way, of course.7 stars out of 10 very, very good. "},{"Title":"Amusing stupidity","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Much like the series, the movie features Beavis and Butt-Head doing stupid things, saying stupid things, and obliviously escaping death (but not pain.) The non-interrupted format allows for a long story instead of the short skit style of the show (interrupted by ads and our moronic friends watching music videos.)Features a crazy cool scene animated by Rob Zombie, which has echoes of Ed Roth's style. Of course, when you see something featuring Beavis and Butt-Head, you don't expect much in terms of plot and whatnot, mostly just the two playing around with deep-fat cookers and hitting each other in the stones. There is a plot, and it serves it's purpose, moving things along and it is actually paced very well. Most of the scenes are pretty independent and you can watch the whole movie or only ten minutes, it's still funny. "},{"Title":"Awesome and Funny","Date":"7 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Beavis and Butthead, the 2 idols from MTV now in their own full length movie! It's bigger and has more stuff than you can find in the TV show.Beavis and Butthead are traveling cross the USA to find a TV to watch, cause their own TV has been stolen.Little do they know that they've become wanted men when they get involved with 2 criminals giving them a unit with a deadly virus inside it.This movie is filled with loads of laughs and plenty of good stuff.If you like Beavis and Butthead you'll love this movie a lot.I give it an 8/10 "},{"Title":"Better than you'd expect...","Date":"2 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This film spin-off from the MTV show featuring the archetypal juvenile slackers with an all-consuming passion for TV, rude words (huh, huh-huh, you said anus,) and scoring with chicks (at which they are singularly unsuccessful) is pretty good considering the low level of the humour. The moronic duo wander through life completely unaware of both their innate doofishness and the trail of chaos they leave in their wake as they are mistakenly hired by a drunken low-life (voiced by Bruce Willis) to 'do' his sexy wife (Demi Moore) who has absconded with the macguffin they stole together. The genesis of Hank Hill from B&B creator Mike Judge's other show, King of the Hill, can be seen here in the character of Tom Anderson, a tourist who runs across Beavis and Butthead throughout the film. Anderson is older, but he bears a strong resemblance to Hill, and his voice is identical. There's a neat riff on monster movies at the start of the film, and a great satire of 70s cop shows during the credits, and while the jokes are mostly juvenile and silly, they're consistently amusing, which makes this film surprisingly funny and enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Funnier than the show spoilers","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  BEAVIS AND BUTT-HEAD DO AMERICA is one of the best and funniest animated movies ever made. It's based on the popular television series which I have also made a comment on, but unlike the series the movie has Beavis and Butt-head go on an incredible adventure to Vegas. My favorite scene is on the flight on the way to Vegas. Some of the best scenes in the movie take place when Beavis and Butt-head finally get to Vegas it takes half an hour of the movie to get them there. The rest of the scenes in the movie, there are less laughs, but they will have you laughing for hours. I was laughing for weeks!!!  "},{"Title":"Beavis & Butt-Head on the big TV","Date":"22 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is a hard one for me to rate because I'm a fan of the Beavis & Butt-Head TV show, but this adaptation is pretty different. Whilst the TV show episodes only went for 10 minutes, in B&BDA the guys are off on a feature length journey around America. Of course the plot line is going to be pretty far-fetched to get Beavis & Butt-Head to leave Highland (let alone their couch), and the humour of Beavis & Butt-Head will wear thin for most people after half an hour, but I have to say I'm a fan of these guys, and the movie is pretty damn entertaining.Still, I think the movie lacks some of the 'social commentary' aspects of the TV show. Yes, the TV show had lots of toilet humour and Beavis & Butt-Head doing stupid things, but I actually think the show had more depth to it than most people gave it credit for, especially with the stereotypical characters it dealt with. The support cast of the TV show is absent here; no Coach Buzzcut, no Daria, no Stewart, no Todd, and McVicker (my favourite; the principal driven to a nervous wreck by Beavis & Butt-Head) plays only a minimal role. I guess this is something that had to be done to get Beavis & Butt-Head out on the road to make it more of a 'cinematic' experience, but it is a shame that people watching only the movie will miss out on some of the funny stereotypical characters the show featured.Beavis & Butt-Head Do America is definitely not for everyone; there is nothing 'offensive' about it, but most people will find the humour dumb and repetitive. These people don't get what Beavis & Butt-Head is about the extreme stupidity of teenagers raised on too much TV! Whilst I prefer the TV series to this, it definitely is 80 minutes of good turn-your-brain off entertainment! 3/5 stars "},{"Title":"I really liked this film when I was nineteen","Date":"14 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I remember going to see 'Beavis and Butthead Do America' when it came out in the cinema back in 1996. I was nineteen and had never bothered to watch the cartoon it was based on. My expectations were low, but I found the whole film hilarious and couldn't believe how I'd never watched the TV show before.Now, as the decades have passed, I occasionally slip the DVD back into the machine, namely to try and recapture whatever I originally saw in it. I've watched it about three times since the cinema. Each time I can barely raise a smile. In the TV series, the two titular characters spend much of their time on their sofa, watching the television. Therefore, in order to give the film a little more scope, they're set is quickly stolen, giving them an excuse to leave the confines of their house and go on a road trip across America. Naturally, it isn't just as easy as buying a new telly. They also get caught up in a plot to assassinate someone and inadvertently transport a weapon of mass destruction across the country.However, despite all the many different directions the film now goes in, I still don't find it as funny as the first time I watched it. The ATF agent charged with the task of hunting the two 'fugitives' down it still quite funny. He has a 'catchphrase' still gets an audible chuckle out of me every time he uses it (if you haven't already seen it, I won't spoil it for you). But, he's about the high-point of the film &#x96; in my now adult opinion. And, seeing as he's only a peripheral character, I find I'm not getting as many laughs out of the central characters as I am a secondary one.Maybe this film appeals to younger people. Maybe I've outgrown its deliberately 'low-brow' humour. Maybe it's a sign I should never watch anything that 'kids today' enjoy? I guess that Beavis and Butthead Do America spells the end of my illusion that I'm still part of that demographic. I'll still probably watch it again in a couple of years just in case my opinion has changed back again.http//thewrongtreemoviereviews.blogspot.co.uk/ "}{"Title":"Beavis & Butthead Score!!!","Date":"10 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Scoring with chicks obsesses Beavis and Butthead in director Mike Judge's first feature-length animated opus Beavis & Butthead Do America, a rude but occasionally clever, cartoon farce that ridicules those two trendy, booger picking, adolescent slackers. Although I've seen my share of their television shenanigans, I haven't kept abreast of their obnoxious antics the way some of my friends have, so I tagged along with two Beavis and Butthead connoisseurs. My B & B fans felt Beavis & Butthead Do America was the equivalent of a greatest hits album of their clowning around on the tube. Aside from a surprise or two, Beavis and Butthead are just as nauseating on the big screen as they are on the small one. They did feel that Do America was a great way to introduce these reptilian life-forms to silver screen spectators. Beavis & Butthead Do America opens with two amusing sequences. The first spoofs King Kong with giant-sized versions of our lame-brained protagonists stomping helter-skelter though a miniature city while tanks and helicopters blast away at them. The sketchy animation looks pretty good on the big screen, too. In the second sequence, Isaac Hayes provides the lyrics to the hilarious title sequence that sends up the old ABC-TV undercover, law & order series Starsky and Hutch, with our characters dresses up as the two heroic cops. Neither sequence has much to do with the other or the story in general, but the sequences are fun, and the film lurches off to a colorful start with them.The screenplay by Beavis & Butthead creator Mike Judge follows our protagonists across the United States. Thieves have stolen Beavis & Butthead's television set, and the kids set out to find them. Instead, they meet a thug called Muddy (voice of Bruce Willis) who promises them a small fortune if they will kill his wife. Of course, when our sex-starved idiots agree to do his wife, they make the mistake of thinking that Muddy means for them to engage in sexual relations with her. Ironically, the two thieves who pinched Beavis & Butthead's TV were supposed to carry out the hit for Muddy.Once this mistaken-identity plot gets underway, Federal Agents with the Department of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms appear like storm troopers for justice. They pursue Beavis and Butthead on a cross-country chase because they believe that the guys are terrorists with a horrible biological bomb. In an inspired bit of voice casting, Untouchables star Robert Stack provides the voice for their fascist nemesis. He resolves to capture the guys, and he forces anybody whose had contact with them to submit to deep cavity searches. Stack's voice is perfect because he plays the part with such deadpan sobriety. Other cute bits include Butthead's visit to the White House where he hits on Chelsea Clinton. Chelsea dumps him unceremoniously out the window in an act of defenestration. Later, the boys visit with President Clinton. He makes them honorary ATF agents. Another funny scene has Beavis and Butthead dismissing the geyser Old Faithful because they call it boring, only to be dazzled by urinals in a nearby toilet that flush when a light sensor is activated. Probably the only surprise in the entire comic film is their trek through the desert where they meet two scumbag bikers who turn out to be none other than their fathers. Undeniably, just as Beavis and Butthead is an acquired taste, so is this very crude comedy. The boys have changed little since their tube days. Beavis picks his nose constantly and repeatedly sings his bunghole song. The boys resemble the Trix rabbit in the cereal commercial because they never get what they want. The only characters from the TV series that drop in for appearances are Mr. Anderson, their hippie teacher, and their school principal. You won't see Mr. Buzzcut, Daria, or Stewart.If you enjoyed Beavis & Butthead on MTV, Beavis & Butthead Do America should make you chuckle often throughout its brisk 81-minute running time. If numbers are anything to go by, the $50 million plus that Beavis & Butthead Do America has grossed (pun intended!) at the box office thus far should guarantee a sequel. "},{"Title":"Hilarious.","Date":"19 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Animated MTV characters Beavis and Butt-Head made their feature film debut with this very funny movie that actually does a good job of sustaining itself for 81 minutes, with a pretty good story and plenty of the kind of humour that us B & B fans love so much. It's gleefully lowbrow stuff, and that's just the way we like it.Our favourite antisocial horn dog teenagers wake to discover that the most important item in their lives, their TV set, has been stolen, and their search leads them to a shady character named Muddy (voiced by Bruce Willis). Muddy offers them $10,000 to do his wife Dallas (voice of Demi Moore), and B & B readily accept after misinterpreting the word do. They become embroiled in an elaborate plot to steal a powerful biological weapon, all while following the quintessential B & B agenda trying to score!B & B's assorted adventures include making life miserable for cranky old neighbor Tom Anderson, causing havoc at places such as the Hoover Dam, the appearance of the legendary Cornholio (who, of course, just needs TP for his bunghole), encountering two very familiar looking former Motley Crue roadies, hallucinating in the desert, and having some eventful plane and bus rides. (It's just so priceless that B & B, upon seeing that they'll be on a bus full of nuns, can't see past the fact that their fellow passengers are chicks.) The colourful cast of characters also includes Agent Flemming (in an inspired bit of casting, Robert Stack voices this part), an ATF agent obsessed with cavity searches. Cloris Leachman plays the aged slut on the plane & bus, and Eric Bogosian, Richard Linklater, and David Letterman (billing himself as Earl Hofert) round out the various pop culture figures supplying voices.And everything is set to a kick ass soundtrack that begins with a Shaft style number co-written by Isaac Hayes and B & B creator Mike Judge. Other artists heard include the Red Hot Chili Peppers, White Zombie (Rob Zombie also supplies the artwork for the hallucination sequence), AC/DC, Rancid, LL Cool J, Ozzy Osbourne, and Butthole Surfers.If you're a fan of the TV series, you're sure to enjoy Beavis & Butt-Head Do America. It's extremely agreeable from start to finish, and doesn't overstay its welcome. It delivers more laughs than a lot of live-action comedies.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Uh Huh Huh! Nyerh! Huh Huh! Yeah! Yeah! This Movie Rules! Uh Huh Huh!","Date":"30 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I got this fantastic film for My Birthday (Exactly 2 Months Ago!) and I have seen it about three times now! This film starts off with MTV's favorite dumb duo who set out on an adventure to America to find their lost TV! (They hope to Score along the way!) The film has a lot of very funny double entendrés, as well as a lot of vulgar sexual references! This movie had me laughing a lot of the way! It may not have the political satire that the classic film South Park Bigger, Longer And Uncut! has, but the jokes in the film are still extremely laughable! The film ends with A Fictional Bill Clinton (It is a shame that The Real Bill Clinton himself didn't do the voice!) congratulating Beavis And Butthead for stopping America's Most Wanted Criminals! Before the end credits appear, Beavis And Butthead walk home with their found TV explaining the important moral of the story. The film reached my expectations and it was not a disappointment for me! I very highly recommend this movie if you enjoy animated action comedies! Whatever you do, don't show it to your youngest children! XDOverall Rating 9/10! "},{"Title":"This is cool. Uhuh huh huh.","Date":"12 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It's an all-out laugh-fest as Beavis and Butt-Head embark on a quest to get their TV back and, who knows, maybe even score! Uhuh huh huh. From start to finish, this movie is hilarious with all the classic antics the two idiots pull off while new elements are brought into the film. It still has some of the original characters like Mr. Vandreson and the mumbling principal while bringing in all new characters to get some chuckles out of.With wonderful jokes and stars like Bruce Willis, Demi Moore, and Robert Stack, Beavis and Butt-head Do America will make you laugh so hard you'll need two extra pairs of underwear! Go see this movie and hail the great Cornholio. Hehhehhehheh. "},{"Title":"A worthy film","Date":"28 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I don't think Beavis and Butt Head Do America is quite as good as the wonderful TV show, but as far as a film based on a TV show goes, it is a worthy one and one of the better ones I've seen. It is a little too short and there are one or two scenes in the middle that could have done with a tighter pace.The animation is not quite as good as it is in the show, but it is still good and tries hard to stick to its style. The score is infectious and there is also a killer soundtrack. The characters are fun and likable and the story is funny, clever and well structured.The voices are also great, not just from the leads but also the celebrity voices. But the humour is what drives it, crude, vulgar and yes quite risqué it is quite hilarious and sharp.All in all, a worthy film even if the TV show is better. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Absolutely hilarious!!!!!","Date":"20 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I became a Beavis and Butt-head fanatic since it came on MTV, when this movie came out to theaters in 1996, I was thrilled and this movie made me laugh throughout the entire film!!! I was laughing like crazy.The films stars as a voice cast Mike Judge (Beavis and Butt-head, Tom Anderson, Mr. Van Driessen, Principal McVicker), Bruce Willis (Muddy Grimes), Demi Moore (Dallas Grimes), Robert Stack (ATF Agent Flemming), etc.While awaking from a crazy dream, Beavis and Butt-head soon realize that their TV was stolen from a bunch of thieves, and they were mad, so its them on a journey across America to find their TV, not only that, someone is hold captive of a deadly device that belongs to the FBI, it can be found in Beavis's shorts. While searching for the TV, they stop a motel where Muddy Grimes (voice of Bruce Willis) wants them to get Dallas (voice of Demi Moore) back in relationship, elsewhere, they stop at Tom Anderson's trailer and they screwed up his TV, once they stop at Las Vegas, they found Dallas caught in a terrorist control. Chaos ensues when they mess around with the control panel of the Hoover Dam. While many places to go, they got lost in a desert with two Motley Crue roadies, after that, they nearly die from dehydration until Muddy came up to pick them up to get them to Washington DC. Once they get there, the agents are on the run of the unit. After that's taking care of, Tom Anderson, Muddy and Dallas Grimes were arrested and Beavis and Butt-head saved everybody from total chaos, finally, they found their TV lying on the motel sidewalk.This is classic Mike Judge at it's best, next to King of the Hill, and the movie Office Space.One of the funniest scenes in the movie is the Cornholio scene. I can laugh at that all night long. For a movie based cartoon film, it's 1,000,000 times better than that Spongebob Squarepants garbage.This movie is awesome, you'll laugh like there's no tomorrow.Beavis and Butt-head Do America gets 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Beavis & Butt-Head Do Film (and it works!)","Date":"18 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I was never a die hard fan of the MTV series but I admit the feature film was fun, even for this semi-fan. It's barely 80 minutes of crude jokes and situational comedy, but it works. Based on the hit TV series, the idiot duo go in search of their stolen television and end up mistakenly involved with a pair of arms smugglers and a biological weapon. Beavis and Butt-Head have the pride of being one of the first (and few) television shows/characters to make a successful leap to the big screen.Beavis and Butt-Head are so ignorant they barely notice the chaos that is erupting around them, and that is where the bulk of the film's humor lies. The film is basically just an extended episode of the series so fans should be satisfied. As I stated, I was not a huge fan of the show but I found myself entertained throughout the short runtime. The film has some fun cameos from Bruce Willis and Demi Moore as the arms smugglers, and I loved the desert sequence where the pair meet their fathers and Beavis hallucinates on peyote. It's a fun way to kill 80 minutes, but don't expect anything epic from a movie with a character running around as Cornholio. "},{"Title":"A solid effort but not quite as good as the TV show","Date":"24 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Beavis and Butt-Head Do America is the big-screen version of the hit MTV series Beavis and Butt-Head. Here, the duo, while trying to retrieve their stolen TV, unwittingly enter into a murder-for-hire plot and become two of America's most wanted.The film's biggest departure from the TV show is in the sheer length of the story. The show's segments were typically less than ten minutes long, which meant that a little went a long way. Mike Judge does a pretty good job of keeping the extended story interesting but it does drag just a little, particularly during a couple of unnecessary musical interludes.Another thing that I'm not really crazy about is the use of celebrities in some of the main roles instead of veteran voice actors, though I guess that's to be expected. Bruce Willis & Demi Moore are barely average and their recognizable voices only serve as a distraction. Mike Judge, as always, does a fine job in multiple roles and Cloris Leachman is also memorable in a small role.On the visual front, the film looks good; in fact, this is probably the best that Beavis and Butt-Head has ever looked. The soundtrack is alright, too, though it's nothing spectacular. Overall, the film version gets everything reasonably right although it never quite rises to the heights of the TV show's best moments.In the end, the film is worth watching for fans of the TV show. Those unfamiliar with the show may enjoy it as well but be warned that the Beavis & Butt-Head brand of humour isn't for everyone. "},{"Title":"I have never seen the show and I found it very funny","Date":"13 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Rated PG-13 for continuous crude sex-related humor and language, and for a drug-related scene.I had never watched the Beavis and Butthead TV series because it came on before my time.They never play any reruns for it where I live.The DVD's have been released and I really want to check out the episodes after watching this film.The film was playing on teletoon and I decided to check it out.Its from Mike Judge who would go on to make the TV series King Of The Hill(speaking of that, there is a character who looks a bit like and sounds exactly like Hank Hill) and the genius comedy Office Space.Unlike Office Space, Beavis and Butthead is a fairly crude and stupid film at times...but that doesn't mean its not hilarious.The plot like most films of its kind is simple.I guess if you have watched the show you should check out the movie but if you haven't seen the show, it is still fairly funny and good. "},{"Title":"This is a movie; not just an extended episode","Date":"5 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" One thing this movie never fails to do is be entertaining. The crassness of these two dimwits against the backdrop of their youthful innocence makes for a good 90 minutes of comedy. The cameos and Robert Stack as the government agent were a nice touch. Also, some of the cool animation techniques like the mirror ball scene in the casino and the tripping scene in the desert showed that there was more to this than just an extended episode.Fans of the show will undoubtedly enjoy this. Non-fans will be less enthused, of course, and I am not sure this movie would be for them. Give it a try, though; you may be surprised. "}{"Title":"I haven't laughed so hard in a long time","Date":"6 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I grew up being told that most adult oriented cartoons were not any good. That they were stupid, offending, and damaging to one's mind. At least that is what one of my high school teachers told my class when we brought up the subject of the Simpsons. Now I'm not saying I learned anything from watching the 2 hour movie Beavis and Butthead Do America but I am saying that I haven't laughed so hard in a while and that is the sole reason I watched it, to laugh. Beavis and Butthead, our two friendly dimwitted high school students who are always trying to 'score with chicks', are now in a movie. The story revolves around when Beavis and Butthead get their TV stolen and attempt to find where it is. Soon they are hired by a drunken Muddy Grimes to go to Las Vegas and kill his wife. Not knowing any better they set off for Las Vegas and soon find themselves traveling all over America with a sexual innuendo in their minds at all times.There is a ton of comedy in the film. Most jokes from the original Beavis and Butthead series came from sexual references and jokes and while the film has plenty of these this is not where all the comedy comes from. A lot of smart humor is also present which I did not notice as a young teen when I first saw this. There is also a lot of play on words and confusion between characters which makes some great comedy (especially the scene on the airplane with Beavis talking to the old lady).Mike Judge is a master of crude humor. Voicing several characters in the film he brings a ton of laughs both as Beavis and Butthead. A surprising all star cast was assembled for the film. Bruce Willis, Demi Moore, Robert Stack, David Letterman and Cloris Leachman all contribute their voices to the film. Part of the laughter for me came from just hearing Robert Stack voice the stern ATF Agent Flemming and his constant use of cavity searches to obtain knowledge from suspects. The characters and the actors providing the voices are all great and really funny.The animation is well done and Mike Judge takes us all over America. Another part of what I liked about the film is taking the audience virtually everywhere in America. The original cartoon always involved Beavis and Butthead staying in their hometown but in the movie they get to travel. Judge could have easily had them stay in their old town but instead he tried something new and it works well. The bus ride sequence with the duo seeing road signs is my favorite scene of the film but too hard to explain in a review. All together though I enjoyed Beavis and Butthead Do America. It's simple and easy to watch. The comedy doesn't slow down at all the whole way through and none of the characters are dry. I wouldn't necessarily allow a child to watch the movie. There are a lot of sexual references in the film along with some language. Unless you want your kids asking you a lot of interesting questions, I wouldn't allow anyone under the age of 12 to watch this. 12 and up feel free to watch it, you'll understand it and laugh the whole way through.3.5/ 5 stars "},{"Title":"Viruses, Hallucinations, Celebrity Cameos and Two Dumbasses","Date":"24 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" After having their T.V stolen, the two 2D MTV personalities search something to do. When they are assign to do a national criminal's wife, the two teens think they are on a mission score with a hot chick. After she encounters the clueless twits from highland in Vegas, the she criminal sends them around the United States with a deadly government virus stiched into Beavis' pants. The movie follows the two as the government chases the terrorists armed with the virus all the way to Washington D.C. Can Cornholio pull the big finish? With the recent tenth anniversary DVD, Beavis and Butthead Do America has returned for another generation of teens to enjoy. Mike Judge's first animated movie, but might not be the last (Let's just wait for King of the Hill The Movie). It's interesting to see everyones favorite animated teen duo on the big screen. A great way to finish up the series with the final lines. 9.5 "},{"Title":"Huh-huh-huh...this movie kicks ass.  Yeah!  It's like, totally cool.","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Huh-huh-huh. When Beavis and Butt-Head, like, find out that some idiot stole their TV, they realize that it sucks more than anyone that ever sucked before. Yeah, cause, TV's like, the coolest thing of all! So, huh-huh-huh, they like, find this dude who wants them to, like, score with his wife. Yeah, and his wife, like, has these really boobs. Huh-huh-huh, but then, the hot chick, like, sends them to Washington so she can score with them there. Yeah, but she, like, plants a computer chip with a virus on them, so the FBI's, like, after them, and performing cavity searches. Huh-huh-huh, that's totally cool. I am the Great Cornholio! So, that's the description of Beavis and Butt-Head Do America. It's sure to appeal to boys ages 11-18. Especially the Cornholio scenes. Totally hilarious. Featuring the voices of Mike Judge, Bruce Willis, Demi Moore, Cloris Leachman, Robert Stack, Eric Bogosian, David Letterman, Greg Kinnear and David Spade. "},{"Title":"Low expectations, but I was pleasantly surprised","Date":"7 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I didn't expect much from Beavis and Butt-Head Do America, not least of all because what little I had seen of the television show totally failed to capture my interest and the title of the movie was a not-so-subtle sexual reference. (There is also a special from 1995 named Beavis and Butt-Head Do Christmas. Har-har.) However, I was pleasantly surprised by the fact that the film is quite entertaining. It's very short so there's not much to complain about in terms of length - it flies by quite quickly. The plot is amusing and there are lots of celebrity cameos - David Letterman, Bruce Willis, Demi Moore, and so on and so forth.The movie is very unassuming and is just plain entertaining. It's not the sort of film that is easy to hate, it's just very basic and amusing.Mike Judge since went on to greener pastures with the cult success of Office Space on video and seemed to abandon the concept of a Beavis sequel around 1999 (there was one planned for a while). However recently I read that he's planning a comeback for the intellectually-devoid duo and I for one actually wouldn't be too hesitant about seeing another if it's done this well. "},{"Title":"Silly but fun &#150; entertaining if you are in the mood","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Awaking to find their TV stolen, Beavis and Butt-Head go looking for a television fix. They stumble into the motel room of the drunken Muddy Grimes &#150; small time arms dealer and low-life criminal. Mistaking them for some hired killers, Muddy gives them tickets to Las Vegas so they can do his wife, Dallas. Enticed by the chance to have sex and get paid for it, Beavis and Butt-Head accept the offer and head off. In Las Vegas they meet Dallas, who twigs to their confusion and sends them on to Washington with the promise of more sex; however before she lets them go she puts a stolen biological weapon into Beavis' pants. The two continue their journey, unaware that the full authority of ATF Agent Hurley is hot on their heals.I only tried the Beavis and Butt-Head TV show a couple of times and must confess that I never really got into the humour of it. So when the movie came out I just left it till it came to TV for free. When it did I was surprised by how amusing it was &#150; rarely hilarious but it had enough silly humour and imaginative story telling to drive it forward for the comparatively short running time. It is still an acquired taste but I quite got into it because it had a good pace and was a mix of material &#150; not just B&B doing their thing. Some have said that the story is good but I think it is better to say that it is silly and fun with just enough going for it to call a structure. The laughs are not free flowing but even not being a fan I found it silly and fun. It helps that the scenarios are good and mimic other genres to good effect &#150; playing some of them straight while placing the madness of B&B in the middle of it all.The animation is basic but effective but it is the voice work that adds value. Judge is good in all his roles and as creator of the whole shooting match. Willis and Moore are good sports even if their presence is their material and they shape the plot rather than really produce good humour. Stack is excellent, more or less repeating his straight-talking performance from Airplane to good effect. Small roles for Bogosian, Letterman and a few others add value and some amusement.Overall then a pretty amusing film that has a good structure within which to place the B&B madness. It isn't hilarious and it won't be to everyone's taste but I enjoyed it and found it to be entertaining and distracting, with more than enough clever touches to carry it from start to finish. Not brilliant then, but worth a look if you know the pair and are in the mood for this type of silliness. "},{"Title":"Loved It","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Beavis And Butthead the series may have been an acquired taste, but anyone should enjoy their American voyage, now realised on the big screen. They have lost their TV, and set off looking for it. After stumbling across low-life criminal Muddy Grimes they are offered the chance to do his wife for $10k (As ambiguous a task is ever there was one). This then sets them off on a cross country trip of site seeing, karma and Todd Anderson (The old neighbourhood nemesis). This sucks proclaims Butthead. Luckily, the film doesn't.The humour in Beavis And Butthead Do America (let's call it BBDA) is all in it's delivery. In lesser hands most of these jokes would come across as cheap and fruitless. But there's something curiously bizarre about our two protagonists which made the TV series so hilariously compelling. They don't really tell jokes, nor do they provide us with lovable characters to balance the satire like such adult-animation as The Simpsons or Daria. What B&B DO have in abundance is attitude. These are too men so stupid and self-absorbed that when Butthead is confronted by umpteen armed guards attempting to arrest them, all he sees are the guns. Wow! This is the coolest thing I have ever seen.. The world passes them by, without them even noticing. In a way, it's a classic example of a generation defined by featherbrained shallowness. The highlight of a B&B week would be seeing the video to Black Hole Sun. When their TV is stolen their world falls apart - yet it takes them quite a few seconds to realise what exactly is wrong with their situation - despite footprints and a broken window.They're not lovable characters. Like The Office, it's compelling in it's hyperbolic depiction of people most of us would have encountered at one time or another, being as goofy and asinine as possible. It's clear the movie is not glorifying these fools, but rather sending them up. Some people have the impression that B&B are the glorification of embraced ignorance. Almost every joke in BBDA is at their expense, which is what makes it so funny. And getting rid of those rubbish music videos. "},{"Title":"Probably the greatest 'cartoon' movie of all time! huh hehuhe","Date":"23 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Well, first of all...let me make a confession. To this day...i've NEVER seen an actual Beavis and Butthead episode. Yet I loved this movie. I just had this picture of these two teens running wild. Nobody understands them. I think nearly every teen can relate to these two friends. It's like nothing can separate them. I must hand it to Mike Judge...that guy must be one talented dude. I'm from the UK, so obviously, we have a very different thinking to America and other countries when it comes to 'comedy'. I for one, hate American comedy...it's just NOT funny. That's my opinion. This, however, is a great comedy that actually makes you laugh. Some of the scenes are brilliant. The scene where Beavis is frustrated in the coach, after learning they might not find the girl they've been searching for, is a superb example. It's dramatic in it's own way and it doesn't show them as two 'idiots'. They're intelligent in their own beautiful, unique way. If you like your adventure movies...go watch this. Even if you haven't seen the episodes...watch it! 8/10!! "},{"Title":"They do America before doing the wife","Date":"5 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A relatively fun afternoon movie. I caught this one again on DVD recently, borrowing the copy from my brother who was a big B&B fan. I always liked the MTV show but wasn't a HUGE fan, I was more of a Simpsons buff. Some great scenes in here, though. For example, the opening credits with Issac Hayes singing the title song poking fun as 70's TV shows was great, and had to be what landed him his job on South Park a year later. Robert Stack adds his distinctive voice to Agent Flemming which is inspired, but also a bit wooden at times. Stack delivers his lines like he seems bored to be in a cartoon, which leaves the character a little flat during some of the wittier one-liners. Cloris Leachman seems to have fun as the old lady who keeps popping into B&B, playing the slots and passing out uppers. Other notable actors include Bruce Willis, Demi Moore (back in happier, pre-Ashton times), Eric Bogosian, David Letterman, and Greg Kinnear (who sounds like my comic buddy Winston Kidd for some reason). Judge does great voice work as B&B and some other characters, including Mr. Tom Anderson, an early Hank Hill who gets some of the best one-liners. A fun romp for 80 minutes, but also a little dragged out at times, catch it when you're lazing on a Sunday Afternoon, check your brain in at the door. Now when do the original DVDs come out? Beavis and Butthead making fun of Dire Straights, Van Halen, AC/DC, that was the best stuff. Plus I missed the military Drill Sargeant from the original 10-min shorts- Kick me in the Jimmy! YES!. Overall a C+, B-. 7 out of 10. Some genuine good laughs and some inventive stuff. "},{"Title":"amazingly funny","Date":"14 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I thought that beavis and butthead was an amazing movie that engaged comedy, action and teenage stupidity. The denial of Beavis and Butthead for the obvious is what i found most entertaining. including the president of the united states was a major positive aspect as it made it much more suspenseful. The  I am cornholio  line had me laughing for an hour and i now know people who do that and can still make me laugh violently. when they meet their parents and not realise makes me think a lot about people without dads and how this two kids and their stupidity avoided them from realising. I think that the movie should have a bit more swearing to emphasise certain points. The sex scenes are very funny as animation sex can be very amusing. A Special congratulations to the writers, director and Actors who played the voices. I completely loved the movie. Martin Rueda "},{"Title":"Heh heh...  Huh huh huh.... Pretty sharp","Date":"2 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Beavis and Butthead Does America is the big screen adaptation of Beavis and Butthead - an animated cult series on MTV which follows the exploits of a couple of hormonally charged, dim-witted teenage boys and their warped look on life. The movie picks up when the boys TV is stolen.  They end up getting involved in a cross country journey which gets the messed up with gangsters and even the president... This is by no means high art - but it is pretty sharp at depicting straight, heavy metal adoring, hormone ridden teenage boys - and for that - it is hilarious... The movie tends to drag a bit towards the end (a symptom common in most comedy movies) - but is definitely worth checking out if you like Beavis and Butthead TV exploits...  "}{"Title":"Great movie!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I hired it at first thinking it would be crap,but it wasn`t.Then I tried buying it,couldn`t get it anywere.So eventually I found it at a video store for-sale.But great movie great animation,great action,great music and everything you need is there waiting for you in the movie.It`s ashame that it`s not popular much anymore.Ah well cheers to another  well made film. "},{"Title":"Huh huh huh, This is Cool.","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS          Beavis and Butt-head awaken one morning to find their TV had been stolen. Butt-head looks at the clues for a while the broken window, foot prints to the TV stand then heading out the door. He finally came up with the only possible answer This sucks.          They barrow a TV from the school and break it shortly thereafter. Principal McVicker was irate. He expelled them. They then tried Neighbor Tom Anderson's camper, but  end up breaking his TV also. They finally come to a motel with TVs and at that motel, a man named Muddy was on the phone with his partner, arranging something. Beavis and Butt-head find their way into his room and Muddy takes them to be the two guys he had hired. He gave them the mission to go to Las Vegas and kill his wife. He said it do my wife, Beavis and Butt-head were excited.          So after a crazy plane trip and a stay in the casino, the boys meet Muddy's wife, Dallas. She tells the boys to board a bus to Washington D.C. She hides some kind of computer chip in Beavis' pants then the two take off, right as the ATF arrive, headed by gruff Agent Flemming. These boys are after that unit. It's called the X-5 and if broken, it could release a very deadly virus.          Well, the boys begin their trek from Vegas to D.C. in their own way terrorizing the Hoover Dam, irritating people at Yellowstone Park, gaping in awe at automatic urinals, hallucinating a music video in the middle of the desert, cause huge accidents on the freeway and finally making it to Washington. Unbeknowst to the boys, Tom Anderson and his wife were on vacation there. The unit is found in Anderson's camper when Beavis was in there. Anderson was taken to jail along with Dallas and Muddy. The boys are congratulated by President Clinton, but they don't really care. They go back home and find their TV and it's a happy ending for the dopey duo!        Fans of the TV show will like this movie. There are some pretty funny scenes in this movie, like when Beavis and Butt-head go to a church and mistake two confessions for porta-johns and listen to people confess their sins. So I recommend this film. It's pretty funny!- "},{"Title":"Beavis and Butthead are a true reflection of the evergreen American identity.","Date":"24 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In 1996, by making Beavis and Butthead do America, Mike Judge has vastly increased the pleasure of innumerable admirers of animation film admirers. This is because when in the past Beavis and Butthead were visible on TV screens, one had to wait for weeks for them to make their appearance. Now as Beavis' and Butthead's exploits have been made into a successful film and that this film Beavis and Butthead do America is available on DVD, fans and admirers of Beavis and Butthead have a reason to smile. I am throughly convinced of the fact that Beavis and Butthead do America is a true animation classic. It is so different from other animation films of the same genre like Shrek, Lion King, Cars etc as all these films were made keeping young children in mind. No one and I mean it,no one, before Mike Judge dared to make a film so unique like Beavis and Butthead do America. This film is so different from other animation films as it is the only honest depiction of what average American teenagers feel. Watch this film with your family in order to have a true laugh riot. "},{"Title":"Heh-heh, heh-heh...COOOLLL!!!","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  BEAVIS AND BUTT-HEAD DO AMERICA (1996) ***1/2 Voices Mike Judge, Bruce Willis, Demi Moore, Robert Stack, Greg Kinnear, Cloris Leachman, Eric Bogosian, Richard Linklater, Earl Hofert.  Hysterically funny big screen debut of MTV's animated juvenile delinquents who find themselves embroiled in a cross-country dastardly plot involving a biochemical virus, cavity searches, the pursuit of losing their virginity and - oh yeah - the theft of their beloved television.  Scatological humor and double entendres by the score (huh, huh ... you said score!) with the dim bulb duo at heir manic mischievous best.  Irreverently brilliant and altogether a defiant against the establishment flick.   Note yes that is David Letterman's voice (aka Earl Hofert) as Butt-head's long-lost father; check out the gap in the teeth!  Cool!! "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies I've seen in forever.","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is beyond doubt one of the funniest films to ever be animated and shown on screen. Mike Judge is one of the most talented humor writers in the world next to Matt Stone and Trey Parker, the creators of SOUTH PARK BIGGER, LONGER, AND UNCUT. You must see this movie if you are a fan of Beavis and Butt-head or if you just like to laugh a lot.BEAVIS AND BUTT-HEAD DO AMERICA is one problem after another. Just another dilemma followed by another one. And for each problem, Beavis and Butt-head have their own moronic way of getting out of trouble. I never really watched the TV show, but when I saw the movie, I watch the show whenever I see it on. This is one funny movie!BEAVIS AND BUTT-HEAD DO AMERICA gets 5/5! "},{"Title":"A New Generation Does America.","Date":"19 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Beavis and Butt-Head Do America (1996) Dir Mike Judge / Voices Mike Judge, Demi Moore, Bruce Willis, Robert Stack, Cloris Leachman M.T.V. feature about a couple of delinquents that pervert and devalue anything they can influence. Lame plot has them searching for their stolen T.V. and being mistaken for thugs. A criminal named Muddy sends them on a mission to kill his wife although they interpret it as a request to have sex with her. Amusing events lead to them as America's most wanted. Dreadful animation where the moronic young heroes snicker as a donkey relieves itself. Women are referred to as sluts and Beavis is caught masturbating in a camper owned by an elderly couple whose generation Beavis and Butt-Head wouldn't understand. Director Mike Judge does many of the voices including our simple minded schoolboys. Bruce Willis voices the ruthless Muddy while Demi Moore voices his seductive wife. Robert Stack is in self parody voicing a foul mouth police chief conducting the investigation that leads to the juvenile boys. Cloris Leachman voices an elderly woman whom the boys can never understand and only succeed in a vulgar translation. One could argue the case of stereotypical teenagers of the M-TV nature and the generation they promise to come. What really persists is its vulgar nature finding humour in the obscene, which again, spotlights a new generation. Score 6 / 10 "},{"Title":"the movie that made me enjoy the series","Date":"10 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I was young unable to watch it according to parents yet sneaked a few if they went to bed early enough and didn't enjoy it. The fault for that was no one's other than having heard it so many times without the images from my room at the time. By the time I saw it it gave me a sense of disappointment because I had too much time using my own imagination before (like reading a book then watching the film). That aside I was older and the movie came out. from the start I was like now were talking. I was desensitized from the past preconceptions and the film was great, I put it up there with others like Ren & Stimpy, etc. Finally I went back and enjoyed the series. Then there were new seasons later on/not too long ago, very good yet only one critique they weren't as stupid which is fine because it was almost run into the ground that way. In the end the new elements to the characters made it stay in my favorite cartoons. "},{"Title":"Was laughing non-stop","Date":"11 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Beavis and Butthead is just hilarious. This movie is exactly what the show is like but longer. I couldn't stop laughing. Beavis and Butthead love to entertain us (ha ha anus). I just couldn't stop laughing at cornholio no matter how many times I heard it. It just never gets old. The bit where they walk in on the principal getting spanked is hilarious and the plane scene. If you are a fan of Beavis and Butthead and you haven't seen this movie you should go watch it. Trust me you won't be disappointed. To be honest I wasn't even expecting much and I loved it. Mr anderson was good in this movie as well and so was the main fbi agent. I also liked the character Muddy voiced by Bruce willis. "},{"Title":"Funny in a dumb and stupid way","Date":"26 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I rented this because i wanted to see some of the Beavis and Butt-head cartoons but the TV series DVDs are censored and i have never seen a single episode of the TV series so i settled for this instead. Beavis and Butt-head wake up from a dream only to find that their TV is stolen. This leads them on a trip across the United States of America to find it.I find the humor funny but in a dumb and stupid way. Both Beavis and Butt-Head's brains are the size of a peanut (no, wait even smaller...how about a speck of sand? Yeah, that's it their brains are the size of a speck of sand lol). Anyway they get on a bus and meet an elderly lady there and keep thinking they are gonna 'score' with a gunman's wife (The gunman is voiced by Bruce Willis and his wife is voiced by Demi Moore.) Anyways this takes them across the desert where they meet their fathers (and they're more crude then Beavis and Butt-Head are), go to a church, and among other things and all of this there is a conspiracy about some remote which i didn't understand but oh well. Beavis and Butt-Head become heroes lol. If you like the series. you will like this.I give Beavis and Butt-Head Do America a 6/10 "},{"Title":"Entertaining and Funny,","Date":"17 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Beavis & Butt-Head Do America is a good movie with a pretty well written storyline and a terrific voice cast. It's nothing outstanding, but it's simply a fun and enjoyable ninety minutes of animated adult comedy. I'm not a huge fan of the Beavis & Butt-Head television series, I like it but don't love it and that's the same way I felt about this, I don't have any care or sympathy for these characters, but seeing them behave like huge idiots in this movie, which is basically just a long episode of the series, was certainly a good time. Die hard fans of the television series will certainly love it, as for people who have never seen a single episode, it is still worth the watch if you ever see it on television and have some time to kill. After their TV is stolen, Beavis & Butt-Head travel across America in search of it. "}{"Title":"This film is truly awe inspiring","Date":"1 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This film.. This... Beautiful film, honestly saved me, from myself. I was in a deep, dark depressing time, my wife left, Metallica released Load, and I was on the verge of committing suicide. Then, I saw on a movie, and I knew my dark days would end. I bought fifteen tickets and I put on my best Metal Health shirt, and walked to the theater. I was immediately greeted with the into parodying a 1970s blaxploitation and the greatest intro song since Beetlejuice. Then, I saw it's quick wit humor. I cried tears of joy, I never cry. Remember the magic carpet ride in the film Alladin? Well, imagine feeling that sense of euphoria and godliness throughout a movie Whos runtime is is 120. When I left the film, I went and got a haircut, got clean clothes, fed my pet gerbil and got a job. It turned my life around. It taught me to love myself, as well as nature. It taught me to teach young children to swim. If you want to experience true wonder, and feel as though you're a child again, WATCH THIS GODLIKE FILM. "},{"Title":"Still makes me laugh!","Date":"9 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Beavis and Butthead have always been tricky to love. The humour in their shows is often slow, and obviously childish. But with this great feature film, we get plot and constant laughs as they make their way across Amurhka casing trouble and destroying everything in their path!Of course, they don't know any better, and with the FBI hot on their heels we are thrown into a full length chuckle that never tires.I remember seeing it on the big screen upon release, and now, to see it again on DVD almost 20 years later (oh dear god), is quite enjoyable!Check it out and switch the brain off.huh huh... anus "},{"Title":"Off the Couch and On the Road","Date":"22 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" An Elongated Episode of the Terminally and Totally Dumb Teenagers Makes it Clear that the Duo's Disgusting Double Entendres can Withstand the Blow Up and Give Their Fans Ninety Minutes of Off the Couch Fun.The Music here is Part of the Story and not Music Videos that Either Suck or Don't Suck so that Familiar Element from the TV Show is Abandon for Tourist Attractions and Road Trip Shenanigans.There is a Strong Plot about a Missing Biological Weapon as the Two are Sent on a Wild Goose Chase in Search of a Score with a Big Boobed Babe. Obviously, it is Not a Spoiler to Say that will Never Happen, so B&B Do America while Attempting that Most Elusive of Pubescent Pursuits.This is Visually Quite Impressive with a Rob Zombie Montage Standing Above it All as Beavis Munches on Peyote to keep from Dying of Thirst. The Opening is Also Impressive with a Giant Monster Dream and the Charlie's Angels/Starsky and Hutch Credits.Overall, if You Like the Boys You'll Like the Movie and Vice-Versa. "},{"Title":"Uhhhh ... this movie is like, cool, or something. Huh-huh-huh","Date":"21 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I saw this movie just the other week and I've gotta say it's one of the best animated comedies ever made.The movie starts out with Beavis (Mike Judge) shaking Butt-Head (Mike Judge) to wake him up from a dream where he was trying to score, to tell him that their TV has been stolen (completely oblivious to the broken window, crowbar, and footprints leading out the door). Finally, Butt-Head says, Beavis! I think I've figured something out. Then after a few seconds, he says, This sucks. It sucks more than anything that's ever sucked before. On a search for a new TV, the brain-dead duo meet Muddy Grimes (Bruce Willis) at a motel, who sends them to do his wife Dallas (Demi Moore) for $10,000. They meet up with her, and she plants a virus in Beavis' pants. The ATF go on a countrywide manhunt for Beavis and Butt-Head, who go across the country hoping to score.Like many of Mike Judge's works (like Office Space), there's a lot of quotable lines (Heh-heh, fire; He said extend), and some hilarious scenes (the humping vultures, the acid trip, both great Cornholio parts), and many other amazing qualities.10/10 (Did this movie just score?) "},{"Title":"Ah, The Good olé' Days...","Date":"30 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Beavis and Butt-Head Do America (1996) Review So Beavis and Butt-Head got a movie. It's really something.Beavis and Butt-Head Do America has something not truly evident in the series and that's a quality story and a decent plot. That's the big surprise. Also, our heroes or idiots, are pretty funny as well. We got a great song to start off the flick with Isaac Hayes. A nice touch and well done animation of the duo in 1970's form. It's a hoot.What also helps is the voice acting. We got a many from Judge of course to Bruce Willis and Demi Moore as well as the late great Robert Stack. And the show stealer is the fantastic animation of the twisted Rob Zombie. It's mighty short, but sweet.However, the humor does get old after a while and is the type of movie I would only see maybe once every couple of years.The Last Word I like it. The series was however much funnier and gets much more replay value than this. "},{"Title":"Funny Waste of Time","Date":"22 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Beavis and Butt-Head definitely aren't for everyone and even I seldom watched the TV series but this movie nonetheless still makes me laugh every time I see it. Sure the humour is witless, the animation choppy and rocks in the background have more characterisation than the main characters, but the movie still works. On the plus side of the film however is the brilliant soundtrack, the one amazingly animated 'music video' scene, the performances and all those stupid jokes about sex. Essentially if you were ever a dirty wasteful teenage boy, you'll probably find something to enjoy in this movie like I have so many times, even when I seen it again today, a good decade after having first seeing it. "},{"Title":"Mike Judge Strikes Again!","Date":"3 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is a good film if you are a Mike Judge fan. Don't watch it if you have no sense of humor, if you can't stand teens snickering about crude humor or if you don't like animation. If you like this film, you'll like King of the Hill, it's just like Beavis and Butthead, only it revolves around a conservative man. OK, here's the summary When Beavis and Butthead's TV is stolen, they go place to place and have to deal with Muddy and his ex, whom they both want to sleep with. More people are in the way, security guards, Tom Anderson and an old lady.So, if you feel like you need to laugh at something, rent this movie, watch it, laugh a lot and if you like it, go right ahead and buy it. If you also like this film, you'll like the series of Beavis and Butthead and/or South Park. "},{"Title":"Beavis and Butthead - Brilliant","Date":"5 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Well, I thought not another B&B movie, it wont even touch the greatness of the series. But it did, and it was better. I was most certainly the better of all the films, and guest stars Bruce Willis and Demi Moore made it the perfect film to see. A definite 10/10. I love the old granny who they always see on their travels, and they think she is a slut, when she says slots LOL, its brilliant. And when they meet their fathers in the desert, they are exactly the same. But head has got the coolest laugh, and you see Beavis just their doing what BH tells him to do. They are both complete idiots and are the greatest entertainers around. THEY ROCK "},{"Title":"Better than the t.v.series IMHO","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This big screen expansion of the hit MTV series actually gets to expand on the eponymous characters,and the conceptualizing of this film couldn't be better! The mission is simplethe beloved television that B&B watch all day when they're home is stolen,and they are on a mission to find it.Along a convoluted path(one of the very few flaws of the film,and a minor one,really,at that),they end up going from one compromising,dangerous situation to the next,nearly oblivious of just what kind of trouble they may be getting themselves into. To them,this is all one long obstacle course toward recovering the t.v.,and in the meantime they believe they will finally get to score. Along the way,they run into nuns,geriatric plane passengers,a sleazy couple ready to kill each other(voiced by none other than Bruce Willis and Demi Moore),decrepit roadies(with whom they bear an uncanny resemblance),a conservative neighbor(for whom seems to be King of the Hill's Hank Hill's twin!)for whom they have a history with,government agents and the President. Doesn't phase them much it all,it would seem.The movie to me is better than the t.v. show mostly due to the fact that the t.v.show had a rather didactic rhythm that made it tough to settle on a storyline,with B&B's commentaries on videos and/or performers who suck and really suck spliced into each show for effect. That bit got tiresome quickly,to me,because it was pretty one-note.I realize Mike Judge,the grand creator and visionary of B&B,intended it this way to make the duo match the kind of metal headed thickheads he knew from his experiences living in Texas,but it just got tiresome to me after a few shows. I realize this element probably SOLD the show to others. To each their own. The movie gives you a chance to see the boys react to a series of events and fend for themselves,and thus makes the story and comedy more well-rounded.A great watch for anyone who remembers eighties hair-metal bands and some of the middle-school/high school lummoxes who lived for them. Oh,and for TV and scoring with chicks,too. "},{"Title":"Where would the world be without Beavis and Butt-head?","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Huh, I said wood. Revel in low brow humor with this goofy gem. The opening sequence with giant B&B terrorizing the city and the main titles spoofing seventies cop shows with a cool Isaac Hayes beat should prime everyone for a fast eighty minute giggle fest. There is also a Rob Zombie interlude in the desert and a rare Bon Scott era AC/DC song. Mike Judge gives us exactly what we wanted, a feature length adventure of Beavis and Butt-head with no pretense and all the trimmings. Along the way to recover their beloved TV and to score, the boys tangle with Bruce Willis, Demi Moore, Cloris Leachman, Robert Stack, Eric Bogosian, David Letterman, Richard Linklater, and Greg Kinnear. Then, Beavis goes a little insane. This is a good movie for some laughs on rainy days.P.S. The deleted scene where the boys use the Declaration of Independence as toilet paper should have stayed in the movie.*Agent Bork Chief, you know that guy whose camper they were wackin' of in? Agent Flemming Bork, you are a federal agent; you represent the United States government, never end a sentence with a preposition. Agent Bork Oh, uh...you know that guy in whose camper they...I, I mean that guy of in whose camper they were wackin'. Agent Flemming That's better. "}{"Title":"Fun, but dated.","Date":"26 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I'm sure that if I had watched this movie when it came out I would have loved it. At that time (I was 17) I loved the Beavis and Butt-Head TV show, and this film is just an extra long episode. Nowadays, I can often laugh at the silliness of the couple but that's about it. My adoration kinda switched towards Southpark I guess. In this movie our two heroes set out to get themselves a new TV after their own gets stolen. They find themselves in some sort of terrorist scheme (without knowing it) that leads them all through America, like the Grand Canyon, Las Vegas and Washington. Off course, in the end, they save the day and the nation. As I said, the movie has some amusing elements if you're into the dumb and numb comedy of the B&BH show. If not, stay away from this movie, as it really is just an 80 minutes episode of that same show.6/10. "},{"Title":"Uuuhhhh, Beavis and Butt-Head Rule!  Huh, huh huh.","Date":"11 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Uuuhhhh, hey. I'm, like, J.T., and I say Beavis and Butt-Head Do America rules. NOTE THERE ARE SPOILERS! It starts out innocently enough Beavis and Butt-Head's TV is stolen (oh horror of unspeakable horrors!), and they go out looking for it. So, when they can't find it, they try to get a new one. In enters Muddy Grimes. Your typical smuggler constantly drunk, bad attitude, wears jeans, and sounds like he has a permanent hangover. When he mistakes B & B-H for two other guys (it's common to do that when your wasted. He actually hired the guys who stole Beavis and Butt-Head's TV, of all people), the dynamic dumbasses (B & B-H) jump a plane to Sin City, Las Vegas. There, they stare like girls at Usher at a semi-nude statue of a woman (boooiiinnng!) during the very cool Red Hot Chili Peppers cover of the Ohio Band song Love Roller-coaster, eventually 'meeting up with a chick' which turns out to be Dallas Grimes, Muddy's wife and the guy he wants dead.Eventually, Beavis and Butt-head meet their fathers. It's no wonder these two are so into metal their fathers were roadies for Motley Crue! They're born to metal! Anyway, the best part of the movie was 'Beavis's Hallucination,'where a heat-fatigued Beavis imagines images of zombies, big-breasted women, cannibals, ratfinks and a kickass song by White Zombie called Ratfinks, Suicide Tanks and Cannibal Girls. One thing I wish for this movie, on the DVD they had the Red Hot Chili Peppers music video for Love Roller-coaster. Anyway, if you are a hater of Beavis and Butt-Head, but you love King Of The Hill, I've got news for you they are both Mike Judge's brainchildren, dumbass! Anyway, check out Beavis and Butt-Head Do America or I'll sic Buzzcut (the gym teacher with a short fuse and a military way of life) on you, terd burglar!  "},{"Title":"They Rule!","Date":"28 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Beavis and Butthead were a genius creation, they are a perfect representation of the American dream gone wrong (sorry guys) I know people find them irritating with their constant dumb laughs but that is part of the fun, don't take them so seriously. It's like they're just cartoon characters, you don't have to share a flat with them.The movie was always a risk, taking short cartoons onto the big screen, but it works, with long suffering characters like Tom Anderson, Mr Van Drieson and Principal McVicker along for the ride.Nice touches include a clever soundtrack (lesbian seagull!) and the simple plot of two idiots trying to find their TV and score who are oblivious to the amazing journey they've found themselves on.Long live Beavis and Butthead!  "},{"Title":"A celebration of ignorance","Date":"26 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  ONE MILD SPOILERThis is one of those love it or hate it films. Anyone who was a fan of the TV show will probably love it, as will those who get a kick out of laughing at sheer stupidity. Most others should probably stay away from it. Mike Judge captured the spirit of all of the moronic, unrepentantly ignorant, sex obsessed teenagers that all of us knew in high school. The defining moment of the film is when Beavis and Butt-head leave the tour at Yellowstone Park, unimpressed by Old Faithful, only to become mesmerized by the automatically flushing toilets in the bathroom. The total idiocy and lack of common sense possessed by these two that was tremendously funny on the show carries over to the movie. Judge created this movie for the true fans of the series and did not fail in satisfying this one. Tool, uh-huh-huh.  "},{"Title":"'Hehehe, he just said extend'. Beavis and Butt-head hit the big screen in an enjoyable manner.","Date":"19 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The 90s were the decade when cartoons became cool. Before the 90s, save for a few exceptions, cartoons were generally intended for little kids and nerds, but in the 90s, shows like The Simpsons, South Park, Daria, Family Guy and Futurama became prime time fixtures. And then there was Beavis and Butt-head. Always intended as a sort of comedy that reflects the reality of the younger generation today, Beavis and Butt-head were slackers who loved MTV and were obviously destined to spend the rest of their lives on the couch. America, at least, was captured by Beavis and Butt-head, and the rest of the world had a look too, but as other cartoons took over, and bands like Nirvana were no longer an MTV fixture, Beavis and Butt-head were forgotten, BUT NOT BY ME! This movie serves as a memory to all the one liners and pure comic gold from the stereotypical teenage boys. When Beavis and Butt-head have their TV stolen, they go looking for another one and get taken on a wild journey through America where they meet the president, their fathers and find many other hilarious people and situations. A great film, but I must say, even 8 years later, is already dated, but that's the nature of the film. "},{"Title":"They wreak hilarious havoc as usual","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When their television is stolen, the terminally stupid screwups go all out to find it (c'mon, it's just a TV). They embark on a cross-country odyssey that leads to disaster at every turn. After a sexy hooker sews a dangerous (and top-secret) device into the lining of Beavis' pants, he and Butt-Head land on the FBI's Ten Most Wanted List. During their frantic journey they get kidnapped and stuffed into a car trunk, are stranded in a scorching desert, and board a bus with nothing but nuns on it. They eventually end up at the Capitol building in Washington, D.C. where they embarrass themselves in front of the president. Finally, they are involved in a standoff with the FBI. The head FBI agent is a rough-edged type who isn't satisfied with any mission unless it involves a cavity search. He is voiced by Robert Stack (of Untouchables and Unsolved Mysteries fame). Overall, hilarious, with two of the most pea-brained characters in animation history.  "},{"Title":"Cornhulio rules","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  True, nothing more to say about this movie then what is already been said. Its a masterpiece of comedy. Funny through out the movie and great plot too. Beavis and ButHead are memorable especially the phrases which you get into your language such as 'communicate with the bunghole, i am Cornhulio'. "},{"Title":"Delightfully Dumb","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  TV's Dumbnamic Duo make the jump to the Big Screen as they travel the country in their endless (and fruitless) efforts to 'score'. Spurred on by an offer from a drunken tough guy to do his wife for $10,000, they head to Vegas, then are sent back across the country when they run into her and she offers them even more money to take care of some business back in Washington, DC. This, in essence, is the plot, not that it matters much, since the point is simply an excuse to have the boys travel across the country via plane, bus and car (trunk) doing outrageous gags, wreaking havoc, and, in general, acting like the complete idiots they are.Anyone who's watched the TV show knows the basic concept here, and the movie sticks to it faithfully. Beavis and Butthead are the ultimate caricatures of the MTV generation, a pair of oversexed, undereducated underachieving losers with absolutely zero redeeming qualities. It's not much of a stretch to call this movie a cartoon version of Fear & Loathing in Las Vegas inasmuch as it's about two utter buffoons who wreck everything in sight and make utter asses of themselves, all for the audience's amusement. It even includes a scene in which Beavis starts hallucinating after eating some Psychedelic plants, at first he freaks out, then he starts grinning when he realizes it's just like watching a rock video. This last was actually pretty gutsy, given Hollywood's fears of being perceived as glamorizing drug use, and especially so since it involved a high school kid. In the end, this is really just an extended version of the hit TV show. With the exception of the drug scene, the creators didn't push the envelope the way the South Park movie did, at least in terms of swearing. The only part that true fans will miss is that, since the whole movie is kicked off when the boys realize their precious TV has been stolen, we never get to see them doing their trademark ripping on bad rock videos. Aside from that, all the rest of the stuff we loved from the show is there, the irreverence, the crudity, and best of all, the stupidity that is so stupid it often rises`to the level of genius!7/10 "},{"Title":"Good Job!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was great, my favorite parts in that movie are Beavis' Hallucination, Beavis and Butt-Head's escape from the trunk of the car,songs in this movie include Ozzy Osbournes' Walk On Water. Robert Stack did an excellent job as the voice of ATF agent Flemming. Beavis & Butt-Head Are Cool.Huh Huh Huh Huh Huh Huh Huh Huh Huh Huh Huh.**********out of**********.  "},{"Title":"hilariously funny!","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  if you havent seen this already, YOU GOTTA! its just damn right hilarious! if youve seen the tv programme, times it by 10, and youre still no where near how funny this film is! lol, it makes me laugh just thinking about it. "}{"Title":"Yes!  Cool!","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was so good, I almost crapped my pants.  It flipped out even more than ninjas fighting pirates.  The humor is of the same quality as that of the television series, so if you didn't like the show, you won't like this.This is great for fans of the show, though.  It actually does have a plot to it, and it is done rather well.  Definetly one to own. "},{"Title":"Funny.....But Not As Funny As People Said ( Heh-Heh I Said Butt)","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Funny. Not the funniest film of 1996. But still funny smart origanal and halarious. Should see with more than one person. It's funnier that way. Trust me. Butt-Head rules! Bevis is kinda annoying but when hes Cornstollio im laughing all the way! "},{"Title":"Hilarious! See this film!","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I am not a fan of Beavis and Butt-head, but the preview for this movie made it look funny so I decided to rent it. AND IT WAS FUNNY! The two dummies end up in Las Vegas and meet the wife of the man who hired them to do her for $10,000(they are hired for murder, but think they will get laid). She tells them to meet her in Washington D.C., where they will get what they want. The dynamic duo then jump on a tour bus and wreck havoc as they travel with a group of retired senior citizens all across America. This film is the funniest I have ever seen. Even if you don't like cartoons or Beavis and Butt-head, you MUST SEE THIS FILM! Feel free to email me with any questions or comments. "},{"Title":"Damn funny.","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I've been a fan of Beavis & Butthead for several years, and I loved everything that came of that series.If you don't know about these two, here's a good place to start.Beavis and Butthead wake up from a weird dream to find their TV has been stolen, and go on a cross - country road trip looking for it.Unfortunately for our less - than - intelligent duo, they become involved in a biological weapon smuggling operation, and annoy their neighbor, Tom Anderson in the process.Robert Stack truly did a great job as the voice of ATF agent Flemming, and one of my favorite scenes was when Beavis, as he has done in at least 2 or 3 episodes of the series, takes in WAY TOO MUCH CAFFINE and becomes Cornholio!I know it's not the best, but if ya wanna just watch something for a good moronic laugh, this movie is the one for you! "},{"Title":"Huh huh, He said extend","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Airplane Captain Get the hell outta the cockpit!! Butt-head Huh huh, you said c- Airplane Captain NOW!!!This is easily the best cartoon full length I have ever seen and was probably the funniest movie in 1996.  It is much better than South Park Bigger, Longer & Uncut (1999) if you need to compare it to something.  Although it was really short (80 minutes or so), it had me laughing the whole time.  And the list of celebrity voices is practically endless, Robert Stack, Greg Kinnear, Bruce Willis, Demi Moore, David Spade, and Earl Hoffert err...I mean David Letterman.  If you got an hour and half to spare, watch this movie because you won't regret it. "},{"Title":"Sublime in its Beauty, Pure in its Stark Honesty","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie...is an animated masterpiece. A Homeric epic in its sweeping view of two young men, struggling against a society obsessed with its own political agendas and maintaining the status quo. Our heroes Beavis and Butt-head try to achieve lofty goals in spite of the government trying to thwart them at every turn.But seriously. I loathed B&BH when it was on, but now I miss them. Like a lot of people, I am guilty of channeling them, but they did offer a truly pure and glowing unfiltered social commentary of life in the mid-90's. For contrast, South Park (cartoon or hideous movie, pick one)for example, is completely devoid of entertainment and humor, and is a virtual documentary of mind numbing crap fit only for the insane or stupid.B&BH though...they are different. We know them, we went to high school with them, and possibly, we wanted to be them (maybe. I didn't!). But, this is a good movie. You can't rate it, but just watch it and understand. "},{"Title":"This is a very funny movie.","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"       Look im jacking it.This movie is very funny. There are tons of funny lines and you can watch it over and over again without being bored of it. I enjoy it every time i see it. This is a great movie one of the Beavis and Butthead movies ever. I recommend it to anyone but young kids. "},{"Title":"This movie is the funniest movie of 1996.","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Beavis and Butthead made me laugh so hard in this movie. They are both my favorite characers. i like it when Beavis get over dosed on sugar and put's his shirt over his head and calls himself Cortfolio. Butthead on the other hand is obsessed with hot chicks. The funniest part in the whole movie was when they get lost in a dessert and they find two guy's that are their birth dad and the four of them don't even know that thier related. That was so funny, Beavis and Butthead are so dumb. That was funny that they kept running into that old lady. I loved that music video Beavis was picturing out in the dessert, that was the coolest music video I ever seen. MTV should make more Music videos like that more often. My rating to this movie 10/10 and *****.  "},{"Title":"Compares with South Park - Bigger, Longer, Uncut","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A surprise.  Intelligent, silly cynical fun.  Well-crafted and not entirely adolescent humor.  I enjoyed every minute!  The movie involves a cross-country trek in search of a stolen TV, which has nothing to do with the central premises in this movie, which is, Beavis and Butthead truly do suck.  Tastefully done(?), all things considered, and much less raunchy than South Park.   "},{"Title":"Slow, dull, but very funny!","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie, Beavis must find their tv. Well I wouldn't go all over America, but its a comedy right? Beavis and Butt-Head, as usual have crude and sexually related humor which everyone loves, and can sometimes be slow and dull. I guess its a movie to see, but ONLY if your a fan of the series, because the others might think it needs some tweeking. I'll tell you right now, it doesn't. "}{"Title":"Surprisingly enough, I liked it!","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  ***Starring Beavis and Butt-Head (Huh-huh-huh, I said butt)Hey, look at this!  Beavis and Butt-Head have their own movie.  It's about both of them stumbling upon a hitman's plot.  The guy who thinks they are hitmen send them to Las Vegas to kill a woman (they think they're going to score).  When they get there, she puts a nuclear device into one of their pants.  The Police, Swat, Army, etc. are all looking for them when they travel to all sorts of places.  Hell, they visit ol' Slick Willy in the White House.The movie is quite a crude and silly movie.  It wasn't crude enough to have distasteful humor.  It was crude enough to make you laugh.  Surprisingly enough, it's a very funny movie.I recommend it. "},{"Title":"Tied for the best cartoon movie ever!","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I think this movie is hilarious!  It is way better and funnier than the South Park Movie.  But I think Adam Sandler's Eight Crazy Nights is as funny and as good as this one.  I was laughing from start to finish in this movie. Trust me it is HILARIOUS! "},{"Title":"not as good as the series","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  my cousin bought this movie years ago and he made me sit in front of the tv and watch it, it wasnt a bad movie, i liked the series way better but it was still pretty funny, i say if you liked the series, you'll like the movie. "},{"Title":"I'm a sucker for moron movies...huh,huh!","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Not the most brilliant movie ever made, but that's the whole point.I too was a reluctant turnabout to the non-lives of the idiots known as Beavis and Butthead.  When they first came on the air (huh,huh) I disliked them for so many reasons.  They were stupid beyond belief, they were poorly animated, and the shows had no real plot to speak of, other than their critiquing of music videos, which was really the only thing I found to be remotely funny.Years passed, and as the show remained on the air, the animation became smoother, and the stories became more appealing, to the point I caught myself watching the show voluntarily, and laughing at it while doing so. They finally had me as a fan, though it took a while.Now, when the movie came out (huh,huh) I watched it, and aside from my disappointment that there were no music video critiques, I thought that it was a great 90 minute episode of what the cartoon offered us, with Mike Judge being able to go a little further than he could go on TV.  It had a great plot that enabled jokes to flow in a logical manner, and the celebrity voices were a great touch. Cloris Leachman and Robert Stack are the last two people who I would think would associate themselves (heh,heh,heh, um, you said ass) with the moron kings, but they worked perfectly.Worth a watch, especially for nostalgic value.A+++ "},{"Title":"A thousand Hail Marys?","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I thought this movie was well, a television show made into a movie. It was funny, but not as much as the show. Although, being from Austin (where Mike Judge lives) it was cool to see Robert Mueller Airport (sadly no longer around) in the movie.  "},{"Title":"The story of two young boys and their love for their country and their weiners","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Hey, remember when MTV original programming actually had plots and writers, and weren't just cameras aimed at teenagers hoping they'd take their clothes off? Or even when MTV actually played VIDEOS? By bands that weren't talented, but not top 40 pop acts?Just barely? Well, there once was a time that MTV cared about the products they put their name on, and Beavis and Butthead were the last of that era.At least MTV decided to pull the plug before running this into the ground, though not before they produced the truly awful spin-off, Daria. Sure, let's take the most annoying, uninteresting character and build a whole show around her (C'mon, weren't you all just praying for someone to one day toss her in a car trunk and drive it into the lake?).Huh huh. I said hole.But before it ended, MTV made this movie, which was amazingly good, since people had doubts that their schtick could play out for two hours with no videos. They did get a lot of help from a solid cast of supporting characters, such as those played by Robert Stack, Cloris Leachman and Bruce Willis, and a wild plot that needed the whole movie to tie together, but was worth the wait.And the scene where the whiny hippie got beaten to a pulp was a nice touch, too.  "},{"Title":"Not great but not bad","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  There were several episodes of the MTV series of Beavis & Butthead that were funnier than this movie, but Do America is still better than any ofthe crap Jim Carrey, Adam Sandler or Will Smith try to pass off as funny.You don't have to be a dummie to like B + B ... you actually have to hate stupidity, which this show/movie is actually making fun of. A lot of people that deplore the show don't realize that.I just thought they might push the envelope a little more on the big screen and take a few more chances but it's just like a typical episode s t r e t c h e d to 85 minutes. Letterman is pretty awesome in it. "},{"Title":"Maybe just for fans or maybe not","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have to admit, I've been on both sides of the fence of Beavis and Butthead.  When I first saw them, I went on record as being one of their biggest detractors.  I don't know why I caught myself watching them one day and became a big fan in spite of myself.  It can happen to you!The movie threatens to be everything a B & B fan ever dreamed for their 1st (& only --*sigh*) movie.  The opening scenes are absolutely inspired and the movie rolled strongly on through the first hour to my delight.  After the desert scene, I think no one had any good ideas and they just went with what they had.  There wasn't a real strong for the last third of the movie (except Chelsea Clinton knocking Butthead thru a window!).The only reason I didn't rate it higher was the whole bit with Anderson.  I got no joy from seeing the Andersons tortured through the whole film and I wonder about anyone who did.  Robert Stack was a big plus but there's only so many body cavity jokes you can deliver.  If you see this movie in the right frame of mind and maybe with the right friends, you can appreciate the genuine humor without worrying that you're losing brain cells. "},{"Title":"Come on, it's funny.  (chowderhead? what kind of f*cking name is that?)","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I knew I had to speak up on behalf of Beavis and Butt-head Do America when I saw that someone actually thought that it was a disgrace to our nation (this person is also from Jersey, so I sense they're talking about the U.S. of A., unless they really are as dumb as their comment suggests).  Why take the characters of Beavis and Butt-head seriously?  They aren't meant to be taken seriously, they're idiots.  They're written to be idiots.  They aren't supposed to be likeable.  What's funny about Beavis and Butt-head isn't the myth that we're supposed to be laughing at the same things they are.  What's funny is the fact that these characters find such toilet humor and sexual innuendos funny.  Their minds are so warped by sitting on the couch and watching television for some sixteen years that that's all they can understand.  These ideas, I think, are pretty successful in getting some solid laughs.  So if you don't understand Beavis and Butt-head, than you're what's wrong with the nation. "},{"Title":"Its hard not to like this whacky comedy","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"    BEAVIS AND BUTTHEAD DO AMERICA has many, many chuckles but (he said &#145;but') unfortunately no belly laughs. Not one knee slapping, stomach hurting gag. I was a little disappointed. I am a big fan of the TV series; so don't get me wrong; these characters are great. Maybe that's why this didn't work that well; DO AMERICA was more about the plot than about the characters.  I've fallen on the floor laughing at many a TV episode but it was never about the brilliant plot. Also, what plot there is in the TV series is usually logical, within the confines of their brand of insanity. This movie had a plot that went off the deep end way too often. It also got a little redundant with the portrait of the ATF authority figures as being unreasonably macho. Two hours of gung-ho fed men jumping out of trucks with trigger happy attitudes wore thin. Also the hysterical Cornholio character that Beavis made immortal in a hippie poetry café didn't work when transferred to this film. It was forced and not nearly as funny.   All right, maybe one scene was killer. The Senate laughing like Beavis and Butthead over a dirty joke.   I think Mike Judge deserves all the wealth and fame he has achieved for his comedy work. I liked this movie, but I was hoping to laugh till tears rolled down my cheeks. ..He said &#145;cheeks'.  "}{"Title":"Lousy movie sorry guys","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  i dont agree with the majority of the reviews ,,TV show was awesome but trying to make it into a movie sucked .. . Tries too hard to be funny and comes across lame . A few gags but like the tv show , after 30 minutes its time to change the channel . Tv show was good because after 30 minutes it was over and you looked forward to next show ,movie sucks because it just goes on and on with the same gags,you get no break or change of pace like the tv show was .Rent a few episodes of the tv show instead ,much better than this trash. "},{"Title":"This Movie rules","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Beavis and Butt-Head do America is a Hilarious animated movie. Not really a family film but people will really enjoy. What is funnier that two VERY stupid kids going  on a quest for there T.V and are mistaken for Terrorist because of a Very dangerous device on them. This movie shouldn't be missed because it is just to funny to miss. I give Beavis and Butt-Head do America a 8/10 "},{"Title":"A social icon!","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Yes, I admit to really liking these guys when they were popular in the last Century. Oh, man,     I could do the best Butt-Head Laugh, and I still catch myself going Are you threatening me?, You Dumba**! and     UH-hhhh, huh huh, I don't know. sometimes. Well, I loved it then, and now, well, I watched it recently and it is still     good, but I found myself yearning for an episode of Aeon Flux to be on after the movie was over. Instead, I popped                     the tape out and a rerun of King Of The Hill Was on!......The truth is out there... "},{"Title":"Its beavis and butt-head what do you expect??","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If you are offended by the series dont see this , if you enjoyed the series, then see this. Its quite simple really.StoryBeavis and butt-head have a chip that can cause mass-destruction but they are unaware of it.  They go on a tour bus and go all across America, and the cops are trying to find them, because they are wanted.  Some Sex and fart gags are main highlights of the movie.Rated PG-13  for strong language and some sexual humoranimated "},{"Title":"A laugh riot from start to finish","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is one hilarious movie that I never get tired of watching and that I am very happy to have in my collection.  It contains a lot of terrific laughs and excitement throughout.  I always enjoyed watching the series on MTV and a fantastic job was done when it was taken to the big screen.  If you enjoy watching the series but still haven't seen this movie, you really should give it a chance.  I think you're in for quite a treat if you do. "},{"Title":"Funny Is Funny","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This big-screen version of the popular MTV breakout hit probably won't make any converts, but if you're already a fan, there's plenty to enjoy.  I was somewhat disappointed that Judge didn't really take any chances here.  What you get is basically an extended episode of the show.  I really wish he'd have taken full advantage of the big screen and given free reign to his characters, creating something even more raunchy and potentially shocking (like Trey Parker and Matt Stone did when they adapted South Park to feature film medium...they swung at every target and batted every ball right out of the park!)Still, good sophmoric fun...sometimes that's enough.  *** stars "},{"Title":"Pleasantly surprised","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I liked the B&B-series on MTV, but I wasn't sure whether I could bear watching a full-lenth movie with these two guys. I was glad to find out that I could. I think the series gives a pretty good idea of what to expect, and the movie is no worse than the series (as with some series that were made into movies). My rating 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A pure gut-buster!","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  BEAVIS AND BUTT-HEAD DO AMERICA, in my opinion, is a pure gut-buster. I laughed absolutely hard when Tom (voice of Mike Judge) said, Must be them d*** buzzard-hogs. while Beavis (voice of Mike Judge) and Butt-Head (voice of Mike Judge) were doing their heavy metal humming. As a matter of fact, I laughed at just about all the funny scenes. Also, I thought that Dallas (voice of Demi Moore) looked absolutely pretty, even though she was one of the bad guys. In conclusion, I  recommend this pure gut-buster to all you fans of the BEAVIS AND BUTT-HEAD TV show who have not seen the movie. You're in for lots of gut-busting laughs, so, go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it. "},{"Title":"I personally see myself as a Beavis, but that's subjective","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'd like to start by saying anyone who watches this film and is disappointed by the lack of cinematic meaning and emotional intensity doesn't get it.Mike Judge didn't creat Beavis and Butthead because he was stupid, he did it because he was funny.Beavis and Butthead Do America is like one long episode, but unlike, say, the X-Files Movie, this time it's a good thing.  Our two adolescent protagonists set out on a misadventure that ends up taking them across the America's land marks, though the desert, and even face to face with Bill Clinton himself.  What begins as a simple quest to regain their stolen television ends as a one of the greatest coming-age-adventures since Stand By Me; this film is funny.  It just is.Obviously, any fans of the original t.v. show should see this film, but in addition, just about anyone who likes decent comedy should check this out as well.  I think that if you sit back and let yourself be entertained you will be.I mean, how can you not fine Beavis an endearing "},{"Title":"A pure gut-buster","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  BEAVIS AND BUTT-HEAD DO AMERICA, in my opinion, is a pure gut-buster. I laughed REALLY hard when Tom (Mike Judge) said, Must be them d*** buzzard-hogs. while Beavis (Mike Judge) and Butt-Head (Mike Judge) were doing their heavy metal humming. As a matter of fact, I laughed a just about EVERY funny scene. Also, I thought that Dallas (Demi Moore) looked VERY pretty, even though she was one of the bad guys. In conclusion, I HIGHLY recommend this pure gut-buster to all you fans of the BEAVIS AND BUTT-HEAD TV show who have not seen the movie. You're in for a LOT of gut-busting laughs, so, go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it. "}{"Title":"Sophomoric, but hilarious","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Beavis and Butthead Do America is one of the grossest and funniest movies I've ever seen.  It is very funny about how their obsession with sex comes into play throughout the movie.  The premise is very funny and many of the jokes kept me cracking up for days.  Then again you must have a tolerance for these kind of gross movies.  "},{"Title":"Huh Huh Huh. This movie is cool. Huh Huh Huh Huh Huh","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Beavis and Butthead's first and ( and so far ) only big screen adventure kicks ass. You have to be a Assmunch not to like this! Witness Cornholio's antics on the plane, the boys first encounter with Dallas, the boys causing a massive flood at the Hoover dam, Beavis' hallucination in the desert, Cornholio's visit to the white house and many more. The list goes on and on. Nothing is wrong with the movie. If you love the series, then you'll love this. Overall 10/10 "},{"Title":"Beavis and Butthead can do better.","Date":"29 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If you haven't seen any Beavis and Butthead and are pressed for time then watch this film. If you have some free time set a weekend aside and absorb as much of the TV show as you can handle. It is much better on the small screen.However if you are a Rob Zombie fan the hallucinogenic desert sequence is a must see. I think his contribution was slightly more than just musical.  "},{"Title":"...It's actually o.k.","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When I heard a Beavis & Butt-head movie was being released, I went oh, no, another TV show made into a bad movie.  Well, Beavis & Butt-head Do America is obviously not one of the best movies out there, but it was actually worth making, and therefore seeing.  It is funny and original, and does not contain any of the cliché comedy lines other modern comedies do...just watch it for yourself. "},{"Title":"Beavis And Butt-Head on the big screen","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was suprised when I first heard about this movie, I usally look forward to movies based on TV series, and I was not dissapointed!. This movie is funny with a capital F!. It sees Beavis and Butt-Head trying to look for their TV, which has been stolen. But then they meet up with Muddy (voiced by Bruce Willis) who wants them to kill his wife Dallas (voiced by Demi Moore). From then this movie is funny all the way through. Though Mr Van Driesen and Principal McVicker are the only other characters from the Beavis And Butt-Head TV seires who are in the movie (their roles are only mere cameos) trust me, of you like Beavis And Butt-Head, you will like this movie "},{"Title":"The Funniest Film of 1996!","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Beavis and Butt-head is just a movie I like to watch when I feel like chilling out. It is an extremely stupid flick, but it is a movie that will make your sides hurt with laughter and it will definitely make you smile -). Also, in it's own little way, Beavis and Butt-head Do America be can pretty clever at times. The other thing I like about this flick is it goes straight to the point, so the audience will never be bored.I strongly recommend this movie to fans of the TV show!Rating 8 "},{"Title":"Better than I expected","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I took my brother and his good friend to see this one when it came out. I must say that I was pleasantly surprised. I am not someone who would usually go for something like this, but I thought it was very funny and indeed made a few ruefully admitted points about everything from trends in secondary education to the work of the American Government.  "},{"Title":"MTV's bad boys make it to the big screen.","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is cool. Huh Huh. This is probably the best animated movie ever made. And it's all because of it's two main characters, Beavis and Butt-head.Beavis and Butt-head have suffered a major loss. Their beloved TV! You can almost cry when you hear about it, huh? So they go out and search for it. Their search leads them to a burned-out drunk man who wants his wife dead. When he meets Beavis and Butt-head they make a deal for them to do his wife. This leads them on a cross country adventure filled with hijinks on their endless journey to score.Beavis and Butt-head deserved Oscars for being able to pull off being dumb so well. There are some great cameo voices by Bruce Willis, Demi Moore, and David Letterman. This is guaranteed to give you some laughs even for the stiffest of you. Huh, huh, stiff. 10/10 "},{"Title":"I have also loved the tv series.","Date":"3 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I love this movie, so funny. Its got a kick a$$ soundtrack, which I also have. B & B search 4 their tv cause it seems 2 b gone & this leads the 2 morons across the country which they cause trouble & start a conspiracy.I won't say anymore but if u love the series, buy this. in fact just buy this, this is 1 hilarious movie. uh, huh "},{"Title":"before watching  buy an EZ-crunch and train a lot","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is the funniest movie I know. It's even better than Dumb and Dumber. Oh boy , this film is extremely satirical. I like that. As a Dutchman I laugh at the American masses.  Fortunately there are also intelligent Americans who produce films like Beavis and Butthead do America.Beavis and Butthead are very very stupid.  Thanks to that stupidity they manage to escape from the police many times. The police thinks that they are dealing with very smart professionals. Beavis and Butthead aren't even aware of the fact they are being haunted.  >>>>  that's brilliant !!I admit  you have to like it. If you think you do  come to Amsterdam , experience liberty with me ;) and then we'll watch B&B. I will invite Quentin Tarantino too. "}{"Title":"Not bad.","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Okay people I think it was quite a good movie. Not a memorable movie like The Matrix or The Pest but I thought Mr Cornholio was quite funny and a couple of other scenes were funny but I found it a bit crude , a bit of a spoof but I do give the people credit for making a movie and making up the characters. Well done. "},{"Title":"An o.k. Film That Has its Moments But Not Consistant","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Beavis and Butthead Do America is something that occasionally has its moments but can't really be consistant.  The film is a watchful one but there still seems to be something lacking.  When compared to the music video segment of the t.v. series (in which Beavis and Butt-head would sit down on a couch and review music videos) the movie doesn't really allow the main characters to make a running commentary on their surroundings.  There also are certain jokes here that perhaps would work better if compacted in a thirty minute episode.  For example, there's the Cornholio joke, which is something that perhaps would be funnier as a one shot deal but here is practically beat to death (along with the cavity search joke).  Basically Beavis and Butt-head Do America possesses material (some of which is recycled) that really can't sustain a feature length film.   "},{"Title":"Fun and 100000 times better than the TV series.","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is really fun although there isn't anything so special that will make me remember it in the future. In fact I'm writing this comment only nine months after I watched it and I already forgot it!So, the only opinion I can give is that it's funnier funnier and funnier than the TV series. Not because they say more obscenities, spoilers or do crazy things. The best in this movie is that they don't cut it every 4 minutes to put a boring  music clip, no advertisements and, of course, almost two hour listening them saying rubbish! So the good in this movie is that it's a movie! Isn't it incredible?    "},{"Title":"A must for any fan of the dimwitted duo!","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was the highlight of any hardcore Beavis and Butt-Head fan's life!  It gave us about an hour and a half of comedy, with no commercials or music videos! (there was one kind of...but it was AWESOME!) This film was true brilliance. Plus Beavis finally got to say FIRE again without fear of retribution. "},{"Title":"hilarious","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When Beavis and Butthead's television is stolen they try to get another one. This leads to them meeting Muddy who wants them to do his wife, Butthead figures that he must mean that he wants them to score with his wife. They end up in Las Vegas where they meet Dallas who plants the X &#150; 5 unit in Beavis shorts. At that point the movie becomes a road movie as well an outrageous fugitive flick. Agent Flemming goes all over the place trying to find them. At each stop he seems to order people to body cavity search everyone, infact he seems obsessed with body cavity searches. Beavis goes crazy every time he takes the No &#150; Drowz pills. The movie applies the offensive style humor of the show to this 82-minute adventure quite successfully. Beavis speech about never getting the chance to score is hilarious. The whole movie is hilarious from beginning to end. I have seen this movie a number of times and still find it to be hilarious; the jokes are funny each time you see them.  "},{"Title":"heh! heh! -- uh! beavis! all we gotta do is act naturally! yeah! heh! heh! cool!","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Animatorial genius at it's absolute finest.  America's 2 favorite juvenile delinquents  mid 1990's era on a cross country trip to do Dallas Grimes Demi Moore , unknowingly  targeted by Federal Agents, mistaking the dynamic dumb a**es as terroristic geniuses. The hallucination scene in the desert to the tune of White Zombie's Ratfinks Suicide Tanks and Cannibal Girls KICKED! as did the nuclear flatulence in the desert.  A must rent! "},{"Title":"Beavis and Butthead rule!","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  No cartoon ever has been as funny or cool as Beavis and Butthead and the movie is just as good. They manage to destroy things, almost get killed and endanger the security of an entire country without even knowing it. It's funny as anything you'll ever see so rent it. "},{"Title":"The holy Cornholio goes to the states.","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is actually really great. Beavis and Butthead is just as dumb, nutty and whacked-out as usually. Favorite scene The holy Cornholio needs tipi for his bungalo. Rates 8 of 10 or +++ of ++++. "},{"Title":"Really funny","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I haven't actually seen many episodes of the tv show but I can say that I thought the movie was really good. Very funny and a thorough plot made it a great movie from start to finish. In the movie Beavis and Butthead go to Washington to recover their tv set and on the way we get to see them make trouble. The police is on their trail and by the time they arrive in Washington at the White House, we are left wanting more. And so, we get more. The movie has a great ending and a well written script. "},{"Title":"Very Funny!","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Beavis & Butthead do America is one of the raunchiest animated films of today.  The humor crude, the dialogue unsanitary, but it still makes us laugh out loud (Sorta like SP).  It may not be the best out there, but man I would like it if Mike Judge did a sequel called Beavis & Butthead Do The World!, which won't suck. "}{"Title":"Surprisingly good.","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I, for one, am not a fan of the show, nor am I fond of anything affiliated with MTV (Which is the mind rotter for 90's youth. Well, that's only my opinion anyway.) But after seeing Do America, Beavis and Butt-head's motion picture debut, I must say it was pretty funny!The two boys venture to find their stolen TV, only to be mistaken for hitmen, get placed on the FBI's most wanted list and have a once in a lifetime journey to score. Some of the jokes are too silly or crude while others are side-splitting hilarious. But the real plus was the familiar cast of voices, including Robert Stack, Cloris Leachman, Richard Linklater, Eric Bogosian, David Letterman, et al. "},{"Title":"Nice though worth watching only once","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm not a fan of the series but I enjoyed this movie, although there are some areas I got bored and didn't quite find funny.  The Cornholio thing is weird for one.  I liked the parts where some supporting characters take charge of the duo's annoying habits, like Demi Moore telling them to stop their uhuhuhuh mannerism and the nuns quietly abandoning them.  I don't think I can bear to watch a second time, it's worth watching only once. I give this 2.5 of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Promising big screen debut","Date":"19 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Although not a fan of Beavis and Butthead on TV, I went in to this film with (as you can expect) very low expectations and was pleasantly surprised to witness a genuinely funny movie! Definitely worth a rental and at under 80 minutes its not hard to find the time to see it. Demi Moore and Bruce Willis add their voices to 2 of the characters but this is most definitely Messrs. Beavis and Buttheads film, although it does come off the rails a little at the very end.  "},{"Title":"This is the greatest movie I have ever seen-huh,huh.","Date":"9 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I thought this movie was even better than the series!  I am a long time watcher of the t.v. series, and I absolutely thought this was better.  I especially like the scene were Beavis and Butthead (my heroes) are in the desert.  I thought that was funny, along with every other scene.  I advise this movie for anyone who loves the series, or for anyone who loves to laugh. 9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If you like the series, you'll love the film. Beavis & Butt-head get to explore the wonders of America and find their own instead. Old Faithful doesn't stand a chance against the autoflush toilets, and confession booths get downgraded to porta-potties. Beavis gets to do his famous Cornholio routine a couple of times, and his talks with a nice old lady are just so funny. The rest of the usual cast shows up shortly with a very nice part for van Driessen. And all in all a very funny movie. "},{"Title":"Huh-huh-huh.  This movie rules.","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm happy to say that Beavis and Butt-head Do America does not suck.  This movie is so funny that I laughed my ass off.  These two monkey spankers (voice of Mike Judge) make their offbeat debut as themselves.  They travel cross-country to find this butthole who took their TV.  While in search for their set, they find themselves unknowingly caught up in a weapons smuggling scam.  In one scene, Beavis feels something is in the back of his pants, but has no idea that a chick named Dallas (Demi Moore) has managed to implant a bomb in there.  Beavis assumes that there's something wrong with his butt.  Before meeting Dallas, Beavis and Butt-head were hired by Dallas' low-life husband named Muddy (Bruce Willis) to do her.  Of course, they take that very literal and set off to find her.  These two fartknockers are so stupid that they are unaware that they are given the runaround. Dallas puts B&B on a bus with mostly senior citizens so that they can meet up in Washington, D.C.  While on their long odyssey, they are unknowingly pursued by government agents throughout the entire movie.  Robert Stack (a.ka. Eliott Ness of The Untouhables) as the voice of a government agent is equally funny as Beavis' alter ego, the Great Cornholio.  B&B repeat just about every line that they use on their popular MTV show, but still they're funny.  Also, this film wouldn't be complete without funny references to old movies/TV shows.  The first scene is a very funny spin-off of King Kong vs. Godzilla.  Mike Judge teams with Isaac Hayes on the theme song.  This movie is cool. Huh-huh-huh.    My evaluation *** out of ****.   "},{"Title":"Beavis and Butt-Head rocks!","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Beavis and Butt-Head Do America is one of my favorite cartoon movies ever done! Beavis and Butt-Head makes me wanna laugh till my mom tells me to shut-up! They bring their wicked humor from MTV to the big screen make it more interesting! I like Beavis doing is Cornholio act, it's a  classic! I like the FBI breaking into their hippie teachers' classroom and SWAT guys punched him in the stomach and trashed his guitar! it had a funny ending and the theme song,a 1970's sound by Issac Hayes.  I wish Beavis and Butt-Head do a sequel to their movie.Anyway this movie is the best buddie movies I ever saw is like  Butch Cassidy and Sundance Kid gone Heavy Metal! I give it thumbs up!!!!!!!!1 "},{"Title":"They're dangerous, move to DEFCON 4!","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Beavis and Butt-head do America is something GREAT for the true fans of the series. The crazy humor flourishes hilariously as the dynamic duo travels across the States just for the sake of scoring (and who of us would not for a terrific babe?).The movie contains classic themes of the series and is based around - what else - their TV. In the desperate search for their tube they destroy many All-American sights (except for the Mt. Rushmore) causing later on military to move to DEFCON 4. Plot is narrated greatly and their wonderful neighbor (oh, the lovely toolshed provider) is having a nice grin; part too.Overall this picture is a must see for people who like B&B. And for you who love the series, be ashamed in case you've not seen this one yet. In the very worst scenario you've not seen any Beavis and Butt-head series I suggest to get used to the weird and nasty humor first by checking out some MTV episodes and later on moving into this fabulous movie.***** - A must see! "},{"Title":"Funniest movie of all time!!!","Date":"22 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is just GREAT. It is incredibly funny and entertaining. Beavis and Butt-head get some top secret weapon developed by the US government, and they are not even aware of it. They go from town to town through America in search of the chick that told them they would score with her, but only if they do bring her the secret weapon. Lots of funny stuff, unbelievable. Pure hilarity. The best movie of all time. A classic! "},{"Title":"ROLLING ON THE FLOOR LAUGHING SO HARD!!!!!!!","Date":"9 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  that's exactly what i was doing in this whole movie! If ya love the show see the movie you will love it! "}{"Title":"suprisingly funny","Date":"11 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm surprised. The humor on the tv show is rather dimwitted and played out... but the movie was excellent. Hilarious, original, inventive. Much better than the show. "},{"Title":"Humorous in parts, but nothing special. Huh, huh.","Date":"17 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I like B&B, but there's not enough material here to warrant a feature film. Lesbian Seagull got a huge laugh from me, but Robert Stack as an FBI agent with a thing for cavity searches, didn't. Unfortunately, he occupies quite a lot of screen time and I became bored quickly. And what's with the cornholio thing?Was that supposed to be funny?Demi Moore(uncredited) isn't bad, but I didn't recognise the voice of Bruce Willis. David Letterman, Cloris Leachman(Young Frankenstein, History of the World Part 1)and David Spade did nothing for me. The plot B&B look all over America for their lost TV and end up in all sorts of crazy hijinks. Lots of dry patches and REALLY bad jokes(Did she say, EXTEND?- I'm not ruining anything for you, it's in the previews). Like the lame Bean(excellent TV show), this should've stayed on the box. "},{"Title":"Better than the TV series","Date":"9 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  On the TV series, Beavis and Butt-head don't get much time an episode, and not much to do, but Mike Judge has always kept it original. The movie is the best work he has done yet. It is also one of my favorite comedies. It is so good, anyone who doesn't watch the series will like it just as much as people who do. "},{"Title":"ha ha ha","Date":"16 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  SO funny!!! If u love these two idiots on Mtv u will love this movie.  There wasn't a second in this movie in which i wasn't laughing. "},{"Title":"Here's The Boys Who Did America & Scored (Well, Almost)","Date":"8 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Favorite Movie Quote Why does everyone want to look at my schlong?(Huh-huh-huh) Is this movie dumb? - Yes.Is this movie funny? - Yes. Most definitely! I mean, according to Bungholio, even someone like Engelbert Humperdinck (huh-huh-huh) would enjoy the moronic level of humor that's readily found in this flick. But, then again, seeing really is believing.For those who don't already know this, Beavis and Butthead are the unabashedly ignorant, flagrantly antisocial, hormonally charged, adolescent duo (who never understand any situation) from MTV's once-popular television series of the same name.In this crudely drawn and outrageously funny Comedy from 1996, Beavis and Butthead (a pair of real idiot-losers) find themselves on a cross-country odyssey that begins right at home when someone steals their beloved, all-important TV set.Alternately stupid, gross, and, genuinely hilarious (guaranteed), Beavis & Butthead Do America is a modest cartoon feature that is certainly true to nobody, but itself. And, yes, it's most certain to please even more than just hardcore fans of the now-defunct TV show.Directed by Mike Judge (creator and voice of the title characters), this film features the voice-talents of such Hollywood stars as Demi Moore, Eric Bogosian, David Letterman, and, best of all, Robert Stack, as the hard-nosed Federal Agent, Flemming.Huh-huh-huh. "},{"Title":"quick reviews!","Date":"24 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  One of the seminal TV shows of my life. When I was nine, ten, and beyond, I listened to G'n'R, Nirvana, and watched Beavis and Butthead. It made perfect sense, and no-one else got it, which also made perfect sense. Of my age, I only knew of two other people who listened to this kind of music, and watched this kind of TV, and they just happened to be my two best mates. This was before I'd ever seen The Simpsons. Soon after, G'n'R split up, and after that Kurt died, and my friends moved away. I never had Sky, so my access to Beavis and Butthead disappeared. But to cut the boring crap, this movie came out, and though I missed at the cinema for reasons unknown, I soon saw it, and loved it. It had everything that made the show so great. Humour I felt privileged to understand, while parents and younger kids, and those who loved their 'beats' didn't have a clue. Now I'm older, I can understand the movie more, the peyote scene being a classic example. Willis and Moore don't add anything special to the mix, they could have been voiced by anyone and I would still find the movie funny. The donkey scene so true, the toilet scene wish I had those, and the road signs oh I'm laughing now just thinking about it. Good to see Mr Anderson finally get a good seeing to. Only disappointment, um&#133; the absence of Todd, and Stuart, with his 'Winger' T-shirt. He tried so hard. Must stop. I'm laughing too hard. 8 out of 10  "},{"Title":"The series is better, but this is still good","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Even at a slight 80 minute length, this film has a number of slow spots that seem to prove that this witless duo is more fun to watch on the original show.  However, this is still a good movie that is a MUST for fans of the MTV series.  There's just something about Beavis and Butt-head that is tremendously entertaining, and when the film kept the focus on them, it generally worked the best.  Yes, this film is flawed, but it is also a rare funny film in an era of frequently laughless comedies, and as a result, I have to recommend it. "},{"Title":"Fun movie of lovable idiot slackers","Date":"1 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" MTV slacker icons Beavis and Butt-Head find their TV stolen. This sets them off on an epic quest to get a TV. They stumble onto a murder for hire. They are told to do her but she turns out to be an arms smuggler with a deadly virus. She sends them on a bus trip to DC with the virus sewn into Butt-Head's shorts.Mike Judge has created two lovable idiot slackers. They stay lovable throughout and that's why this movie works so well. These are slobbering sex-obsessed idiot teens. Of course, some people can try to take it too seriously and complain about its low-brow vulgarity. They would right that this is vulgar but it doesn't make it lowest common denominator. This is well written by smart people and not just a series of bad jokes. This is a fun movie with some pretty big laughs. "},{"Title":"Two dips hit the road to score","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*It's official. The suspense is over. I don't like Beavis and Butthead. They're too stupid and annoying for me. There, I've gotten that off my chest and I feel better for it.  Their nonstop laughter grates me. So why did I bother watching this? Because when it comes to movies, I'm an eternal optimist.So Beavis and Butthead hit the road to find their stolen TV.  The dips get embroiled in a weapons smuggling scheme and are chased by a body cavity searching G-man. Somewhere along the way they hope to score with the opposite sex. Don't we all?This movie was fair. A 5/10. I laughed at a few spots. But B&B annoy me too much for me to really like this movie. The show was kind of funny because B&B gave a running commentary on the videos they watched. Unfortunately their TV was unplugged for this adventure. This left us with only Beavis and Butthead and their shrill cackles echoing across America. Heh heh ehhhhhh...  "},{"Title":"Read my review...mixed feelings","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I had never watched the television show, so I can't compare it tothe movie.  All I know is that the movie was fairly entertaining and Ienjoyed it somewhat.  I just got so annoyed with the hehhehhuhhuh; it drove me crazy.  There are just certain sounds that I cannot bear to listen to, and this was one of them.  The old lady in themovie reminds me a little of my grandmother.   I remember howthis cartoon upset a lot of people because of its crudeness, butmost importantly because of its bad influence.  It's rated PG-13.  Iwas a little surprised.  I expected R.  But it's not nearly as bad asSouth Park, I believe.  That's probably why nobody talks aboutBeavis and Butt-head anymore, or from what I can tell.  I still don'tbelieve it's appropriate material for kids because it just isn't.  Thereare better things to watch.  It's a fairly funny movie, as long as yourealize that these are grotesque characters and none of what theydo should be admired at all. 6/10 "}{"Title":"One of the funniest animated films ever","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Beavis and Butt-Head, two of the most popular properties on the MTV cable network get their own film with this 1996 Paramount release. The two TV obsessed teenaged slackers go on a cross country road trip on a mission to find their stolen TV set and in the process wind up being on the run from FBI and government officals who mistake them for criminal masterminds. The two of them never actually realize that they're being pursued and just basically hilariously comment on everyone and everything in their path. It's mostly just a longer version of one of their TV show episodes and a very funny one at that. A hilarious animated film.   "},{"Title":"even by the lowest standards it's pretty funny","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Ignorant, adolescent slackers Beavis and Butt-Head successfully make their way onto the big screen in this entertaining animated feature. The story begins as the two find themselves the victims of robbery and boredom after their beloved television set is stolen from their home. Eventually circumstances&#x97;and a case of mistaken identity&#x97;send them on a cross-country road trip where they get entangled in a complex terrorist scheme. The film was obviously made to please fans of the controversial MTV television show, but by most standards it's pretty funny, sometimes downright hilarious. Maybe not for all tastes, but a lot to enjoy with a first-rate cast of voices. *** "},{"Title":"pretty good","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Beavis and Butt-head do America is pretty good. It's not real funny,but funny. I still think the tv shows were funnier. The movie is too far-fetched. the tv shows were never far-fetched. They were funny as hell,without a big plot behind it. They left out one character in the movie which was Todd. The guy that's always bad-mouthing, and beating up Beavis and Butt-head. All in all the movie was pretty good, but could've been a little better. I give Beavis and Butt-head do America **1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"fleas","Date":"24 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The tv show was great, but this movie was extremely boring, pointless, and devoid of the enthusiasm that made the series. A 4.5/10.   "},{"Title":"Like the television show, it's funny in it's stupidity, but grows tiring after a while.","Date":"19 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Beavis and Butthead was a really dumb show, but it knew how to be dumb and funny at the same time, and most of the show's laughs were produced from the stupid situations these idiots get themselves into. For me, the movie was the same way. The lines that were trying to be crude and funny rarely worked, but the whole idea that these guys think they are actually funny, and look at the world through such a skewed perspective makes the movie quite watchable, though it does get tiring after a while.The title characters wake up to find their television set stolen and go around aimlessly trying to find it. They end up carrying a valuable government computer chip, which of course they could know and care less about. As the plot unfolds, everyone tries to get the chip back and find these boys, but all they care about is finding their television set, and by the end, they know as little about what just happened as someone who just tuned into the beginning of the movie would.This movie is funny to a point, and when that point is broken it becomes a nonstop barrage of fart jokes and stupidity that becomes really obnoxious. The characters of Beavis and Butthead are quite likable. They're almost like little sex and fart loving babies who don't know anything, and look at everything with a dumbfounded awe. The other characters in the movie are pretty good, including scumbags Muddy and Dallas Grimes voiced by ex-couple Bruce Willis and Demi Moore, ATF agent Flemming (Robert Stack) and an old lady who happens to be going to same places as the boys voiced by Cloris Leachman. The back up characters sometimes pick up the film when it lags.Overall, this is an OK movie. It's sometimes funny, sometimes annoying, but overall it's a fairly amusing adaptation of a pretty good television show.My rating ** 1/2 out of ****. 81 mins. PG-13 for language and crude/sexual humor. "},{"Title":"For the fans","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I never liked Beavis and Butt-head the TV series but I enjoyed this movie. It takes getting used to though. At times I felt like throwing the TV out if Butt-head laughed once more or said score. They can be so irritating but it's their stupidity that makes it funny.The entire joke of the movie is that Beavis and Butt-head are travelling across America thinking they'll score with Demi Moore all while being tracked by the FBI because they're inadvertently carrying a secret weapon. Along the way Beavis and Butt-head make unscheduled and accidental stops which confuse the FBI leading them to believe the duo are geniuses. This is highly original stuff.But it's not the storyline it's the characters that are funny. The old lady, the man who owns the camper (who looks remarkably like Hank Hill) and top performances to Robert Stack as the FBI agent. Give them a cavity search becomes his trademark line. Beavis and Butt-head is for the fans but don't write it off if you're not one. "},{"Title":"Once Upon a Time...","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Once upon a time I was bored. I looked at the TV Guide. I saw Beavis & Butt-head do America was on soon. I turned the television on. I saw 15 minutes of Beavis & Butt-head do America. I turned the television off. The End. "},{"Title":"I tried... I really tried to watch this to the end, but I couldn't...","Date":"15 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is one of the crappiest movies I've ever seen(although not completed). This movie is so crappy and so not-funny it was a pain to watch the hour I endured. I mean, come on... This is just completely boring, and immature, but not immature in a good way. I love cartoons like South Park, The Critic and The Simpsons, but this... the horror of this movie is unspeakable!Fart jokes can to a certain extent be funny, like in South Park and Family Guy, this piece of sh*t doesn't even seem to try. They can just sit there, fart and laugh that extremely annoying laugh, I should commit myself for therapy trying to cope with the terrors of this horrible, horrible film!Personally I think 1/10 stars is more than this movie deserves. "},{"Title":"Missed Baywatch","Date":"31 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I'm constantly amazed at how quickly some fresh, edgy cinematic ideas go stale. This was  strange enough it its time to be noticed the placement of the narrative stance within the  sixth grade.Having played its small role in advancing the scope of narrative irony, it is now merely  stupid. I guess the torch has been temporarily passed to Austin Powers.Ted's evaluation 1 of 3 -- You can find something better to do with this part of your life.  "},{"Title":"No Surprise...","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Duped by a sexy arms dealer (who just happens to be voiced by Demi Moore) into smuggling a chemical weapon across the U.S., the dopey duo wreak havoc and hell while trying to lose their virginity as they visit Las Vegas, the Hoover Dam and the White House. The laughs similar to the television series. Entertaining if you enjoy these two. I admit I still have a place in my heart for these two, even if they are retarded in the highest form.  "}{"Title":"Beavis and Butt-Head Do America","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" From the creator of King of the Hill, Mike Judge, I've never seen the TV series, but this feature length film that the two TV loving, rude talking and utterly awful teenagers appear in is a pretty good cartoon. There are a few times when Beavis and Butt-Head are annoying because of their snivelling and stupidity, but then you have to remember that is the point and the joke. Anyway, basically their television is stolen, so they embark on a journey to recover it, and in the meantime they knock on people's doors to watch it. Unfortunately, they knock on a drunk criminal's door, Muddy Grimes (Bruce Willis) who thinks they are two professional killer's assigned to kill his wife. They are now on a journey by this woman, Dallas Grimes (Willis's wife at the time, Demi Moore) to get to Washington. They are so stupid because they think they are being payed thousands, or are going to score. Also starring Cloris Leachman as the Old Woman on Plane and Bus. The moment where an older lookalike of Butt-Head farts next to a fire is a highlight for me. Beavis and Butt-Head was number 32 on The 100 Greatest Cartoons. Good! "},{"Title":"See only if you have nothing better to do or you are an animation hard-core fan and haven't seen it before.","Date":"4 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A movie that shatter the theory that you need a story to make a good animated film. Thus arises the question of what is a good animated film? Is it the quality of the animation? A new style of animation? How much money it got at the box office? Would you watch it more than once?Well, the animation is pretty good, and the style is new, and was pretty successful it the time. I wouldn't watch it again but I guess there ARE people out there that just can't get enough of the toilet humor. Thus success! You don't really need a sophisticated or deep plot to make a feature animation. Only a couple of hung over animators and some really good songs.So as I said, go see only if you have nothing better to do or you are an animation hard-core fan and haven't seen it before. "},{"Title":"this one sucks,....hehehe","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  this movie is not really good, actually ... it sucks. It's funny to watch on mtv 'couse it will be for a few minutes. If you see this for an hour or more... no thx. maybe little kids will like this movie if they are drunk by some alcohol) "}]