[{"Title":"Interesting and Entertaining Film","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"49 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is a very entertaining blend of supernatural thriller and teen movie. Sarah (played by Robin Tunney) is the new girl at a Catholic shool in Los Angeles where she meets a group of girls (Fairuza Balk, Neve Campbell and Rachel True) who dabble in witchcraft. When Sarah joins the group they discover that they have genuine power and start using it to sort out their personal problems, until the group's leader Nacy (Balk) starts taking it too far.The film is well-made and several shades darker than the average teen movie. The cast are all very good, especially Fairuza Balk who easily steals the film with her part.The film's portrayal of witchcraft is a bit more interesting than the standard Hollywood portrayal, and it certainly doesn't represent it as essentially evil, which makes a nice change. However, as always, this is Hollywood so many liberties will have been taken with genuine wiccan practices.The film is worth a look, however. The only thing that lets it down is the overblown climax. "},{"Title":"solid but disjointed.","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"44 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  this movie could have easily been closer to an 8 or 9 with a little more attention to the script. the movie, while enjoyable and well made, has a weird disjointed structure that takes away from the all around excellent performances.of particular note is the stunning performance by Fairuza Balk. she has to have the most hypnotyzing eyes of any actress i've ever seen. i really hope a femme fatalle role is in her future. in addition to having a unique look, she has the ability to get REALLY over the top in the evil category. neve campbell and robin tunney, with ms. tunney being exceptionally beautiful, each deliver solid performances as well.the movie kicks into special effects overdrive at the end and it doesn't completely fit with the feel and tone with the rest of the movie.overrall, though i enjoyed it and i recommend it to anyone looking for a above average witch flick.rating7 "},{"Title":"A good fantasy movie that capitalizes on the neopaganism boom.","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"44 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" One of the complaints brought against this movie by practicing wiccans is that it gives the false impression that wiccans engage in bad magic -- putting curses and spells on one's enemies. I would like to remind any peeved wiccans who might read this that the biggest lie this movie tells about them isn't that they cast spells, but that their spells actually work.But that's the very lie we expect fantasy films to tell us. We demand it, in fact. This one, at least, does a very nice job of conveying the longing for power that motivates some to practice wicca and other forms of magick. It's also fun and entertaining, and lovely to look at in places. The famous butterfly scene, in particular, will take your breath away. Over-all, this was a much better movie than it's been given credit for being. "},{"Title":"Yummy!","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"33 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Robin Tunney, Fairuza Balk, Neve Campbell, and Rachel True all star in this yummy film of the mid 90's involving four hot and spicy young women at St. Bernhards Catholic School. Robin Tunney is a major hottie in this one, as she enters the unknown when joining a coven at her new school. With a history of blackness behind her, the most important thing she wants, is to have friends, what else could anyone need? That is when the bitching starts! One false word and you pay the price with these gals. Robin Tunney sizzles as the naive natural witch, with a power beyond good and evil. Neve Campbell does not get any better than that, all in black. Rachel True is well cast as the misplaced black girl, whom puts every one else in their place. We all know, however, that the best actress award in this flick goes to Fairuza Balk, as she fries the role, and the rest of the film with an over-the-top performance. Balk milks the film for all it is worth, when bringing down the tone to a very black, violent,and witchy nature. Flemming does a magical job transforming these four beauties into guardians of the circle. When first heard of, this would sound like an A-class Carrie rip-off, but then watch it and realize, it deals with more than powers. It deals with the rules of the wicca generation, and history of the witch. Carrie White was an all powerful demon who stands the test of a different time, these babes, are 100% witches, and ready to turn you upside down! Great job Flemming, you brought us an exciting film, enjoyable over and over again. "},{"Title":"A Suspenseful and Creepy Movie","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"25 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Not a really new story about Witch Craft among girl friends but enough twists and surprizes and effects to rise above most.  Very well done by all Especially Robin and Fairuza.  Very Good effects.  Good vs. Evil conflict really kept you in the movie. Great to see in a theater or on a big screen.  "},{"Title":"If you want a good cat fight, watch it","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It's not a scary movie, it's like a weird version of Clueless. It brings me back to when I was in grade school and wanted to be apart of high school. And I always wondered if this was like what my future would hold meeting new people. Witches? The plot is kinda basic Evil Dawson's Creek. D Sarah is the new girl in town who is trying to fit in with very rude and snobby people at her new school. You can tell from the beginning that there is something very special about her. There are three girls, Nancy, who is the white trash scary goth girl, Bonnie who has severe burn marks all over her back, and Rachelle who is constantly picked on by a racist school girl, they notice Saraa and they happen to be witches who need a forth in their group, guess who that is? Sarah! She is also noticed by the high school jock jerk who uses girls and treats them like whores. She is first frightened by the girls, mostly Nancy, and leaves. She goes to see Chris, but when she refuses a private invite to his house, he spreads a nasty rumor around school about her night with him. She goes back to the girls and they discover how much more powerful they are with Sarah. They perform simple spells at first flying, love spells, changing appearances. But things get more intense and serious Bonnie's scars magically disappear and becomes gorgeous, but snobby. Rachelle's racist bully looses her hair, which seems cool, but is eventually very cruel and immature. Nancy has her step father killed in some way of a stroke, and inherits $175,000. She also goes as deep as to invoke the spirit of their beliefs of Manoe and becomes crazy. Sarah's love spell on Chris was to only get him to like her and apologize, but it turns on her very badly when he becomes too obsessed with her. Sarah knows that things are bad and decides not to participate her magics with the group and they turn on her, badly. To the point of threatening her life.It's a strange movie, it's entertaining to watch and the acting is pretty decent. You really get into the movie. I'm not sure if you could call it scary. But like the critics said It's Carrie meets Clueless. It's a fun teen movie. So if you liked those movies, you might like this. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Not bad!","Date":"16 August 2006","Score":"22 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie was better than I expected. It's about a girl who moves and meets three girls at her new school, who seem to be practicing witchcraft... The movie certainly appealed to me, the acting was not bad, certainly Robin Tunney (who plays Veronica in Prison Break) did a good job, but also Neve Campbell and Rachel True are acting alright. The only person of who I didn't like the acting, was Fairuza Balk. Her voice is (in this movie) not exactly the nicest voice to listen to. But she dóés have some good moments in this movie. Director Andrew Fleming, who's budget for The Craft wasn't so big, did a good job. The movie is -at least in the first half- a good combination between a thriller and a comedy, in the end, all the comedy disappears, the atmosphere darkens and we get a fairly exciting thriller. Some of the special effects are very good. The music was o.k., but (except for a few scenes) nothing more. If you have the chance to watch this, try it! The movie will certainly not appeal to everyone, the movie is more for teenagers and people in their early twenties, I think. Many older people won't appreciate this film so much. But everyone should give The Craft a try! "},{"Title":"I Love The Craft","Date":"18 December 2002","Score":"41 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Craft is one of my favorite movies of all time. I just love it so much, everytime I watch it I go into this fantasy world. It's about a girl named sarah(Robin Tunney) she moves into a new town due to some bad past experiences. In the beginning everything goes great, she becomes best friends with these three girls that are interested in the occult and practice witchcraft. They are known as outsiders in the school, and when sarah becomes friends with them, they form a circle. Sarah feels wonderful, finally she feels like she belongs. The three girls consist of nancy, the gothic wicked leader(fairuza balk), bonnie, the insecure one(neve campbell), and rochelle, the shy one(Rachel True). Suddenly Sarah realizes that their spells and wicked fun have to come to an end. She feels like everything is going out of control and that the gang, especially Nancy is going a little insane and is using her power in evil ways. When Sarah tries to leave the circle, nancy turns her back on her and tries to ruin her life in every way she can. This is seriously a great movie, and if you are looking for a wicked fun time, definately see the craft. All the actresses are great, especially Fairuza Balk, she is so hot and so damn gorgeous. I would give The Craft 10/10 "},{"Title":"A lot darker than your usual teen flick","Date":"11 November 2004","Score":"14 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" SPOILERSI thought this was a pretty decent teen flick - if you remember that it is, at the end of the day, a teen flick. No one should be expecting massive doses of striking directorial depth or stunning method-acting here. When taken for what it is - ie. a teen jaunt about peer pressure, teen cruelty and the hidden power-trip behind most teens' quest for emancipation, this is a pretty decent film.What surprised me was the fact that, given the opportunity to go ditzy, the script went dark - and that's always good when you're bucking convention. This ain't no Clueless. I think Fairuza is one scary, scary chick and seeing her all tied up in a mental asylum didn't quite put the fear out. Why doesn't she do more horror movies? I think she'd be one helluva a scream queen!6.5 out of 10!PS check out the somewhat toneless rendition of Peter Gabriel's I have the Touch in the movie. The original is way better! "},{"Title":"One of the first witch movies I watched","Date":"6 July 2006","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In 1996, when this movie was released, it was very popular and I was 10 years old. I remember that ''The Craft'' was one of the very first movies about witchcraft I watched and liked a lot, and at that time I was all excited with Wicca and stuff like that.(But I know that this happened with a big number of people,specially girls) I only discovered this year that the actress who plays Nancy, Fairuza Balk , really is a witch Maybe that's the reason why I think her looks and role are one of the best. It's funny to see Neve Campbell when she wasn't so famous as she is now. (By the way, it's my impression or she is inactive?) Sarah, played by Robin Tunney, is THE witch, the really powerful and good one, since her late mother was a powerful white witch, and unlike the other girls, she has the inherent gift of witchcraft herself. "}{"Title":"think mean girls  with an edge(and multiply that to the nth degree)","Date":"20 July 2007","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" i liked this movie.i found it entertaining,creepy and amusing,for all the right reasons.the cast was perfect for this movie.the four main actresses seemed so natural together and really worked well off each other.it's fairly obvious this movie inspired others as well as some TV shows,one in particular.i loved the soundtrack.it just seemed so fitting not just for the movie but for the subject material.i think they the subject matter well,without making it ridiculous and campy.plus,the movie has many relevant issues for that age group (teenagers in high school) as well as society in general.it also has a great moral lesson,which i won't give away,but is probably fairly obvious.overall,the movie is a fun and thrilling 90 plus minutes.The Craft is easily an 8/10 from me. "},{"Title":"I like this movie","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"32 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I like this movie.  Even though I am male, I always had an interest in witchcraft and the like.  I do not know too much about Wiccan culture, but I know it is based on nature, and for that reason I really like it because I'm a nature fan.I liked how each of the girls had their own social nitche (ie; the goth, the recluse, the new girl, and the minority). It was well balanced.  I think the four women did an excellent job in their own respective parts. Bravo!I also liked now the girls got back on the racist ditz(Laura) and the jock (Chris).  I liked this revenge theme going on, albeit, in the end it comes back and bites them back. What goes around comes around.This movie is *not* for the religious fanatic as it deals with alternative beliefs. This is one of the main reasons why I like this movie so much, it features alternative beliefs rather than mainstream, boring spiritualities.The soundtrack is great too!8/10 "},{"Title":"Delivers expectations.","Date":"3 July 2007","Score":"17 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Very entertaining flick about three young witches and how they make a pretty, innocent girl turn into the Occultism.Soon after they get REALLY into the Witchcraft aspect and more things related to an evil spirit, they start to lose control on their lives.They use their powers for evil purposes and that's when hell breaks loose. The innocent girl, played by the sexy-beautiful , cute Robbin Tunney realizes that her life is in danger so she decides to leave the clan but that's when terrible things start to happen to her.Pretty entertaining flick for a younger audience. Contains sensuality, use of drugs, and more aspects that PG-13 fans should enjoy.A must see for the MTV Generation. I enjoyed it back when it premiered on theaters. "},{"Title":"As Nancy put it, BRAVO! (Claps his hands)","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie did have it's low points (Like in the beginning with the whole snake thing), but it is well worth watching. It's a real intense piece of work, all four actresses did an excellent job.Everything really came together, especially the near - end scene where Nancy and Sarah face off.  If you can, watch this movie... you'll really enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Very Cool","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The great thing about The Craft is that it reminds me of those 80's horror movies I used to watch as a kid. It's got suspense and thrills, which so few horror films have had in recent years. I would recommend it to anyone. I can't find a thing wrong with this movie, rent it now, trust me you won't regret it "},{"Title":"Fairuza Balk steals the show!","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is a really good witchcraft movie! Robin Tunney and Fairuza Balk give a great performaces in this movie. Robin Tunney(Sarah) moves to a new California town and starts hanging out with Fairuza Bulk and her bunch. Soon do they realize all 4 of them have powers that are unbelieveable. Throughout the movie you can tell how Fairuza is really into her charactor. The ending to this movie was great...with Tunney and Balk showing there powers. Nice cameo apperance by Christine Taylor)Wedding Singer, Brady Bunch movies)  i give this movie 3 and a half stars ***1/2 "},{"Title":"The Daft.","Date":"15 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Teen angst movies are rarely realistic, and more rarely cast actual teenagers. A gaggle of twenty-somethings working through their collective angst with witchcraft is about as far-fetched as you can get. I'd willing to accept all of this if the film were clever or atmospheric, but it achieves neither, opting for a TV-style, by-the-numbers approach. It could have been so much more.The story features four outcast girls (the sad, pouting Robin Tunney, the 29-year-old Rachel True, the mightily-boobed Neve Campbell, and the absolutely dee-lish Fairuza Balk) who come together to invoke the spirit of Manon (as sort-of universal deity with unlimited power) in order to satisfy their petty desires. Low-wattage drama with not one shred of an epic moment follows.I liked this film when I saw it in the cinema as a teenager, mainly because of the yummy girls. As an adult I can see that the film has lots of lame dialogue, bad editing, and poor photography. Revenge fantasies, especially for high school kids, are clichéd and old-fashioned as well as being dangerous. There's not much reason to watch this other than ogling the skin on show.Why this got an R-rating is beyond me. Apparently the MPAA regarded the witchcraft to be dangerous and insisted on an R when the film is clearly no harder than a PG-13. I think this is absolutely moronic. With their logic Harry Potter and Charmed should be for adults only. "},{"Title":"Nature is both light and dark...","Date":"20 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  POSSIBLE SPOILERSI like this film because it presents a totally different religion (in a world and a SCHOOL where Catholicism and Christ are the main backbone) without shoving the alternative religion down our throats. I'm interested in different cultures and beliefs, including witchcraft. There are no good witches and there are no bad witches, because people have both goodness and badness inside of them. Nature is truthful in it's darkness as well as its light. The story is of four girls in an LA Catholic school Bonnie (Neve Campbell), a girl who hides behind her shaggy hair and believes that burn scars on her back make her an ugly monster; Rochelle (Rachel True), a pretty black girl who is tormented by a mean spirited racist blonde (Christine Taylor); Sarah (Robin Tunney) a girl who recently moved into town from San Fran and whom the girls quickly notice has natural powers; and finally, Nancy (Fairuza Balk) the creepy, gleeful goth girl who seems to be the leader of the little group of misfits. With the arrival of Sarah, they are a foursome, and capable of calling the corners. In time, they are able to make contact with their god Manon, who is described as everything and everywhere, nature pretty much. They make wishes and cast spells and things begin to go their way Sarah gets the school hunk (Skeet Ulrich) to fall for her; Bonnie's burn scars are healed and she turns from caterpillar to butterfly; Rochelle gets some revenge when mean Blondie's hair begins to fall out; and Nancy's step dad dies and leaves her family with more money than they know what to do with!!! I LOVED Balk in this movie. She has the goth chick down pat. Black lipstick, wicked personality. Hers was the most entertaining performance. The other girls are great too, more subtle, but great. The battle between darkness and light at the end is great and Tunney's performance is the best right next to Balk's. I disagree with those who call this a scarey Clueless. It's a good, real horror movie about the world of witches. And no Harry Potter stuff here, thank God. In fact, this is scarier than THE WITCHES OF EASTWICK and that one is darn scarey!!! I wouldn't recommend this to kids under 13 at all!!! It's a good, real horror/thriller with clever comedy added in. "},{"Title":"The Best Horror Film Of All Time!","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  As you can see from the above I really do like this movie.  (I hated Scream!) The four actresses are really well cast and it is scary,  probably more due to the fact that every child wants to get involved in witchcraft or black magic at one time in their life and this movie shows what happens when it gets out of hand.  I particularly liked the ending and thought that the sound track was also wicked! "},{"Title":"I LOVE THIS MOVIE....","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I love this movie Fairuza Balk, Robin Tunney,Rachel True, and Neve Campbell are very good my favorite part is when they get together to cast spells I love the part where there in the forest and enter Sarah into their circle I'm really into movies that have to do with witches and I also like the spell Nancy, Bonnie, and Rochelle say at the beginning before they meet Sarah Now is the time now is the hour of power..... I love this movie it's good. "}{"Title":"paint by numbers teen revenge drama","Date":"25 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Sarah Bailey (Robin Tunney) is the new girl in the Catholic prep high school. She befriends a trio of outcast girls who dabble in witchcraft. Nancy Downs (Fairuza Balk) has troubled impoverished abusive home. Bonnie (Neve Campbell) has massive burns on her back. Rochelle (Rachel True) faces taunting from popular girl. When popular jock Chris Hooker (Skeet Ulrich) spreads rumors about Sarah, the girls cast a spell on him. This leads to more and more powerful spells as things spiral out of control.The girls are interesting. It's too bad the story is so mundane. It's strictly a paint by numbers teen revenge drama. It has no surprises. Other than putting hot girls in Catholic school uniforms, there isn't much to recommend from this film. Robin Tunney may not be the best to play Sarah. If I had the choice, I'd rather choose Neve Campbell. She can bring a lot more sweetness and innocence to the main role. That way the rumors would hurt more. The reluctance to play with witchcraft would be more pronounced. "},{"Title":"Decent little story idea, but with a very bland leading actress that brings the movie down","Date":"10 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When written on paper you know the structure of this story. Girl makes friends at a High School, as time goes on they discover that they can make things happen, they abuse the power, girl from beginning backs down while the leader of the group goes insane, the conflict is resolved.Now I have just explained to you the basic plot. My one biggest beef with the movie is Robin Tunney, she can't act. She delivers the lines almost as if she is bored. Fairuza Balk on the other hand is by far the best thing about this movie. If you've seen her in enough roles (and I have) the name Fairuza Balk is almost a selling point. If only they got someone as talented as her to replace Robin Tunney.This movie is worth a watch. The Story is a good idea (even if it isn't original) and so is the performance by Fairuza Balk but that is around about it. "},{"Title":"Deadly Girls","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I have had this film on video, for ages now, and It was forgotten until I saw it on DVD at Tescos, So I decided to purchase it and view the film These 4 Girls if you annoy them can be deadly, But I warn you watch out that you do not get on the wrong side of Nancy, the goth! the other girls only wanted little things of morn, but Nancy wanted Mohen to absorb her completely, that I thought was greedy! I think that Sarah was the most prettiest of the 4! Robin Tinney. The effects are stunning and breath taking. I also liked it when Rachel the dark girl took revenge on that blonde one in the shower! My Video is now stored, as the sound at the beginning is poor. I prefer DVD quality! I can watch this film again and again and will not grow tired of it I have the collector's edition with special features on it and interviews with the 4 girls who I like. I rate this film 10/10 and give it 12 stars! "},{"Title":"Entertaining...not meant to be taken seriously","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Nancy, Bonnie, and Rochelle are a coven of witches at a Catholic school when Sarah joins. Sarah says, I've never had any really close friends in San Francisco. She feels accepted until the other witches begin to use magic on her. I liked the movie because of the special effects, but DON'T take this seriously. "},{"Title":"devishly delicious!","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"     i'll just say that robin tunney and fairuza balk were just really easy on the eyes. that being said, watching four girls be bitchy is always a treat in this reviewer's eyes and watching them as teenagers set off some delectably evil thoughts out into the aether. 6.4 out of 10 stars....the dialogue and plot were o.k. "},{"Title":"Witchcraft 101","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Craft is about a group of high school outcasts who just happen to have a thing for witchcraft.  They meet out of towner Sarah who ends up joining the group.  At first, they like each other and practice their new hobby.  But unfortunately, the fun doesn't last.  Jealousy and madness ensue.  This was a good film.  The ladies are hot.  But Robin Tunney was definitely the sexiest of them all.  I was constantly surprised at what the girls did.  But then again it's just special effects.  Anyway, this one was amazingly a hit to me.  ***stars.  (Columbia) "},{"Title":"Wiccan good","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"    A Story about a group of misfits in an catholic High School who turn to wicaan to make thier dreams come true.     A pretty decent movie better than the usual teen horor movies that have been made that year.Grame Revell's score was cool,if you can find the Special edition DVD grab it for the score but they also include the Rock songs in it too. "},{"Title":"Massively Under-rated, watch two actors at their peak...","Date":"18 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The strangest phenomena in film today (and I have seen a couple) are films which, when you see them, you think they are merely OK but on second viewing they get better, third viewing even better, and so on. (FORBIDDEN KINGDOM comes to mind, seen it about 8 times, but there are dozens like this). This has something to do with human nature, I suspect, an innate desire to criticize even where criticism is not called for. I believe this film falls into this category. Every now and then I watch it again, and each time I find less to dislike, and each time I fall a little deeper under the director's spell. But that is the key to this film, aside from camera angles and lighting, the story just builds and builds, the suspense just builds and builds, and not only is the ending pitch-perfect, but even the second ending or anti-climax is fun as well. I have seen a lot of these kinds of films but very few that I can make these claims about. I saw the film again just prior to writing this review and even though I knew what was coming I disappeared into the story. Another odd factoid is that, for whatever reason, this film may have captured Neve Campbell and Robin Tunney at the peak of their craft (sorry for the pun). Tunney's charismatic sweetness works best when it plays off against something darker and Campbell has never been scarier in her career. She never gets to the point of eating the furniture -- which would be overdoing it -- yet you the viewer cannot help but believe her when, depending on the point in the film you are at, she alternatively threatens to kill you, and then asks forgiveness for that same threat. I believe time will be kinder to this film than the current IMDb rating. "},{"Title":"This Isn't A Horror Movie...","Date":"28 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When I saw this movie for the first time (in the 90s), I was impressed. I even thought it was a bit scary. Watched it again the other day, and it's still good.But why is this movie tagged as horror? That it's definitely not! It's a teen drama -- that's what it is.If you watch it expecting horror, you will be hugely disappointed. It isn't one bit scary; not even creepy. But it IS quite original and entertaining. The characters are very well developed, too. I didn't think the acting was very good, but I've seen worse.Well, I have to say that the movie is very predictable, but it doesn't really spoil it much -- still entertaining.Definitely worth seeing. I've seen it several times; it's one of those movies you can watch periodically and not get tired of. "},{"Title":"A Very 1990s Film That Is Both Horror and High School Drama","Date":"16 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Three high school girls are dabbling in witchcraft, but their efforts are getting them nowhere. But then the new girl arrives, who seems to have a natural power. Together, they will walk the path of the witch, but some will take the safe route and others will walk towards the darkness. What will be unleashed, and will they be able to control it?Having been in high school in the 90s, I was quite aware of the Wiccan craze that was going around, especially among the girls. I don't recall if it came about before or after this film, but they definitely knew what they were doing in constructing the plot and characters. Apparently, Fairuza Balk was a devoted Wiccan and contributed to the authenticity -- I would love to know her thoughts on that now.Aside from Fairuza Balk, we can look back and see the early careers of Neve Campbell and Robin Tunney... even Christine Taylor, the future wife of Ben Stiller. I had no idea at the time they would blossom into big stars. That, and the soundtrack was rather popular, as well.Some have compared this film to Carrie, which I think is a great injustice. Yes, the film is a story of girls coming of age (despite being written and directed by men) and having magical abilities. But it's not much more similar than that. Carrie is an outcast and scared, while the girls here are powerful and puberty really is not a crucial part of the story at all.I think this film deserves a resurgence a fine story, good acting and impressive effects for the time. I would recommend it to anyone, and especially if you were a teenager in the 1990s. You may find the themes familiar it's like Clueless for those of us who weren't quite so glamorous. "}{"Title":"Magick, Teenagers and violence","Date":"22 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I like this movie a lot taken as a fantasy/horror, thriller type of piece. All of the actresses I believe did an excellent job in their respective roles. Most of what they talk about is extrapolated Wicca which is not Witchcraft. Traditional Witchcraft does not call watchtowers, etc. That got into Wicca because Gardner the originator, was a friend of Aleister Crowley. Wicca does revere nature but it is a hodge-podge of many beliefs depending on the form it takes. Traditional Witchcraft is regional and less ritualistic and they do not believe in 3-fold which is a 20th Century idea despite what they say in the movie, and why I cannot give this movie a 10 because it is misleading. I realize it is only a movie but I can see from what people have already said they thought they were performing witchcraft which isn't true and in Traditional Witchcraft, whether the spell performed be considered dark or not is on the conscience of the practitioner and not some retribution system so yes they could do curses but these generally are done only to protect family and as a last resort. There is no cumulative warning of some cosmic action. It is nice they called it the Craft to leave it open to interpretation. It is a pretty violent movie to be considered a teenage movie. I think it is an adult movie that has characters that are teenagers and there is a difference. It deals with dark topics including murder. Whether accurate in context it is a scary and entertaining movie but shouldn't be taken seriously or as an example of witchcraft in any form. "},{"Title":"Favourite film after Heathers!!!","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I don't understand how anyone can not like this film!!! It freaked me out a bit the first time I saw it but now as I'm older instead of being scared of this film I have fallen in love with it.  It is one of those films that it doesn't matter if you've watched it 100 times you still reach for it when you feel like watching a film.  The actings brilliant especially from Fairuza Bulk.  This was the first time I'd ever seen her in a film and she completely blew me away with her brilliant performance.  This film also has some funny moments e.g She's gonna cry, then I'm gonna cry, we're all gonna cry! You really have to watch the film to find that amusing.  Can I also say any film with Skeet Ulrich in it must be worth watching!!! Lol.Go and watch this film, you will regret it if you don't!!!Kat xxx "},{"Title":"Best Witch Flick Ever","Date":"9 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  No movie about witches has ever been as cool as this. Practical Magic is too sappy, the rest are too offensive, this is just right.  Not only started a trend in pop-culture (Buffy the Vampire Slayer, Charmed, etc.) but started a New Age trend as well.  A cool film, and to nay-sayers I say Punk Rock! We Are The Weirdos!  Nothing Makes Everything All Better Again!  She Even Did It The Right Way!  Hail To The Guardians Of The Watchtower Of The North! & This Is The Time, This Is The Hour, Ours Is The Magic, Ours Is The Power! "},{"Title":"good film","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I think the craft is a well made film, for its genaration i saw it like when was 12 and i was really scared but as i am older i watch it and i just enjoy it ! i think the actors are great both Neve Campbell and Skeet Ulrich pre- scream prove they are worthy of being in a a scary/thriller genre. The witch scenes are good too and are realistic too. I say a good film allround !! "},{"Title":"'Teen'horror with more scares","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I really do love this film. It's just fantastic. There's everything you want from this sort of genre. It's scary, suspenseful and fun. Definately my favorite 1990's horror film. All the girls are fantastic, especially Robin Tunney, who I hope follows this up one day with something even better. Anyway I totally recommend it to anyone who hasn't seen it. 10/10. "},{"Title":"A classic by all standards","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  You just gotta have respect for this film. It revived the horror genre in the 90's, okay from dusk till dawn was a year before, but this doesn't have loads of blood and gore, it can be spooky without all the stuff. The girls are all brilliant especially Robin Tunney, who I was a big fan of after seeing this film. I haven't seen her in anything good since though, unfortunately. The rock soundtrack has got some really good versions of classic songs on it, most of which are done really well. I give it 10 out of 10! "},{"Title":"A great witch movie","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I thought was such a good movie. It gives more insight to being a witch. It proves that there are good and bad witches, if you misuse the power. I loved this movie partly because the girls get revenge on people that hurt them in some way. It was strong retaliation, but they deserved it. You also get what you give 3 times worse. I thought this movie had a great story with great actors, like Fairuza Bulk, Robin Tunney, Neve Campbell, Rachel True, Christine Taylor, Skeet Ulrich, and Breckin Meyer. I would have to say that Fairuza performance was astounding. This is a movie i would recommend everyone to watch. "},{"Title":"A very good teen horror film!","Date":"20 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Since its origins in the beach films of the 50s and 60s, the so-called teen film genre has been the target of much criticism despite its constant popularity among the audiences. A lot of this comes from the notorious tendency of teen films to be nothing more than clichéd stories done to cash in the popularity of celebrities or fashionable trends, and sadly teen horror, source of most of the worst horror films ever made, is a main offender in this aspect. However, not every horror film aimed to teenagers is dumb, as there have been movies that actually use the conventions of its genre to actually make something interesting and creative with it. Brian De Palma's classic, Carrie, is probably the best example of this, as it intelligently uses teenage angst as source of horror. While nowhere near De Palma's masterpiece, Andrew Fleming's The Craft walks on the same lines with relative success.In The Craft, Robin Tunney plays Sarah Bailey, a troubled teenage girl with suicidal tendencies who has recently moved with her family to Los Angeles in order to have a fresh start. In her new school, she meets Bonnie (Neve Campbell), Rochelle (Rachel True) and Nancy (Fairuza Balk), three outcast girls who have an interest in the occult and actually are practicing witches. Sarah is invited to join their group after Bonnie notices that Sarah seems to have the real supernatural powers of a natural witch, and after she joins them in their rituals, they discover that with her help they are able to achieve things beyond the normal witchcraft. With this real magical power, the four girls begin to solve their respective problems and everything seems to be perfect, until the ambition for more power overwhelm them, and they discover that everything has a price.Based on a story by Peter Filardi, The Craft was written by director Andrew Fleming and Filardi himself. It is essentially a teen drama with a touch of supernatural horror that, while predictable in its storyline, feels fresh and original thanks to the interesting plot that Filardi creatively develops. What makes it interesting is the amount of research that the writers put on the screenplay, as they based the rituals the characters practice in real witchcraft practices that followers of nature-based religions perform (obviously with exaggerated results); and what's most important, the angle they take on the story is not meant to be disrespectful to followers of those religions, but presents it as a philosophy as valid as any other faith. Of course, it's hard to escape the clichés of teen dramas, but Filardi never fails to make the story entertaining thanks to a good amount of character development.Director Andrew Fleming takes a very straight forward approach with The Craft, following to the letter the typical conventions of the teen movie genre, with a dose comedy thrown to good effect, a very modern atmosphere and a polished visual look (courtesy of Alexander Gruszynski's cinematography) designed with the MTV generation in mind. While at first sight this may sound unoriginal, it actually adds to the film's charm, as the overall feeling that results as the horror elements begin to enter the story is one of a teen drama gone to the dark side. The special effects aren't really amazing but they work effectively and even today look pretty good and convincing. Fleming's directing of his cast is another of the elements that make the film good, as nearly everyone gives at least a good performance that helps the film in some way.As written above, the performances by the cast are something that makes the movie to stand out, starting with Fairuza Balk, who as the lonely and angry Nancy becomes easily the best actress in the cast. Going over-the-top as her character gets more power, Balk makes a villain that is as delightfully insane as she is sympathetic. Robin Tunney is a effective as Sarah, but her performance feels kind of weak when compared to Balk and even Neve Campbell (the fact that as the hero, her character is probably the most clichéd doesn't help). In the supporting roles, Neve Campbell and Rachel True are very good, specially Campbell who despite the relatively small size of the role shows why she would be the one whose career would rise in the following decade. Skeet Ulrich and Christine Taylor also appear in supporting roles with good results, although Ulrich seems to have troubles with his role.It would be easy to dismiss The Craft as just another teen horror film like the many weak movies the genre spawned in the late 90s, but even when it may not be a classic, The Craft has a lot going for it that makes it stand out among the rest. True, the story is predictable, disjointed at times, and truly loses some steam at the end; but the way Filardi plays with the moral conflicts between the characters as well as that of being an outcast and having magic powers is pretty interesting. That element together with the fact that it offers a different (and at the time fresh) view on witchcraft and nature-oriented religions makes The Craft an interesting and entertaining movie. Still, one has to remember that The Craft is first and foremost a supernatural teen drama, so anyone expecting a straight forward horror film will probably be disappointed. Despite its many flaws, The Craft is definitely one of the best American horror movies of the 90s, showing a true understanding of the 90s pop culture and a disposition to play with both the horror and teen movie genres. Sadly, few horror films followed this movie's path and most of the rest of the teen horror movies for the MTV generation ended up having the worst qualities of the genre. It's not Carrie but still, The Craft is one of the good ones. 8/10 "},{"Title":"A fun and suspenseful witch flick","Date":"12 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When I saw this case I was not aware of any of the starring actresses in it at the time, at all, except Neve Campbell, who is undeniably one of my favorite actresses, so I was immediately interested in watching it. I am a sucker for movies that have my favorite actors and actresses in them, who isn't, and will watch the film no matter how ludicrous or dumb the plot sounds, though I didn't necessarily think the plot to this movie sounded ridiculous at all. My eyes locked on Neve Campbell, like I said, and if it had her in it, I decided it must be great and I had to give it a try. I assumed the other three were little nobodies right away, which was so unprofessional of me, because I later figured out they had been in other films that have a popular reputation and they all showed their exceedingly fine acting talents in this incredibly fun and energetic, but morose film that made me want to watch other roles they had took part in.I ended up loving this great and mentally twisted film that sets me in a mood of delight just setting my eyes on it for all the actresses' dedication to the vivacious yet dark witch atmosphere that the creators were going for, because it is more of a teen film than an actual scare for adults. The Craft is a great and exciting movie nonetheless though, and of course after I saw it I had to get a hold of some other movies I looked up that had these actresses in it, because it was such a surprisingly wonderful film which had people who knew what they were working with and what kind of film they were making and just went with the flow.There were scenes of really high interest because of how well we get to know the characters in the short time that we have by their defining personalities and traits. I thought everything was handled very well and as I have hinted at already the performances are what make this film truly enjoyable, regardless of whether or not they're Oscar worthy portrayals. This is certainly not an Oscar worthy film, and was not meant to be, but I can understand how someone could find it as lovable and gratifying as me. The Craft is purely excellent for what it sets out to accomplish with it's audience, and I must say that it needs higher appreciation and recognition than what it has right now because it is an awesome film that is just another great example of how when you put the right cast together for the right kind of movie you can receive an explosively fun time that you didn't think you would have. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable with great special effects . Great cast.","Date":"3 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I'm not gonna bother with an analysis of the supernatural aspect of this movie, I'm not qualified and don't have the knowledge on this particular subject matter. What I can say is I have seen it several times and found it to be a good movie, both fascinating and enjoyable-also a bit scary at times-great special effects-also a great movie to watch in a group-anybody who hasn't seen this and is thinking of renting it should go for it-you will not be bored! I enjoyed very much, the creative special effects and I thought the movie was well acted and was both interesting and tension provoking at the same time.my main problem was SPOILERSToward the end, this movie gets extremely difficult to watch in parts, which would be fine except the movie does not play like a thriller through much of it, so your a bit unprepared when it starts becoming truly sinister. The pacing also becomes noticeably slower toward the end, and I have to say, although I've seen this several times and always enjoyed it, I lose a lot of my enjoyment when it starts really getting into thriller territory. Still, this is a good movie for the reasons already mentioned and I'd recommend it. I'd give it a 7.5 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Witchy Girl Flick","Date":"29 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I watched this simply because I read negative reviews on another film that claimed to rip this one off? Well I quite liked this film too. This is an American movie bunch of sexual teenage girls who discover they have special powers and turn into witches. 'The Coven' is a British film about a bunch of terrified young tweenies sneaking into the woods for a sleepover and is not in any way shape or form similar to 'The Craft'! Go figure! I digress, The Craft is entertaining and obviously had some money on the spfx. It's fun, even though it's a bit dated now. This is more like Sabrina the teenage witch with a bit more oomph. "},{"Title":"MUCH better than the average teen flick","Date":"28 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The craft is a much better than average teenage Wiccan thriller. It contains very good performances by all the actors, including Neve Campbell. The film has excellent special effects. And the plot summary is well constructed and a lot better than I expected. The main thing about this movie is that it is very entertaining and fun to watch. I love all the things that happen in the movie and especially the ending. The ending is very well constructed but I will not give it away you'll have to go see for yourself. A lot of teenage movies really don't have good acting performances but this is a big exception. I was extremely impressed and pleased with the casting and the execution by the Actors. All of the characters are so deep and well written too. the execution of the plot is so great in this film. And the movie also teaches a great lesson and drives a positive message for teenage audiences. Don't abuse your gifts, use them for good. 10/10 for The Craft. A really fun ride. "},{"Title":"Horrible.....","Date":"24 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I wanted to watch this film because Halloween is coming up so I was like, why not try watch it now and might as well get deep inside into the world of witchcraft. However this film wasn't exciting as I would hoped! It just didn't really give me what I wanted like the story slipped straight away when Sarah left the group and the other three girls became such physios into killing her. I mean woah woah woah, what in the world is freaking going on here? This isn't what should happen for god sake, what were they thinking of just messing up the story? I honestly thought this was gonna be a good film but no, I was wrong! I'm so disappointed, this movie left me disappointed! "},{"Title":"The real magic is fair Fairuza","Date":"1 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" 'The Craft' is not as painfully 90s as I'd feared, but the phantom of Lollapalooza is hiding in every plaid clad shadow, like Tabitha Soren waiting to pounce on you like you're Eddie Vedder getting off a tour bus. In some ways, it might actually have benefited from some well placed 90s zeitgeist.It's a competently directed film with very solid special f/x for its time, but it's really the young quartet of talented lead actresses who carry the movie, such as it is. Particularly the lovely goth goddess Fairuza Balk, who chews through scenery in the third act like a rabid beaver. "},{"Title":"The opposite of The Lost Boys","Date":"27 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Let's do a tiny comparison. The Lost Boys is from the 80's and starred guys (obviously) who were vampires with the main character becoming one of them. This is the same exact deal for The Craft with changes being that it is from the 90's, stars Women who are Witches that invite the main character to do Witchcraft with them. Pretty cool way to think of it.I personally loved this movie for my own reasons. It has the taste of the 90's, my favorite years. Music from the 90's is also my favorite kind of music, and that's where I say this movie had an AMAZING soundtrack that touched my soul.Despite my positive comments, I have to admit that it's a little dragged out, but the fillers in between are memorable. This is mostly build up for a strong finish. I find the message of the movie more important, about how strong consequences are of the wrong wishes and things too good to be true.I'm not saying that a lot of people are going to enjoy it as much I did. I wouldn't recommend this movie to viewers that have impatience with movies. "},{"Title":"Cool setting.","Date":"22 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie was freaking tight. I liked the girls who were acting and the story. It was cool to see the girls be nice to the new girl by telling her that who wanted to get with her was a jerk, then when he told the whole school she slept with him despite her innocence, she realizes, hey these girls be alright I shoulda done trusted dem in the first place.So that was cool but then later in the film the same girls betray her and try to kill her over some trivialness. I'm not really sure why they try to kill her actually, like, it wasn't made clear why. The viewer can imagine it's because she wants to stop them. I mean she does put a binding spell on the evil girl but the spell doesn't even work so she's rather harmless so why kill the witch, ay?It's understandable too I read another review saying the evil witch steals the show. She does kind of, stealing it is a good way to call what she does, but she also expresses some emotions that are almost out of place. For some reason I still freaking loved this movie. The girls are really cute and do a good job acting and it's about witchcraft so I guess that's all I really need. The plot is kind of neat too with the new girl trying to fit in and stuff. "},{"Title":"Nancy is Burning with Fear and Pain","Date":"3 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A couple of things were popular in the late nineties. The sudden success of Scream made horror movies not only popular again but hip for the first time in years. Suddenly, the genre that had been masked madmen hacking up teens for a decade had to have sharp scripts and realistic, in-the-know protagonists. Around the same time, a rising awareness of new age pagan religions made witch a hot buzzword. Witches weren't green-skinned, cackling hags anymore. They could be normal people. These two interests intersected with The Craft, a poppy teen and femme-oriented horror flick that attempted to bring the witch concept into the present day.Set at a catholic school in fashionable California, the film follows Sarah, a girl with a history of mental problems, who has just moved into town. She's quickly dubbed an outcast and befriends a trio of other strange girls The gothy Nancy, the shy Bonnie, and teased Rochelle. The three girls fancy themselves witches, in the neo-pagan sense of the word, and think Sarah might be the fourth corner of their circle. The fourth girls quickly excel at magic, using their abilities to better their high school lives. However, things quickly get out of hand, especially thanks to the unbalanced Nancy, and the girls start to turn on each other.The Craft is notable for focusing on female characters, a rare feat in any genre but horror especially. The girls aren't your typical horror film victims. Instead, the script makes the effort to get inside each one's head. Nancy and the others are at the bottom of the high social ladder. Nancy's Gothic fashion seems to be in response to her home life, with a trashy mother and an abusive stepfather. Boys tell lies about her at school and her interest in witchcraft steams from a rather literal desire to take back control of her life. Bonnie's body is covered in burns, leading to her shyness. Rochelle's ethnicity makes her a target for bullying from the school's resident queen bee. When their power grows, they naturally use their abilities to improve their lives. Who can blame them? The Craft tries to frame itself as a story about responsibilities, how power corrupts etcetera, but the film is far more successful in its early half when the premise is played for wish-fulfillment.That's mostly due to the mostly strong cast. The movie made Fairuza Balk, who previously had experiences with witches in Return to Oz and The Worst Witch, something of a cult icon. She's the center of the film and gives a powerhouse performance. Nancy is burning with fear and pain, all of it exploding out as righteous anger. While the script isn't beyond playing her outburst as typical teenage angst, Balk deepens the role, making Nancy a real human being. Neve Campbell develops some honest anguish over her condition and, when she heals herself, has fun tramping it up. Rachel True works well as the first of the girls to notice they might have gone too far.The three are strong enough that they completely overshadow Robin Tunney as lead character Sarah. Tunney isn't bad but she's also playing the least interesting character in the film. While Nancy is speeding a car through red lights, magically changing them to green, Sarah is chastising them, like a real fuddy-duddy. Clearly, the other girls go too far, especially once they become murderous, but you can't deny they're having more fun. Making the hero so comparatively uninteresting is The Craft's biggest problem.The style of The Craft immediately marks it as a product of the late nineties. The soundtrack is filled out with quasi-pop punk that was quasi-popular at the time, like Sponge, Heather Nova, Letters to Cleo, and Love Spit Love, whose cover of How Soon is Now would later be used as the theme song for witch-centric TV show Charmed. Andrew Fleming directs with rock-video smoothness, only occasionally overdoing it, like during Fairuza's murderous freak-out or a flying nightmare. The film's digital effects, which include morphing a girl's fingers into snakes, got a lot of press at the time. They come off as very dated today. The intensity the final witches duel produces has more to do with Fairuza's crazed acting then the melodramatic direction or cheesy effects.The Craft became a sleeper hit upon release, meaning that its story and themes resonated with an audience. The film, no doubt, led to a rise in interest in witchcraft and neo-paganism. It also, probably, led to hip witch characters being a common character on supernatural soaps like Buffy and Charmed. The film holds up astonishingly well, mostly thanks to its excellent cast and decently structured screenplay. "},{"Title":"A classic teen horror film with strong messages","Date":"15 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Craft is one of my favorite movies partly because of my interest in the supernatural and because growing up I use to be very interested in witchcraft. This movie has something that almost any teen can relate to. Seriously, what teen hasn't been bullied, tried changing their looks to make them more beautiful, thought about committing suicide, had relationship problems, or lived in an unstable or poor family environment? Another thing that is great about this movie and makes it different from most other witch movies I have seen is that a lot of the rituals and spells are based on actual Wiccan rites and practices. I think the moral of story says something about power and control and the basic principle that whatever you send out into the world comes back to you. For example, if you send out negative energy, you will get negative energy back and if you send out positive energy you will get positive energy back. The Craft is a creepy, suspenseful blend of the supernatural and teen drama that will captivate you. One of my all time favorites. Watch it, it will not disappoint! "},{"Title":"well, okay.","Date":"9 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  well, the movie was okay.  it was reasonably creepy, but the characters were a bit shallow and sterotypical.  like innocent sweet girl sarah, creepy evil witch nancy and her posse. the plot was executed well and the actors maintained balance during the film.  3 out of 5.   "},{"Title":"dark fun","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  the craft was an awesome movie which is a mix of CLUELESS and WARLOCK.  The cast was excellent and very entertaining and the story was fine...i especially felt sorry for neve campbell's character who suffered massive burns.i know that this does not stay truthful the occult, but for entertaining purposes this movie gets two thumbs up.  It was not a film about witchcraft, but rather the troubles of teens how nice it would be to fix these problems...it teaches youth the concept of do unto others and is full of socio-political issues.Unlike it's predessor LITTLE WITCHES, this films plot moved beyond witchcraft and moved more toward truth and consequence, allong with allowing us to see the raw talent of four young actresses. "}{"Title":"Bewitching fun for parties!","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Cool movie! It's fun to see if you like a-little-scary movies, and if you like witch-craft (in my opinion witch-craft is very cool, so I really enjoyed it!).I saw it twice on TV, and it was just as enjoyable the second time, although a bit less scary, because I knew what's going to happen.If you hate witch-craft, don't watch it. Otherwise, it's a fun movie. I recommend it for parties and sleep-overs. "},{"Title":"I thought it was good","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I thought this was a good movie. Fairuza Balk's portrayal as Nancy Downs was terrific, best by far. I though Skeet Ulrich was terrific as well, one of his best movies. I think Nancy was an outstanding villain. But it just goes to show, villains never win in horror movies. GREAT FLICK! "},{"Title":"WOW!!!!!","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film has to be one of my all time top four films ever!!  I love horror films, and films about witchcraft and all that, so this film is just like WOW! as far as I'm concerned!!  The visual effects, acting, soundtrack, plot-line, casting, just about everything really, is just fantastic!!  I cannot praise this film enough!!  If, as I, you like the teen, witchcraft, school set, horror kind of thing, then this film is for you!!  "},{"Title":"High School, boys, casting spells, it isn't easy being a teen witch!","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Craft is a well-written, well-acted and pardon the pun, well-crafted ensemble piece.  The movie is blessed with four very talented young actresses who capture the essence of the insecurity and isolation a lot of teenagers feel in high school.  Of course the movie offers a twist because these four young teens can cast spells to either benefit themselves or harm those who harm them.  With the combination of memorable performances, intriguing special effects, an interesting story, and some very catchy and cool spells, The Craft is a must-see for anyone who's up for teens messing with the supernatural! "},{"Title":"A Classic","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Craft is not just some campy horror film. You watch this film, and you will want to see it again! The acting, scenery, and cast are all excellent, not one of them are type-casted. The film, which is about four high school girls, studying witchraft, also sends out a good message. Those who are mean, sometimes get what they deserve, and that is what the four high school girls try to do, getting back at their tormenters.Neve Campbell is great. Although she plays the innocent type at times, she gets more and more evil towards the end, giving her acting a challenge. Also, Rachel True, who you might've seen in Half Baked. Rachel was great as Rochelle, the only African American in the film. Her acting is great, and you can even feel her pain at times.The high-lights of the film were Fairuza Balk and Robin Tunney. These two, were what made the film. Their acting, beauty, and talent--it is all noticeable in this movie. Fairuza certainly gives a great performance as Nancy, the lead witch. Robin, as the new girl, is also noticeable.Remaining characters were Skeet Ulrich (Scream), and Christine Taylor (The Wedding Singer), both of which will probably remind you of some of the snotty/preppy students in your own school. Although their character's are un-likeable, they give great performances.Rent this classic film, you will not regret it. "},{"Title":"This film is amazing because of Fairuza Balk!","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film has a very obvious opening to what it's about. It's very well acted as the actors play there roles very well, especially Fairuza Balk, Nancy. It's amazing when they Invoke the Spirits. It's a great film and to find out the rest you'll have to go and see it yourself.  "},{"Title":"Modern witchcraft at it's finest","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Craft is a powerful movie with several images that invoke fear and thought. There is comedy underlying in the theme of teen age witches, but the story itself is a bleak twisting tale of personal misery and a power struggle.A little magic goes a long way in granting the wishes of the girls, but becomes a bit much as things go out of control outside and inside the coven itself. Nancy is a character that will stick with you as gothic wickedness incarnate.Two thumbs up. Strongly recommended. "},{"Title":"Delightfully Witchy","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I've seen The Craft four times, and continue to relish every minute of it. The story and acting are engaging throughout, and the special effects are very good.  Of course, it doesn't hurt that these four witches are darned good looking! "},{"Title":"Crafty and satisfying (SPOILERS)","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Highly enjoyable teen horror movie, with a morality play at it's core. The first 2/3 are part high-school satire, part twisted buddy flick.  However, for the last third of the movie the special effects and fight scenes are a bit much at times.  Some of the witchcraft is more like a bad drug trip. I did enjoy watching Sarah go from meek and frightened to strong and righteous.  The good guys are always more fun when they can throw a little lightning. "},{"Title":"A pleasant surprise","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I'd been looking for this film for a while and it finally appeared on cable. In all honesty, I expected a teen film with nothing new, original, accurate or interesting - just some amusing relaxation after a hard day's work... o)However, I was pleasantly surprised - despite the rather annoying lead character, the film is well built and interesting.  The four lead characters are all outsiders in their own ways and, for once, they're not all total rejects.  They are presented as very normal teenagers who are just 'different'.Definite plus points  Fairuza Balk's acting, some great scenes, a roughly accurate perception of Wicca (OK, so still a ways off, but better than the Witches of Eastwick...!!) and a subtle moral.  For once, the Threefold Rule is presented quietly and simply, rather than having a moralistic ranting at the end of the film.Definite minus points  That poor shopkeeper character who has no good lines, the fact that the 'outsiders' are goths and wear black (come on, grow up US film makers!) and, of course, the rather weak ending for Ms. Balk.I'd recommend the film - it's deeper and less 'black and white, good and bad' than many films, but remains amusing, at times exciting and very pretty. "}{"Title":"Interesting...","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Again, this was recommended to me by an enthusiastic friend, who is really into witchcraft. I watched it and I must say it didn't exactly leave a lasting impression on me. Robin Tunney looks too ineffectual and generally wimpish to be the natural witch, Neve Campbell was probably the best out of the lot playing the scar-ridden Bonnie, Rachel True was remarkably forgettable as Rochelle, and I have now concluded that Fairuza Balk is one of the most hideous things alive. Her constant overacting did not give the impression of delusional psychosis, and if the ending with her in the institution, very poorly shot, was supposed to terrify (a la Norman Bates in Psycho) then they are delusional themselves. A Maud rating of 2 out of 5. "},{"Title":"Australia","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie has to be one of the best Teen witches movie that I have ever seen. Most people I know say that this movie uses a lot of real Wiccan beliefs. I think that this movie is really cool and people that enjoy witches movies should all watch this one. *** Out Of ***** "},{"Title":"I really liked it.","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I really liked this movie.  Robin Tunney's Sarah was somewhat stoic, Neve Campbell's Bonnie, (until her scars were removed) was innocent, and Fairuza Balk made the perfect, crazy Nancy and gave the movie what it needed to make it creepy.  These actresses are really talented and I admire them for pulling off these witchy characters. "},{"Title":"Deeper and more entertaining than it seems at first.","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I loved this movie, but then again I lived near West Hollywood where this type of thing is (ahem) normal.  The performances were all good; of course I fell in love with Fairuza Balk like everyone else, but on repeated viewing Robin Tunney is also quite good.  The Craft knows that high school is not a happy time, and although I was a young boy and not a young girl, from my experiences with the goth life, it is accurate.  Interesting also how you had the popular cliche, who were bad, against the gothic clique, who were also bad.  Even in the end, when Robin Tunney breaks with the other three, you get the sense she isn't pure as the driven snow.  There are shades of gray in this movie worth seeing, and I like the way it portrayed the counterculture as it more or less is, and not in some fairy tale happy outcasts manner.  On the whole, 8 out of 10, and worth watching. "},{"Title":"Laugh, cry and shiver, this is entertainment","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  For an enjoyable night in, rent this movie about the strange foursome you find in every high school the world over. Takes a good look at how friendships are formed, and go wrong. Delves in to the danger of getting what you wish for and then wishing you hadn't. Moral of the story is to do as you would be done by, and keep looking over your shoulder to make sure your friends have the same philosophy. "},{"Title":"Everyone Gets a little witchy at times!","Date":"3 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Craft is one of the best witchcraft movies I have ever seen.  Robin Tunney plays a wonderful character with lots of emotion and colour.  Fairuza Balk gives an outstanding performance as Nancy, that adds a eerie quality. Neve Campbell gives her role some feeling and heart and Rachel True, adds the comedy needed to fill the movie with thrills and chills.The Craft gives a modern day spin on the practice of witchcraft and although is it not exactly Wicca, it is good enough to satisfy me as a viewer.  Skeet Ulrich's performance is a far cry from his Scream character, but never the less he does a wonderful job.  The special effects were seamless and overall I found myself, holding my breath waiting to see what would happen next, and a little laughter now and again makes the film worth watching.I remember trying to levitate people when I had my grade 6 sleep overs, and that just made it more exciting for me.  I found myself actually saying that's why it never worked for me!  The film does have a little violence and language that may not suit younger viewers, but older girls, especially teens will love it's high school spin on magic.  But remember this is only a movie, do not try this at home!! or if you do at least read up on it and know what you are doing.In my opinion The Craft scores big!  Not quite a 10, but a solid 8.5!!  But you judge for yourself, and remember, it is only a movie.......or is it???? "},{"Title":"Welcome to the witching hour...","Date":"23 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Craft is a fantastic movie for those who like comedy, action and sci-fi. When Sarah (Robin Tunney) has to up and move with her father and step-mother, she is befreinded by the Bitches of Eastwick; the schools outcasts. Nancy is a specialist in promiscuity, Bonnie is horribly scarred from an accident and Rochelle is segregated as she's black. The girls find solace in Wicca, the practise of witchcraft. With their newfound powers, the foursome set about making life hell for those who shunned them. However, when Nancy starts using her power for evil and self-indulgence, it's up to Sarah to stop her. This movie is magical, mystical and thrilling with a truckload of attitude. "},{"Title":"The Good, The Bad, & The Ugly","Date":"8 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This was a film that had the chance to use the information on Wicca provided by a member of the Covenant of the Goddess (a national Wiccan organisation) to accurately portray Wiccan beliefs.What we got was a film where the rituals were close enough to real, the philosophy was nearly there, but the substance ran away.  Whilst we got the opportunity to see that what goes around comes around, & that misusing magic inevitably leads to tears before bedtime, the opportunity to give dispel some of the myths (perhaps by giving the shopkeeper something relatively intelligent to say) was wasted.However, there was a great deal of comedy, some smart & hip writing, & quite luscious performances.  Good brain candy, & good fun, but if you're looking for information on The Craft, go elsewhere. "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"23 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This was an entertaining movie, but had several things about The Craft wrong. Factual data wasn't much in this movie but it was fun anyway. The only good example in the movie of a Wiccan was the shop owner, and she isn't completely Wicca (in my opinion) The other girls were Witches (not all witches are wiccan and not all wiccans are witches). The name of the movie could have pointed in eather direction, but when I think of the Craft i think of Wicca, but that could be personal bias. "},{"Title":"It was GOOD!","Date":"19 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Robin Tunney played a GOOD ROLE with alot of EMOTION, and Neve Campbell looks different, hides herself pretty good, BUT Fairuza Balk gave the movie the CREEPY EDGE that we LOOK FOR in movies "}{"Title":"really enjoyed able","Date":"2 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Craft (1996)Finally got to seen this movie for the first time, I had not seen it before, I heard a lot good comment about it,I found the whole movie really good, it might not be scary or creepy but it's one of those fun horror movies for Friends and popcorn, there were very stranger dream scenes. I liked the story of the movie and the pacing the was really good.Some of the effects were decent and the acting was really good from the whole cast.7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"An above average horror flick.","Date":"10 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Okay, first off I need to more or less shed some light on how I first watched this film. I first saw it when I was 13. I absolutely hated it. If you asked me does The Craft rate on your bottom 20 films? I would've answered with Yes. I almost forgot about this movie until the start of this year when my brother sat me through Return To Oz. I more or less fell in love with Fairuza Balk's acting ability and due to that and the fact that I loved a film that runs along similar lines (Ginger Snaps) I decided it needs to be re-watched and to be honest, it wasn't bad.Okay, I have to say something about the acting. Neve Campbell, Fairuza Balk and even Rachel True put in solid enough performances but out of the three of them Fairuza feels like she is the only one really given any material to shine in. Unfortunately, as well, Robin Tunney was in the lead role and to pull off this specific role requires a great actress and Tunney was terrible. My mother introduced me to this movie, she loved it but even she had to admit that Tunney was awful.The plot; Three Wicca girls are awaiting a fourth member to join their group because they can't practice real magic without someone to back them up. Along comes Sarah Bailey, a girl who is a natural witch. The three win her affections and become friends. They soon start practicing magic together after they describe their God; Manon. They all use spells to get back at people that have angered them; Nancy kills her father, Sarah makes a boy that used her actually love her, Bonnie removes the scars on her back, Rochelle makes the hair fall out of a popular girl who gave her sh!t. Soon the leader, Nancy organizes a ritual where she would be given the power of Manon. It succeeds but soon everything goes out of balance and Sarah has to find a way to stop it.Okay, this film is not perfect. The one thing that needed a bit more time is the script. If only Peter Filardi and Andrew Fleming had one more draft to work with. Just one more, I bet this film could've been an 8/10. I have given 8/10's to films with horrible acting before (Star Wars Episode III) and I would go so far as to say that Tunney is the only problem besides the script so I would even say a 9.The visual style of this film is rather interesting to watch. While I have seen better cinematography and special effects, this film has enough realism to them to make me turn off Oh yeah, Nancy, Rochelle and Bonnie are flying into Sarah's room, trying to terrify her which is rather interesting considering I was only born this film was made and when I go to see a film made today and look at its visuals, I can't turn off because it is so obviously fake. I suppose I was born at the time when the plot was meant to serve the visual effects instead of the other way 'round.Overall this film is a great watch if your thing is a mindless horror film however this is not without its problems. "},{"Title":"Fun, paranormal activity","Date":"24 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Like most movies in Hollywood this one uses the word Witchcraft loosely. There are so many reviews I'm not going to rehash the movie. These girls in no way are practicing any form of witchcraft. Only Wiccans and ritual magicians, etc. call the Corners. Traditional Witchcraft is not like Wicca at all which is a Pagan religion developed by Gardner in the 20th Century. Many believe it is based on the ways of Witchcraft but the differences are like night and day. One must take the movie as totally baseless entertainment. It is more of a psychological thriller than a horror story but is well acted and delivered. All of the young actresses are a little old to be portraying High School students but it didn't detract from the movie at all. I found it amusing when the Mother is trying to explain who Connie Francis is and they walk off uninterested. All in all this movie was well done and anyone who likes the focus of a female dominated major cast will love this movie. "},{"Title":"Awesome Movie of the 90s","Date":"6 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" God, what an awesome movie this is! 1996's The Craft is one of those really cool movies from the 90s that they just don't make anymore. The film opens up to a group of teenage witches chanting for a fourth witch to come to them and complete their circle. Then, images of fire and Wiccan symbols fill the screen and the beginning of a cover version of Tommorrow Never Knows by Our Lady Peace blasts out at us. As soon as I saw that, I knew this was going to be good. Enters Sara, played by Robin Tunney of The Mentalist, who is just arriving to a new town and school. There, she meets up with the outcast group of witches who are Nancy (Played by the great Fairuza Balk), Bonnie (played by Neve Campbell of Scream fame), and Rochelle (played by Rachel True who gives a convincing performance of being the only black person at her school). While reluctant at first, Sara eventually joins the coven and together they conjure up magic and life is good, at first. Each one wishes for something and they get it but at a cost. Since I don't want to spoil the movie for others, I won't go too much into detail about that. What I will say is The Craft, while being about teenage girls and obviously being aimed at that group, is a movie that anyone can enjoy. First and foremost, who doesn't love magic and second it deals with the issue of feeling like an outsider and/or being picked on, and just about everyone would fall into one of those categories at least once in their life. Add in a great MTV generation soundtrack and you got yourself The Craft. Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"Mostly well-crafted","Date":"5 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I've been interested in seeing this movie for years now. I kind of have an interest in women with powers- from Medea in Greek mythology to Buffy the vampire slayer and Sabrina the teenage witch. Witch stories can be fun. It's a good movie to see as part of my reviewing of horror and Halloween-themed productions throughout this October.In this movie, a group of four girls practice witchcraft, but three of them begin taking this too far- they are, I guess you can say, seduced by the dark side of the force. As the fourth girl, Sarah, tries to distance herself from the mess being made, her former-friends turn against her.Is this movie anti-Wiccan propaganda? The matter is a concern since I have pagan sympathies myself. I don't think the word Wicca is used in the movie, unless I missed it, but the girls do practice a similar nature-based spirituality. But the point of this movie doesn't seem to be that magic is bad, just that it's a bad idea to abuse it. Both Sarah and the shop owner seem to be good witches.In terms of quality this is a mostly good movie. The performances and dialogue are mostly smooth, though the bad girl Nancy overdoes it a little, yelling He's sorry! when she basically kills Sarah's admirer. Likewise, the nightmare where the three bad witches come through the window is a little over the top. There isn't much characterization beyond that Nancy's bad and Sarah's the newer, learning, more innocent member of the group. On the whole, though, the movie's good fun.Happy Halloween. "},{"Title":"A teen film of smooth assurance. But blows it big time at the end","Date":"25 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Craft is a film that comes with an appealing idea. A coven of teenage witches use their magic for self-improvement that develops into self-empowerment. Its an idea ripe with possibilities. And for the most part The Craft is a sharp, witty and involving postmodern spin on witchcraft. So more's the pity that it loses the focus in the final act and ends the film on a shrill idiotic note.The coven in question is Sarah (Robin Tunney), the new girl in school who becomes the one who completes the circle. Nancy (Fairuza Balk), the cynical Goth who likes power a little too much. Bonnie (Neve Campbell), a scarred girl who turns her life around through magic. And Rochelle (Rachel True), the Black member who uses magic to combat the racists who make her life miserable.One thing that quite impressed me about The Craft was its direction. I liked the way Sarah arrives at school. She's told to stay away from Nancy, Bonnie and Rochelle. They're quite wittily described as the 'Bitches of Eastwick'. But Sarah's own innate magic power endears her to the others, and recognising them as kindred spirits, completes the coven.And once they're powers are combined, they take steps to become a force at their high school. In the case of Sarah, she takes revenge on a boy who humiliated her by casting a love spell on him. Nancy kills her abusive father through magic. Bonnie cures herself of the scars that have scarred her life. And Rochelle punishes a racist blonde girl by making her hair fall out.The film is smart enough to include the slowly developing consequences of each individual act. Sarah discovers having someone love you to death is dangerous. Nancy realises that power indeed does corrupt. Bonnie may look more beautiful on the outside, but in turn discovers the ugly side of human nature. And Rochelle discovers the line that separates bullied from bully is narrower then she thought.This may all sound a bit preachy and moralistic. But its the cleverly observed performances from the girls that makes The Craft very astute for three quarters of its running time.Robin Tunney turns in a smart and invigorating performance. She discovers power in her life, and her emotions rotate through fear, joy and horror at what she's become. Its an acutely observed piece of acting. Why she hasn't gone onto a rich acting career is frankly a mystery.The same could be said for Fairuza Balk. Before The Craft, she was most well known for playing Dorothy in Return to Oz. Her performance here is a whole 180 degrees removed. Her turn as the cynical Nancy is quite shocking by contrast. Decked out in white makeup, jet-black hair, nose-ring and leering grin that would make the Joker envious, she has a complete ball in the role.Hers is the most interesting character arc and she knows it. She knows the lust of power is too great a temptation, and her revelry in her own abilities is fun to watch. Her acting is broad and uninhibited but its tightly constrained within the boundaries of her character. Its only at the end she forgets that and ruins what was a fascinating piece of character development.Pre-Scream star Neve Campbell and Rachel True are only really supporting players to Tunney and Balk. They get to have fun with their roles, but they're only written in as minute performers and that's about it.Since The Craft uses high-school as a backdrop, it paints the girls coven in terms of not all dissimilar surroundings. There are times when they reminded me of an exclusive clique. But instead of a group of the most popular and well connected girls, they're a group that champions individuality and non-conformity. Its a witty reversal of what cliques are usually all about.For three quarters of its running time, The Craft is a well judged and well executed portrait of teen witchcraft. There are hilarious throwaway gags like the girls watching an episode of Bewitched. And it alternates with the girls powers going from innocent applications, like the beautiful scene of a swarm of butterflies embracing the girls, to their powers turning nasty. And I liked the subtle buildup. We know something dangerous is forming on the horizon.To return to the clique analogy, Nancy has always seen herself as the leader of the group. But when Sarah's powers prove greater than hers, it creates a shift in the group dynamic. Nancy feels threatened by her position being usurped, and takes steps to counter this, by fully worshipping the Dark Arts.This stage of the film should have been The Craft's triumphal moment. And yet somehow I was left disappointed. Up until that point, I had really enjoyed the shifts in loyalties and narrative turns, but its the way its played out in the final act that wrecks everything.Sarah and Nancy's battle could have made for some operatic developments. But the film's special effects start to take over. Beforehand they had been relatively restrained, leaving the actresses strengths and personalities to shine through. We get some really overblown scenes of Sarah's house swarming with scorpions, spiders, snakes, beetles, worms and maggots. And Fairuza Balk's acting here is horribly overdone. She lacks any menace. She looks plain silly trying to act insane and power mad. Almost reminiscent of Jack Nicholson at his worst.And the epilogue is a real wet blanket. Frankly it doesn't make much sense at all. What a shame! Films like The Craft really disappoint me. How they start out great and in control. And throw it all away for some neat sense of resolution. A mistake The Witches of Eastwick made. Relying upon a special effects climax in a misguided attempt to wrap everything up.I can't remember the last time I felt so cheated at the end of a film. "},{"Title":"Pretty good modern day witch story.","Date":"30 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Sara moves to a new town and suddenly she is involved in being a witch but being a witch involves more than just frog eyes and broom sticks. After casting a few spells of what she wants to have happen, it does happen but not in the way that she would have liked for it to happen.I thought that this was a pretty good movie but I didn't think that it was that scary. For me it wasn't scary enough but besides that it was just all right. The special effects are pretty good and there isn't a whole lot of blood in it so if the viewer is grossed out by blood this might be a good choice for them. Oh, the ending was great too. Don't lose your hair over this movie. "},{"Title":"This one stays with you","Date":"8 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I remember when this movie was being filmed. I believe it was in Savannah, GA. At that time, I lived about 1 hour away. I heard all kinds of press about this movie. Wiccans were irate, enraged, or upset that the script used actual spells. Yep. Actual spells! I liked this movie. I liked the lead actress in another role years ago. The Boy Who Could Fly. (I recommend that one, too.) You'll recognize another of the witches from The Waterboy. The plot was titillating. I find myself thinking of this movie occasionally, even though I have only seen it once, and that was when it first came out. It definitely has elements of horror. If you scare easily, don't see this one. If you want your kids to see it, please watch it yourself first. (Unless you WANT your kids sharing your bed for a few weeks after.) I have wanted to see this one again, but I haven't had a chance. I don't own it, and I have young kids. It's rare I get to be alone with my husband to see a movie, so I usually choose something I've never seen before. I will see this one again someday, though. Suspend your belief and get into this one. I think it would be great to watch with friends. (Don't you like to see people react to scary movies? I'm one of the people you want to take to a scary movie. I provide comic relief when I scream at sudden on-screen surprises. Maybe you have a friend like me. Just don't blame me when they get mad at you for scaring them, please.) Enjoy this one with popcorn -- and a blanket to hide under. "},{"Title":"The perfect high school movie and not at all insulting","Date":"2 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Though billed as a horror movie, this film left me chuckling knowingly. High school *is* like this, minus the intervention of supernatural powers, which I definitely would have appreciated during those days! The manipulating supposed best friends, the sex-crazed overbearing guys, the well-meaning bumbling adults, the angst and death wishes, it's all here and amplified by special effects no less. Fairuza Balk, Neve Campbell and Rachel True are in their element as the outcasts who recur to magical incantations to turn their sad state of affairs around and wreak havoc on those who exclude them. Robin Tunney also portrays very well the new girl in town who is already struggling without her mother to ease the bump of adolescence.Regarding the portrayal of the pagan elements, I must say I did not find it insulting. The writers of this script did their homework on Celtic mythology and gifted their audience with a very powerful depiction of Manannan MacLir, Ruler of the Ocean (this is the meaning of the marine animals who beached themselves following the ritual at the beach). Also, the architecture of Wiccan ritual is accurately portrayed, more so when the personalities and preferences of the four girls echo the correspondences of the Four Quarters. Also, there is valuable advice in the storyline Be careful what you ask for, you just might get it, and Seek the power within. Of course, the suggestion that one can forcefully enlist Nature to realise the common teenage dream of taking over the world is grossly misleading, but this does not detract from the entertainment provided by this stylish film. "},{"Title":"Sarah Bailey moves to san Francisco and falls in with the wrong crowd who just happen to be witches.","Date":"4 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Excellent acting and scary scenes when Sarah arrives in san Francisco she wants to fit in these three girls who happen to be practicing witchcraft draw Sarah into their world of cruelty when they discover Sarah is the fourth they begin to do glamour spells and basic harmless stuff but things get out of control when Nancy wants to invoke the spirit heading to the beach the girls get ready to call the corners which leaves them clueless the morning after. Nancy becomes paranoid and begins to turn on Sarah bonnie and Rochelle follow after Sarah nearly experiences date-rape Nancy decides to go play which leaves Chris dead. Sarah realizes how powerful they become when they are around her she decides to leave the circle but Nancy refuses to let her out after having nightmares Sarah decides to get help from a witch shop keeper after Nancy does a glamour spell of the building blowing up Sarah rushes home and again Nancy does some magic after her bug mania (a very creepy scene) Nancy and the girls are waiting for Sarah Nancy has a plot to kill Sarah after invoking the spirit Sarah now has the power which leaves bonnie and Rochelle running after karma gets to them (3x3) after a major fight with Nancy Rochelle and bonnie realize that they better stay away from Sarah after she nearly kills them with a falling tree branch Nancy ends up in the mental institution and Sarah still has the power... "}{"Title":"We ARE the weirdos, Mister","Date":"9 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Almost a one-woman movie - without the almost totally raw, emotive performance from Fairuza Balk this would hardly be memorable. The plot is solid, the imaginative sets are nicely lit, and there are some accomplished performances from the young cast. But Ms Balk captivates, mesmerises, shocks, scares, and charms her way through every one of her scenes. Tunney may play the central character and has many of the best moments to herself, but Balk's range - from a cheeky wink to a full-blooded rage - is what provides the entertainment here.Watching it again now makes me wonder if it may have influenced elements of Buffy, especially the later Willow episodes. It has that same quality feel to it, same beautiful set design, even the magic shop looks familiar. The theme however is a little more adult, and the humour more low-key. Like Buffy, there is a certain morality to it all, and witchcraft is certainly not glamourized. Did Willow getting hooked and going off the rails in some part pay homage to Balk's performance here? Overall a likable movie and one I could watch over and over. Probably appeals to different generations on different levels, but I think it's a worthy piece of art and technically, quite brilliant in places. "},{"Title":"My first ever review","Date":"6 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I think The Craft is a really good film i first saw it in 2000 and the second time May 2006,it has a great cast with whom 2 cast members (Neve Campbell) and (Skeet Ulrich) went to star in the 1997 smash horror Scream as Sydney Prescott and Billy Loomis.It also stars Robin Tunney who was the girl in 'End Of Days' opposite Arnold Shwarzenegger and the girl with the scary eyes 'Fairaza Balk' who probably in her best role to date.The Craft is hip,sexy,weired and some OK special FX for a film out in 1996 with not that much budget.It is a really good film the first time I would give it 8 out of 10 for the first time and 7 for any other.If your after a good solid film to watch at the weekend The Craft is that thanks and I hope its been some help. "},{"Title":"Entertaining enough","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" 'The Craft' is sort of like 'The Witches of Eastwick' for teenagers starring Neve Campbell, Fairuza Balk, Robin Tunney and Rachel True as four witches who can do about anything they want. Campbell, True and especially Balk turn into evil witches and Tunney as the heroine has to make things right. I didn't like 'The Witches of Eastwick' very much, but thought 'The Craft' was surprisingly entertaining.It lacks the fun Jack Nicholson had in 'Eastwick', and great actresses like Michelle Pfeiffer and Susan Sarandon are not there either, but it combines comedy and drama in a pretty effective way. Especially the way the four find out they have great power when they are together creates a lot of fun moments. Later it is Balk who is really scary, even though we know exactly how it ends. 'The Craft' knows it is not a masterpiece, but it is an entertaining film and handles the material even with some intelligence form time to time. "},{"Title":"Pretty good teen thriller","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The most impressive thing in this film is the performance of Fairuza Balk as Nancy.  She is truly sinister as the leader of the 'coven,' especially when 'he gives her powers.'  Robin Tunney also gives a good performance as Sarah, showing her range, as the weak frightened Sarah near the beginning of the film, to the stronger character she emerges as at the end. Not too many funny moments, overall a very dark film, but still a good watch. "},{"Title":"The Best Witch Craft Movie of its Time","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film one the beginning of a new type of witch craft film, but all that followed it would never compare. This film was smart sexy, scary with a new touch to the witch craft genre. The character are believable and so is the story because you feel the deepest of their emotions. This is definatly a film you will watch and talk about. "},{"Title":"The Craft","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Who doesn't enjoy a little magic in their lives? I thought it was good movie, even tho people on my block thought they could do some of the stuff in the movie afterward. It's good for the fantasy part in a person, but at the same time it's good for the human nature part, how far will someone go to be powerful, and how far will someone go to stop them? "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie hooks your interest from the very beginning! As I believe any thing that involves supernatural powers would hook someone's interest. This movie was dramatic, exciting, thrilling.  All of the young actresses in this movie were very impressive Robin Tunney (Sarah Bailey) was highly believable portraying someone with low self esteem, good hearted,  she makes you believe the relationship she is forming with these girls, yet she half-heartedly joins there Circle.  Bravo! Then there is Fairuza Balk (Nancy Downs) Who is PERFECT! She is a fabulous actress and has proved this in every movie she has done including American History X. She adds that extra feeling necessary in a movie like this. The creepy feeling.  She is very good at it!  Certainly sent shivers down my spine. Bravo! The movie as a whole was very interesting.  The story line and script were very interesting while every little detail in the movie add to the Gothic ambiance. This was a great film! "},{"Title":"Welcome to the BITCHing hour","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this movie on TV a couple of weeks ago and i loved it.Sarah is forced to move to LA. There she starts a new school with no friends. There she meets Rochelle, Nancy and Bonnie- three girls with a very unhealthy interest in the occult. Sarah joins them, and all four girls experiment with witchcraft. It starts off as harmless fun, bet ends with a terrifying fight for survival for one of the girls (if u havent seen it- i wont tell you who, but you can probably guess).Robin Tunney is the quite and troubled sarah. Rachel True is the funny and sometimes bitchy Rochelle Neve Campbell is the sexy and extremely snobby Bonnie Fairuza Baulk is brilliant as the very scary and very on edge NancyThe Craft is an interesting thriller which relies on visuals to shock. The soundtrack is very catchy and some of the lines in the the film are very funny i.e Bus Driver You girls watch out for those weirdos! Nancy Mister, we ARE those Weirdos!Good fun. 7 out of 10  "},{"Title":"The Craft is a LOT of fun","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I like this film a lot, it's about black magic and is actually quite spooky, it's a fun film about three witches who meet up with a natural witch to form a circle, north, east, south and west. Then all hell breaks loose! The acting is surprisingly good and the special effects are above average. This is a real sleeper. The soundtrack is good too, it's comprised of mostly cover versions by alternative rock acts. Songs by The Beatles, The Cars, Nillson, Marianne Faithful, Jewel and others. "},{"Title":"The Craft is a LOT of fun","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I really do like films about black magic and the craft is no exception, it's a fun film about three witches who meet up with a natural witch to form a circle, north, east, south and west. Then all hell breaks loose! The acting is surprisingly good and the special effects are above average. This is a real sleeper. The soundtrack is good too, it's comprised of mostly cover versions by alternative rock acts. Songs by The Beatles, The Cars, Nillson, Marianne Faithful, Jewel and others. "}{"Title":"Wicked!","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A supernatural thriller in which new girl Sarah (Robin Tunney) finds she has witchy powers, and with help from the three school misfits the four become a coven and try to master their powers.Faruiza Balk plays the genuinely creepy Nancy perfectly, while Neve Campbell is great as the shy and quiet Bonnie, and Rachel True is equally enjoyable as the tormented Rochelle.Skeet Ulrich (Scream) stars as the stereotypical jock of highschool who falls for Sarah, and Christine Taylor (The Brady Bunch Movie) plays the bitchy girl who likes to call Rochelle names.Also, one of my favorite songs of all time is featured on the soundtrack. It's called How Soon Is Now by Love Spit Love and is also the theme song to the TV series Charmed - also about witches.The four attractive leads are the best thing about this movie, followed closely by the intriguing and interesting script and the fitting Special Effects. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Casts A Pretty Spell But Words Were Missing","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This Film isnt bad. Pretty good actually I give it a 8/10. But see it was a great film and bravo on the acting ), But, I really thought the last 30 or so minutes werent as good as the rest of the film. See the whole idea of a witches being together and having fights and mishaps and revenge, was a great idea and all did a good job. The script was good. But it needing more....instead of a creepy WAH!. It needed more of a horror WAH! If that makes since. The movie is good and id see it again. But the ending needed something more.But I reccemend this film. "},{"Title":"A fun witch flick.","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  THE CRAFT (1996) Rating 7/10A cult favorite of mine, The Craft is by no means a great movie, but it's still a well-acted and pardon the pun, well-crafted witch flick that I totally enjoy the hell out of. And that's why I give it the rating I do. It's dark, entertaining and fun, IMHO. Seeing popular kids getting what they deserve will never grow old, especially if they're getting it from these four kickass ladies!The cast was excellent and very entertaining and the SFX and story are fine... Fairuza Balk was the best thing out of this film. I loved watching her be such a bitch throughout the entire film, she was funny in some scenes and disturbing in others and she looks like she had a blast doing so. Robin Tunney is memorable as well (not as much as Fairuza Balk, of course). But Tunney does a good job as the new girl and has to emote a lot of emotion throughout the film. Neve Campbell and Rachel True are strong supports, but the show is stolen by Ms. Tunney and Ms. Balk, who really play to the audience 100% throughout.Overall, with the combination of memorable performances, pretty good special effects, an interesting story, and some very catchy and cool spells, The Craft is a must-see for anyone who's up for teens messing with the supernatural and getting revenge on those damn popular kids! ;) "},{"Title":"Hubble, bubble...","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  You do not need an interest in witchcraft to enjoy this film. A lot of the mythology and practices of the craft are explained, so you don't need to worry if you don't know the terms. The acting is terrific by all four of the main women, especially Fairuza Balk who sent a chill through me as the lead witch Nancy. The film is well-written and directed, and it does not rely on cheap shocks to thrill. A great thriller and very good performances by everyone. I loved it. "},{"Title":"Impartiality?  Pah!","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  How are you supposed to watch this film without concentrating solely on Neve Campbell?  She is just lovely, and looks fantastic throughout.To try to be impartial, this was actually quite enjoyable as far as occult films go, given that most of them are nonsense.  The 4 characters are realistic and play off each other well, and often they were just plain freaky. "},{"Title":"Great, great movie...","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  You know, if someone asks me to make up a list of favourite actors..I could probably make a huge list...someone asks me to make a list of favorite actresses, the list will be a little on the small side. What's this got to do with The Craft you ask? A lot as this movie features four girls who all became favorites of mine after this movie. Especially Robin Tunney before she went on to crap-fests like Vertical Limit and Super Nova. Tunney gives another solid performance as Sarah the girl who holds a secret gift which is quickly noticed by a group of school outcasts lead by Fairuza Balk (In another creepy as hell and underated part) with another underrated actress Neve Campbell as well as Rachel True rounding out the group. the four get deep into witchcraft and while many movies would go goofy from here, this movie keeps it serious while not overdoing it and the result is pretty good. Other good performances come from Skeet Ulrich who's effective in his minor supporting role as well as Assumpta Serna and Christine Taylor.What also helps this movie along is the great special effects. It's nothing amazing but everything has a great low-key somewhat realistic quality to it that only adds to the movie.The movie is not free from flaws though. The ending while decent is still pretty weak in comparison with the rest of the movie and the showdown with Fairuza and Robin isn't nearly as good as it could have been.But these are minor qualms...The Craft is a highly watchable movie with some great acting from actress's who dont nearly get the credit they deserve. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Great!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"25 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is a really awesome movie. The are some very dirty scenes, when there are snakes and spiders all over the house and the maggots are crawling out of the toilet. That was pretty scary, people with a very weak stomach should close their eyes when the toilet part comes. In the end there was one scene, when Nancy is tied up on a bed in some psychiatric hospital, and she is really crazy and she keeps saying  I'm flying, I'm flying and she has this really weird, happy look in her eyes. That was a cool scene. I also like the movie because it's about the supernatural, about witches, I think witches are awesome! I watch Charmed every week, and I'm really addicted to it! I also watch other supernatural shows, like Buffy and Angel (and Roswell, but that's more about aliens) I recommend to all of you who haven't seen this great movie go see it! And all of you who have seen it see it again! "},{"Title":"Very creepy and interesting.","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Fairuza Balk played a very good role as the leader gone crazy, and Neve Campbell was like...the one who hung back a bit and took everything as it went. All in all it was a great movie. Witchcraft mixed with creepiness is the recipe for an interesting movie that people will remember and definitely watch again. "},{"Title":"I Wish These Witches Went To My School !!","Date":"17 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"       Is it just me or are these witches even more hotter looking than Samantha or the teen witch Sabrina ? I don't know if I like them better than the Halliwell sisters on Charmed, but that show does seem to be a fairly dubious clone or spin-off of The Craft. The music is fairly the same standard,but I don't think these girls have to worry about warlocks. Fairuza Balk's character is wonderfully dark and sympathetic in the beginning, but then spoils herself into just becoming just short of a Satanist with her tagalongs Rachel True and Neve Campbell who is not the main character for once in her life. That distinction definitely belongs to the captivating Robin Tunney who looks better in this movie than anything else I've ever seen her in.Fresh from Hull House Mortuary in Night of the Demons 2, we have Christine Taylor who is for once decidedly going anti-Marcia and then there's Skeet Ulrich about whom only the girls seem to care about at all. The plot and the movie is superb on the account it doesn't waste time on witchcraft and exploitation see Little Witches and instead dwells on the friendships and bonds of these four girls.I give this movie ten stars. "},{"Title":"An alternate title","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  After watching this movie, I can think of at least another apt alternate title for this movie - but I think it wouldn't be appropriate for this comment. But to give you a hint (most would be able to guess the title I'm thinking of anyway) - the B****** (rhymes with witches). For this show really shows how, when empowered with magical powers, a group of outcast girls can really bring harm and disharmony to everyone around them. To even want to kill the person who enabled these powers in them in the first place just because she happens to be a good witch and does not wish to harm anyone without good cause. I really liked some of the special effects - not too much to overpower the plot of the movie, but just enough to give you a sense of the enormity of the powers granted to the girls. All in all, a telling revelation into the cliques and outcasts in high school, what can happen when tables are turned. "}{"Title":"Just when you thought Christianity was popular again...","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  While they should get a kick out of it as well, this is not a film strictly for goths.  There just aren't enough dark, grim movies like this one out there.  This flick earns its R rating with contriversial approaches at the evil that so many people try to pretend not to believe in, as opposed to the use of pointless sex or Pulp Fiction-style profanity (no offense to Quentin Tarrentino).  Going up on the list of my Halloween favorites. "},{"Title":"A Magical Masterpiece","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The occult has been an influence on Hollywood for years, and The Craft is no exception!  This is one of the best movies made in the 1990's, with a solid cast and a wonderful plot, which can easily attract attention.  It's great, it's fun, it's spellbinding!  Neve Campbell, Rachel True, and Robin Tunney were good, but I thought that the best witch was Nancy, played by the very talented Faruza Balk, who is indeed a powerfully wonderful actress.  Faruza gave the BEST performance out of all the witches to bring her strange and twisted character, Nancy, alive on the screen.The Craft is more than just a movie...its a true masterpiece! "},{"Title":"Simple teen flick","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  There was nothing particularly clever or interesting or original about this film. If you are a teenager looking for some chills and you don't want to tax your brain, this could be a good film for you. I did feel a bit sorry for Rachel True. Her role had a major hint of token-ism, with no real action or dialogue, she seemed wasted in spite of appearing attractive and talented. Interesting to see Neve in a supporting role - don't see that much anymore. I think it was a moderately entertaining movie but just another typical pulp-movie and quickly forgotten. My vote 7/10 and lucky to get it.  "},{"Title":"Not too exciting","Date":"2 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Nothing special here.  The ending seemed tacked on.  (Come on, we need to wrap this movie up.)  The X-Files episode on witchcraft had a similar feel and was twice as well done. "},{"Title":"Above average teenage horror.","Date":"12 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Ah teen thriller movies cliché-filled stories, pretty boys and girls casts and a thin plot. These movies usually don't have a lot of new content to offer the viewer and The Craft is no exception. The movie follows Sarah, a teenage witch who has recently moved to the small town (the unnamed town where the movie takes place) from San Francisco, the reason for her parents' decision is never explained. The audience is left to guess, but I think it's a safe assumption that Sarah stirred up some trouble with her witchcraft in the city. At first she isn't to keen on Nancy, Bonnie and Rochelle, a threesome who make no effort in hiding they're a coven of witches, but Sarah quickly has a spat with Chris Hooker (the name an unsubtle indication for his nature), one of the 'normal' high school kids and that leads to a (bit rushed) decision of joining the coven. In the beginning it's all fun and games, and the girls are like two hands on one belly but things turn awry when they invoke the spirit of the upper-god 'Manon'. The witches become drunk with power and Sarah soon finds out that getting out of the coven is a lot harder than getting in.The plot is not too insulting for our intelligence, keep in mind that we are watching a light thriller/horror mainly made for a young audience. It's only a means of escapism but entertaining non the less. Robin Tunney easily walks away with the honor of the best performance in the movie, Neve Campbell is not very convincing as usual and Fairuza Balk acts like she was born for this role. Of course, those of you who have seen her in 'the water boy' know that she's merely a one-trick pony so for range she scores very low. Also, she may be accused of overacting, although with the comic book like way these characters are written it's almost impossible to overact. It's no coincidence I almost forget to mention Rachel True's performance, not a single impressive scene comes to mind. She's the weakest link but acting has never been and never will be a priority in these types of movies. She's there to be pretty as is most of the rest of the cast. The 5.8 is undoubtedly pretty accurate when it comes to the rating of how good the movie is cinematically (above average but not far). If I had to rate this solely for entertainment value I'd definitely give it a 7. So this receives a tiny recommendation from me, and I think my score of 6.5 is fair. "},{"Title":"* * * out of 4.","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Well cast flick about a teenage outcast (Robin Tunney) falling in with a group of high school misfits (Fairuza Balk) who dabble in witchcraft. However, the more powerful Balk gets the more dangerous she gets. And when Tunney confronts her about this, Balk turns against her and sets about trying to kill her. Excellent & highly original special effects, a good edgy performance by Balk compliments this smart fast paced film.Rated R; Mild Sexual Situations, Violence, and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Sexier than Samantha and Sabrina","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"      I wish these witches went to my school ! What could have been a lousy movie about witchcraft and exploitation i.e. Little Witches is a great movie about the friendship of four girls who just happen to dabble with witchcraft.The special effects are superb.Fairuza Balk,Robin Tunney and Christine Taylor give great performances.Oh,yeah,that Party of Five chick is in it too. This movie provides an accurate depiction of witchcraft that Bewitched and Sabrina never could;who ever heard of a witch born with their powers ? They need to be developed and this movie actually shows it.Tunney's character was born with psychic potential and through her,the others develop their craft.Right on,correct and far out ! Great movie for horror fans with any iota of intelligence.  "},{"Title":" Nancy, someone is dead","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Robin Tunney is sassy as Sarah in this vibrant horror farce. The following cast is marvelous. The costumes are masterful. One of the best movies in the genre, The Craft will put a spell on the viewer. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Rather uninspired, but still entertaining witchcraft affair","Date":"15 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Arriving at a new school, a teen meets up with a group of social outcasts who offer her entrance into their coven of witches, and after they grow stronger the power-mad coven are soon inciting retribution against their classmates as she tries to put an end to their reign of terror.There isn't much to the film. One of its' better features is the fact that this follows a lot of the real witch's spells and ceremonies which gives it a touch of realism as the chanting and special spells are quite realistic that allows for a touch of believability for many of those scenes. The many different spells, both good and evil are what really keep the film afloat since they start harmless and soon start affecting others. From the simple and harmless ramifications of their easier spells to the later ones that actually focus on supernatural powers are all fun to witness and believably done. The big action scene here, the final confrontation with the coven-members inside a large mansion, is quite entertaining and does offer up some big excitement along with the extraordinarily creepy sequence where almost everything in the house is covered with thousands of snakes or insects that must be crossed before heading to the final destination, is creepy, ingenious and really comes the closest to out-and-out horror. Otherwise, that's all that pretty much all that work for the film as there really isn't a whole lot to it. The only real flaw the film has is that it's really hard to feel threatened by the witches. Most of the spells are pretty much nonthreatening to others, and by removing the fact that they never really harm anyone physically, even at the end, it's really hard to feel fear of them. As the spells themselves aren't dangerous or evil, even the really dangerous ones that are performed do nothing harmful to others even when they're trying, and it makes it really hard to feel threatened by these. That becomes even worse since it spends all it's time on them, and therefore the opportunities are never there to feel that there's much to be feared of in here as simple avoidance makes for a more satisfying hindrance to their plans. It makes it really hard to supposedly be scared of witches seeking revenge when the most dangerous thing that they do is cause a person's hair to fall out. It's a big problem, and the main one in the film.Rated R Graphic Language, Violence and attempted Rape. "},{"Title":"Good film that could have been great","Date":"4 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I wanted to like The Craft more than I do. It has lots of appealing ingredients, including a pretty solid main cast and a story with lots of potential that puts young women front and center. I think my issues with it come down to tone and pacing. There are plenty of scenes that feel very natural and organic, especially those that feature the four main girls together; and then there are jarring scenes (for example, the vagrant with the snake) that seem to come from a different movie. Many of the adults (or, at least, the older actors playing adult roles, as opposed to the adult actors playing teenagers) are somewhat off, including Tunney's father and Assumpta Serna as the owner of the Wicca shop. Helen Shaver, as Fairuza Balk's trashy mother, gives the only performance that meshes well with what the teenagers are doing. Balk herself, though she excels at bringing menacing tension and unpredictability to her performance as the most unhinged of the four main girls, sometimes goes overboard with the histrionics, such as the bedroom scene with Skeet Ulrich at the party. The other girls' -- Robin Tunney, Neve Campbell and Rachel True -- performances stay more grounded through the movie, even as the increasingly unnatural events unfold. (Campbell and Ulrich, who would co-star as high school paramours in a film, Scream, that overshadowed this movie, don't have much interaction here, but I thought Ulrich was actually better -- and certainly funnier -- here as the bewitched, bothered and bewildered wanna-be boyfriend of Tunney.)All in all, the film feels like it wasn't thought through as thoroughly as it could have been. There are intriguing, post-Carrie ideas here about witchcraft and paganism as metaphors for girls' sexual development, but they don't really go anywhere even as the girls become more sexualized (and their skirts get shorter) as they become more confident in their craft. There are elements that feel forced or blunt -- such as the over-the-top overt racism shoved in True's character's face -- when a subtler approach would have been more effective and believable. There are the jarring tonal shifts that make me feel like director Andrew Fleming didn't have complete mastery of his own material. (Fleming also co-wrote the screenplay.) This is still a reasonably entertaining film with some effective scenes, memorable imagery and good performances. In more skillful hands or with more time and money, it could have been much more than that. "}{"Title":"Until they let me review Transformers 4, this movie will have to do","Date":"6 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is like the movie with-it liberal parents might take their budding teen daughter to go see in the late 90's, its a movie used so parents can tell kids, I know you may experiment with drugs but using too much can be dangerous. Y'know, stupid magic is used in place of drugs, they call it a metaphor. I mean maybe its that The Craft is a predictable, tame movie that makes the movie so dull. I would assume a film about magic and teenage girls should be some intense serious sh*t, but The Craft a movie specifically about teen girls and magic...yeah,no,not intense. If you love this movie, then love it, I salute you, it does nothing for me. I prefer my movies about teenage girls and magic to be awesome or at least not phony. "},{"Title":"Power corrupts and abused power destroys","Date":"9 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Clueless meets Carrie, and a slick, hip, smart arse movie, are what the critics allegedly call the movie (or so the back of the box says. For all we know the quote could have been it is not a slick &#x85; movie). I have not seen Carrie (as of the time of writing), but The Craft is nothing like Clueless, nor is it slick, hip, or smart arse. It isn't a bad movie, but it isn't one that catapults to the top of excellence either.The Craft is about a girl who moves to Los Angeles and goes to a Catholic School. She begins as an outcast because she is new, and is pushed even further out when she refuses to go to bed with Chris, the school stud. As such she ends up joining with the school's misfits who are rumoured to be witches. They are actually witches, but they need a forth person to make their power work, and Sarah, the new kid, happens to be the perfect forth person.They claim to worship the god Mamoun, who is basically all of nature. They claim that Mamoun is older than any other god and is the only true god. God was only created by mankind who chose to ignore Mamoun. This I dispute because I believe Mamoun was created by man who did not want to worship the true God. Mamoun is nature while God is beyond nature as he created nature and as such expects us to look after it.Mamoun bestows these girls with magical powers, but whatever these girls do is revisited upon them three times. Sarah wants to get back at Chris so makes him fall in love with her, but this love spell backfires and she cannot get away from him. He is so madly in love with her that his sexual urges are fired up to the point where he is do anything to have sex with her, including raping her.Danny becomes corrupted by the power that she works with. She is little more than white trash, living in a small house with quarrelling parents. She wants out anyway she can so she basically asks for the power of Mamoun, but after somebody close to them dies Sarah wants out and Danny will not let her.This movie is about how power corrupts people if one is not careful. The one that was corrupted the most was the one that had the least. As such it seems that it is attacking the rags to riches philosophy. Those who are poor and powerless are that way because they do not know how to handle power. This is not always the case though because some poor people rise to power and are remembered for their goodness, while others who are born rich are intensely corrupt and abuse their power constantly.My friends rave about this movie, but I don't think that it is that great. It is just fancy effects and magic in the modern time with a pretty simple plot. The plot itself does not grab me and the characters have little depth. They are simply unpopular people who really want to become popular, and there is little else to them. Thus, unfortunately, is the way people are anyway. "},{"Title":"Good stuff.","Date":"8 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Effective 90's teen-oriented horror told from the perspective of young women, and how they are able to use witchcraft to affect changes in people, places, and things. At first, it's all in good fun, and they're having a high old time, but naturally before long things just get way out of hand. Sarah (Robin Tunney) is a shy, troubled girl with innate supernatural abilities who becomes part of a very small clique of outsiders Rochelle (Rachel True), Bonnie (Neve Campbell), and Nancy (Fairuza Balk). It's interesting to note that as their powers grow, they really start to blossom, especially Bonnie, although this of course isn't necessarily for the better. Co- screenwriter and director Andrew Fleming (Bad Dreams, Threesome, Dick) gets engaging performances out of his star quartet, with Balk very much dominating the proceedings as a girl desperate to put her trailer trash existence behind her, and who ultimately becomes completely unhinged. Good supporting performances by Assumpta Serna, as the helpful Lirio, owner of the shop that the girls frequent, Christine Taylor, as the stuck up Laura whose blatant racism towards Rochelle results in a fairly interesting comeuppance, and the amusing Skeet Ulrich, Campbell's co-star in Scream from the same year, as the initially unfeeling jock who becomes obsessed with Sarah after she casts a spell on him. Cliff De Young is barely seen and under utilized as Sarah's dad, but his fellow veteran Helen Shaver has one of the more unlikely roles of her career (not that she doesn't do a great job) as Nancy's mother. This kind of story could easily descend into a cheese fest but in this instance it's actually very well done, with a decidedly dark tone in its later parts, so it can definitely be taken seriously, with a final act full of creepy crawlies - snakes, scorpions, spiders, rats, etc. - and some genuinely effective atmosphere, leading to a reasonably intense confrontation between protagonist and antagonist. Commendably, Lirio asserts the idea that magic isn't necessarily black or good but that it largely depends on the individual, so this movie at least isn't going for the usual clichés when it comes to this sort of thing. A good, entertaining, intriguing movie with a punchy wrap-up, The Craft provides a fine showcase for its attractive young actresses and is overall worth a look. Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"I thought it would be a low-budget movie, but it was quite OK","Date":"19 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Although it looks like those cheap and hastily made, straight-to-DVD films, it was actually good to watch.Nothing groundbreaking, but quite good for a night home. It did have a story behind it ( troubled teenagers, dysfunctional families, social prejudices), it did have some acting (where I thought there would be nothing but sleazy chicks that try to make an impression). The filming was good, too. Intense and tight.At some points it was a real thriller. Not gore or something, but quite disturbing. Better than some block busters.I enjoyed it more than I thought I would. "},{"Title":"I can see the controversy, but please look past the surface...","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I understand the controversy about this movie. Granted, it is a highly exaggerated example of the Pagan/Wiccan way of life with powerful girls running around in short skirts. However, there are deeper themes woven into the plot. In Wicca there is the rule of karma, and the 3x3 rule is highly looked upon and when ignored has extreme consequences. I am a practitioner of Wicca and I know this firsthand. There is no hair changing or walking on water, but these powers were all in showing exactly which characters the movie focused on. Some people did not understand that the movie was for entertainment, with a real lesson deep inside the special effects. Research Wicca and Paganism to an extent, and then watch the movie. You'll be surprised at the difference it can make. "},{"Title":"The Craft","Date":"9 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie is entertaining in many aspects and it has grown to be my favorite. However a good majority of the movie is based on fictionary assumptions relating to actual paganism and witchcraft. Being wiccan myself I found a lot of parts in this movie to be untrue to the real aspects of magick. but On the other hand they make many true statements (For example when they talk about the Threefold law ). Nancy Downs is my favorite character in the film because Fairuza Balk is personally my all time hero. Neve Campbell's performance was outstanding. I think I almost liked her in this as opposed to Scream. I was a little disappointed by Robbin Tunney's role because she made the character seem a little bland and too ordinary. I would have liked to see Sarah played with some more attitude. Rachel True was excellent in this though, I thought her role as Rochelle was phenomenal! All in all The Craft is my favorite movie! "},{"Title":"Good and bad collide in an extravagant magical way","Date":"27 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I think this movie is excellent compared to most witchcraft movies. More realistic yet enough Hollywood to keep it going, great performances and wonderful special effects. The story line is compelling and and does not get stale or overrated. I think this movie was yet another hit for Robin Tunney and Neve Campbell. Rachel True and Fairuza Balk or also superb in their roles. For those of you who are Skeet Ulrich fans, his character of Chris was very believable and well cast. Overall, if you are a believer in witchcraft or just like to be entertained by a great witchcraft movie, and if you like Practical Magic and Spellbinder, The Craft is the movie for you. "},{"Title":"I liked it","Date":"30 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I liked this movie. As a learning Wiccan, it helps me understand what can happen to you if you mistreat what powers you may possess or are given. I am not saying the exaggeration of the movie is real. It just over emphasizes to make a point. Not only that, it is entertaining and the cast is well chosen. The movie also gives some cool light on the shop owner, who knows about magick. The movie makes Wicca/Paganism look evil at points, but it also makes a whole lotta sense at the beginning with Mano (whatever) being EVERYTHING. I like that.I love this movie no matter what any one else says. "},{"Title":"What happened to Nancy?","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" OK I know this sounds stupid but Nancy ended up at I guess a rehabilitation center I just want to know how.When Sarah said you don't want to end up like Nancy what did she mean.What did Sarah do? Did she tell someone Nancy was crazy.When she said that to Rochelle and Bonnie I was just really confused and then they went to the part when Nancy was in the Rehab. Center. So how did she end up that way?Also how did Nancy become so crazy at the end?Did Sarah do that to her.Because Sarah binded her is that why Nancys crazy.Also what happened at the magic shop?What was the deal with the explosion.Did that scare Sarah. Was that from Nancy Rochelle and Bonnie or was that just magic.Then Sarah left and went to her house. Did she not feel safe doing the spell. "},{"Title":"A Movie about three girls trying to find what is truly meaningful in life.","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie was excellent, It is by-far my favorite move. I believe in magic, real magic, and I think that this movie really portrayed what magic really is. in the special features, conjuring the craft Faruzia Balk said something that really connected with me. So i'll quote her She said, Usually when people try to market magic, they twist it to make it look, evil, or silly, or stupid. I don't think that many people understood that, but I did. I mean what is usually marketed out there isn't the reality of magic, and it is insulting sometimes. But this movie wasn't insulting at all, it was the truth. I think that absolutely everybody should see the craft, its truly a wonderful movie. "}{"Title":"Hot witchcraft film","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Teen horror film based around witchcraft. Four out-casted girls form a coven and use their powers in ways which inadvertently destroy the lives of the people close to them and ultimately their own lives.Its pretty scary actually with a great performance from Fairuza Balk as Nancy who really brings the whole film alive. It also incorporates a number of teenage issues and problems such as relationships, friendships, depression and racism. Its fair to say that this is a pretty cool film using the familiar idea of the outcasts getting their own back, however with an inevitable moral twist at the end. Its worth checking out though and the soundtrack's worth a listen with a pretty decent cover of 'How Soon Is Now' ( I'm not sure who does the cover) "},{"Title":"Really REALLY good","Date":"22 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I was a bit worried though with the Wiccan rede being be it harm no one do as thou will,in this Film with Fairuza Balk being a real Witch and an adviser on the Film there seemed to be an AWFUL lot of negative Spells and injury being placed on someone but yet for someone new to the Craft as I was and again am now as I am being reintroduced this is a very enlightening Film as it shows the casting of Circles and the proper use of Athames and Candles,this Film actually introduced me to studying Wicca and it is a great Film and the Soundtrack May the Lord and Lady be Praised for such great Music by Ralph Nall,Juliana Hatfield,Heather Nova this was really good and for People wanting to know the Difference in Wicca and the Craft this is a good Primer "},{"Title":"Whats the deal?","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I'm not quite sure why everyone wants to kick this movie down... Sure, the plot wasn't amazing, but it functioned. Some of the scenes were badly directed, but contrasted by some surprisingly well directed scenes. To me this movie really wasn't about magic, but characters. Each character was unique and had their own sub-plot, which is something not done often enough. I was particularly fond of Fairuza Balks character Nancy, who i felt was the deepest and most interesting of the characters. The character had layers. Her exterior is mean and frightening, but under it she was actually a pretty cool person with a good sense of humor. I didn't like the way they made her into a psycho killer completely tripped out on her own power, but it also sets it up for a sequel. Despite what everyone else thinks, I think a sequel for this film has great potential. Of course, with more emphasis on the character driven features they tried to give the first. Less campy spell dialog, a little more humanity, and ALL returning characters (and actors/actresses) plus a few, and i'de go see it. Hell, i'de even write it. "},{"Title":"If this makes you want to practice witchcraft then...","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  YOU ARE AN IDIOT!Go blame it on the Harry Potter books or something perhaps a little better.The thing that passes for a plot in this movie can be summed up as follows (No plot spoilers but perhaps some thematic ones)No one likes us, let's practice witchcraft and then everyone will like us. Now that we do practice witchcraft, we can't actually be culpable for the results that come from manipulating things beyond our control.Fairuza Balk delivers an excellent performance, perhaps one day they will do a cut that only shows her scenes and makes the movie better.As for the movie, well it weighs the same as a duck, proving that it is made of wood. Anyone who wnats to say that this movie is about female empowerment or something along those lines is just wrong, this movie is nothing but glorified T and A and, if you are the Conservative Christian type (since just about anyone else would probably have the good sense to realise that the movie said nothing of the sort and would probably have the good sense to perhaps ACTUALLY RESEARCH WICCA before converting), a glossy ad for Wicca. "},{"Title":"One spooky movie","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This was one spooky movie, I was only 12 when I saw it, and it was very interesting too.There are some real strange parts in this movie that make makes this movie even more spookier, like when that guy freaks that girl out with a snake, that part when the girls combined their witchcraft, caused lots of lightning, and the containers with the animals in broke!The coolest part was when the witches were floating , that was cool, and this movie had a terrific ending, a perfect way to end a spooky movie!8/10 "},{"Title":"All Hail The Guardians Of The North Tower!!!","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Smart, Savvy,Dark On The Edges, I felt The Craft was a bit too dark but remember this was pre CHARMED Witchcraft/Wicca.  Robin Tunney is a beautiful actress who's disturbingly so.  Her half-hearted involvement in the Summoning is so sincere,she's going along simply because she's been dragged into it.  Her portrayal of the outsider/out of towner is compelling.  Fairuza Balk(sweet little Dorothy from Return To Oz)is archly villainous,you wouldn't believe her.  Neve Campbell hides pretty well within her character(that is her character) and Rachel True(ANNOYINGLY) is obscured by the overwhelming personalities and presences of Tunney,Balk & Campbell. It's okay for the girls to turn their powers for normal needs, they are teenagers and( With All Due Respect)teenagers act, they don't think of the end of the road consequences,I saw nothing wrong in the girls getting even with their detractors.   For one who's scoffed at onscreen Wicca/Witchcraft, this is definitely crafty!!!  The actresses are craftsmen who know how to work it on celluloid.  The Craft is way ahead of it's time 10/10  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film is not so bad. I have a lot of friends who are very superstitious and really believe in all these stuff. Maybe that's why I can relate to this film more than some other people can.The 4 leading 'witches' were quite likable. They all have their own personality and style. The acting was not bad either, I found Nancy's evil character quite convincing. The fear and in girl who got alopecia was very well conveyed too. The story itself maybe the thing that is not convincing to some people, but this is what superstition is all about. I think this film is enjoyable. "},{"Title":"I'm Wiccan and I Loved It!!!","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  OK, being a practicing Wiccan for 2 years, you'd think I'd be insulted by this movie...but in fact, I adore it!  The few actual Wicca-type things they show are shown in a positive and true light...that everything you do comes back to you three-fold (The Rule Of Three), that it does revolve around the elements, and that a big part of it (at least if you're in a Coven) stresses friendship. The entering of the Majick Circle was almost exactly like how entering a Wiccan Circle is done within a Coven. The rest of it, anything evil or forceful that happens, doesn't even exist in Wicca.  Menon was completely made-up for this film, and while I wish I could sometimes, we can't levitate or make things appear. And I especcially like how it shows love spells backfire.  The Wiccan Rede states, Do what thy will, an harm ye none.  This means, NEVER try to control someone else's will.  The girls do just that, and look what happens.All in all, it definitely shows the divide between a Wiccan (like the woman who runs the majicks shop) and a movie witch.  10/10. "},{"Title":"Highly entertaining!","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this movie about 5 years ago and thought it was quite good, I remind of it quite well. It was my favorite movie during that time. I really liked the way Robin Tunney, Neve Campbell, Rachel True and Fairuza Balk played their characters. They certainly envelop themselves into the role very well. The acting was splendid. They were all thoroughly appropriate to carry out their roles, especially Fairuza Balk who is amazing in portraying Nancy who is the wickedest witch.  The plot is highly entertaining; I really enjoyed the whole movie, since it shows that it's very bad to get into witchcraft. It shows that people regret to get into these kinds of wicked things. This is evil, so this movie teaches us not to do this or you'll regret it. Sarah (Robin Tunney), Bonnie (Neve Campbell) and Rochelle (Rachel True) found out it wasn't correct to cast spells on other people as they did before. As for Nancy, she got what she deserved for being such a wicked person. This is what I like. I think it was great. I also liked when they all watch the TV Show bewitched, because it was one of my favorite TV shows when I was younger. The ending is doubtless very appropriate, since it shows what would happen to people who want to become a devil's server. 8/10 "},{"Title":"The Cra(p)ft","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I love revenge type films.  Especially ones that center around high school, where a lot of people are coming into their arrogance.  But this flick totally drops the ball by doing underwhelming stuff to the baddies.  It begins when the gorgeous Tunney moves to a new neighborhood.  Her new school happens to have three teenage witches.  And she herself is able to some things.  They all get together, cast some spells, find out what they're capable of, make the school bitch's hair fall out, make an amorous jerk annoyingly lovesick, blah, blah.  It just doesn't grab you.  Had a little steam the first 45 minutes or so, then peters out, and even has the witches turn on each other in the end.  It all drags forever before finally wrapping up.  One bright spot is the cast, cute and somewhat busty.  But after a few minutes of that (and no nudity featured at all) you'll be ready for another movie. "}{"Title":"Wiccan person, and The Craft","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Hi. 1st off I'd just like to start by saying that I am a Wiccan. I wanted to comment on the movie. I'm not here to bad mouth it, but to give it applause. I, being Wiccan, wanted to see this movie to see if indeed it was about Wicca. Well, my conclusion is that it is and it is not. See, in the movie they do portray them as witches but not Wiccans. Wiccan's embrace nature, not evil and unfortunately these ladies do. Therefore, they are not Wiccans. They use dark magick. I, like the store owner said, believe that magick comes from within, and if you put your evil intent into it, like Bonnie, Sarah, Rochelle, and Nancy did, then it is going to BE evil. I think the movie was great. It showed how the three fold law works. And it did happen. Every girl got it back somehow or another. So, I thought that aspect was great. I think that it portrays dark magick very well. These girls had power, and they abused it. I really enjoyed the movie all in all. I found it very entertaining. So, like I said, it does not teach or show Wicca it shows dark magick which has nothing to do with the Wiccan religion. I respect this movie also, because it shows what can happen when you mess with power. So, I think I'd give this movie a perfect 5 out of 5 stars. I loved it. Great job! "},{"Title":"The best","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Craft is a visually stunning movie, with many hidden sub-plots. If you haven't seen it already go rent it! Its well worth the watch. Flemming is really successful in creating character development between the four girls. "},{"Title":"Grab a raft cause this craft is sinking fast","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  While this movie is relatively entertaining, is falls short of delivering a solid witch flick.  The plot development seems to be lacking as the characters do not fully evolve throughout the film.  There are number logic holes, and after a while i felt the movie was more about sheer viewing pleasure rather than quality entertainment.  The script is fairly weak, yet it had potential.  Campell and Balk had a bit of penache to the cast.  That said, Balk exhibits an uncanny resemblance to Shannon Doherty of Charmed - obviously inspired by the movie.  The ending was disappointing and many aspects were left unexplained.  I felt the directors had to resort to unimaginative ideas because they did not know how to end the movie.  All in all the movie is not a masterpiece of theatrical prowess, however if it is on TV and you have nothing else to do you may as well watch it.  Afterall, you get to see hot girls in catholic school uniforms! 6/10 "},{"Title":"This is the BEST movie!!!","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is the best movie ever made. I know there are such things as witches but i never really believed in it until today, My friends and i were just kidding around and we were thinking of things to happen and they happened!!!! Like in French class everyone was really loud and all four of us were thinking 'Silence' and it immidiately became silent!!!!!  I was so freaked out so we did more stuff like that nothing bad though. N*E*Wayz, I just wanted to say that this is the best movie of all time!!! "},{"Title":"Hell Yeah!!!","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Craft is by no means a good movie, but I love it. It is one of the most dark, entertaining, and fun movies ever! Seeing  popular kids getting what they deserve will never grow old, especially if they're getting it from four kick-a** ladies!Fairuza Balk steals the show as the most goth (and witty) of the four.10/10  "},{"Title":"Glossy & good-looking, but no substance","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Craft is very nice to look at, it has nice locations, great special effects and an attractive cast- but its not very substantial as a story.  It starts off very well, but loses itself somewhere in the last quarter. Robin Tunney and Fairuza Balk are excellent in their respective roles, and it was nice to see Neve Campbell in a supporting role - that doesn't seem to happen too often these days.  Of course the cast is probably one of the main reasons to see this film, aside from the four leads, there is also Skeet Ulrich, Breckin Meyer and Christine Taylor in supporting parts.  The problem with The Craft is that although it is slickly put together, it seems to be just special effects and slow motion shots of the four girls in various attire - almost like a 90 minute rock video.  Still its entertaining and, I think, one of the best films of its kind. Although it could have been better. Teens and Twenty-somethings will like it- almost everyone else will not.  "},{"Title":"Very Cool.","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  IMDB says this movie is a Comedy/Horror. It is really a full-on roller-coaster ride thriller. The Craft is a very cool movie, with awesome plot twists and a cool storyline. Enough to keep you on the edge of your seat for an hour and a half.Robin Tunney superbly plays Sarah, a new girl in town who has no friends. She is told about the mysterious Bitches Of Eastwick, who call themselves witches. The REAL ones. When Sarah bumps into Eastwick's leader, Nancy (Fairuza Balk) she suddenly and happily becomes part of the witches group.I recommend you see The Craft if it is a cold and stormy night - that is the perfect setting, seriously!My rating  9/10.  "},{"Title":"Good work by all involved.","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Four teenage girls practising the craft get in over their heads and beginning a war in their coven. Shockingly, this is one well done teen horror film loaded with humor and good acting by all involved. The only complaint I have is the ending is a bit much for this kind of film. But, otherwise a very good film. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I love this movie!","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Despite its inaccuracies of witchcraft, this is a top-notch film.  The sweet sweet Fairuza Balk is the highlight of the film (oh those eyes!!) and there is still plenty more of the film to enjoy!  This film flows well in the development of the characters, and is full of great effects.  The lighting and costumes as well as the music help this film reach greatness.  This is a must for any Fairuza fan or those looking for a great movie that is fun in a wicked way. "},{"Title":"NOT DARK ENOUGH!!","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This was an okay movie, but to make it better i think they should have made it much more darker, freakier, creepier which would have been a good watch. The witches in this are just playing games with witch craft, if they had became really bad and evil as the powers over took them it would have been much better. Fariza Bulks character was the only one which was satisfying.The story is A new girl moves to a new city with her family to start a new life. She meets up with the girls who are very interested in the occult and together, the four of them have a seemingly unstoppable power. They can do anything, from getting their dream guys to like them to... the possibilities are limitless An average movie, should have had a atmosphere like se7en or 8mm which were very dark this was to bright and comedic to be a scary movie, to be much more scary it should have had that evil feeling. "}{"Title":"Essentially a 'Carrie' remake, nothing particularly new to offer except debuting Hollywood names.","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  No chills, suspense, or laughs (it was promoted as a horror-comedy), the film's only demeanor is the realities of teen angst and being an outcast in school. Heathers, Sixteen Candles, Welcome to the Dollhouse... there's many other movies to see about that; but this is pretentious claptrap.  "},{"Title":"Slight but entertaining","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie really could go a lot further than it does, but it's still entertaining.  Where it could have gone further; the relationship between Catholic mysticism and witchcraft, though broached, is never really explained, and by focusing only on the four girls, we never get to see how they're outcasts(except, of course, for Sarah).  How it's still entertaining; the effects don't dominate the story, the fact that Sarah has real telekinetic powers and the others are just wannabes is handled right, it never takes itself too seriously, and Robin Tunney and Fairuza Balk are both quite good. "},{"Title":"amazing!!!!!","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Only one word can describe the power of this movie magical "},{"Title":"Scary and well done horror movie","Date":"19 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Sarah (Rachel Tunney) a new girl in a high school falls in with a bunch of misfits--Nancy (Fairuza Balk), Bonnie (Neve Campbell) and Rochelle (Rachel True). It turns out they all have magical powers and use them for themselves. It starts out as fun and games for the girls--but the spells they use get out of hand and they begin to feel their power. Also Nancy starts going crazy slowly and things barrel out of control.Nobody thought this would be a hit when it came out. The studio thought it would die and it was given a totally unnecessary R rating...but it was a big hit. Let's get the rating thing out of the way first. There's no nudity, no sex, very little blood, no gore and only a few minor instances of swearing. So why the R rating? It was shot for a PG-13 and should have gotten it.That aside this is a very good movie. The script is well-written and the four main actresses are very good. Even better the special effects showing the girls using their power are used sparingly at first. They're all done quietly with no sudden noises or blaring music. It makes them all the more creepier when you see them. At the end when there's the big battle between good and evil the special effects REALLY get going and it's all the more surprising because they were used so quietly before. As said before all the acting is good...except for Skeet Ulrich as Chris. He's wooden (his face NEVER changes expression) and he was so annoying I could have cared less for him. He's the only misstep here. This a creepy, scary and fun horror movie that well worth a look. Ignore the stupid R rating. I give it an 8. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies","Date":"31 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Craft was like one of the best movies I have ever seen. It has everything, deadly romance, seduction, wicca, witchcraft, (by the way wicca and witchcraft are NOT the samething, wicca is pure energy, used for helping and for good, witchcraft is for evil doing.) fear, and so much more. I wish that there was a second one. Although sequels sometimes ruin the first. The cast made it an even better movie. The cast always plays a major role in any movie. I like that their are many themes in one. It is not just a one theme. It has a new girl in a different school, with people who are different than her in more than one way. It is a thrilling movie to watch. And it is one of those movies that you can keep watching over and over again. I feel that what elements are in this movie are right and touch base with a lot of things outside of the movie. "},{"Title":"Brill!","Date":"5 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This film is fantastic, if you like witches and magic. The film is about 4 teenagers who have magical gifts. The new girl Sarah is picked by the other 3, to be there 4th. She agrees and they form a coven. The leader Nancy takes in the power of Manon, which makes her go insane. In the end Sarah beats Nancy after taking in the power in Manon herself. Nancy ends up in a mental hospital thinking she can fly.This film is a true masterpiece for the magical realm of films. The actresses who portray the 4 girls are superb.It's a crafty and magical film, which keeps you on the edge of your seat all the way through. (It even has a cute guy in it) "},{"Title":"Good take on modern Wicca","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" While the God they chose was made up for the film, the elements of it were fairly faithful to its origins. They had a witch working with them on the set that helped amend the spells and incantations to suit the film, and Sarah's comment, that nothing makes everything all better again, is very accurate and what witches believe. Nothing is a quick fix.Very entertaining film, and has been good at putting a brighter light to all things Wicca. Although, it has to be said, the physical powers manifested in the girls are not what really happens in real life witchcraft, as sad as that sounds! It's nice to take a jaunt into make-believe once in a while! "},{"Title":"The Craft!","Date":"13 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie was amazing I can't stop watching it I've seen it 21 times and I still can't stop! More people should know about this movie! Robin Tunney is an amazing actress she truly shines in this film.The thematic element of the film was amazing I still get scared watching it. The limited use of the special effects worked out. There were just enough effects in the movie, so it wasn't spoiled by them. The movie showed a true side of magic it wasn't fake or watered down like some movies about magic. They truly tried to reveal some of the real elements of it. It also showed what it was like for the outcasts in high school, and what it was like to be different. This was honestly a knockout!!! "},{"Title":"scary","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Craft is a very good movie. As I watched it it gave me the creeps. I really like the ending. It had some good special effects in it. The acting was good. And the plot was really good. I recommend this movie to anyone who likes really creepy movies like this one. "},{"Title":"Crafty but predictable","Date":"10 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Sarah Bailey (Robin Tunney) is the new kid in a Catholic (nuns and all) high school. Moving into the neighbourhood and a drastic change of scenery was her father's idea of dealing with her teenage angst and suicidal tendencies. Despite being devoid of a mother (death during child birth) Sarah is quite a normal teenager apart from having quick a knack for magic.This is quickly picked up by the infamous dark threesome with a thing for witchcraft. Nancy Downs (Fairuza Balk) is a drop dead sexy Goth chick with an abusive stepfather fed up with being trailer trash. Bonnie (Neve Campbell) is insecure due to her skin being covered with burns. Rochelle (Rachel True) is the token black in the circle with dire problems with on-school racism.They are but three which means they miss a fourth to close the witches circle. Quite quickly they entice Sarah to join their little group of outcasts. Not long after they invoke to Manon, the master of all that is, with each of them making a personal wish, which they believe will improve their lives. Unknown to them the rule of three is in force - watch out what you wish for, because nature needs balance and everything you do will hit you back threefold.Balk, True and Campbell are a feast for the eye in this movie, although the latter two are essentially supporting cast and sadly Balk does not carry the role well trying to convey her character by shaking her head a lot, screaming and grinning. She remains sexy throughout the movie but it isn't enough to carry the plot-full script.The movie is likable but not a lot to admire, except for the girls beauty. "}{"Title":"flawed but still enjoyable","Date":"6 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" neo-paganism was very popular amongst the teen crowd in the mid-90es, and the craft is the teen flick that cashed in on that trend. the movie is flawed but still enjoyable in a b-movie way.(very mild spoilers ahead. not that it really matters, since predictability is one of the crafts problems.) the plot is about a coven of teenage witches who start using their powers for their own selfish goals, but then must learn the hard way that unleashing magical forces is much easier than controlling them, and that there is a price for everything. so far, so predictable. however, the story rarely follows its own rules Sarah and Rochelle must never really pay for what they did to Chris and Laura. and why its implied that Bonnie has to pay for getting rid of her awful scars by having more scars, i don't understand; its not that she was hurting anyone with that spell. the general message comes across, but the story falls apart upon closer inspection.the performances are a mixed bag. Fairuza Balk is deliciously evil and Neve Campbell does a good job as well. but lead actress Robin Tunney is a bit too bland, and her character development from ordinary girl to reasonable witch to pathetic crybaby to super-tough power-wicca seems forced. Rachel True's presence is forgettable, but that has more to do with her painfully underwritten character than her acting.despite its many flaws, the craft is still breezy fun with its wish-fulfillment/power-fantasy story line and generally likable tone. just don't expect too much. "},{"Title":"Watch out for the weirdos, girls.","Date":"26 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This was a really interesting and funny movie about teens and their problems exploded to the nth degree by black magic.Fairuza Balk (Almost Famous, American History X) is a goth dream as she goes over to the dark side. She steals the show and I was almost sorry to see her end up like she did. BWa ha ha!Neve Campbell (Wild Things, Scream 1,2,3) is always worth watching and Hot is just not good enough to describe her.First time I have seen Rachel True. She was really good, and hot, too.But, it was Robin Tunney (Hollywoodland, The Zodiac) as Sarah that surprised them all!You have to watch those Catholic Schoolgirls. They are sometimes real witches! "},{"Title":"Spells before Screenplay","Date":"1 January 2011","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Time to go back to the old spell book.This movie about a girl who joins a circle of witches at her new school has more spells an black magic tricks than it has brain cells. It also has more characters than it knows what to do which. There are two types of people in The Craft there are witches and non-witches. If you are a non-witch (and that's everybody but the four leads) your only role is to either have a spell cast on you or to be looked at as inferior to the witches. Whether you are a witch or not, you don't get much of a role. Consequently, the acting here is pretty poor especially from Fairuza Balk.But the biggest problem with the Craft is that is has no story to work with. It starts off okay, and for a while it looks like we may be going somewhere neat, but the more time we spend with Robin Tunney and her new 'sisters' the less fun they are to be around. We go in circles watching them chant and conduct rituals which do little more than make each other float. Conflict doesn't arise until the last twenty minutes, and it does so, it feels sloppy and contrived, (although I'll give a tad of credit for some genuine creepiness.) Otherwise, The Craft has nothing of appeal. It's dry, plodding and silly, and it needs to be rethought. "},{"Title":"Average teen drama/horror.","Date":"22 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Craft starts as Sarah Bailey (Robin Tunney) & her dad (Cliff De Young) move into their new house in Los Angeles after moving from San Francisco. While at her new school Sarah befriends three outcasts who claim to be witches, Nancy (Fairuza Balk), Bonnie (Neve Campbell) & Rochelle (Rachel True) who together practise witchcraft. Sarah is a real witch & the spells they cast start to become reality, at first things are great as things appear to be going right for them all for once & Nancy conducts a spell call the Summoning of the Spirit which turns her into some crazed evil witch. Sarah decides things have gone too far & tries to stop Nancy...Co-written & directed by Andrew Fleming I thought The Craft was an average supernatural teen film at best. The script by Fleming & Peter Filardi takes itself extremely seriously & just isn't that good. For a start I would barely categorise The Craft as a horror film if not for an over-the-top special effects driven climax, for the most part it felt like a teen drama with various outcasts gaining strength from each other's friendship. Then it turns into a feel good Disney type film as the magical powers the friends have improves their lives beyond recognition in positive ways & then for no apparent reason Nancy suddenly becomes evil at which point Sarah has to stop her. I didn't like any of the four central character's, I thought they were very unlikeable. The dialogue was flat, bland & totally forgettable. If there are books freely available to buy from a shop which can give you powers such as those seen in The Craft why hasn't everyone got one? What was the thing with the guy & the snake all about at the start as well? The more I think about The Craft the more I dislike it actually. It's watchable if your bored & there's nothing else on telly but I didn't think it was anything special or particularly good.Director Fleming does alright & the film looks pretty good with a nice subdued colour scheme especially at the end. There's not much horror here, there's no tension or excitement & a lack of atmosphere. There are plenty of snakes & bugs at the end though so if you find creepy crawlies scary then this isn't the film for you.With a supposed budget of about $15,000,000 The Craft is well made with high production values & has that Hollywood polish to it. The casting here is very wrong, Balk, Tunney & Campbell were all over the age of 20 while True was 30! They never come across as high school teenagers that's for sure although they are easy on the eye & Balk looks good in goth clothing.The Craft is an OK time waster, it tells a story I suppose but it's nothing outstanding or particularly memorable. Not brilliant but not totally worthless. "},{"Title":"A standard teenage drama with a so-so occult slant","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Sarah Bailey moves to a new town with her family and hopes she can manage to make friends in her new school. She falls in with two different camps at first &#150; a group of girls who are mocked and considered weird and then a straighter jock type who seems to like her. When she is made out as a whore by her jock boyfriend, she turns to her girl friends for support and finds that Nancy, Bonnie and Rochelle's interest in the occult compliment Sarah's seemingly natural ability as a witch of sorts. They start having fun with spells and using it to make their lives better or get back at those that hurt them. However, their increasing power and anger makes their spells more vicious and soon the group are out of control with Nancy leading them and Sarah powerless to stop her.Now that Charmed has made witchcraft and fit young women a part of normal television schedules, The Craft seems less different and interesting than it may have done back when it was released. However even coming to it with fresh eyes it still isn't anything special even if it is quite enjoyable for what it is. The plot is reasonably straightforward and takes the usual teenage outsider and angst and basically apes Carrie except with a group of girls rather than one. The first half is enjoyable as a teen drama and the second half is OK in regards a dark occult thriller of sorts. Neither is actually that good and it doesn't do anything well enough to make it stick in the mind but it is not bad either and it'll please those who know what they getting.The cast are so-so. Tunney is fairly bland and doesn't have a great deal of character (or little ability to bring one out), making a rather empty lead. She wore a wig for the whole film but it is her performance that doesn't convince as real. Balk overacts to good effect and is a lively alternative next to Tunney. Campbell is pretty good and, although simplistic, works with her character well. True is also good in a minor role but what was more impressive was that she was 30 at the time of making this film, but looked really young and fresh faced dressed up in a school uniform and knee high socks &#150; must have felt weird making it though.Overall an OK film that will please those that like teenage dramas and things like Charmed. The plot goes pretty much where you expect it to and doesn't do anything that special to make it stand up &#150; although it doesn't do anything that bad either. Generally a fairly ordinary but entertaining film if you are in the mood and know what to expect. "},{"Title":"Lots of charisma, but a script with no smarts...","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Fairuza Balk--as the leader of a group of teen witches--is such a commanding presence, it makes no sense for the filmmakers to try and pass her off as a high school misfit. She would have the kids at her beck and call, whether they liked it or not. Alas, her character is given supernatural powers and naturally she goes over-the-edge. I wanted to see this movie go in a different direction watching this girl overcome her odds WITHOUT the witch-y powers. This is a formula thriller with no interest in character content or a plot that makes any sense. Its aim is to introduce several characters and quickly have them turn on each other, thus setting the stage for a special effects-induced showdown. Rather a waste, especially since the cast is so strong and the technical aspects so gripping. You come away from The Craft without much to chew on, except what went wrong and what possibilities were missed. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Pretty Good Horror Flick!","Date":"6 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Fairuza Balk, Robin Tunney, Neve Campbell, Rachel True, Skeet Ulrich, Christine Taylor and Cliff De Young star in this 1996 horror film. Sarah (Tunney) has just moved to L.A. with her father (De Young) and stepmother. She meets and befriends 3 outcast girls, Nancy (Balk), Bonnie (Campbell) and Rochelle (True) who practice witchcraft to strike back at tormentors. They learn that Sarah is a natural witch and together they perform magic until Nancy becomes power crazy. Ulrich plays Chris, a teen who becomes obsessed with Sarah after she puts a spell on him and Taylor plays Laura, a bimbo teen who is cruel to Rochelle until she gets a spell put on her. This is pretty good and it's funny that Fairuza was a witch 10 years prior in The Worst Witch. I recommend this. "},{"Title":"Satisfying, rather than spellbinding","Date":"24 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" An enjoyable piece of hokum - not exactly scary, or sexy, nor that memorable but enough of all three to make this potent and fun laced with wit to make it better than many 'High School misfits doing bad things' flicks.The four 'witches' are individual enough to be moderately interesting and make tangible wannabe spell-makers. Fairuza Balk, as Nancy, whose moody pouting punky rebelliousness is particularly indignant and so, very watchable. They find that whilst their spells sort out their immediate gratifications (revenge on boys, then each other) the downsides that come about get bad. Especially when things get way out of hand. Very bad. Some neat effects and a great creepy and slimy creature finale leaves one satisfied, rather than spellbound. "},{"Title":"Crufts, more like","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Vile trash that ruthlessly exploits young people while fobbing them off with a platitude. Distressing to the point of dysthymia. Fairuza Balk is thrown to the wolves and her lack of range cruelly exposed. Directed without a pulse by Andrew Flemming. "},{"Title":"Lots of eye candy, but not much else","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Given the scope offered by the subject material, _The Craft_ was disappointingly unimaginative, although the uses the young witches put their powers to are probably a fair representation of the ends a teenager might find for magic.  Apart from a few glamour spells, petty revenges and several spectacular temper tantrums, none of the four young ladies stretches her powers to any great extent.There are some subtle and interesting undertones relating to female subjectivity and relationships (most of the male characters being either cardboard cut-outs and/or pawns for the females), but on the whole _The Craft_ falls rather flat. "}{"Title":"So-so","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is pretty good b-movie occult thriller. Some internal inconsistency; fair acting, some genuinely memorable images, but mostly Catholic school girls looking like models (did anyone in *your* high school dress that cool?), non-existent adults (except for the shop owner who runs a firetrap bookstore - lots of white gauze and lit candles), and a throwback tale of moral caution about messing around with things you do not understand.  "},{"Title":"French misspelled and mispronounced","Date":"10 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" How does it come that with few thousand french leaving in Los Angeles, the movie writers are not able to write a few sentence in french without mistake - The blackboard should read Si vous aviez fait ... not faites. - the teacher says .. vous avez un bon weekend ... literal translation from English (.. you had a good week end ..) instead of ... vous avez passé un bon week end ... - and so on there is a grammatical mistake in every sentence.Not talking about the ridiculous costume (at least he doesn't bring his baguette in the classroom). And the accent is horrible. "},{"Title":"No More than a Trivial Film about Bitchy Schoolgirls","Date":"24 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Contrary to what one reviewer assumes, Hollywood does not generally attack witchcraft or treat it as being necessarily evil. To do so would be to do the subject an honour it does not deserve, the honour of being treated as a genuine phenomenon. There are, to be sure, a small minority of Wiccans- well represented on this board- who genuinely believe that they can cast spells and an equally small minority of fundamentalist Christians who genuinely believe that there exist witches who possess malign powers given to them by Satan. For the great majority of people, however, at least in the West, belief in witchcraft is equated with ignorant and irrational superstition, and Hollywood has long since learnt that it is not good box-office to make serious films about things your audience refuses to take seriously.What Hollywood does is to use witchcraft in two ways. One is for purely humorous purposes, as in the television comedy Bewitched. The other is to use it as a metaphor for the human condition. The witch or wizard is not a god or a devil, but a human being who happens to have extraordinary powers. He or she is also a moral being, aware of the difference between good and evil and with the responsibility to distinguish between them when making use of his or her powers. The Harry Potter films are a good example of this. Harry's magical powers may be pure fantasy (and the films never try to persuade us that they are anything else), but the moral choices which face him are the same as those which face people in the real world. The audience need to suspend their disbelief in witchcraft, but not their belief in right and wrong.The Craft has the ambition to be another film of this type. Like the Potter films it is set in a school, but this is an everyday Los Angeles school rather than a British public school specialising in the magical arts. The film centres on a clique of three girls, Nancy, Bonnie and Rochelle who are regarded as strange and eccentric by their classmates because of their obsession with witchcraft. All three are outsiders. Nancy, the leader of the clique, is from a poor, trailer-trash family, looked down upon by her more middle-class schoolfellows. Bonnie is convinced she is physically unattractive because of scars on her body. Rochelle is the only black girl in the class, and the victim of racist taunts from the class bitch Laura. (Laura- like Cordelia in Buffy the Vampire Slayer- is an example of that over-used stock figure in American high school dramas, the most popular girl who manages to retain her popularity despite being obviously unpleasant; I suspect that in real life a girl who went around making comments like I don't like negroids would be shunned by her classmates, not voted Miss Popularity).A fourth girl, Sarah, is welcomed into the little clique. Sarah is herself an outsider, being a new girl at the school after her father has moved from San Francisco to Los Angeles. The girls discover that they do indeed have magical powers, and begin to use these powers to their advantage. Bonnie's scars disappear from her body; the handsome boy whom Sarah has set her heart on begins to fall in love with her. Gradually, however, the tone of the film darkens as the coven start to use their powers in a vindictive way; for example, Rochelle makes Laura's hair fall out. Sarah becomes worried by these developments and tries to use her powers to prevent Nancy, who is becoming seriously unbalanced, from harming others, but without success. The film darkens still further as Nancy uses witchcraft to kill those who have offended her, including her abusive stepfather. Sarah, frightened, tries to break free from the coven, only to find the others pursuing her.The film never succeeds in the way the Potter films do. This is partly because of the acting; apart from Fairuza Balk's Nancy, a memorably scary creation with her Goth make-up and spiky hair, all of the witches, especially Robin Tunney's Sarah, seem rather colourless. The main reason, however, why the film does not succeed is that it lacks the imagination that distinguishes all great fantasy films. J.K. Rowling's books (like those of Tolkien) are so successful because they conjure up a whole new world of the imagination, a world which is both like our world and different, a world populated both by strange creatures and by seemingly ordinary mortals like Harry himself, and the films are able to translate this world into cinematic terms. The Craft, by contrast, lacks this visual imagination. It is never able to transport us into another world, but remains firmly stuck in the real world of a banal American high school, which just happens to be a high school where four girls have magical powers. Unlike the Potter films and the Lord of the Rings trilogy, which use the language of fantasy to make serious points about good and evil and human nature, The Craft remains an essentially trivial film, where supernatural special effects are simply used to liven up what is no more than a story about bitchy schoolgirls being nasty to each other. 5/10. "},{"Title":"A 'Chick Flick which will appeal to a small discerning group of fans.","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Definitely a 'Chick Flick with some interesting moments. Acting could be better, however, I suspect that this low budget movie got what it paid for. An effort was made to appeal to the female high school genre and the normal interaction with the male sex, which to some degree worked, however, as general entertainment, it failed. A gallant attempt was made in regard to special effects, however, coupled with the weak story line and below par acting and direction, this was not enough. I was pleasantly surprised by the obvious attempt to examine the more complex machinations of the female teenage mind during the traumatic high school years and their attempts to solve problems through witchcraft. This movie is still quite watchable and I believe will still appeal to certain teenagers and their outlook on life, and perhaps should not be taken too seriously. "},{"Title":"misunderstood","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  some reviewers seem to have the wrong idea about this film. no, it is not supposed to be scary, not in the traditional sense anyway.The nineties brought a resurgence of teen horror and comedy movies onto our screens. 90% of these are awful, but this one was different. The Craftrefuses to be labeled as horror or comedy, but has strong elements of both, and it is more akin to Heathers, than any other recent film. Campbell is as gorgeous as always, and her performance is good, Balk is superb, while the rest of the cast is respectable, and both the script and effects are sharp, giving the movie a darker tone than any of its contemporaries. The clichés are there, with the outsider becoming the hero, and the non-conforming females of the period show they can be happy and free. If happy means Goth. Forget your knowledge of magic if you have any, and your preconceptions about teen movies, because this one is cool, dark, entertaining stuff. 8 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Average","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Thats all I can say this is neither a good occult film or good teen movie it is an average teen movie and very poor occult movies. Everything in this movie is average its not great but it not rubbish either.If you fancy wasting 2 hours then rent it or hell just wait until it came on the TV like I did.very unremarkable "},{"Title":"Witchy nonsense for teenagers.","Date":"19 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Three teenage girls, Nancy (Fairuza Balk), Bonnie (Neve Campbell) and Rochelle (Rachel True), practice witchcraft in their spare time, but only achieve real success when a fourth girl, Sarah Bailey (Robin Tunney), joins the group. It is not long before the members of the coven begin to abuse the powers they have unleashed, whilst hurting others in the process. Sarah decides enough is enough and wishes to leave the group, but the other girls have different ideas...The first half of the film is obviously designed to appeal to social misfits and goths, and deals with the main characters' use of magic to improve their lives. We see Sarah dealing with a jerk who spread rumours about her, Bonnie cured of her awful scarring, Rochelle getting revenge on a bully, and Nancy and her mum inheriting a fortune.The second half sees things turning sour, as the teen-witches lose control. Nancy becomes power mad and eventually uses her magic to kill.Aimed squarely at a teenage audience (particularly females), The Craft is a rather weak tale of witchcraft which even its talented young cast cannot save from mediocrity. I found the film to be fairly tedious, even at a reasonably tight 97 minutes running time (although I perked up a bit when Neve Campbell entered the classroom in a tight white top!).Angst ridden girls who like to think they're 'different' will definitely lap this stuff up, seeing the leads as kindred spirits, but pretty much anyone else will recognise this for the calculated Hollywood claptrap that it is. "},{"Title":"Disappointing script, dumb dialog, fun effects","Date":"7 March 2011","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I pulled this up on Netflix last night because I couldn't sleep. Now I wish I'd just taken a sleeping pill... or 2... or 3.... It was not worth it.It's a special effects movie for the 16-28 male crowd who want to watch pretty girls in Catholic School miniskirts get revenge on bullies and dicks.Otherwise, it's a waste of time. The dialog was poorly written; I don't blame the actors who, for the most part, delivered their lines more or less competently, but when you have such awful material to work with, how real can you possibly be?The morality play was predictable and shallow. There was the obligatory snobby racist blond chick (I don't like Negroids) and the dumb and malicious jock who wants to get Sarah (Robin Tunney) in the sack. I didn't buy either of those characters (the jock looked and sounded about 24 to me, definitely not a teenager).The vengeance on the crazy girl at the end was pathetic. Listen up, kiddies evil, bad, crazy people deserve to be locked up like wild animals in gray concrete cells. Yeah, that'll show'em.Don't waste your precious time on this one; there are many better movies out there. I will say, the special effects were good. But not good enough to carry this loser. "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews...","Date":"28 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The CraftThe reason older women are so interested in witchcraft is because it allows them the opportunity to cast spells that can cause impotency in their ex-husbands.Fortunately, the four female practitioners of black magic in this hokey horror movie aren't a bunch of weary old witches, but nubile adolescents.When high school exiles (Robin Tunney, Neve Campbell, Fairuza Balk, Rachel True) experiment with witchcraft they discover that it can enhance their social standings and settle scores with tormenters.But playing with the occult proves to be hazardous for the girls and soon jealousy, overzealousness and a boy (Skeet Ulrich) comes between them.A cloudy concoction of teen angst, cattiness and necromancy, The Craft perfectly portrays the power and pitfalls of hocus-pocus from the female perspective.And while most would be opposed to witches being enrolled in their school, trust me, burning one before a pep rally really raises the kids' spirits. (Yellow Light) "},{"Title":"The Best Wicked Movie Of All","Date":"21 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I actually saw this movie in Colorado this year. There were some parts that looked familiar, but it was pure evil and so dark. Who could ever use magic like that? I was so excited that I was going to see the entire movie. I thought maybe IMDb.com would have some incantations or something in the memorable quotes because I wanted to try using witchcraft. Boy, was I wrong! I'm glad that there are not any spells or anything in the memorable quotes or your life would be just like Sarah's. A friend of mine actually tried witchcraft, hopefully not after she watched this movie, and she regrets doing it. She actually told me not to do it. I tried witchcraft. Never do that. Never do what I did, so you'll never have to live with what you've done. I highly doubt that I will do it. Not after my internet experience with a demon AND not after I watched that movie.The movie was awesome. I love it. The best part of The Craft was when Sarah found out her mother was a witch too. It's interesting how you make a movie like this to be so deep and real. It's at the top of the best horror movies list that I have. The second movie is the 1960's Psycho. Both of these movies are interesting. They're deep, violent, and thrilling. Besides all the parts that freaked me out in The Craft, I give it an eight. Awesome special effects, people!! "}{"Title":"Wow.","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Sarah moves into a new town, hoping to make some new friends. She meets a guy, and three girls make her think that he's a bad guy(which he kind of is) which is how she meets the three girls, one of the girls saw that Sarah had powers(she was spinning a pencil on the tip without touching it) so they invite her to be in there cult. Well she joins for fun, which it is at first, but the main girl(Nancy) starts doing evil things, and she decides it's starting to get out of hand, so she asks to leave and Nancy gets angry, because she needs 4 girls to complete the circle. So they let her leave, but then they start doing bad things to her... they want there revenge. Sarah has to stand against it, and use her white magic to defeat the black magic. But will she? Or will she die too? "},{"Title":"Fun entertainment","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" THE CRAFT (1996)cast Robin Tunney, Fairuza Balk, Neve Campbell, Rachel True, Skeet Ulrich, Christine Taylor.plot Sara (Robin Tunney) is new at St. Benedict's Academy and immediately falls in with the outsiders. Nancy (Fairuza Balk), Bonnie (Neve Campbell) and Rochelle (Rachel True) are a group of powerful witches searching for their fourth, and they have found her in Sara. The four wreak havoc on their tormentors in both their school and home lives. But soon, Sara discovers that Nancy and the others are taking their power much too seriously.the goodThis is a fun teen wiccan-horror film. It is perfect for those who feel like an outsider in high school.It deals with many things that teens usually deal with such as losing a loved one, being trailer-trash, outer ugliness and discrimination, but also has creepy themes, such as the villain Nancy who is a total psycho.***1/2 "},{"Title":"A great movie!","Date":"18 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A movie that many have misunderstood. Its intention is not to be scary or disturbing but to be exciting and interesting, which indeed it is. It tells the story of a coven of teen witches who meet up with a new girl who has just moved into town... through a series of exciting events that take place they realize that together as a foursome they are very powerful and possess great magical powers. However, when the original three abuse this power it is up to the new girl to stop them in a battle of magic which will definitely leave you on the edge of your seat! This movie also stars Neve Campbell who was the lead in Scream. It is also very accurate and sensitive towards Wicca, although much of it is exaggerated for effect I definitely recommend it! "},{"Title":"It was great","Date":"6 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Being from a family that's very religious i love seeing things that have to do with death and different gods me myself have always wounderd what it would be like to practice something like that that would give you stuff you could only dream of. but of course for every action there is an oppisite reaction. but i think of it as a whole new experience. my parents don't allow me to do anything that goes along as my idea of fun. so watching this movie makes me want to try something new that other kids would see as a different experience also. like how people see skatboarding or snowboarding.i plan on trying it one day just to see what it's like.maybe it would work for me but you never know. "},{"Title":"Before Halawell, Before Potter, when witchcraft was scary...","Date":"22 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie reintroduces us to the sinister side of magic. There are no pretty fairies or Nimbus 2000 brooms here. In spite of the absence of niceness, the movie does not come off as a preachy indictment of magic.The story leaves no true good or bad guys. It serves as a reminder of the danger of extremes. "},{"Title":"dont remember much","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  don't remember much about this i remember this being ok and it had good acting but thats all i remember i will have to rent it again at my local video store if you wanna see this go ahead neve campbell is a hottie **1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"THE GREATEST MOVIE I HAVE EVER SEEN!","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  On a dark November night in 1996 a sixteen year old man/boy was about to experience something he had never experienced before. A MASTERPIECE OF FILM MAKING. It is a rarity that such a movie can be made, one that combines everything correctly. The cast, the setting, the script I could go on forever. I had never heard of Fairuza Balk or Robin Tunney before this movie, but know I've seen all their movies. This truly spectacular movie that should be seen by all.When I left that cinema I thought where have I been for the last two hours? I certainly wasn't in a cinema...  "},{"Title":"Good Witchcraft Movie.","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Craft is a really good spooky horror movie. All the actress' in the movie play there characters very well and very differently too. For example, Fairuza Balk plays Nancy, a really creepy and a quite horrible character, Neve Campbell plays Bonnie a really sweet, shy character, Rachel True plays Rochelle, a weird but quite nice character and someone who wants to get there own back on a girl, (Laura played by Christine Taylor.) she's being bullied by and who can forget Robin Tunney who plays the new girl Sarah, who is quiet at first but then opens up. Sarah is interested in witchcraft and starts hanging out with Nancy, Bonnie and Rochelle, who are all interested in witchcraft too. When all four of them are together, they realise they have the power to do anything, from getting anything they want, to getting some one back. The brilliant Skeet Ulrich, who plays Chris also does a great job in the movie too. I give The Craft a 7/10.  "},{"Title":"Ordinary teen witchcraft flick","Date":"25 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I saw this and watched tonight because I missed it when I was younger and suffer from insomnia. Maybe my age is showing, but The Craft was no big deal. While the film is undeniably well-made, virtually everything that happens is what I expected to happen. The only people who will be surprised are those who have never watched a movie before. All of the teen movie chiches are struck and everyone reacts the way they react in all other such films. Neither the school pressure nor the witchcraft themes broke new ground. The special effects were good, but they were never used in an interesting way. The four lead actresses are good-looking and give adequate performances. The main merits are the pretty locations and some interesting lines about the nature and intended purpose of witchcraft, before it descends into predictable mayhem. Die hard fans of teen films and witchcraft films will like it, everyone else will be rather bored. "},{"Title":"Recommended...for some reason","Date":"27 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I watched this film all the way through for the first time four years ago, when it was recommended to all Religious Studies students as part of a Paganism module. Interestingly, the lecturer who was so hot on this movie was a Pagan herself. Why she was so happy, then, to talk-up a movie that basically bludgeons Wiccans to within an inch of their lives remains to be seen. Perhaps the whole walking-boot wearing, vegan, home-made wine Paganism she followed was up for a rather bitter laugh at itself, but I'm not totally sure. She left the department soon after this and perhaps the fact that she recommended this mediocre movie to 200 students has something to do with it. The Craft, in a nutshell, is about a group of 4 misfits who use their growing magical powers for their own selfish ends. Predictably, one of them goes bonkers, one has an attack of conscience, and 2 are pathetic sheep who, of course, choose to follow Ms Nutter around committing increasingly unpleasant acts. The message of this film is confused from the outset. Despite apparently consulting a world-wide Paganism group to make sure the rituals and beliefs portrayed were 'accurate' I cannot help thinking that this film gives Wicca a good drubbing, whether it meant to or not. Ironically, near the beginning of the film, you see a wild-eyed fundamentalist Christian preaching on the wrong side of town. His compatriots appear to be hobos wielding snakes, but don't worry, because the super-cool and liberal Pagans soon appear to have very few redeeming features themselves. They are for the most part portrayed as vindictive lunatics who use their powers for reasons trivial, selfish or murderous. Changing your hair and eye colour, levitating your friends and throwing jocks out of the window is deur rigeur in teen Wiccan circles according to this. If you deviate, three astigmatic chicks crash through your window and attempt to kill you. Is this really how Pagans want to be portrayed? The film even includes the line, We are the weirdos, Mister! as the gals strut off to perform a ritual in the woods. Even the 'good witch' comes across as an unpleasant character towards the end, as she threatens 2 of her friends (a branch breaks off a tree in a crack of lightening in a shot that looks alarmingly like stock footage) and apparently relishes the fact that the 'bad witch' has ended up in an insane asylum. In addition to leaving a nasty taste in the mouth, the film has also dated horribly. Though 'Clueless' was 90s through and through, its excellent writing keeps it fresh. The Craft is nowhere near as well written, so the 90s Indie music and horrible, semi-goth fashions are glaringly obvious to the 21st century viewer. Another thing that erked me was, of course, the witches had to be goths, which reasserts the idea that Wiccans are all tortured teens going through a phase. Though the acting is good and the plot reasonable, The Craft remains an over-blown supernatural drama that sets out to entertain one type of person and one type of person only. Unfortunately, the rest of us won't be quite so intrigued. "}{"Title":"The Craft","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I can'r remember what The Craft actually is, but who cares, it is a really teen horror, or witchcraft film. Basically a girl named Sarah Bailey (Robin Tunney) has secret powers of witchcraft. She meets three girls who also share similar powers. They are the whore Nany Downs (Fairuza Balk), the friendly like Bonnie (Scream's Sidney, Neve Campbell) and the also friendly Rochelle (Rachel True). It's not long before Sarah starts using her powers to attract boys, and they go out of control. The boys, including Chris Hooker (Scream's Billy, Skeet Ulrich) start to stalk her. Also, the three girls start to pick on Sarah for leaving the gang. Also starring Breckin Meyer as Mitt. A really freaky film with some gorgeous girls. Good! "},{"Title":"pretty bad","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film is pretty bad. It's the story of 4 witches that use their powers to get back at people who offended them or upset them in any way. Then of course it gets out of control, and the good gal has to save the day. The movie is pretty childish and stupid in many moments. Maybe the weakes thing about it is that it has no kind of serious plot. You already passed the middle of the movie, and you still can't think of what the movie really wants. The acting is pretty good from all 4 girls, but that can't save the poor feeling we have because of the weak story and changing characters. All in all, watch it only if you don't have anything else to do. "},{"Title":"Has not aged well","Date":"17 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When I first saw this film I was very impressed by it. It entertained me and seemed quite original as no-one had touched witchcraft in the movies for years and placing it in a high school was a nice idea. Unfortunately, seeing it again a number of years on and I can't believe that I ever enjoyed watching it. The four stars were horribly miscast and the characters they portrayed didn't make me believe in witches at all. Buffy the Vampire Slayer has produced more believable witchcraft than this. As far as a story goes it didn't hold my interest and I couldn't give a stuff what happened to any of the characters.4/10 "},{"Title":"Girls and Snakes","Date":"4 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is a cheapy production, designed to introduce us to a sort of appealing sisterhood (Traveling pants-style) and then sock us with effects at the end when the consequences of selfish magic come home.So two halves. The first half is dreadful, absolutely dreadful. I suppose these actresses have some ability to charm, though there is only one I have seen do so. Neve did a self-produced Altman project that was intelligent and I will be forever grateful to her. But here, nothing.The second half is a matter of snakes, mostly. Bugs. Levitating schoolgirls who magically spat.The only curious thing in this is the older woman who is a witch, supplies paraphernalia and an initial refuge. She has a magical setup on a special spot. In a normal tale, she'd come swooping in at the end to save the day. We keep waiting for it as these girls are shown to be incompetent at managing energies and desires. But no. We never see her again. Its just girl on girl.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Pretty good teen-horror-comedy about witchcraft","Date":"8 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I haven't seen too many films about witchcraft(technically, this is the only one, since Charmed is a series), but I do think that this is pretty good, and probably one of the better, films about the subject. It's about a teenage girl, who moves to a new town, and is made an outcast almost the moment she sets foot in the new high school. She quickly meets three other girls who are outcasts, and who are very much into witchcraft and magic. They need her as a fourth witch, and the moment she joins, they start attempting magic. But not long after, something goes wrong, and the magic seems to take over. The film has a great cast, all four leads are great, the supporting characters are also well-cast and well-acted. In my opinion, Fairuza Balk is great in the lead villain type role. Robin Dunne and Neve Campbell are great in their respective roles. The film has a multitude of teen stars, and it benefits from the many talents. Breckin Meyer, Skeet Ulrich, and several more whose names I can't remember for the life of me right now. The horror portions of the film are pretty well-done, with great shocks and scares, and pretty good atmosphere. The special effects are mostly well-done, except for some of the CGI, which looks horribly dated now, 8 years later. The soundtrack is good, most of the songs fit well with the scenes they accompany. The plot is very good, interesting and involving. It also manages to put in a shade of drama into the film, which further helps the film become interesting. The acting is all good, with a few of the performances being great. The characters are all well-written and credible, and most of them are interesting. The film isn't very cliched, though it may be derivative of other films of the genre; like I said, I haven't seen any other movies about witchcraft, so I don't know for sure. The comedy parts of the film are also well-done, and really lift an otherwise fairly dark and somewhat mildly depressing film to a more enjoyable level. The humor is very well-integrated, it never feels out of place. The film, much like Charmed, offers the witchcraft theme a good balance between respect for the subject and humor, having fun with witchcraft(granted, it's more about the witchcraft than the humor, but it works well, I think). All in all, a pretty good horror-comedy, with some solid lead characters and a thoroughly entertaining film experience. I recommend it to fans of teen-horror, teen-comedy, and mixes of the two genres. Fans of the various teen-actors in the film might also enjoy it. 7/10 "},{"Title":"teen drivel","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is about 4 'outcast' teen girls who, without explanation, have 'magical' witch powers. Other teens at school do mean things to them, and the girls use their powers to exact revenge on the other students.Well, gee, why are the other students treating them like outcasts? They have messy hair, slather on black lipstick, wear leather dog collars, smoke a lot, have rings piercing many of the penetrable parts of their bodies, and they sneer constantly. It's amazing they aren't treated better. Nevermind, it's a nice setup for the girls to use their powers to kill and maim their classmates.Predictably, the fresh, clean-cut witch, sees the error of her ways and dukes it out (literally) with the evil, goth witch.It's a stupid movie with almost no plot other than revenge. It will appeal to teens who are into the cultic arts, and social outcasts.  "},{"Title":"Strictly for teens or those who don't require much from a movie","Date":"5 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Granted, I knew that I was taking a chance when I decided to watch this movie, meaning that I knew from reading reviews by others that this might not be my sort of horror film. (And I'm a huge horror and supernatural movie fan).The main problem that I had with The Craft is the fact that so much that is really important to the integrity of the film is left unexplained, such as how these four girls got their power in the first place.You will do much better by watching such horror greats as Carrie, and even Tamara rather than wasting your time on this film. "},{"Title":"The Craft - A poor mans Carrie","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The craft is a rubbish take on a horror movie, its a dissapointment that neve campbell can make this and Scream in the same year which was very good, the acting in The Craft is rubbish and the so-so plot may make u want to watch, watch carrie, which is slightly better than this, although thats not saying much is it? Lets hope they dont make a sequel to The Craft, if they do then they should it should have different actresses and actors.Good Bits It lasts less than 2 hours, slightly.Bad Bits The Acting, The Direction, Not much of a horror, No Gore, No Blood, Too GirlyOverall 2/10Some Better Horror Movies Carrie 3/10 Carrie 2 9/10 The Witches of Eastwick; 7/10 End of Days 10/10 Blade 10/10 "},{"Title":"This Movie is Terrible","Date":"28 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie was actually painful to watch. I mean good lord, the fact that this was rated so highly makes me sad.This is a bad mix of two bad things, chick flicks, and paranormal thrillers. It should've been clear to the screenwriter that this was a bad idea to begin with, but what is truly pathetic is that the production company allowed this hunk of cinematic vomit to get to the silver screen. How do they sleep at night with this movie on their conscience? This film has one thing going for it, the one thing it got right for it, the special effects (sort of). It always seemed to me that a good movie should judged by it's story and plot line, but clearly the production company doesn't hold this view. Otherwise they would have put this where it belongs, the trash can. This movie has flat acting, and I was disappointed because it is listed as a horror film, what that usually means is that it scares people. All it did was make me laugh, and disgusted me. "},{"Title":"oh geez, sad goth kids","Date":"4 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Horrible, horrible mess.  This movie is pretty much about 4 girls who are goth-ish and try to be witches, some are more into it than others.  In the end, if you wanted to smack the Clueless cast around for being arrogant adolecents, wait for a scene here with a beach full of dead sea life in which a witch proclaims - It's a gift! Return it.Must be a sad life when you live in a big house with a loving family, hey your even on a swim team!  Now wear black, chant some spells and don't conform...unless it is in your inner circle of friends.  Horrible, horrible mess. "}{"Title":"Unenlightened horror fluff.","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Fairuza Balk's performance in this movie was wonderful. The movie, as far as horror movies go, was quite enjoyable and entertaining while maintaining a level of tension which was not relieved by the few spots of well-placed humor.As a movie called, The Craft; however, this movie was a low blow to all Pagans, be they Wiccan, Eclectic or non-magick users. I use the word puerile often when addressing movies I find childish and immature, and it certainly applies here. It portrays Magick Users with three basic stereo-types 1. Evil 2. Pathetic sheep to be led 3. Classic fence-straddlers.In truth, most Magick Users would have never followed anyone like Nancy Downs (Balk). Her character was obviously unstable in the beginning, and insane towards the end. She was the epitome of the stereo-type of the tragic American goth gurl. As such, she played her role well. This work struck a hard blow against the Pagans. NOT in my top 1,000,000 favorite movies.For entertainment value alone, I'll give it a grudging 1.8/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Gives Wiccan's a bad name!","Date":"20 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is an overall stupid movie, and it seriously gives Wiccan's a bad name. I personally think that The Craft makes Wiccan's look bad, as well as giving them a bad name. I am a Wiccan and have been for nearly a year. Wiccan's are not evil, satanic, a cult, a clan. we don't use evil powers to harm others, and we don't claim that If one leaves the clan they will be killed (not worded exactly as in the movie) Not only does it give Wiccan's a bad name, it's story line is lame, and it is full of Hollywood's look on Wicca, which is almost in every case, crap. I hope that if you would like to know more about Wicca you will read a book about it not use this awful movie for information on Wicca because it is false as well as pathetically lame. "}]