[{"Title":"Underrated.","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"30 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Too many people/reviews comment negatively on this movie and so, even though I would normally not post my comments on this site, I felt the need to create some *balance* here. This movie is well done, honest, and we ALL need more American movies that sway away from the usual man-saves-world trend. Credit to Whoopi and the other actors for choosing these roles. Acted well. It just plain _worked_. It's obvious that I am not too spiffy at this movie-critic role (duh), but as a 16 year old teenager who is unfamiliar with all the movie-jargan yet knows very well when she sees an underrated movie, I tell anyone reading this to watch this movie. And to those who don't think very highly of it, slap yourselves across the face and directly compare the quality of THIS to some of the more popular titles out there... I personally think that 'The Associate' would be better and deserves a much higher rating. "},{"Title":"Fun movie","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I gave this movie a 10 not because it's perfect, not because it's the best movie I've seen, but because the way it made me feel when I watched it. I love Whoopi and she does a great job in this movie, as she does on any other movie she made. Her personality just shines. I used to think that actors can really learn any role and they can be whoever they were needed to be. But Whoopi fits this role perfectly. I couldn't have thought of a better actress to fit the character.The movie is funny. The bad guy always gets it and it has a happy ending. Sounds a bit cliché, but isn't that how we all want it to end? This is a perfect screening for the stay-at-home moms or housewives. "},{"Title":"Working executive girl","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"18 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Never having seen this film, we decided to take a chance with it. We were quite surprised to learn this Hollywood film is based on a French one, L'associe, written for the screen by Jean Claude Carriere and based on Jenaro Prieto's novel El Socio. Daniel Petrie, its director is working with Nick Thiel's adaptation, which appears to have been a vehicle for its star, Whoopi Goldberg.Some comments have compared this movie with Working Girl, a film that also dealt with a smart woman working in the financial world, one of the themes in The Associate. We are introduced to an intelligent woman, Laurel Ayers, who happens to have three things going against her, she is black, a woman, and is intelligent enough to merit a promotion in the Wall Street firm she works for. Unfortunately, it comes as no surprise that Laurel is passed and her co-worker, Frank, gets the good job and becomes her boss.The film is mildly funny, as Laurel goes to make a name for herself by creating a silent partner, Mr. Cutty, who is never seen. The financial world is all in a frenzy to meet him, and the hilarious appearance at the Plaza Hotel, instead of making things clear, contributes to his myth.Ms. Goldberg is delightful to watch. Dianne Wiest makes an impressive appearance as the loyal Sally, who is an under appreciated woman. Timothy Daly is perfect as the egotistical Frank. The supporting cast is good. Bebe Neuwirth, Eli Wallach, Austin Pendelton, and a funny Lanie Kazan as a financial gossip writer.While the film is predictable, it offers some funny moments. "},{"Title":"Great and Funny movie 9/10","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The low rating this movie got here is very strange since statistically , I think, the user rating should reflect the movie resonance/quality quite well - however not in this case.This evening I watched The Associate for the 4th time and I loved it even more then ever.Its funny and very cleverly crafted.I will dare and say - a must see.9/10 "},{"Title":"Woman Can Make It to the Top Spot but Men Aren't That Bad, Are We?","Date":"24 January 2008","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" For me, 'The Associate' makes a decent one-time watch. It starts on a promising note with a female black lawyer trying to make it in the man's world. However, at some point as the plot moves, it fails to engage and it's quite clear what will happen in the end. The point 'The Associate' tries to make is that woman can make it on top but it (perhaps unintentionally) presents the men under a negative light. Some of the male characters are presented as stereotypical chauvinists. There are some funny moments that bring a few chuckles but not much that would make one laugh out loud. The best scenes are the ones with Wiest and Goldberg together. Wiest is adorable as the sweet and smart Dugan and Goldberg is adequate as Ayres. However, Goldberg has played several such roles and done numerous similar movies before and even though she's very versatile, she hardly presents anything new in 'The Associate'. I would like to see more of her and Wiest in better movies. "},{"Title":"A Fun Movie","Date":"11 January 2006","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Very funny. Very entertaining. Very well done movie. Excellent acting and a lot of fun. I enjoyed it. Whoopi Goldberg is perfect in the part of a financial analyst who seems to get no where in a man's world until she creates an maginary partner only to find that the imaginary partner--a man--is taking all the credit for her hard work. I thought the idea and the concept were imaginative and well done. Dianne Weist is perfect in her part as is Tim Daly. You know a movie is funny when Lanie Kazan is in it--remember her as Freida in the Nanny. I recommend The Associate for all. It's a family film as well and you will be glad you saw it!!! "},{"Title":"Women - Bravo","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I think the only reason people hate this movie is because it shows women making men look stupid and foolish - as if it needs to take a leap to do that.  Playing their own game against them and winning.This movie was a lot of fun and I enjoyed it completely.I would watch it over and over again.Truly wonderful.Remember Waiting to Exhale.  Men hated that movie too, because it made them look bad and told the truth.  This movie told the truth. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, mostly intelligent and funny","Date":"8 March 2005","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I saw the ending of this film before I saw anything else, so I was misled as to the exact nature of what was going on. As a result, there were more surprises than I expected. And some plot twists that I didn't see coming. So for me seeing the entire film was like watching a Columbo murder mystery--I knew what the result was going to be, but not how the movie would get there.Having said that, I think Whoopi Goldberg did a wonderful job. Her scenes as 'Robert Cutty' were especially good, even though the movie turned out to be more about explaining his absence rather than actually showing the mystery man.But I really enjoyed Laurel's efforts to come up with ideas and get the ideas into the hands of those who counted. She had to be so creative to get anything done, even making up a name for her partner under pressure. Like Robin Williams' character in 'Mrs. Doubtfire', she used the first name she saw, as a bartender poured Cutty whiskey.And the makeup job, if that is what it was, looked almost as professional as Mrs. Doubtfire's. Goldberg was quite convincing as a slightly effeminate Wall Street whiz.Dianne Wiest did an outstanding job as Sally, the secretary to Frank and later Laurel. Yes, I said secretary. I'm sick and tired of hearing the word 'assistant' used for the position. As long as one doesn't work for the likes of Frank, the term 'secretary' does not have to refer to a meaningless job where one is unappreciated. And Sally made the most of her job with Laurel, becoming much more than 'just' a secretary.Eli Wallach did a great job as Fallon, one of the Wall Street suits who finally had to listen to Laurel--but only because of Cutty. Bebe Neuwirth also shined as one of the people who allowed Laurel to pass along 'secrets' and make Cutty look good. Timothy Daly, on the other hand, just made Frank look like a jerk. Fine, they achieved their goal if that's what it was, but to me it was a performance that belonged in a bad TV-movie. Don't misunderstand; I like bad TV-movies like this and I liked to hate Frank, but this was a well-done theatrical film. The plot twists were interesting if not particularly realistic, though I have to wonder if a person could get in real trouble for what Laurel did. The SEC did not know precisely what she was doing, and it was never made clear whether they cleared her, though in a movie I suppose anything's possible.Overall I was very happy. "},{"Title":"Whoopi does it up right, but Diane is right behind her!","Date":"21 November 2004","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Very mild spoilers....This film is a fun romp through all kinds of business world clichés - which are only clichés because they are all so true! I'm a WG fan all the way and I especially loved her in this film (she had ME believing for a few minutes here and there that she really was a white man!) But Dianne Wiest was absolutely THE BEST in this movie. I just loved her character, and as always DW is likable, funny, sweet-natured, a little timid on the surface, but UNDERNEATH is a hotbed of energy and fire in the belly. And yet always so understated. I especially love her line pointing out that she and Whoopi have no way to get home after their attempt to fake Robert's death in a car explosion - the line delivered so quietly and matter-of-factly We came in THAT car. FUN FUN FUN movie! One to watch over again - more than once. "},{"Title":"sad account of the way it is...","Date":"22 February 2004","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Don't usually like Whoopie starrers, but she really does herself proud in this funny but sadly true account of discrimination against women in the business world (and others - academic, entertainment, etc.).  Amusing and clever film, but you have to be a working woman to really appreciate its truth and poetic justice.   "}{"Title":"Good film with Whoopi","Date":"27 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I always enjoy Whoopi Goldberg in films, and the 1996 film The Associate is no exception. Based on a French film, it's the story of a Laurel Ayres (Goldberg) who is having trouble making it in a man's world, though she's smarter than all of them. After being manipulated and beaten out of a promotion at her old job by slick Frank (Tim Daly), Laurel starts her own company and quickly goes nowhere. She gets some help from an assistant at the old firm, Sally (Diane Wiest) and ultimately decides to make up a male associate, Robert Cutty. It works like a charm, and business is flying in the door. However, everyone is most anxious to meet Cutty, and there comes a point when she has to produce him. And when she does, he's obviously been based on Marlon Brando - the older Marlon Brando.This is an amusing film that could have been hilarious. It does have some great moments, though, and likable characters in Goldberg and Wiest. Other fine performances include those of Daly, Lainie Kazan as a cutting columnist and Eli Wallach as a client. The other problem I have with the film is that it is sorely dated. It's hard to believe that, while sexism still exists, Laurel would have so much trouble from the old boys' network in 1996. Sure enough, as I suspected, the film on which it is based was done in 1979. Remington Steele, a TV series based on the same premise, was produced in the '80s. Surely in 1996, a woman of Laurel's obvious talent would have been more appreciated where she worked and could have launched a successful business without a fake male associate. Anne Mulcahy of Xerox and Ho Ching of Temasek Holdings are only two examples of such powerful executives from the 1990s.Still, it's entertaining and fun, and a reminder that they don't make this kind of comedy anymore. "},{"Title":"You Must See This Movie!","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Just saw this great movie on HBO! What a hoot! I've actually experienced some of what the movie portrays in real life.....and Whoopi was definitely perfect for the part! Really nice mix of real life issues (even in the modern world of 2006) and humor......and Whoopi, she should have received an Academy Award for her role! I've always liked her, but after seeing her in this role, I have a huge amount of new respect for her work! She comes across as if she really was the character she's portraying. You need to step back to realize she's an actress playing a part. Of course, her supporting cast did a great job too!I didn't read any reviews on this, so I don't know what the critics might have said......I do know that I really can't say enough good things about this movie! You really can't miss, especially if you're female! ;-) "},{"Title":"Great Film!","Date":"13 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I just saw The Associate yesterday for the first time. I'm not really sure I ever even heard of it before, but my reaction was WHAT A FILM, HOW DID I EVER MISS THIS ONE! Whoopi, as always, did a great job, this time portraying a smart, hard-working financial whiz who must resort to subterfuge in order to get the props that have otherwise eluded her. The clever script and wonderful array of characters made this an enjoyable viewing experience. I especially enjoyed Kenny Kerr's character. Simply Beautiful! Austin Pendleton, Bebe Neuwirth, Dianne Wiest, Tim Daly, and Eli Wallach each contributed to the fun. I hated to see it end. Let's hope Whoopi makes more films of this ilk. "},{"Title":"Associate With It.","Date":"25 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Associate (1996) Dir Donald Petrie / Cast Whoopi Goldberg, Diane Wiest, Tim Daly, Bebe Neuwirth, Eli Wallach A woman disguises herself as a male to prove a point. The title regards someone who doesn't exist. In this case the screenwriter. It stars Whoopi Goldberg as a hard working woman on Wall Street who quits her job after a scheming male broker received the promotion due her. She attempts Wall Street elsewhere but her gender creates a problem so she invents Robert S. Cutty. After a makeup job she is able to carry out meetings but he gets the credit. When things get really out of hand she is assisted by her secretary in in staging Cutty's death, which lands them both in jail. Director Donald Petrie does his best with the unoriginal material. Whoopi Goldberg holds her own despite the predictable outcome, and Diane Wiest elevates the standard role of secretary to amusing levels that payoff. Tim Daly is cardboard as the schemer whom took Goldberg's opportunity. His role is pretty straight forward and about as boring as a class speech. Also appearing is Bebe Neuwirth who is sexually interested in Cutty but again, the role is lifeless. Finally veteran Eli Wallach makes a wasted appearance to remind us that we need to see his earlier roles. Theme exposes male chauvinism that fails as a screenplay but big fans of Goldberg will likely associate best with it. Score 6 / 10 "},{"Title":"Decent film about stereotypes","Date":"23 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'm surprised this film wasn't a bit more successful (it lost a ton of money) and better regarded than the rating it gets here. Overall, I enjoyed it.I thought Whoopi Goldberg was great as a struggling and then successful financial adviser. I wasn't clear -- was that her as Robert Cutty, or a stand-in? A real treasure here is the supporting part by Diane Weist as the secretary. Every time I see her I think what a treasure she is.The other supporting actors do their jobs, but hardly stand out. It is nice to see Eli Wallach as a rich businessman...he was 80 when he made this film, and although always a supporting actor, he always did a fine job. Tim Daly was appropriately sleazy in his role. And, it was nice to see Bebe Neuwirth (who most people recognize as Frazier Crane's wife) in a different part.Overall, the plot was handled nicely, with the overarching moral lesson being that in all walks of life there will be people who are inherently talented, but sometimes go unrecognized if they don't fit the usual racial (or other) pattern. The one part of the plot where things sort of fell apart was Robert Cutty's appearance at the hotel; this was sloppy and just didn't feel right. And blowing him up in a car -- the man who didn't even exist -- also seemed a bit slapstickish. But aside from those two areas, the script was pretty good.No, it's not the greatest comedy film ever made, but it's pretty decent and had a good moral point. Recommended, though it may not find its way to your DVD shelf. "},{"Title":"Black like me","Date":"8 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" No, this is not from a John Grisham novel. An ambitious young black woman (Goldberg) tries to establish her own Wall Street investment firm, but quickly finds the business is part of the old boys' club. In order to get anyone to listen to her, she invents a male partner who always seems to be out of the office. This gets her into all sorts of jams. Director Donald Petrie wisely keeps Goldberg ducking and dodging all sorts of sticky situations for the first half, before having her slap on white face and a fat suit to pose as her imaginary partner in the second half. Dianne Wiest is wonderful as her mousy but very bright assistant, and the best parts of the movie are the scenes involving the two women. Bebe Nuewerth has a funny role as a corporate seductress, and Eli Wallach is a wealthy businessman eager to deal with Goldberg's firm but only if he can meet her partner. Tim Daly and Austin Pendleton add to the merriment as, respectively, Goldberg's ex-boss and a Bill Gates type. The movie walks a fine line between social commentary and laughs, and was shot in New York and New Jersey during winter, which gives the film a much more realistic look considering the absurdity of the premise. "},{"Title":"a film worth seeing","Date":"20 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I thought The Associate was a great film dealing with one of the major problems of today's society  judging everything and everyone on the way it looks instead of what it is. In this case  she is (and looks like) a woman, and therefor she must be inferior to men. The acting was very, very good, but that's what we're used to see from such people as Whoopy Goldberg, Diane Wiest, Eli Wallach, and so on. Then why am I only giving a vote of 8 ? Because of the final scene! The whole film was, though in every way a comedy, very realistic, but that last bit was completely over the top and utterly unbelievable. This is, in my view, one of the big flaws of American films  they just MUST HAVE a happy ending, no matter how far fetched it may be. Nevertheless a film worth seeing and seeing again. "},{"Title":"Climbing the corporate ladder, Whoopi style","Date":"4 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Watchable if nothing else, this Whoopi Goldberg vehicle doesn't reach for the stars, but instead weaves social commentary on the glass ceiling and racial prejudice into the comedy of a business whiz (Goldberg) who invents a fictitious business partner when she finds she can't advance on her own merits, apparently due to her gender and race. But the ruse becomes difficult to manage as various investors demand to meet the elusive Mr Cutty, and Goldberg resorts to costumes and well-staged theatrics to hide the fact that Cutty doesn't exist.Reasonable supporting cast features Tim Daly as a sleazy corporate type, ubiquitous to just about every film that depicts 'corporate America', Dianne Wiest as Goldberg's chronically under-appreciated right-hand woman, Eli Wallach as an old-school investor keen to meet the elusive Mr Cutty, and Austin Pendleton as a bookish inventor and CEO on the brink of bankruptcy until Goldberg can restore his standing. Blink and you'll miss Colleen Camp in a very minor role as a detective.Occasional slapstick and farce, fused with the usual dry-wit for which Goldberg is accustomed, it's a studio picture with all the typical hooks and clichés, nevertheless, very mild and satisfying. And as a footnote, good to see Bebe Neuwirth in a particularly sultry role as an all-too-eager business associate to Wallach; she has a couple of scenes sans most of her wardrobe that are quite revealing. "},{"Title":"What happened to sisters are doing it for themselves?","Date":"22 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Whoopi Goldberg feels held back by her gender, so she gets a makeover as a man to jump start her ad agency. A lot of women defend this movie, but it seems like they should be insulted. Goldberg is reduced to getting fashion tips from a drag queen(man), getting inside tips from a mouse(man), and looking like a demented John Adams when she is remade as a white man. The movie would be really empowering if she did it herself, which everyone knows she could. Whoopi is far too talented and independent to be playing such a poorly conceived character. Also, the original story was about how liberating it was to do the things you wanted in a visage that everyone believed, but that ultimately you could be yourself by yourself. All the women power stuff was added unnecessarily, just casting a woman would have gotten the same point across without rubbing the audiences noise in it. "},{"Title":"The Associate- You Could Associate With This **1/2","Date":"28 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Women's lib would really go for this 1996 film about a woman who loses a promotion to her fellow worker despite her better experience and seniority.Since she will now be a subordinate to this guy, she quits and forms her own investment group. She is aided by a very frumpy Dianne Wiest.When she can't get anywhere due to her sex, she invents a male partner to get her ideas accepted.The film is a funny one and when Whoopi is forced to produce this partner, she gets a costume with the white face of a Marlon Brando mixed with a Thomas Jefferson profile and hair-do. That part is really hilarious.Of course, there is more fun ahead when Whoopi is accused of killing this partner and Wiest is accused of being an accessory to murder.With all this, the film is highly predictable but go enjoy it anyway. "}{"Title":"OK comedy drama with Whoopi Goldberg...","Date":"10 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" 1st watched 5/9/2007 - 4 out of 10(Dir-Donald Petrie) OK comedy drama with Whoopi Goldberg playing a character reminiscent of the Robin Williams man to woman transformation character, Mrs. Doubtfire, but opposite, of course. Whoopi's character is a wall street investment associate in a firm where the men usually rule the roost. She is up for a promotion to Vice President, but loses it to her partner, primarily because he's a man who knows how to play to the higher-ups wim's. She quits and starts her own investment firm and invents an elderly white male partner named Robert S. Cutter and starts becoming very successful despite the fact that the companies never meet the illustrious Mr. Cutter, but instead Whoopi does all the work, and he's always traveling around the world and never available. Eventually, Cutter has to show himself and what we get is Whoopi in a pretty amazing transformation done by her cross-dressing friend. The transformation is so well done that it's hard to tell that it's Whoopi behind the wig, mask and the rounded-out body. The transformation isn't the problem in this movie, it's just that it has very few opportunities for Whoopi's comedic talents to come thru. Dianne Weist is actually very good in a supporting role as Whoopi's mega-talented secretary and Whoopi isn't bad in her performance with what she's given but the screenplay is very flat and un-inspired. This could have been a good expose on women in this field and how they're unable to penetrate the upper ranks but it doesn't come across that it has any desire to be much of anything which is very disappointing. I'd love to see Goldberg & Weist together again in a better film -- so maybe this will happen someday. "},{"Title":"Lots Of Fun","Date":"4 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" THE ASSOCIATE ***1/2 Talented, competent executive Whoopi Goldberg decides to handle business her own way by starting her own Investments company after a nasty team player (Tim Daly) steals her job promotion. The story quickly makes us sympathetic disbelievers in Goldberg's success, however, as female discrimination hinders her from getting clients. What she plans on doing is nothing short of unlikely and strangely entertaining Making up a wholly fictitious male associate and pretend all of her ideas are his. Her bond with Dianne Wiest, an endearing secretary who eventually starts working for her, enriches their characters as Goldberg finesses between managing her coming-of-renown business now that there is a man in charge of the whole thing, and dealing with the anti-feminist preferences of the Investments/Marketing business. When the third act is reached, the star actually has to impersonate the man she has made up...which makes for one of the funniest scenes when sexy stock-broker Bebe Neuwirth tries to seduce him. Lots of fun. "},{"Title":"A Great Movie","Date":"30 May 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I love this movie.  It has a lot of comedy and drama.  The chemistry between Whoopi Goldberg and Dianne Wiest is great.  It is a movie that you can watch again and again! "},{"Title":"Remmington Steele Rip Off...Kind Of.","Date":"28 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" While I would like to say that I'm sure the producers of this work had no intention of ripping off that iconic television show, I'm sure any fans of the show will agree with me when I say that it did just that.Without the rip off factor, this work is quite cute. It's empowering to women, and demonstrates how the premise of Remmington Steele's whole premise could actually happen. And you thought it was silly! Bah! Whooopie is awesome in this feature, and really commands the presence of an executive, but just beneath that corporate demeanor, lies the bad-a$$ who beat the snot out of Ray in Burglar. In spite of that, I loved it. Though it'll never win even a nomination, it was fun.Whoopie? Work more in FRONT of the camera! I miss you! This rates a 5.8/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"A Pretentiousness Comedy That Recalls ` Working Girl'","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Laurel Ayres (Whoopi Goldberg) is a very competent financial analyst who is deceived by her colleague Frank (Timothy Daly)  in a promotion to VP. She decides to quit her job and open her own investment company. However, being a woman, she feels difficulties to get into this type of business in Wall Street. She decides to pretend she has a male associate in her company, who would be responsible for the advices. Together with her assistant Sally (the lovely Diane Wiest), they pass through funny situations. This pretentiousness comedy recalls the plot of Mike Nichols' `Working Girl', if you consider the storyline of a competent employee who has her own merits credited to another person. The film is not regular, and Laurel Ayres sometimes is bright, but other times she behaves like a stupid. Further, in the present days, it is hard to believe such a prejudice in Wall Street. This DVD has just been released in Brazil. For my surprise, this is a 1996 movie. My vote is six. "},{"Title":"I've seen it before","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is Jerry Maguire plus Mrs. Doubtfire.  I had an overwhelming feeling that I had seen this movie before even though I hadn't.  I wasn't too impressed. "},{"Title":"Hmmmm.......","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I just saw this movie and it was pretty funny.  It would've probably been better to me if I worked at Wall St. because through the whole beginning of the movie, it deals with Wall St. type of stuff.  But as the movie went on it got to be funny and then I began to understand it more.  Whoopi Goldberg wasn't as funny or as good as I thought she would be.  I found her to be a bit boring at times and she looked as though she didn't want to do that movie.  However, Dianne Wiest came in and saved the whole movie.  I completely loved her as Sally, Whoopi's eager assistant.  The credit goes to her and a little to Whoopi.  I thought Whoppi was funny when she dressed up as Robert Cutter.  This movie was pretty good overall with a sort of Mrs. Doubtfire look to it!! "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, though not hilarious","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Funny in parts, and very interesting, but not funny enough or interesting enough. Still it's worth it. 6.5 out of 10. Rated PG-13 for some language and nudity. "},{"Title":"COULD have been great; ended up below average","Date":"12 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I will never understand the Hollywood writers who can't get around public disclosure/exposure.From the second the movie started I knew how it was going to end. NO surprises and I can only wonder when they will stop doing this.How many movies have you ever seen where the person decides to either COME CLEAN and tell the truth in front of the entire world or is exposed in front of the entire world.At what point does it stop? I can't even think of the last time a movie that did this did well. SO WHY KEEP DOING IT????There was a great premise to the movie about women and the glass ceiling, but instead it turned into an idiotic movie. WHO didn't know the second Whoopi's character said Cutty died on the boat that everyone would survive? Who didn't think that no one in real life with that kind of smarts would do something that stupid?Then the idiotic attempt with the car wreck. It just kept getting stupider and stupider.Then who didn't know she was going to expose who she really was at the dinner? ANYONE? AND then that she was going to get an ovation from the people outside? No wonder movies like this keep failing. NO ORIGINALITY. NONE! They could have made it funnier and more believable and still gotten away from that idiotic PUBLIC EXPOSURE crud. AND still made a great point.But they didn't and they still keep doing that idiocy. You see it on TV shows every darned week and movies to this day do it.DUMB DUMB DUMB DUMB. Too bad they had idiot formula writers. Or did they even have writers? Maybe just something downloaded from the internet.Who knows? Such a good premise too. "},{"Title":"Ridiculous picture.","Date":"19 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I just watched this film on TV, and I wasn't that impressed. Interlink will make internet look obsolete and out of date lines like that didn't help either. But the main problem of the film is that its TO ridiculous to be believable. Being a comedy its supposed to be a bit ridiculous, but having every single character except Whoopi's be total idiots is to much. And the applaud sequence at the end, ugh, thats to lame to even comment upon =/ .The topic of the movie (women having a hard time in the business world) is perhaps a good one, but the way its done is way to bad.I give it 3-4 out of 10.  "}]