[{"Title":"Pam's got nice breasts.....and that's the end of the film","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"56 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Barb runs a bar and is also a mercenary out for herself in the civil war. However when her ex-boyfriend Axel comes to se her she takes a job helping a scientist get across the country to expose a government cover up.  However will she remain a mercenary or will she pick sides?When people are famous for being naked &#150; that's pretty much what they should stay doing.  Do we want porn actresses doing serious Hollywood roles?  No &#150; let them stick to what they know.  I'm not calling Anderson a porno star but lets be honest, she famous for having great breasts right?  So how can we harness this star power?  Lets put her in tight clothes in a futuristic remake of Casablanca!The plot is a sheer rip off and still manages to be poor.  It is only an excuse for tight clothes and silly big explosions.  As a dumb Saturday night special it still barely cuts it for me, although it is noisy, if that's all you want.....Anderson isn't an actress &#150; if it wasn't for a good publicity agent and a boob-job, she wouldn't even be offered the roles that Shannon Tweed gets!  She doesn't convince as an actress as she can't get above the range required by Baywatch &#150; look scared, look happy, look sad, look determined, oh and poke out your boobs!  The rest of the cast have nothing to do and it's a shame to see reliable bit part players like Howard and Xander Berkley appearing in this.Overall it has some pretty explosions but really this is like a Playboy video &#150; it's all designed for the purpose of capitalising on Anderson's  body.......why should we be surprised that it does nothing else.  "},{"Title":"Have you ever heard of overkill?","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"51 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Picture this a Pamela Anderson science fiction double bill on television. I mean, you'd just HAVE to watch it, wouldn't you? Just to see how bad it was.1995's Naked Souls kept making me look for the TV Movie credit that wasn't there. A cheap and exploitative erotic thriller where Pammie exposes her left breast within the first three minutes of the movie. Anderson is an artist, specialising in plaster-casting nude women, rubbing mixture over their breasts while they proclaim it feels kinda sexy. Her boyfriend, decently played by Brian Krause, is studying brain wave patterns and accidentally crosses his own with that of a serial killer. It's all very silly and derivative, also involving a Faustian pact with a mysterious benefactor. What disturbs is that all the victims of the killer are nude women &#150; I mean, who gets into a swimming pool naked? &#150; meaning the film uses sexual violence as titillation. Dean Stockwell, in a minor role, is wasted in stuff like this.If Anderson's role in the predictable Naked Souls was peripheral (and also completely irrelevant to the plot), then Barb Wire sees her take over the screen. Released the following year, this saw the now Pamela Anderson Lee as the titular character, a Barbarella of the 90s. Of course she can't act &#150; she only manages one expression throughout the whole two hours &#150; but her assured performance is wonderful here. While it's easy to lump both these films together as trash entertainment, Barb Wire is so much more than that. A vibrant, witty and well-directed cartoon for the screen, its constant energy is a delight. What really appeals is in seeing the sheer amount of cinema pastiches the film rigs up. Batman, Never Say Never Again and even The A-Team are all parodied. But most significantly, it shares multiple plot similarities with Casablanca, and I honestly suspect that this was intentional. Or would its 2017 planes really be so old-fashioned? Barb is a neutral bar owner during a war by day (ring a bell?) a vixen for hire by night. The landscape she occupies is an excitingly neon world of legalised prostitution, engineered diseases and sophisticated contact lenses.Maybe the opening moments &#150; Anderson Lee exposing her bare nipples while water washes over them to a baying crowd &#150; are tacky and unnecessary. The scenes that follow also contain a torture sequence that is not only misguided in its attempt to arouse but also transparent in its purpose for expository dialogue. Yet beyond those first few scenes we have an action movie that contains above-average scripting for the genre, and some fun moments. It's amusing to try and guess whether Pam knew she was being kitsch or whether she genuinely believed she was giving a good performance. But whatever the answer, it still gets a laugh when a rowdy customer finds his genitals in the mouth of her rabid Rottweiler. Sit, she tells the dog, much to the drunk's displeasure. Now, you don't want to see her roll over, do you?All the criticisms that can be made against this film &#150; that it's badly acted, appallingly scripted, dumb and sexist (even though none of them are 100% true anyway) &#150; can be disputed by the fact that it's SUPPOSED to be badly acted, appallingly scripted, dumb and sexist. This is a film that never pretends to be anything other than a pumped-up, camp and downright silly movie. What's more, it succeeds in being more entertaining and convincing than many of the straight versions of the same format, with particular note drawn to it's fight scenes. They may be excessive and lack maturity, but they're shot beautifully and are fun to watch. I'm not a huge fan of action pictures, but I thoroughly enjoyed this one. If you want a film that possesses depth and integrity, then see something else. If you want a lovably stupid movie, with Pamela Anderson sticking out her little finger as she burns rubber on a motorbike, then watch this. Tremendous fun.  "},{"Title":"Babewatch","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"32 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What do you really expect from a chick like Pamela Anderson..? That she´s performing character roles Meryl Streep is normally meant to play?!? In this film you get her usual qualities in a sufficient amount Pam is pretty, Pam is sexy and she´s joking in a self-ironic humor for the whole film. So what do you want more?!? The opening sequence is great and Udo Kier, one of the most culty German actors next to the deceased Klaus Kinski is also in! Of course, if you expect a great film you certainly will be disappointed the set decoration is pretty cheap and the plot is stolen from Casablanca. Nevertheless Barb Wire is very entertaining and should be regarded as funny action trash with an attractive main actress - nothing more, nothing less! Just be glad that David Hasselhoff is not in!!! (6/10)  "},{"Title":"a guilty pleasure in every sense of the word.","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"40 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  first of all, i rated this film a 7 but not on a normal film scale. no, i rated it this on a cheesy so-bad-it's great level and in that respect this movie is well done.first of all, Pamela Anderson literally looks like a barbie doll in this so a little typecasting is evident. she delivers her lines like a cyborg at times, she has a hard time keeping her fantastically huge breasts in her outfit during the film's 'action' scenes and the plot is, believe it of not, a ripoff of Casablanca!!the rest of the actors deliver their lines in a tongue in cheek fashion that suits the film's cheesy and overdone demeanor.the good thing is is that much of the dialogue is unintentionally hilarious and the use of slow motion is used during action scenes to highlight some unusual things (rent it to find out what i mean.)a classic in the so-bad-it's-good genre and a showcase for how if you're going to make a bad film, put all your heart into it and pile the cheese until it's extra high.rating7 (on a cheese level) 3 (on a legitimate movie scale) "},{"Title":"Proper expectations","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While Barb Wire isn't an Academy style good movie, it succeeds wonderfully at what it is a comic book translated to film. It's over-acted and over-the-top, but it's supposed to be. It's great eye candy and lots of fun to watch. I think Pamela Anderson did a great job being a two-dimensional comic book hero - think Clint Eastwood spaghetti western with tight leather. Keep in mind what the film is trying to be and you'll have a great time. "},{"Title":"A fair time-killer.","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Barb Wire was pretty transparently designed as a showcase for both Pamela Anderson's body (too artificial for my taste) and her newly-acquired martial arts skills (which, I must say, are quite remarkable). Other than that, it has nothing new to offer to the sci-fi/comic-book adventure genre, although it has a few (too few!) well-executed action sequences and a more professional look than thematically similar crap like The Demolitionist. (**) "},{"Title":"Feed her after midnight, get her wet, but, whatever you do, don't call her Babe!","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"19 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Pamela Anderson Lee will certainly never be mistaken for a talking pig, especially in the outfits she gets to wear in Barb Wire. Pamela has cascading blonde hair down to there, acres of cleavage and plenty of clingy leather getups cut up to here. If you get distracted and call Ms. Wire the dreaded B word, you may find yourself dealing with her nasty-tempered Rottweiler, Camille, a sidekick with bite. This highly anticipated comic-book action/adventure, starring the pinup star of Baywatch, lasted only a short time in theaters before going bust, so to speak. I'm sure the backers couldn't care less, as their investment was made back in advance by tremendous worldwide sales. Barb Wire was sold on the star's face and form long before there was a story concept or anything resembling a script. Good thing, too. Yes, the futuristic plot does bear some parallels to Casablanca, but the family resemblance is strictly skin-deep. Barb is a nightclub owner who helps an old flame, now a freedom fighter, and his wife escape from a corrupt police official and some neo-Nazi types. Of all the gin joints in the world, Axel had to walk into Barb's. Barb has just been hosed down while performing a torrid dance onstage and is feeling, well, charitable. The movie gets off to a pretty good start, with tongue well in cheek, but grows wearisome when it forgets to laugh at itself. The explosions, shoot-outs and chases are eventually numbing. Must say, however, I did love the death-by-spike-heel scene which comes early on. Steve Railsback, as the head meanie, Colonel Pryzer, comes across as Tommy Lee Jones-lite. Ms. Anderson Lee, as Barb the Buxom, is game, however, firing oversized weapons and kicking fanny without mussing her makeup. Too bad they couldn't afford some better wigs for her stunt doubles. "},{"Title":"Fortunately, it is not this easy...","Date":"13 March 2004","Score":"28 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Wow. Now this is not good. However, the movie sets its level right away, by having a stripping, dancing wet Barb (Anderson) already in the introduction of the movie. So, there you have what this movie is all about. Sure you get some violence, explosions and bad costumes as a bonus. Clearly, there is no relevant story in the movie, all revolves around (Barb) to show her off in different ways. The mentioned costumes are almost offending to the audience. Whoever responsible for them clearly did not work very hard. Barb competes with herself to wear some leather-thing that shows off as much as possible, but actually must be considered well dressed as compared to other ladies. The villains wear something that bear a striking resemblance to nazi-uniforms. Well sure, we know who's the bad guys, thank you. And some other people wear broken calculators and other piece of machinery that you'll find in a scrap-heap as hats, and are automatically dressed up like guys from the future. If it was this easy to make a good movie, I could have made it myself. Fortunately it is not, and Barb Wire is not a good movie.But, and this is a mysterious but, I actually didn't get bored out of my mind and switched off. The movie actually, in some way, had some small piece of entertainment value throughout that made me stay. And that something, whatever it was, is what ultimately saves the movie from being complete junk.So, if you have absolutely nothing else to do, you may want to watch this one, once. You may get some ideas how to (or not to) dress for the next masquerade.3/10 "},{"Title":"My girlfriend liked it just as much as I did","Date":"11 September 2001","Score":"35 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Cheese. The key to enjoying this movie is not take it seriously! Don't expect great art! It's based on a comic book, it's got guns and 'splosions and Pamela Anderson pre-reduction. Waddaya want, Ingmar Bergman? It entertained me, and I didn't have to use my brain once. I even bought a copy, it sits on the shelf between Brief Encounter and Apocalypse Now. Its miles better than the dreadful The Mummy or the unspeakably bad Independence Day.Okay, have a review. The plot is a shameless rip-off of Casablanca and makes no effort to hide it. It made me laugh, has some great dialogue, and is never actually slow. It's OBVIOUS that the cast and crew had a brilliant time making it, and that really shows on screen. Steve Railsback is brilliant, as is the uniformly excellent Udo Kier.And its got guns and 'splosions and Pam! "},{"Title":"really, REALLY bad!","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"35 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is not a failure, because the movie makers obviously haven´t tried to make anything else than a mindless flick that lets Pamela Anderson show her cleavage. They have succeeded. "}{"Title":"Let's face it, if you're looking for depth and a meaning, you've put the wrong movie in your machine","Date":"6 December 2010","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" There are some films that are bad, infamous bad and Barb Wire is one of those I have heard about. Some bad films are trashy but can be a bit fun, like Showgirls and some can just be wrong like Striptease. Barb Wire is a film I guess in some way I'm kind of undecided on, it has the making for just a bad movie with Pamela's bad acting but has the action scenes and cheesy lines that make it fun as well. This movie is a retelling of Cassablanca and isn't so quick to hide that fact, so I guess this is the exotic remake. Pam Anderson is a sexy female lead and isn't that hard to believe that at times she can be tough, she does wear that leather well I have to admit, but some of the way she delivers the lines was a little too Shaquil O'Neil, I think if you're going to do a movie like this, you might as well go over the top, go a little James Woods, it's all good. But we need a fun action film with the lead being female, just sad that this is a bad film that got overlooked. Set in 2017 during the Second American Civil War, Barb Wire owns the Hammerhead, a nightclub in Steel Harbor the last free city in a United States ravaged by the civil war and she brings in extra cash by hiring out as a mercenary and bounty hunter. Her club is raided by Chief of Police Willis, who is looking for the fugitive Dr. Corrina Cora Devonshire. Devonshire, a former government scientist, has information about a bioweapon being developed by her former superior, Colonel Pryzer of the Congressional Directorate; she is trying to escape to Canada in order to make this information public. Meanwhile, Devonshire has turned up at the Hammerhead. She is accompanied by Axel Hood, a freedom fighter whom Barb had known at the outbreak of the war, but the two were separated soon afterward. Axel is now married to Cora, and is trying to help her get to Canada. They are trying to find a contraband pair of contact lenses which will allow Cora to evade the retinal scan at the Steel Harbor airport. The lenses pass through the hands of several lowlifes before also ending up at Barb's nightclub.Barb Wire really wasn't as bad as I was expecting, even though it's just a remake of a classic romantic movie, it does have some cool moments. I loved some of the action scenes, the fight on the fork lift was a lot of fun to watch and since the movie doesn't take itself too seriously, it's all good and makes the fight scenes that more exciting. I guess I could say that I enjoyed the movie a little bit, I suppose it's a new guilty pleasure. Pam Anderson may be an awful actress, but it's not like I was looking for an Oscar worth movie when I decided to watch it. But I have a feeling that the director has some serious sexual issues considering some of the strange erotic torture devices used in the film are a bit much, maybe I don't want to know. If you have an open mind and are looking for a good bad film, I think you'll get a kick out Barb Wire. However just think if you're looking for an actual action film with good acting, just look at the cover, enough said.5/10 "},{"Title":"Call Me Babe and you get a shoe in the head!","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay, yes this movie is a cheesey Casablanca rip-off and stars Pamela Anderson Lee and her two biggest assets.  But give it a chance, and what you see is a great B movie that has some good action sequences and funny dialogue.  For a movie to be camp it can't know it is bad, and this one thinks it is serious.  You can see Pam trying to hold her own, and amazingly she does for the most part.  I loved how she dipped down her voice, and delivered her lines earnestly.  She was great!  I think they need a sequel. Hell, I think she needs a series about this bounty hunter than her bodyguard service.   "},{"Title":"not that bad","Date":"26 November 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is not as bad as people say it is. it has some value that we can learn from. first, now we know that artificial boobs can be looks quite entertaining,so, for those who has second though of having plastic surgery to had their boobs enlarged, they can be safely doing it now. second, now we know where CASABLANCA got the story inspired from. the third and the last.we shouldn't under estimate a blonde big boobs chicks because who knows maybe they can kick the hell out of your butt before you know it. that's my comment for this artificial good piece of art movie.for those who hasn't watch this movie yet, don't doubt. if you found it at your nearest movie store, borrow it, buy it, if you don't have enough money, rob it! "},{"Title":"Not great, but a lot of fun.","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm a fan of the comic book series, Barb Wire (or was, until its cancellation). And I'm afraid I have mixed feelings about the movie. It certainly isn't true to the comic. Barb isn't a tough as nails, but guided by her morals woman. She's a cold blooded killer for hire, in this one. Still, it's difficult not to like Pam Anderson's role, if only because of her being sexy. There is a touch of humor in her campy portrayal. It's not spectacular acting, but it's fun. Pamela also resembles the comic book Barb to an uncanny degree, and the supporting cast is wonderfully cartoony. The story isn't well written, but it gives the cute one liners (Don't... call me babe), and action sequences, which are all fun to watch. I realize that it isn't high art, but this movie just has a level of silliness and seriousness that's hard not to like. The music, story, and dialogue all give the movie its cheesiness, and in some way, it's made to be entertaining.Pam is extremely sexy in this movie, and great to watch. She has a scowl all the time, and is dressed to kill in low cut, tight outfits. Sadly, we don't get that much nudity (which alone could have carried the movie). The scenes where there is some, it's pretty clear, and we get a good look at Pamela's incredible body, and the atmosphere and her poses are always very sexy. But there isn't enough of this. It's a fun blend of action, silly dialogue, nudity, and... well Pamela Anderson. Go rent it. It's not a great movie, but it's not a terrible one, and one that's a heck of a good time. NOTE I suggest the unrated version. It contains more nudity (there isn't that much to begin with) and a ten minutes of footage at the end with Pamela nude in a bathtub, which is really great.  "},{"Title":"An Okay Action  Movie  That  Seems  Great  Because  Of  Pamela  Anderson","Date":"4 August 2005","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I do have absolutely no problem with buxom babes calling the shots in an action flick,and I don't think too many men have either.What matters is that the plot is well executed and doesn't bore you at any moment while you're watching it.BarbWire is anything but a bore.l Pamela Anderson plays Barbara Kopetski,a 21st century female soldier of fortune who was a one-time rebel with a cause,but now cares only about the money she makes from dangerous missions she is hired to undertake.However,things get complicated as her old lover Axel Hood(played by Temuera Morrison)reappears in her life,and asks for her help.She chooses to help him and wages an all-out war against the corrupt regime that is oppressing them,sacrificing her brother in the process.Its Pamela Anderson who makes this movie watchable,no doubt.She looks fabulous throughout the film and really fits into her role.Xander Berkeley as her faithful accomplice is the only character you notice beside her,while the rest are mere props.A decent action movie with an international bombshell to spice things up.Who's complaining ? "},{"Title":"I am so glad this movie was made!","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" The guys who read this title will know what I'm talking about in this movie, Barb Wire. Two words Pamela Anderson. Yes, the same lady you might have seen on Baywatch. With her, and the endless, numerous, totally exciting action scenes in Barb Wire, this movie is the bomb! It's exciting! Breathless! Great! Makes even the shyest guy put a huge smile on his face! The next time you have a free night, then buy this DVD, get some snackage, and invite all the guys over to watch this movie! Seriously! Then afterwards, you can watch some football or basketball and watch some dancing action after that! (Hint, hint! ;-) ) An 11 on a scale of 1 to 10 action movie! Watch it today! "},{"Title":"No one else!!!","Date":"18 May 2005","Score":"14 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Not many actors stumble on a role that seems designed just for them. Barb Wire wasn't, as it was based on a comic book series. Yet Pamela Anderson was perfect for the role. I've never liked her in those ditzy roles as while she may not be the brightest girl on Earth, she just can't pull them off. She is far better in a serious (possibly pretend serious) role.No one else could have fit the role so perfectly and she really did a great job. Sure people will mock her for being who she is, but if you are open before seeing the movie, she will surprise you.This isn't all about showing off Pam's body (who's fake boobs are not anywhere near as nice as they were before she had them done) but is a decent comic book made into a dynamite film.Pam needs more roles like this and should steer clear of the ditzy role she seems to prefer playing. She's made for this. I'd go see any sequels for this film.An instant hit for anyone who likes the style of slightly corny comic book adaptations. "},{"Title":"don't  call her babe!","Date":"3 April 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK the critics dismissed this,and many call this a cheesy bad movie,all the Pamela Anderson haters,but me i thought barb wire rocked. its a good action movie,i think Roger Corman would envy,and yes Pam Anderson does look like a busty Barbie doll.she looks great.her acting is'nt great but who cares.its an action film.that follows the plot of Casablanca,believe it or not.Pam plays a variation of the Bogie character.Canadian actor Steve Railsback plays a Nazi type officer who runs around shooting people along with his Nazi like henchmen.i saw this originally in 1996 and did'nt really like it that much,i had re watched it recently and changed my mind.i know barb wire is mentioned on all these bad movie lists but its really pretty good.not a classic but a good action movie nonetheless.props to Pam Anderson playing a real kick butt heroine.7 out of 1o,just don't call her babe. "},{"Title":"Attack on male dominant fascist society","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think Barb Wire is great for a heroine trying to survive in a society where women are being imprisoned in a fascist male dominant society, thus the cage and barb wire motif. She kicks ass and likes it when men are hard after she beats the crap out of them. Don't call me babe! She is not your baby, she is the new feminist woman and deserves respect. The alpha female will kill you without pity for not looking at her with new eyes. The blind, the eye, and the new vision motif is important, thus the contact lenses, eye retinal identification, and a friend who is blind after the war with the facists is important but not fully realized in the film. I want to see Barb Wire 2!!! Please!!! "},{"Title":"Not That Bad","Date":"10 March 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Barb Wire (Pamela Anderson) is a nightclub owner in a futuristic America where a civil war has broken out between two distinct factions. The first is known as the Congressional Directoret and the second as the Resistance. Now, as it so happens Barb Wire also moonlights as a mercenary who has little sympathy for either side and operates in the only free city left which is known as Steel Harbor. However, when a former government scientist named Dr. Corina Devonshire (Victoria Rowell) escapes from the Congressional Directoret and arrives in Steel Harbor carrying some special contact lenses worth $2 million&#x97;along with Barb Wire's former lover named Axel Hood (Temuera Morrison)&#x97;Barb Wire becomes indirectly involved. And that spells bad news for whichever side she's not on. Anyway, rather than reveal the rest of the details and possibly spoil the film for those who haven't seen it I will just say that this movie was widely panned by the critics when it first came out. As a matter of fact, Pamela Anderson received several Razzie Awards for her performance which included Worst New Star and Worst Actress. Other Razzie Awards for the film included Worst Picture along with being nominated for Worst Screenplay and Worst Original Song. So judging from these awards and nominations one would think that this was an extremely bad movie. However, rather than simply going with the proverbial crowd I happen to have my own opinion which is quite different. First, I didn't think her performance was that bad. As a matter of fact I kind of enjoyed it. Not only that but I have seen a lot worse movies than this particular one. Now, that's not to say that this film was great by any means because it clearly wasn't. But it was hardly the worst movie for that year. Nowhere close. Likewise, although I didn't especially care for the performance of Temuera Morrison I thought the performance of Udo Kier (as Curly) was actually quite good. Anyway, there you have it. Again, while Barb Wire may not be a great film I didn't think it was necessarily that bad either. I rate it as average. "}{"Title":"Wham! Bam! Thank you Pam!","Date":"3 September 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" To be perfectly honest with you, my appreciation of this movie is almost solely based on Pamela Anderson's breasts. I'm not going to waste your time and claim anything else. Take Pammy out of 'Barb Wire' and you are left with something highly mediocre. The story, action and other characters are simply by-the-numbers and I really cannot be bothered discussing them. It's Pamela's film pure and simple.It wouldn't be over-stating it to say that I thought the opening credit sequence was quite good. Pamela in tight black leather, half out of her top being soaked by a hose? I would say there's four good ideas in there, all in one. Unfortunately, this is where the film peaks and we are only two minutes in. Sadly, a story kicks in at this point and spoils things. But seriously Ms Anderson is perfect for this flick. Her pneumatic figure couldn't be any better for the role she's playing. She is quite ridiculously sexy throughout the entire picture and the film frankly flags when she is not on screen. She is more than serviceable in this action role too. It's worth pointing out here that I am a big Russ Meyer fan and, therefore, it's perhaps no surprise that I have a huge weakness for dangerous, sexy, buxom women. The biggest compliment I can pay Pammy, therefore, is that on this showing she would not have looked out of place as one of the lead bad girls in 'Faster Pussycat! Kill! Kill!' High praise but quite frankly true.The only criticism I can level at Pamela here is she doesn't get naked enough. "},{"Title":"I would have loved this if I saw it when it first came out.","Date":"8 May 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" A sort of remake of Casablanca set in the future and in a strip club? Pam Anderson is Barb Wire and she must help someone get on a plane to Canada, with contact lenses. Whatever else the plot is, do people really care?This film was made, marketing and watched because of one thing and one thing only, Pamela Anderson. This was her naked sci/fi Hollywood film, the opening of the movie shows her stripping, showing her breasts and getting hit with water. Ooooh, so sexy. This was probably the one scene many kids watched over and over. The film itself is regarded as one of those, it's so bad it's good. I can totally see that and once I got pass Anderson's wooden acting, I actually enjoyed myself. Guilty as charged.I said I would have loved this when it first came out. I say that because I was around 10 years old and a film like this, that is drenched in so called sexiness would have been imprinted on my mind. Seeing it for the first time in full when I'm 22, went to film school and have been on the internet since I was whatever age, the film doesn't strike me as sexy. Anderson does look good though and seeing her prance around in tight leather doesn't hurt either. Much better than what Halle Berry tried to do with Catwoman. Anderson became famous for her breasts and that was the focus of the film. Every other shot is of her massive cleavage. Am I complaining? Not really. But we have porno for that, the catch is that Anderson is someone somewhat famous. There is a special feature on the DVD called SEXY OUTTAKES. This is ten minutes long and it is of her stripping with the water. Basically the entire opening, but for ten minutes. Jango Fett from the Star Wars prequels is in this film, I found myself saying Hey it's that guy a lot every time a character came on screen. The film is campy, what else do I need to say? The acting is campy, the script is god-awful and taken from Casablanca, the nudity isn't even that good. I expected more, the film feels like a tease. Barb Wire is like Showgirls. Made to appeal to the perverted crowd, only this one has explosions. I'm giving this one a high rating, for it's campiness feel. It's trash, but golden trash. "},{"Title":"A thoroughly entertaining movie","Date":"24 October 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I know a lot of people hate this, but I personally think they're missing the point; It's not supposed to be taken seriously, it's just for fun. I almost rolled around on the floor laughing at times, due to the sheer stupidity of several scenes. It's so bad that it's good. It's so 'B-movie-like' that you can't possibly take it serious. A lot of people are saying the story is a rip-off of Casablanca. I don't know if that's true, since I haven't seen Casablanca, but I'll take your word for it. I didn't expect it to be an original story. In fact, I didn't expect more of the movie than to see Pamela Anderson naked. That was the primary reason I bought it, no reason to deny that. But the movie was just so entertaining, in every scene there was something so ridiculous that you couldn't help laughing at it. And that's the point. Don't sit down and analyze this movie, save that for intelligent movies. I knew from the very first scene, that this wasn't going to be intelligent, or great, or whatever. But it was fun to watch, and it does have a plot, and scenes that go together to create a meaning, which is more than what could be said about several new movies(Scary movie 2, just to name one). I didn't, for one single scene, find it to be boring, slow or just the least bit intelligent. And that's exactly what it was made to be. Entertainment. Nothing more.As an added bonus, it has some great parodies on Bond and Batman movies. You should definitely watch it, if you're into B movies(normally I'm not, but this was just too good to miss.) 7/10 "},{"Title":"A distopic remake of 'Casablanca' with Pamela Anderson surprisingly, it is not bad","Date":"12 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Although based in comic book series, the Barb Wire movie intends to be a remake o classical Casablanca. It keeps the core elements of the 40's film, but adapts it to a distopic sci-fi action futuristic movie. Pamela Anderson plays Barb, a role similar to Bogart's Rick. The gender of the love affair from the past and of the third part of the love triangle have also been changed. The fictional town of Steel Harbor in the United States replaces Casablanca and the story is held during a futuristic Second Civil War rather than in the beginning of World War II. Both protagonists own a bar/nightclub, but Barb Wire is also a bounty huntress. As this remake is a sci-fi film, special contact lenses that cheat retinal scans substitute the letters of transit kept with Rick. As predictable, acting is worse in this remake, which has much more action. Off course Casablanca is much better, but surprisingly Barb Wire is not bad, in spite of the bad critics it has received. "},{"Title":"was made at a bad time","Date":"11 October 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" 15 years after it was made I finally bought this flick and even on Blu Ray, cheap of course. This is one of those flicks that always have got some bad reviews. I can't say anything about the script because I haven't seen the comic. But if I just have a look at the names appearing then you know that this isn't going to be a blockbuster. We have Udo Kier and Steven Railsback in it, for those into horror or exploitation those names are famous. And when I saw the name Rick Bota then I immediately must think of him being directing 3 Hellraisers. The story itself is post-apocalyptic so with those actors and the story we could add it into the grindhouse genre even as it wasn't attempt to be.Naturally the main lead was by Pamela Anderson Lee. Back then she was very hot on all aspects. Just made some nudity shots and a porn flick with her husband and of course Baywatch did the producers add her on the wanted list. But face it, she only in it as a teaser. Every time you see her, the most important things are her fake two penny worth breasts. I even has seen the unrated version and indeed, she goes naked now and then only showing tits and nipples.Did I enjoy it? Just looking towards the story and the actors and the gratuitous nudity I liked it and if it would have been made 20 years earlier or even nowadays (remember Bitch Slap also just made for the boys to watch girlies shooting around and posing) it could have been a bigger success. Naturally it was teared down due Pamela's performance. But Steve did good work as did the rest. But be honest, most flicks based on comics failed to deliver. "},{"Title":"Silicone Camp DeLuxe!","Date":"23 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" What's the matter? People don't have a sense of humorous camp anymore? I don't understand why Barb Wire is generally regarded as one of the world's worst movies ever made, whereas it's honestly not any worse than the vast majority of cheesy and violent post-apocalyptic Sci-Fi flicks from the late 70's/early 80's. Well, perhaps it's slightly worse than those, but at least the defects are widely compensated by the totally unpretentious atmosphere and the light-headed approach of everyone involved in the production, including Pam Anderson herself. Nobody who cooperated on Barb Wire seemed to take the film overly serious, so why should we? In fact, the concept is even quite unique and courageous! Who would ever dare to do a futuristic remake of Casablanca and replace the talented Humphrey Bogart with a busty blond bimbo, the cherubic Ingrid Bergman with a beefcake Maori rebel warrior and the legendary Rick's Café with a sleazy bar called The Hammerhead? It's a trashy, campy, sleazy, grotesque and incredibly flamboyant Sci-Fi story timed in the year 2017, in a society spoiled by the Second Civil War and a city dominated by mayhem, corruption and resistance. Barb Wire owns the successful bar, but makes even more money with her side jobs as rough bounty hunter and hired assassin. She leads a good life until her former resistance-lover shows up with a fugitive scientist who needs a special pair of contact lenses in order to flee to Canada. Barb always remained neutral in political matters (following her example Rick in Casablanca), but it looks as if she'll have to get involved now. Barb Wire may be bad, but at the same time it's fantastically entertaining, with horrible dialogs and one-liners (Don't call me babe!), hideous wasteland sets, explosive action sequences and extravagant costume designs. Mrs. Anderson herself continuously exhibits revealing leather outfits and sexy stilettos while her opponents the Congressionals harness Nazi-like uniforms. The relatively unknown director David Hogan even managed to gather an impressive selection of B-actors to fill up his supportive cast, like Steve Railsbeck, Xander Berkeley, Clint Howard and even Udo Kier. So, seriously, what's the problem here? Barb Wire surely isn't as worthless as it looks or everyone claims it is. Try to interpret it as a throwback to traditional post-apocalyptic cinema mixed with excessively violent modern day comic book adaptations and you'll definitely find some enjoyment. "},{"Title":"The Buxom Blonde Kicks Ass!","Date":"9 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" 21st century. USA. The second civil war. The whole country is in a state of emergency. What was formerly called the American Congress now rules with fascistic methods. There is only one free city left, Steel Harbor, headquarter for the resistance. This is the hometown of Barb Wire, owner of the night club Hammerhead. As times aren't good, Barb has a second job. She's a bounty hunter and you probably wouldn't want her after you. Barb's credo is to never take sides for anybody and that's the only way to survive these days. As her former lover Axel Hood appears asking for a favor, Barb suddenly finds herself to be key player on high political stage. Now she has to take sides.I really didn't want to watch this film. I thought it would be all sex and nudity but I gave it a try and I was surprised. I actually liked it! First, without the bashing, let me give you some reasons Barb Wire is a unique, kick ass character. I loved her! The one liners are extremely cheesy that it makes you smile. And this picture has a lot of work put into it like any other great film ever made.I like the whole look of the film. It's (obviously) exotic for the hormone raging male teenagers to love and the apocalyptic look is very good and realistic. You got to give these guys some credit. The action sequences were surprisingly decent, although there aren't many in this film as I thought there will be.The character Pamela Anderson makes out is fantastic, but at the same time, it's kind of dull. Temuera Morrison gives a good performance as well as Victoria Rowell. I like that the last 15 minutes of the film has non-stop action. I love the explosions and fighting sequences.Maybe the reason I like the film is that this film knows it is being bad, but it has a fun time with it. Yes, there are gaping plot holes and it's preposterous but it doesn't matter. I really didn't care.Of course, this isn't going to be a very good film but it isn't a bad one either. It's surprisingly satisfying and the lines are cheesy that it puts a smile to your face. If you would like to watch a film with some good action sequences and a lot of exotic scenes (including nudity), you'll like this film. Even hormone-raging male teens will like this. "},{"Title":"Could have been awesome.","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Pamela Anderson is (despite all the critical damnation) really good in her role as tough-talking Barb Wire. I find fault in the film not through her performance, but through the incredibly lame dialogue they make her say. Throughout the film she utters silly comments that are not necessary, and instead of making Barb look like a real Femme Fatale, it makes her look like a violent tramp with bad PMS, but I think given the right script and some more plot twists, this film could have been hailed as the best Chix with Guns flick of the 1990s.  Pamela really shines through the drivel.  Barb Wire may not be great stuff, but it's definetly not the disaster so many people have said it is.  I for one am hanging out for a sequel. "},{"Title":"Ditto","Date":"23 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I couldn't put it better than Richard Cat. Sheer lighthearted entertainment to while away the hours with a smile. Great spoof. Honest to goodness fun. References hark back to Barbarella, Max Max, Blade Runner, The Matrix in kaleidoscope.First class camera play. Slick choreography, decor to match. There's humour in Anderson's send up of classic erotica. Fine directorship.It is an awkward logic that nominated the production for various worst awards (MTV), somehow one would not expect the industry to be capable of laughing at itself.Question Could such a film ever have passed censor post 911? Anyone recommending more in this vein does IMDb surfers a favour. "},{"Title":"Not horrible, but still weak","Date":"3 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While this isn't the huge bomb that so many people seem to think that it is, it is a pretty forgettable film.  There's nothing particularly bad about this movie, but things never get very interesting, and near the end I was getting somewhat bored.  Pam is adequate at best, but did anyone really watch this film to see her give a great acting performance?  Like most everyone else, I agree that she looked fabulous, but it takes more than some great eye candy to make a movie worthwhile.  This is a passable time killer at best, and even Pam fanatics will be hard-pressed to actually call this a good movie. "}{"Title":"Heavy Metal + Porn + Batman= Barb Wire","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie has sex, action, corny lines, ?drama?, and Pam Lee. What's not to like. This movie is great. I do know that not everyone will like it. But any male who like pam and who likes action movies will like this movie. Don't take the kids for this one. "},{"Title":"A modern Casablanca","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie will never be a classic but I believe it to be much better than most people seem to believe.  The plot parallels Casablanca in a Sci-Fi kinda way and is a lot of fun.  Pamela's acting does leave something to be desired, but, the character doesnt really demand the emotive ability of Bette Davis either.This is a nice rental movie "},{"Title":"The Greatest Opening Credits Sequence in History","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There is no reason to see this movie other than to see Pamela naked. And, unless you get the unrated version, she barely gets naked except for the opening credits.But what great opening credits! Never have the names of directors, writers, and producers been more titillating. Pamela is doing some sort of bar dance while being hosed down by patrons. Her astonishing, albeit manmade but who cares, body is bouncing this way and that, glistening under artsy lighting and looking, I must say, rather chilly.But seriously, don't bother with the rest of the movie. Watch the opening sequence 11 or 12 times, like I did, and then drop the movie back off at the vid store. Then, much as Pam seems to have done, go hose yourself down with some cold water. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as everyone says...","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not great art, but OK rental entertainment. Imagine Mad Max if the lead actor/actress wasn't all that talented ... a comic book story with some disjointed editing. Like The Destroyer, or Captain America in quality and style, with a much better looking star. "},{"Title":"Better than expected","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Pam doesn't do at all bad in this sexy and stylish big screen outing.  Her man-made curves are completely appropriate for this comic book style adventure, and the costume designer and director make best use of them for the duration of the movie.  She employs a soft purr for Barb and sticks with it.  Pam is undeniably extremely sexy, and even if your mind keeps telling you she ain't real, your pants just aren't listening.  There are no attempts at fancy phrasing, she just delivers her lines flat but is at least as good as say Arnie or Sly.Apart from Pam's undeniable screen presence the film is a stylish but pretty routine action movie.  It steals from films like Batman, Starwars and even Casablanca but never offensively so.  With the action and sexuality on display this is definitely a guy movie.  But this guy for one will be back for the sequal.***/**** "},{"Title":"Well, it could've been worse.","Date":"4 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" At least they pretended to follow the plot of Casablanca. Other than that, it's too strange for its own good. Anderson is deadpan throughout the entire movie but still manages to kick ass. Most of the characters were really insane. Charlie had really good vision for a blind guy, Big Fatso was pretty disgusting, and Curly seemed to only be there for comic relief, even though he provided none.It's still an entertaining movie, however. Watching Anderson beat up people was surprisingly funny, and the plot is /just/ crazy enough to be enjoyable. I'd recommend you listen to the How Did This Get Made episode for it as well. "},{"Title":"Top fun","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is not bad its actually very cool. The plot is not what this movie is all about but Pam's lovely body and outfits. She looks sexy in everything she is in and fans have been able to enjoy her in her recent FHM, Loaded, ICE, Maxim shoots here in the UK and US. In this film however its pam heaven as the title credits is a very sexy strip show in which she is hosed down in her hot black leather number. Get this on DVD get the unrated version as the title sequence is longer and the disk has the full ten minute strip in an outtake. This is a film that is not for people looking for realism or something heavy and moving its for men or women if that floats your boat who like to admire the hottest woman on Earth everyone else need not apply and should get something else.  "},{"Title":"Stay as far away from this movie as possible!","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This ''movie'' is really bad. It is just a pathetic excuse to watch Pamela Anderson Lee in several nude-scenes (then specially the 10 minutes opening scene). The movie is filled with boring action, stupid dialogues and silly comments like ''Don't call me Babe''.  "},{"Title":"one of the greatest film of the 90s","Date":"10 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A million times better than the crap classic Casablanca, Barb Wire at least has all the good elements for a perfect film. A girl like Pamela Anderson for sure is a perfect choice for the babe. Plenty of action, a little bit of t&a and again lots of actions! The first scene when she is dancing is classic stuff my friend! And don't call her babe!***1/2 "},{"Title":"Casablanca, Mad-Max, and Strange Days thrown in too","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I kept reading all those reviews, which claimed that Barb Wire was a futuristic ripoff of Casablanca, but I haven't seen Casablanca in many, many, years, but I did notice that a part in the film where the Martial Guard had some poor dope in custody, and had his brain hooked up to some machine so they can read his mind, reminds me of Cameron's Strange-Days, where they had these machines, which you hooked up to your brain to share someone else's thoughts as a new drug. I'm surprised no one else caught on to that. Otherwise, I'd have to say that if you're checking out Barb Wire to watch Pam's goodies, then don't waste your money, she does a whole lot better job in a homemade film, she'd done, w/ her ex-hubby Tommy Lee. My advice is to watch that one instead!   "}{"Title":"What have they done to Casablanca?","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The horrible truth that this movie was a remake of Casablanca struck me about 10 minutes in.  For the rest of the film, I was alternately laughing and crying at what the makers of this dog had perpetrated.As a lover of parody, I must say I enjoyed watching this film once. Trying to match characters between the old classic and this piece of work was fun while it lasted, but just wasn't very difficult.  This was a thinly veiled copy that is funny only because it took itself seriously. "},{"Title":"Isn't this a bad rip off of Casablanca?","Date":"16 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Don't you think that someone attempted to rip off the story line to Casablanca and spice it up with some action and nipples?I think it's worth watching and thinking of as a Sci-Fi B-Movie and just laugh ;-) "},{"Title":"Babe Wire (vhs)","Date":"23 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie isn't as bas as it seems and it's definitely the best movie ever for Pam ! There's a real production effort to give coherence to it all the more it's not a blockbuster and it's indeed an anticipation movie ! There's a story, defined characters and a look ! I can even add a soundtrack as the songs are punchy, especially the Shampoo ones ! Pam does her job, not an unforgettable one but not a ridiculous either ! In comparison, i could name a lot of Hollywood scared cows who are always praised notwithstanding they are awful and unfit to act (Jolie, Bellucci, Kidman &#x85;). I think that the problem of that movie is it's dark, violent whereas Pam is light and softness alive ! She made it with family shows (« Baywatch », « home improvement ») because they reverberate her kind personality ! Sure to balance it, she is attracted to darkness (rockers, violence) but her audience doesn't want her to fall in that pit ! More generally, it's true that this trend to put bad attitude and guns in women is dumb  I agree that women wants equality with men but this doesn't imply that they should be Rambo or Terminator &#x85;. "},{"Title":"Is not a good film, but also isn't the absolute worst either","Date":"17 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Thus far in mainstream comic book related movies, only one female antihero has turned out having very little complaints and that's Black Widow from Marvel's The Avengers (2012). Then again, she also has not had any solo film but she has appeared in several films prior and so far, there really hasn't been an uproar over Scarlett Johansson's portrayal as the deadly assassin. Beyond this character however, movie studios have not been able to pinpoint the proper approach to making a worthy female heroine film. There have been several attempts, but so far none have proved to be lucrative. For Dark Horse Entertainment, which was no stranger to their comic books being adapted to film took more than one wack at making a feminine hero focused film. The year before, they also helped surface British Comic, Tank Girl (1995), which also flopped. Then came this, which by many consider being one of the worst comic book films. As an overall film, it's not even near decent but it isn't the worst.The setting takes place in 2018 where (like many other futures are described) the next all out war broke out. This time being called the second civil war; there's only one place among the whole land where people can live free without the strong eye of government looking over them. However even there, no one is safe. After learning a deadly secret, Dr. Cora (Victoria Rowell) and her husband Axel (Temuera Morrison) attempt to flee the country to Canada but are met with endless setbacks. It is at this point they look to find the only person who can help them escape, a local bar owner / bounty hunter known as Barb Wire (Pamela Anderson). As a story, not all of it is passe but a good portion of it is overused elements seen from multiple other films about dystopic futures. Plus cutting it off close to 2020 shot itself in the foot looking at it now. The writing for this screenplay was carried by Chuck Pfarrer (Darkman (1990) & Hard Target (1993)) and Ilene Chaiken (as her first work) did take care of properly giving the main characters' their back story but there are other parts that don't work.A subtle flaw is quick changes in character motivations. At one time in the film a character will have a certain opinion. Then, later on in the film they will declare the opposite opinion with no reasoning. That's a bit frustrating when trying to understand a character. Another matter of contention is convenient contrivances. If something is out of reach for an individual and then later on it is revealed to the viewers that they acquired it (again, with no reason how), it gets frustrating. Almost like the film is saying, they're just that good, no sense in showing how they did it. The last poorly written component to this film is main villain Colonel Pryzer (Steve Railsback). Besides just being callous to everyone he meets, Pryzer is a very generic antagonist dressed in Nazi garb. It's nothing to point out or even worth remembering about because his character is so two dimensional. Surprisingly, the rest of the cast in some ways makes up for it. Local law enforcement Alexander Willis (Xander Berkeley) tries to add some humor to the situation as well as Charlie (Jack Noseworthy).There's also guest appearances from character actors Andre Rosey Brown (as a more eccentric villain than Pryzer), Nicholas Worth, Clint Howard, Udo Kier and Nils Allen Stewart. The relationship between Axel, Dr. Cora and Barb Wire isn't the most believable but it isn't unlikable either. Actually, although Pamela Anderson speaks many of her lines in monotone, some of her quips are funny to hear. When she curses though, the viewer will be able to tell she's not acting material. Then again, if there's one thing Anderson nails, it's her figure of Barb Wire. Of all obvious reasons to pick her, what else? Of course, another curvaceous female could've been cast but let's deal with what's here. Plus, they got the costume down pat and it sure looks good on Anderson. Surprisingly Anderson can even handle the action sequences quite well. Yes, the fact that she also had stunt doubles is understandable but not truly noticeable which is required because viewers should not be able to tell.Cinematography was shot by Rick Bota for this movie. Most of the time the camera-work is acceptable for the action scenes and dialog. The only areas where it fails to feel compelling in the story is in its tracking shots. This was specifically evident either when it was filmed in the bar that Barb Wire owned or outside in garbage dump like settings. Since the story takes place in a chaotic dystopic future, the use of dusty, beige colored, and dune infested backdrops is the ultimate cliché for this setting. At least try to make it look different than what's been normally used. It's just been seen too many times. Lastly the musical score was arranged by French composer Michel Colombier. For this round, his composition sounds a bit like Gary Chang's score from Death Warrant (1990) using occasional steel drums. However, a lot of his music is absent and is replaced by hard rock which I guess is appropriate but the sound gets very cluttered because of it and that doesn't help.Many people say it's one of the worst comic books put to film. It certainly doesn't have the most competent of storytelling (which includes the contrivances & clichés) and not every character stands out like they should. Pamela Anderson also isn't acting material but she actually gives the viewing a so bad it's good experience. The action does entertain and some of the other supporting cast members do help make it at least average. "},{"Title":"It Defines Campy !","Date":"13 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" It is listed among the 100 most amusingly bad movies ever made in Golden Raspberry Award founder John Wilson's book THE OFFICIAL RAZZIE® MOVIE GUIDE. Now I must disagree; while this is bad; it's not amusingly bad, or even close! This equation of it is so clear. It is Pamela Anderson + the comics Barb Wire + Casablanca + low budget + Tasteless everything = hellish movie-making! I'm absolutely not a Pamela's fan. The best description she ever got came from one friend of mine (strangely about her sight in here in specific), he said word for word  she looks like a fat black woman who turned into thinner and white suddenly!. I think with the matters of the big lips and the thin legs the problem gets weirder, since according to that she'd be half black, and half white (without many qualities from both!). In brief  she's the most photographed ugly woman I've ever seen !As an actress, she can be funny sometimes. Hence with a Rick Blaine role, it could've been so funny, kind of ha haa haaay funny. But it didn't !Nothing is distinct in this movie, if we're talking about right things of course ! It tries all the time to hit the furthest campy degree anyone can reach. The idea of remaking Casablanca with Pamela Anderson could have been ironic or sexy enough, but it is done just horrible enough, being you mustn't remember this by all means! The actors are brought out of the worst V movies I don't watch. The clothes and the sets are supposed to be atmospheric but it ended up turning me off. I hated the many fade-outs (as it's a sad meditative movie), the no special effects, and the outdoor scenes; since they seemed all made around the same warehouse !Actually the lighting, the cinematography and the whole directing achieve a goofy status more than a decent comic book action. Now this is a director who has no good taste in anything. At times I thought that his main plan was to make a poor man's Batman and Gotham city, but eventually I found out that he already made just a poor thing of entertainment ! I couldn't find one factor, or moment, that can be called fun. Even the action is dull; suffice to say that I found myself pressing the fast-forward button at the climax&#x85;AT THE CLIMAX! As a whole it can create so perfect uninteresting mood while it's on, with a strange feel about it in your stomach as well. WAW, it serves defining campiness smartly! Frankly the mix of serious story, odd sets, poor production, crappy acting and a lead like Pamela suits usual pedant porn. So, how about having all of that already without any sex scenes ! True that I don't like porn, but the irony is just killing me!Why the genre movies, I mean the non-pornographic ones, of playboy's dolls like (Anna Nicole Smith, Pamela Anderson, Paris Hilton) were in most cases terribly made ones ?! Well, they surely wanted to be just movie stars, not movie actresses. And they were stupid enough to pick the wrong movie-makers every time!So what's here to be loved? Hmmm, Nothing! I'm a fan of good looking women and sexy dances. And apparently this one got none! To be fair; maybe the kisses of the lead to her ex-lover in the elevator would be something watchable. But on a second thought; they were forgettable! Ahhh, it's a campy movie, one of the highest indeed. However it even can't be liked for that apart. Hence the thing that this movie accurately defines isn't campy after all; it's rather the *hateful* campy!P.S  I'm still vexed that Pamela Anderson didn't win the 1996 Razzie's nomination for her Impressive Enhancements as the Worst Screen Couple. So unfair ! "},{"Title":"bad, but sorta fun","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First off, I'm not one who found Pam's looks particularly attractive; yes, the implants certainly command immediate attention, but she just isn't _that_ gorgeous, in my eyes.  Still, I've always sorta liked her for some reason; she just seems like a nice girl -- which is odd since practically her whole life has been a demonstration in being exactly the opposite.  So I don't really know why I have that impression, but I do.  Anyway, this was my introduction to Xander Berkeley, who I saw in something else recently (but I don't think it was any of the films in his filmography, so if anybody can add something -- something recent, I think -- to it, please email me and satisfy my curiosity as to what it was!!), and he's good here as a cynical, amoral cop.  I also liked the blind brother a little, and had some fun with the plot; although it isn't overly impressive, it does keep things moving.I give it 4/10.  It kept me entertained, but the fat guy character was horribly done (bad scenes, hammy acting, terrible!!) and of course Pam's acting skills are fairly thin, which keeps this from having any chance of a high rating.  Could have been somewhat better; not as terrible as a lot of the reviews here claim.  If you want to know what a REALLY awful movie looks like, see Freddy Got Fingered.  This is miles ahead of that waste of celluloid. "},{"Title":"Future camp classic!","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  'Barb Wire' is gloriously trashy fun that will appeal to lovers of  Roger Corman, Russ Meyer and Jess Franco movies, much more than the brain-dead 'Blockbuster' crowd, who just won't get it. Pamela Anderson is one of the least pretentious stars in contemporary Hollywood, and displays plenty of smarts by appearing in campy self-aware movies like this and 'Naked Souls'. She knows exactly what she is and keeps a strong sense of humour and fun. This should be applauded. No Sly or Arnie-style ego-mania for her!'Barb Wire' is set in a familiar post-Apocalyptic world that we've seen in countless b-grade science fiction and action flicks. A right-wing government/military dictatorship is running things, and society is falling apart. Pammy plays Barb Wire, ex-Resistance freedom fighter turned bounty hunter/rock club owner. She becomes embroiled in the hunt for a renegade scientist who is wanted by just about everybody for various reasons.One of the things that elevates this movie above similar direct to video fare is the sheer good humour of Pamela Anderson. The other is the presence of bona-fide cult figures like Steve Railsback ('Helter Skelter','The Stunt Man', 'Lifeforce'), Udo Kier (Warhol, Argento, Von Trier), Clint Howard ('Rock'n'Roll High School', 'Austin Powers') and Xander Berkeley ('Walker', 'Tapeheads', 'Timecode'). Add to that a prominent role for Temuera Morrison ('Once Were Warriors') as Barb's ex-lover, and Jack Noseworthy (one of 'Cecil B Demented's Sprockets) as her blind brother, and things are certainly looking interesting. The only thing that is missing from this movie is a Brion James cameo!I'm certain that as the years go by, one day 'Barb Wire' will win the audience it deserves, and will be seen as the 1990s equivalent of 'Barbarella'. Well if not 'Barbarella' at least 'Cherry 2000'! "},{"Title":"Ed Wood Jr. would be proud","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In an era of just plain bad movies like STRIPTEASE and too many others to mention, one should be grateful to this movie for at least being funny (albeit unintentionally so).  I wonder how anyone could take a remake of CASABLANCA starring Pamela Anderson, the BAYWATCH babe herself, seriously enough to just denounce it as a terrible movie.  I remember one critic said he was both appalled and intrigued, and that's the right attitude to have. "},{"Title":"Barb Wire or how to turn a lovely classic in an awful cyberpunk cheesy movie, but with plenty of boobs","Date":"5 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" What a wreck...If I could describe this film in short one minute of the movie focused on Pamela's boobs, and then the rest of the movie consists in a group of cheesy B-actors defecating on Casablanca . This movie is SO BAD and SO badly acted, even in the boring and over exploited cyberpunk genre.The actors are terrible, the screenplay is cheesy (even for a cyberpunk), and the EVERY character in this movie has the word cliché tattooed in his forehead. Do yourself a favor and don't watch this. "},{"Title":"Livin' Large on Marketable Melons","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you've seen *Casablanca,* you don't want to watch this movie. It will bring the pain - knowing that resting on that classic movie's shoulders, are this movie's breasts.Pamela Anderson-Lee, bountiful *Baywatch* überbim, stars as a titular secret agent, who gets her baby-smooth buttocks involved in lots of running, shooting, explosions, gangsters, magic contact lenses and Nazis. Who cares? Look at those CANS! We're not here to see her act. We're here to see her Act.Dishonesty reigns supreme as the film touts as its draw-cards the non-stop action and dazzling effects and exciting thrills, and even the fact that Pamela Anderson-Lee is in the lead role, mini-skirting the truth that the only sane reason any human would invest eight dollars and two hours breathing time with this deformed ape-child of a film is to slake their wonder on those Parton-proportioned curios.Not that these pimping pierogies were much of an attraction in the final theatrical release of this film - all one seems to be doing is rubbernecking down impossibly-skewed necklines and incredibly tantalizing side-breast-arc with no real reward for all one's efforts. When the movie ends and no one in the audience has nocturnally emissioned, we realize it has all been just One Big Tease; the only satisfaction coming from racing home and spinning your sixteenth-generation VHS porn. Or once again succumbing to the trailer park vérité of *Pam & Tommy Hardcore and Uncensored* (retching optional).Note to MPAA, fundamentalists, Jesus freaks and evangelists (I could have umbrella'd everyone under hypocrites, but then we'd have the nitpickers whining, Yes, but what *type* of hypocrite am I?) *Barb Wire*'s spit-fawning promise of ecstasy, more than any true skin-flick, serves to perpetuate your misguided perception of 'porn creating anti-social behavior'. It is when people are shown the Promised Land and denied it that they resort to forcefully attaining what they have been inhumanely coerced into coveting.Make no mistake this is porn of the most dangerous caliber.Written by Chris Warner, Ilene Chaiken and Chuck Pfarrer (lifted loosely from the Dark Horse comic heroine of the same name), and directed by music video novice, David Hogan (who should at least be allowed sitting space on the bottom steps of Movie Heaven on effort alone), this film serves as prime fodder as to why this society has such skewed priorities.Purely on the strength of her exhibitionist penchant and her prominent honkers, Anderson-Lee has had the opportunity to become a well-rounded person in more than one sense of the word in prep for her violent, protruberant role, Anderson-Lee was given kick-boxing lessons, experience with different weaponry, bike-riding experience, not to mention aesthetic pandering, custom-made clothing, voice coaching, acting lessons, manicures, pedicures (and then came the actual salary over and above the personal enhancement) - simply because she cooperates in the exploitation of her judiciously exposed mammii. For the sake of those two perverse, cave-woman infant feed-bags, hundreds of thousands of dollars were spent on this undeserving tramp with a voice akin to scraping fingernails across a blackboard; every pandering, sycophanting, leather boot-licking courtesy was extended this bubble-headed boob tube with the intelligence quotient of an average chimp - for one eternal glimpse of a circle of wrinkled skin tipping an out-sized silicone implant.Temuera Morrison, of the jaw-dropping New Zealand powerhouse indie film, *Once Were Warriors* finds himself at the opposite end of the talent, intelligence and acting spectrum here. Dependable B-Men, Udo Kier and Clint Howard attempt, with Morrison, to elevate the enterprise with their presence, but I don't think anyone took this as seriously as Ms. Anderson-Lee's chest.Political satirist Bill Maher commented on the opening week's box-office for Barb Wire being less than hefty, and added, This proves one thing - America is gay. "}{"Title":"Doesn't deserve the celluloid it's printed on","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I almost find myself compelled to comment on this movie although i vowed to myself to ban it entirely from my memory after having watched it. However I think that this movie is so awful and terrifyingly uninteresting that I must warn all movie watchers from wasting 90 minutes or so of their valuable time. Essentially this movie is Baywatch revisited in cyberpunk. Like Baywatch there's no story, no character development, poor direction, poor...well everything. And just like Baywatch it focuses on Pam Anderson's breasts for the majority of the film. I would only suggest this movie if you're an adolescent admirer of movies which interchange a plot for a bra. "},{"Title":"great body, great agility, the rest is missing","Date":"10 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Pamela Anderson's body surely looks great (although it may be 90% silicone and fiberglass), and she surely is very flexible (wich might have come in handy in porn movies, recommendations are welcome)... but this movie has only that... when watching the movie, everybody unifies with the character named Charlie (Barb's brother)... just because he's blind and he's got the luck to miss out part of the movie. Pamela Anderson has an annoying monotone story-telling voice, and the well known consistent-permanented-hairstyle, as well as the disability to truly act (only the little screams and moans sound natural, don't they) and the taste for choosing to play in a story as ridiculous as this one... I watched the movie because i saw a report on TV about classic movie-heroines, mostly created by comics (DC Comics for example made Catwoman after they made Batman, and many heroines were created in the series of another male hero in this way)... and i got curious, I was never suspecting SUCH a great disappointment... it must have been the third worst movie I ever saw (1st=Meet Joe Black ; 2nd=Cast Away) My advice Watch the striptease at the beginning and then go look for another movie! "},{"Title":"Barb Wire could have been Pamela Anderson's big break on the big screen, but this movie failed miserably.","Date":"7 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Pamela Anderson became famous after her role on the hit TV series Baywatch, as well as being a popular feature in Playboy. I must also admit that I has a childhood crush on Pamela Anderson from her time in Baywatch and I was eagerly looking forward to Barb Wire. Needless to say, Barb Wire was very bad.Although I felt sorry for Pamela Anderson, she just sucked in this movie. It didn't help that the entire movie was of a poor standard. The movie was uninteresting, and I found myself agreeing with critics and audiences alike in expressing their dissatisfaction with this movie. It was no surprise that Barb Wire was a box office failure and easily one of the worst movies of 1996.Barb Wire could have been so much better, even a cult classic, however it was not meant to be. Unfortunately for Pamela Anderson, she never reached the same heights of success as she did with Baywatch and her highly publicized career with Playboy. Such a shame.2/10. "},{"Title":"Not a total bust . . .","Date":"9 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I tried to search for a reason for this movie to exist other then as a showcase for Ms. Lee's ample bosom and I did find one. Yes, squeezed into a black leather girdle she does draw the attention of the average teenage male but I have to admit the movie makes a failed but earnest attempt at a story.We are in the year 2017 during America's Second Civil War. A dictator has taken over the country and Barbara Kopetski is a nightclub owner who steers clear of the political scene and tries to run and honest business. She gets involved with an old flame and a deal to buy free passes to Canada. If this sounds a bit like 'Casablanca' don't think you've hit on anything new. Strangely enough, the movie credits the writer of that film without using the title.The movie opens with Barb undercover as a stripper, dancing nude on a trapeze while being sprayed with a hose. She is accompanied by a rock score and a lot of strobe lights and if you sit there and wonder what the point of this scene is, then your Daddy needs to have a long talk with you.Unlike Bogie, Barb doesn't exactly stroll around in a white dinner jacket. Her dominatrix Barbie doll wardrobe consists of black leather, a form-fitting bustier and spiked heels, which come in handy when anyone calls her babe. Lee constantly sneers 'Don't Call Me Babe!' hoping it will become the next catchphrase like 'Make My Day'. Ms. Lee is not a good actress but in this film it hardly matters. No one who saw it could admit going to see the movie for its story.But what story there is, is at least a good attempt. I complain when classic movies are remade. This isn't a remake but I give it credit for at least admitting that it is stealing from a good source. "},{"Title":"Pam's Cans The Movie","Date":"19 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" A direct-to-video trashpile that was somehow swept into cinemas on a tidal wave of teenage boys' secretions, 'Barb Wire' fires wide on every level. Dear lord, it's utterly worthless.As has been mentioned many, many times before, this is basically a sci-fi rehash of 'Casablanca', but in place of that movie's class we have a obese crook called Big Fatso who sits in the scoop of a bulldozer and chews on chicken legs, and in place of Humphrey Bogart we have a painfully bad Pam Anderson grimacing in skimpy costumes with each implant in a different postcode, trying and failing to sell herself as a world-weary desperado. I will admit that that the opening title sequence, in which Pam writhes around on a stage with her breasts spilling out of a tight black outfit as she's hosed down, is pretty damn sexy. That scene aside (whenever she's acting, essentially), she's about as appealing as a sex doll, and presented for masturbation purposes in a framework of orange filters, pointless slow motion and cheesy electric guitar music. 'Barb Wire' is, appropriately enough, shot with the emptily slick gloss of something on Playboy TV, but without even the pretence of style.Director David Hogan seems to be only vaguely aware of how a film is put together he kills the pacing by including needless establishing shots and chops the action into pieces, with too many cutaways and distractions like chairs flying out of windows in slo-mo as if the furniture is an important component of the scene. It's a shoddy production with equally shoddy scripting, an incompetent failure of storytelling, an unflushed toilet of a movie with a truly terrible performance stuck in the U-bend. "},{"Title":"Spoiled Cheese","Date":"27 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was bored one evening, and hunted through the movies available for free on Comcast On Demand. One was this film, which had intrigued me a bit when it was on originally.It was just barely interesting enough to keep me watching until the end.Yes, as has been said many times, the story is lifted almost directly from Casablanca, and otherwise adjusted to fit the characters from the Dark Horse comic. Many reviewers at the time of the film's release saw it as a ripoff, but to me it read more like an homage.This was pretty much the extent to which director David Hogan made good decisions in this. Lighting apparently meant to be moody ended up only muddling the action. The sound mixing was awful (at least, for TV), and much of Pamela Anderson's dialogue was unintelligible. Any opportunity to flash Pam's breasts was seized upon.At that, the writing is pretty weak too. Maybe it was because of the sound problem, but I was twenty minutes into the film before I was sure that the plot had actually started. How the writers did an homage to Casablanca while keeping the plot so paper-thin is amazing.Also, most of the acting seems quite mechanical. Pam was highly criticized over this at the time, but I've seen better from her. For that matter, Victoria Rowell seemed quite one-note as well, and I know she has some serious acting chops from her years on Diagnosis Murder. Thus, I suspect that the problem was not in the performers but in the director and the script. Only Jack Noseworthy (Charlie), Jennifer Bank (Spike), and to a lesser extent Clint Howard (Schmitz) deliver really good performances.I do give high marks to the stunt department of this film, though; the fight scenes were for the most part nicely choreographed and well performed. Some of the action late in the film failed to deliver in that regard, but that seemed more an editing problem than anything the stunt people would have had to do with.The soundtrack, though not generally my preferred style of music, was also well done and fit the setting and action appropriately.Overall I'd say this movie is worth seeing -- once and only once, provided you aren't actually paying any money for it that you aren't already spending. "},{"Title":"the audacity to rip off Casablanca...","Date":"25 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ouch.One must wonder who's idea it was to have Pamela Anderson essentially play Rick from Casablanca in a Mad Max/Escape from New York futuristic wasteland.Boy, i wish i partook of the drugs that must have circulated through that room!Anyway, Pam does her best to channel Snake Plissken. Udo Kier is creepy and cool, as usual. The soundtrack leaves much to be desired, as does the horrendous editing. If only they had a few more real actors in the room, this one could have been a load of fun.Or maybe they could've gotten John Carpenter... "},{"Title":"A great comic book...","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ruined by Pamela Anderson.I loved the Barb Wire comics before Marvel bought Malibu and ran them into the ground. When I first heard they were making a Barb Wire movie, I thought, Great! Just so long as the get someone good. I couldn't have been further off the mark. At least they didn't do THIS bad a job on The Nightman (although they ruined that character, too).This movie was a total waste of my money - and I didn't even pay for my munchies! My friends conned me into going by paying for the whole shot. Got my revenge, though - $5.00 for a movie (cheap b@$+@rd Tuesdays) and $12.00 in munchies. ) "},{"Title":"Oh, for heaven's sake","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Remember Pamela Anderson, that icon of the 1990's?  The woman who, thanks to constant cosmetic surgery, became a creature of long blond hair and massive lips and massive breasts and not much else?  All men were supposed to lust after her but really she was as sexless as a piece of plastic; which was what she largely was, after all.  Well, this was her attempt to launch a movie career.  She plays an in-your-face bar owner in one of those post-apocalypse wasteland deals.  That was the by-line at least. Actually, it's just Casablanca.  Not at first, admittedly; the transformation only happens gradually.  Half-way through you start thinking Hang on, this is a mite familiar, and by the end it only lacks Dooley Wilson tinkling away on the piano.  All told, even her porno film with Tommy Lee would probably be more appealing.  And thus ended Pamela Anderson's movie career. "},{"Title":"So this is Barb Wire...","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was around ten when Barb Wire was released, and kept overhearing my older brothers' friends telling him that he's gotta go see it. As well as that I also heard my mum say it's just some blond bimbo whose got big boobs. Fast forward to a couple of years later... ...about five to be exact I think. I'm flicking through my t.v. as I'm sat in bed and come across some lady telling me that Barb Wire is on in half an hour, and as I just so happen to be a big fan of Pamela Anderson around this time I waited and then watched it.In the common sense department Barb Wire makes a huge mistake I think in that Pamela Anderson is shown topless in the first sequence. After that I could see everyone walking out the cinema (as I doubt that any women went), if they stuck it towards the end least more people might bother to watch the whole film and follow the storyline, which as everybody knows is a copy of another slightly more successful film beginning with a C. Plus why give everyone what they paid five quid, probably less back then, straight away then lay that film on them?After two years or so, the only thing I remember clearly about the movie Barb Wire is that is sucked, but with Pam involved it didn't really matter that much. "}{"Title":"isn't it obvious?","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie never had a chance to be successful on any kind of level. It was obvious that this was made solely for the purpose of showing off Pam in tight, practically topless outfits. If that's the case then I guess it was successful on one level. If you want to know anything about this flick then you may as well watch a Playboy video. 0/4 "},{"Title":"Stay as far away from this movie as possible!","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is really bad. It is just a pathetic excuse to watch Pamela Anderson Lee in several nude-scenes (then specially the 10 minutes opening scene). The movie is filled with boring action, stupid dialogues and silly comments like ''Don't call me Babe''. "},{"Title":"Deserves Golden Turkey for 'Most Unsubtle Product Placement'","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Name the movie  Tough Cynic With A Past operates a nightclub in a city occupied by a right wing regime at war with a heroic resistance movement. Tough Cynic's Old Flame, who vanished years ago during a crisis, suddenly returns with a New Spouse bearing vital info for the resistance. Old Flame convinces Tough Cynic to help smuggle New Spouse to a safe haven.Casablanca ? Not quite, it's Barb Wire, except Pam is Bogart and Rick's Place is Hammerhead, a heavy metal club frequented by assorted vomiting bikies and bondage types, just the spot for snarling totalitarians to drop by to admire Pam's assets. My favourite bit is when Pam contemplates her life, reclining on a motorbike before the cityscape at sunset, and after a philosophical pause, profoundly squeaks 'what a s**t-hole!' as we gently fade out.A mostly harmless mixture of cartoonish violence and staggeringly unsubtle product placement. "},{"Title":"Barb-Wire is like a botch boob job. Pretty ugly and scarring. Not sexy.","Date":"29 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is nearly unwatchable even if it has Pamela Anderson in it. She's not that sexy to spend 98 minutes watching a movie, loosely based on the movie plot of 1942's Casablanca. I wouldn't say this movie paying homage to it, as a lot of it was change, so it wouldn't be a total rip off of Casablanca. Barb Wire, the film is mostly based on the Dark Horse comics that bare its name. Barb Wire, the comic book wasn't that popular, and the film follows that. Barb Wire isn't that sharp, but it's does hurts to watch. Set in 2017 during the Second American Civil War, Barb Wire (Pamela Anderson) owns the Hammerhead, a nightclub in Steel Harbor. Steel Harbor is describe as the last free city in a United States that wasn't ravaged by the war. In my opinion, it was ravaged by a horrible script. Directed by David Hogan, everything looks dirty. Steel Harbor looks like a dump, and Hammerhead is like a hole in the wall strip club. There isn't no glamor here. I think the film makers were going the gritty Sci-Fi route with this story, but there is no class, when you make a movie that has your main character parading herself in her bathing suit. It's not a believable to believe this half naked woman is a bad ass mercenary and bounty hunter. Like the Casablanca movie, a Chief of Police comes around time to time to raid her club for fugitives. Willis (Xander Berkeley) is looking for fugitive Dr. Corrina Cora D Devonshire (Victoria Rowell), a former government scientist with information about a bioweapon being developed by her former superior, Colonel Pryzer (Steve Railsback) of the Congressional Directorate. Cora D later turns up at the club, with Axel Hood (Temuera Morrison) a freedom fighter from the United Front whom Barb had known and loved before the war. Both hopes to escape to Canada in order to make this information public. If you're looking for Casablanca like performance, here. You're deeply going to be disappointed. The characters in this movie are pretty unlikeable as Barb only cares about money. Barb doesn't go through any struggle with morality. The acting is bad. Pamela Anderson speaks in this movie with little to no emotion in her delivery. It's not like the dialogue is any good. Most of it was bland. Monologues are horrible. Show, don't tell, movie. The only reason why this movie was made was to capitalize on how hot and popular, Pamela Anderson was in the 1990s. The movie was made for the objectification of women. The opening shot of the movie, has a stripping, dancing wet Barb (Pamela Anderson) as a way to introduce this character. I thought I was watching a porno, then an action movie when I saw this. It tries to be feminist in a way, because Barb Wire hates being call 'babe', but fails miserably due to pointless nudity scenes, blatant sexual overtones and fantasies of torture to women. Plus, they even said Barb is also a hooker. This movie is disturbing. The action is pretty bad. The stunts are painfully unspectacular. She did some of her own stunts, although the corset and the heels she wore made fight scenes very challenging. I don't find how Barb Wire is able to fight off enemies wearing black leather and 7 inch high heeled boots. I would thought she would fall, a few times. Watching the outtakes, she did. The vision of a fascist America, is never that canny. In my opinion, if the story went deeper into how this world came to be, maybe this film could had work. The camera work is horrible. The obnoxious close-ups and the endless fade to black get tiresome. Yes, the movie does have some entertaining value as its target audience might like seeing Pamela's boobs and violent mixed together. Still, in the end, anybody that watch this, knows well that this is a bad movie. It was cheesy when it came out, and it's still cheesy. Don't expect this movie to be what it isn't. It's a B movie, with B everything. It's not supposed to be taken seriously. Still, this movie sucks. "},{"Title":"One of the top ten worst films ever.","Date":"25 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's worth watching purely for the cringe factor.The acting is wooden. The story line is hardly existent, and the script writing is pretty poor too.Let's face it, Pam can't act. The number of cuts (with associated continuity errors) is testament to the number of takes it took to do some scenes. Even just the act of turning over a table seems beyond her and needs to be pieced together from multiple takes.Given the number of takes they had to do they really should have employed a human to manage continuity, rather than the chimpanzee they seem to have had doing the job. If sitting in the corner throwing their poo at passers by can be called doing the job.And at least they could have picked a stunt double who at least looks vaguely like Pam. The one they chose barely fills the bodice Pam wears, and looks like a man to boot. I mean, Pam's breasts spill over the top of her bodice. Her stunt double has noticeable gaps where flesh (or rather silicone) should be. "},{"Title":"The only good thing about it is Pamela Anderson's cleavage","Date":"19 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Barb Wire isn't the worst movie of 1996(quite), Bio-Dome and Ed are worse, but it is a terrible movie with its only redeeming asset Pamela Anderson's cleavage. Anderson is very sexy and does better than expected in the action sequences, but the way she delivers her lines just for me amplifies her limitations as an actress. And the rest of the acting ranges to pretty poor to non-existent. The action sequences are in a way efficiently performed but choreographed in a generic way and some of the editing feels sloppy. I liked how catchy and how upbeat the soundtrack was but it got a bit too loud and too much after a while, the script is cheesy and weak and the story is so thin you have to watch closely to see if there is a story, and I have no better news about the direction. Overall, a terrible movie. 1/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"A boob is just a boob...","Date":"9 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I would've loved to see the pitch session for Barb Wire. After getting through the whole, it's a vehicle for Pamela Anderson Lee, Babewatch Babe, though we don't call her Babe, she's a kick-ass bounty hunter who runs a bar and does this and that and there's a lot of explosions and action and kills and more explosions, yada yada yada, they had to try and explain the actual story. What did they come up with? Apparently, not so much the comic book story (from what I've heard the comic book is about, which isn't much), but, well... Casablanca? Yes, Casablanca, at least to a great degree. It's hard not to see one of the most 'what-the-huh?' combinations of low-art with high-art since Strange Brew's story came right out of Hamlet. There's even Clint Howard as Peter Lorre and some character named Fatso who plays Sidney Greenstreet! One things for sure, folks, Pam Anderson is NO Humphrey Bogart (we all know who's were real and spectacular after all).But I digress, this is a pretty stupid movie, made on the cheap all at the expense of men everywhere who can't get enough of the overly stacked blonde bubble of hot that is Pam Anderson (Lee at the time), who is pretty much either naked (and when so either in an overlong dance sequence in partial nudity, or wrapped conviniently in bubbles, or in leather, more so the latter) and spouts poorly written dialog like a pro. This is probably both a compliment and an insult; only someone like Anderson, who is some nice, Heavy Metal style eye candy but not that much of an actress, could pull off this script like she does, which features special contact lenses as the MacGuffin and a transport of some girl across the lines of some Nazi outback law enforcement agency out to hunt her like dogs. Did I mention there are explosions and stuff? They're cool, I guess... Not much else here, folks, unless you're Beavis and Butt-head. That being said, for a Beavis and Butt-head favorite, it's not the worst in the bin. "},{"Title":"Here's looking at you, Jango!","Date":"8 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" As others have pointed out, this film takes the basic plot premise of Casablanca, with Pamela Anderson as Bogey and the guy who played Jango Fett as Ingrid. As awful as that sounds as I describe it, it's not quite as bad in execution.The movie opens with an extended credit sequence featuring Pamela Anderson Lee being splashed with water while exposing her breasts. We find out that she's really on a mission to rescue a schoolgirl from some pervs at a strip joint. But she isn't all heart, she demands full payment from the kid's parents, even taking their car and leaving them stranded in a bad neighborhood.Okay, it's 2019, the Second American Civil War, where a Nazi-like government has taken over the country. (Hey, isn't that going to happen in 2012, when Trump becomes President?) Steel City, like Casablanca, if a free port where people can get out of the country. Barb Wire, who is supposedly famous there (but not to pervs in a strip joint, it seems)runs a bar called the Hammerhead. A Government scientist named Cora D is fleeing to Canada to prove that the Congressional Directorate unleashed a deadly plague upon the people. Her ticket out is some specially made contact lenses that confuse retinal scanners. Hot on her trail are fascist officers of the Government.So what you have is Casablanca with reversed genders, lots of car chases and explosions, and some incredibly bad acting. Oh, yeah, and Pamela gets upset when people call her Babe.If there is one thing I am grateful for, it is that even though they plagiarized all the major characters from Casablanca, they didn't feel the need to plagiarize the dialog. That really would have been too much. What made Casablanca a great movie was its subtly, something lost on modern filmmakers. I suspect if it were ever remade in full, it would look more like Barb Wire than the original.Overall, it is not the horrible movie everyone made it out to be. It isn't good, but it isn't horrible. "},{"Title":"Casablanca with explosions","Date":"13 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I only saw part of this movie coming in the middle no less. I may not have missed much. My twin sister Betty Ceniza in the Detroit area bought this thing and gave me the following critique Who in their right mind decided to make this movie! It is Casablanca with explosions...but without the romance as people keep falling over. However there are Pam's boobs. They are everywhere. This could have been a tits & a$$ movie but there is just Pam's tits and nobody's ass. Very bizarre to say the least. Pam plays the Bogart role, Temuera Morrison plays the Ingrid Bergman Role and Victoria Winters plays the Paul Heinried role. There are also people playing the Sidney Greenstreet roe, the Claude Rains and Conrad Veidt roles. This isn't WW2 but a future America that has become two armed camps. The scientist Victoria Rowell knows some secret but Betty was so hypnotized by Pam's boobs she can't remember what it was. Pam literally follows them into the room. After lotsa explosions and everybody saying sh%t (their byword in this movie) the heroes prevail. Pam is very shapely and good in the actions scenes but she really cannot act. At least Tem Morrison and Victoria Rowell can act as both of them are soap opera veterans and managed to lend some believability to their roles. Although having just seen Star Wars Episode 2 it looked like Jango Fett married to Drucilla Winters of Y&R. How did they get talked into this? The DVD had a section of deleted sexy scenes but all you saw was Pam swinging upside down on a trapeze, boobs exposed with water hitting her for extra affect, maybe so she could stay conscious??? All in all a very bizarre movie but at least the action kept you somewhat interested. "},{"Title":"Watching Pamela scale a barbed wire fence naked... would be more entertaining...","Date":"19 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" As the buxom blonde, who by day is the operator of the nightclub Hammerhead but by night takes to her Triumph motorcycle to hit the streets to perform dangerous black ops, Pamela Anderson-Lee creates a titular character that is all snarl and sneer, all leather and leather (no need for lace when your outer garments are your undergarments). Despite being outfitted in leather and spike heels, Anderson Lee doesn't make for an appealing action star -- the silicon enhancements might have screen presence, but the star doesn't. Okay, so she looks good on a motorcycle, but that's about it. Her delivery of the requisite quips is awful, and her signature line Don't call me babe! is much weaker than anything Eastwood or Swartzenegger might ever have uttered&#133; The film makers undoubtedly recognized that they were making a bad film. Why else cast such an obviously-untalented actress in the lead role? What they seemed to be banking on is that Barb Wire would at least be fun, which it isn't. The element of high camp that makes for enjoyable good trash isn't present. Bad movies like this often generate small cult followings, and that's about the size of audience the picture deserves&#133; Unfortunately, other than a couple of very obvious, absurdly over-the-top scenes, this film is just plain boring. Aside from observing Pamela Anderson Lee's apparent assets, the only reason to stay awake during Barb Wire, is to admire what Tommy Lee did&#133;Watching Pamela scale a barbed wire fence naked would not only be more entertaining, but a lot less painful than sitting through this monotonous, very Rusty film&#133; "}{"Title":"Babe... Babe&#133; BABE BABE BABE BABE BABE!!!!!!","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ah, nothing. Just like I thought.Let's face it, Pamela Anderson can NOT act. Barb Wire is so obviously nothing other than an excuse to get the most famous blonde on the planet into a bunch of chesty outfits and occasionally not even that much that that fact alone provides much of the film's comic relief. This movie reminds me of a similar crapfest that Anna Nicole Smith put out the year before, called Skyscraper, which was basically a remake of Die Hard but without the acting, the budget, the script, or the brains. Similarly, Barb Wire does not do much to cover up how extensively it borrows from Casablanca. And also similarly, this time without the acting, the budget, the script, or the brains.Whenever you have a film that stars someone like Pamela Anderson, who is famous more for getting naked than anything else, it's not hard to predict that at some point during the film, she will pose as a stripper or a prostitute or something in order for the film to get her out of her clothes, and I'm pretty Pam does both here. There's a thin storyline involving politics and secret weapons and Canadian money, of all things, and this, along with just about everything else in the film, is set on the back burner in favor of the emphasis on Pam's breasts, which are clearly more famous than she is.With movies like Barb Wire, I always try to look for a point where the film admits that it is not trying to be taken seriously. Bad movies can be highly entertaining when they come off as campy (see any of the three Evil Dead movies, the funniest and most entertaining horror films ever made), but not when they pretend to be something that they're not. I think that the biggest problem in this area about Barb Wire is that Pam seems to take her role too seriously (her reaction to the term `Babe' is a case in point). And I say `seems' because there is always the possibility that she is over-acting just for the overall fun of it. However, it's just hilarious how serious she appears and how she makes such an effort to sound threatening, when in reality it's totally obvious that it's all a joke.In this sense, it's difficult to judge this film because it's hard to know how it feels about itself. Personally, I think that the film has grossly overlooked the fact that the vast majority of itself as a whole is going to come off in theaters (or, in this case, on video, seeing how this movie had been booed out of theaters before many people even knew it was there yet) as comic relief. Barb Wire is not really an action movie that makes every excuse possible excuse to get Pamela Anderson out of her clothes, but rather a comedy that amusingly poses as an action film, and the strange thing is that the nude or semi-nude scenes don't lead to sex scenes or anything like that, but usually to violence. This, I guess, is in bad taste depending on your personal views, but it's interesting to consider how many people consider BOTH of these to be in bad taste.Okay, I have to add something here. I just re-visited the Barb Wire home page on the IMDb, and the tagline for the film, which I never noticed, is based on one of the dumbest things about the entire movie.`Don't call me babe.'Sigh&#133; "},{"Title":"hmm","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  An sci-fi action movie remake of casablanca with Pamela Anderson. Even the idea of this film is awful. The sad truth of the matter is it actually manages to be worse than that, I sat watching this movie with increasing horror trying to find a redeeming feature, something positive to say about it and the best i could come up with was at least I didn't pay to see it The acting is terrible the script is poor, most of the sets seem to be abandoned werehouses or waste ground. This movie was Pamela Andersons first and only big screen staring role to date, sfter this movie the chances of her getting another must have become very slim indeed "},{"Title":"Historic bad movie","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is a perfect fit for Pamela Anderson. The acting, the story and all one can think of that has to do with making a movie is below the worst level possible. The good thing about that is that this level happens to be the level where Anderson usually performs, meaning that she was perfectly casted for this waste of time and money. I expected this to be a bad movie, but it exceeded my expectations. Anderson's performance is (I don't know how she manages it) sub par and seeing the-blind-guy-called-Charlie trying to act (being blind) made me realize that by watching Barb Wire I was watching a historic movie. One of the worst movies ever made! The movie kept reminding me of Madonna's Shanghai Surprise. Ouch!Henry Bos, Holland  "},{"Title":"That wasn't part of the deal big fatso! The best opening sequence in cinematic history.","Date":"9 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Barb Wire is set during the second American civil war in the year 2017, there is only one free city left in the whole of America & that's Steel Harbour. Bounty hunter & occasional gun for hire leather clad babe Barb Wire (Pamela Anderson) runs a nightclub called the Hammerhead & generally gets on the best she can, Barb decides to capture bail jumper William Krebs (Loren Rubin) & hand him over for the reward. At first all goes well & Barb ends up with $20,000, however it turns out that Krebs was a wanted man. Wanted by both the freedom fighting resistance because of a pair of contact lenses he had & wanted by the evil congressional directorate because of, well, a pair of contact lenses. These lenses are important as they let the wearer pass through any retina scanner & defected congressional scientist Dr. Corrina Devonshire (Victoria Rowell) needs them to board a plane to Canada so she can warn the world about a virus which the congressional are planning on using to wipe out all resistance to them... Barb is caught right in the middle & has to choose a side to work for.Directed by David Hogan this sci-fi action adventure film was based a Dark Horse comic series of the same name & is a universally trashed film for reasons I personally can't quite figure out although people generally rubbish Pamela Anderson rather than the film itself which leads me to believe most have made their minds up before they see it or are just a tiny bit jealous. Before I go any further I have to say right now that Barb Wire has the best opening credit sequence of any film I've ever seen, period. The hot looking Pamela Anderson in a tight fitting leather dress dancing & being sprayed with water while exposing her breasts is just plain classy film-making. Anyway, the script by Chuck Pfarrer & Ilene Chaiken which could be described as a futuristic remake of Casablanca (1942) isn't anything I didn't expect from it, it's noisy, it has some violent action scenes, a few explosions, simplistic dialogue, a disturbing view of the future run by a Nazi uniform clad government & very one dimensional character's so what's the problem? Did Barb Wire ever promise it was going to be anything other than a futuristic sci-fi? Was it ever intended to be anything other than a fun B-Movie? Personally I think it delivers on some of it's potential but is missing something, the action scenes seem a little light & short, the first 30 odd minutes are great fast paced comic book action but it then loses it's way, some of the character's are just too lightweight & the mix of camp & seriousness isn't quite right. For all it's faults & it has some I liked it, there are bits & pieces here which I enjoyed a lot. It's a situation where I feel the sum of it's parts is less than what it should be.I think a lot of the blame for Barb Wire has to go to director David Hogan, this was his first film after making a couple of music videos & it shows. The character's aren't fleshed out enough, the film is uneven, the action scenes could have been brilliant in a capable director's hands but Hogan is more interested in placing the camera at cool angles & forgets about putting on a spectacle for the audience. Apart from the gunfight between Barb & two cops & a fight on top of a crane the action scenes are not exciting, far too forgettable & way too short. A stronger more experienced director might have ironed these problems out & Barb Wire could have been a great piece of sci-fi action, I still like it but feel it's flawed. A special mention goes to Pamela Anderson who looks fantastic in this wearing a selection of fetishistic clothing, the long leather coat, the tight corset & thigh high boots she wears while catching Kreps is just god damned cool & sexy! Barb Wire is a frustrating film for me because there are things I like about it so much but other things which I hate, Pamela Anderson & her leather outfits is one thing that I love though.Technically the film is aright, the daytime scenes all seem to have an orange sepia tone to them while the night scenes are very blue. The film has reasonable production values & a 40's period feel to the production design although the main locations seem to be a couple of old warehouses. There's actually not a bad cast here, Xander Berkeley, Udo Kier, Clint Howard, Victoria Rowell (I just couldn't stop thinking about Diagnosis Murder!), & Steve Railsback isn't a bad selection of actors at all. Pamela Anderson isn't great but she's alright & looks the business although Tamuera Morrison is truly awful in every scene he's in.Barb Wire could have been great, I think an inexperienced director who hadn't directed a sci-fi or action film before hurt the film in the end. I'm by no means saying Barb Wire is any sort of classic but there are moments here that I really liked, Pamela Anderson just looks great in leather & it has the best opening credit sequence ever, I can't recommend it but it's a film I'll always stick up for when everyone else is trashing it. "},{"Title":"A legend in its own right","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Hahahahahaha, is this for real? Hohohoho hahahaha this is just too much! Hahaha...hoho...hehe...*sniff*Well, now. I could just as easily say that it's not that bad, and point out that I at least got a good laugh when watching it, which is endearing to me. But you know, when something so masterfully stupid is filmed with one of the most over-estimated beauties of the world (I won't even mention her acting) and haussed so dramatically by the producers - well... I dunno. They don't even deserve my laughter. "},{"Title":"Likely the peak of Pamela's Career","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Like some IMDB subcribers, I tag the end of my comments with my own personal star rating for each film. Not that I think anyone cares, I am probably just feeding my secret desire to be a real critic. But I digress. The reason I mention this is that it takes a very special sort of bad for a film to get zero stars - it has to be completely devoid of redeeming quality - and this is it. You cannot possibly find a way to make this movie worse.Even Anderson's hose-sprayed, shoe-pitching, quasi-striptease act over the credits aren't worth the rent. Nobody's physique is more in the public domain than Anderson's and there is no need to endure this flea-ridden dog to catch a glimpse of her goodies.Some people are amused by its Casablanca plot line, but it offends me. But the film does not make me angry though - it fails generate any kind of response or emotion. It is an entertainment-free dead zone with some silicone and leather highlights.Pamela Anderson has said several times that it is her goal to win an Oscar. Well .... she'd best take up Costume Design.Avoid this at all costs. Zero out of ****. "},{"Title":"Animal, Vegetable, or Mineral?","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I feel like calling this mess a cartoon but that term already applies to What's Opera, Doc?, Der Fuehrer's Face, Peace on Earth, The Sweater, and so many more. Maybe we need a new word, barfoon for example, which would combine cartoon, buffoon, and barf. Or maybe crapoon. You can figure out the etymology for that one yourself.Do you remember Steve Railsback when he was in The Stuntman or Helter Skelter? Well, you'd better avoid this one then. Hang on to those happy memories.The pneumatic star of Barb Wire, who thrusts herself so protuberantly and tumescently into the camera, delivers her lines like a screenwriter's stenographer giving her read-back. Flat. Unmodulated. Mostly free of errors. She is reputedly Canadian. If we gather together enough signatures, can someone's citizenship be revoked?  "},{"Title":"Mad Maxine","Date":"13 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" So, after 28 years, Barb Don't Call Her Babe Wire references the exceedingly better movie, Batman. I guess I can't complain; The Matrix references Superman after 100 years.Don't hate me &#x96; I didn't hate this movie. Oh, yeah it wasn't good or great, but it wasn't terrible. I actually liked seeing the sassy Pamela Lee Anderson (PLA) in leather and her kick butting ways.I acknowledged right away this is a leave-your-brain-at-the-door feature, so I let loose. And if you do, PLA is kinda fun and sexy. (And that's coming from a gay male.)So, what we have here is Post-Civil War II and a mercenary-for-hire but only to keep her night club afloat. Her past(s) get in the way and she truly must decide what side she doesn't want to be on.Yeah. I watched this as part of my mission of movies to see from the How Did This Get Made podcast list. Otherwise, I wouldn't have ever seen it. Did I hate it? Again, no. It was fun 1990s garb never to be taken seriously.For some reason &#x96; again from a gay guy &#x96; I found her sexy and ridged enough to like and care about her making it alive to the end. While not the best 1990s action film, I would actually still, unbelievably, recommend it!* * * Final thoughts I try to do no research before I see a movie &#x96; I love to go in fresh and cold. I knew of this movie years (almost decades) ago, but never gave it a second thought until it popped up on my How Did This Get Made podcast list. OK, I knew it existed, was on the HDTGM list and it starred the voluptuous PLA, but what I wouldn't learn until following my viewing was that&#x85;this was a retelling of Casablanca??? Wow. I guess so. I already knew the story wasn't anything new, but to put this anywhere near Casablanca is just...crazy talk. Just leave your brain at the door and watch this fun little movie.Oh, and I almost forgot. This movie sparked my quote of the day at my employment How can you get Pamela Lee Anderson and Anna Nicole Smith confused? asked a coworker after I did just that.How can you NOT get the two confused? Sorry, I meant four, I responded. "},{"Title":"Hollywood should officially apologize for this","Date":"2 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well , at least when the movie came up . Now barely anyone remembers it . It's not strange since this magical movie had achieved 2 unusual things  a) the comic book series on which the movie was based died shortly after the movie premiere and b) the producers shortly after the premiere of this masterpiece OFFICIALLY announced that there won't be a sequel. Wow . I don't remember anything similar in my life . Even Batman and Robin' didn't killed the Batman comic books (yes , I know that is a MUCH stronger franchise than Barbwire franchise , but B&R did have THAT strength to kill anything associated with it). And today we live in an era where even Alvin and chipmunks have sequels. The movie is based on a comic book I've never read or even heard of . Not that I regret it . Some comic books are hard to stand while you read them and perhaps even unadaptable (Spawn anyone ?). I believe this is a perfect example.I have a theory that from time to time Hollywood makes a movie that is such a compilation of everything bad in American cinema (style over substance , kitsch , stupidity , bad taste , cheap at heart) that it has a power of nuclear bomb which destroys everything in it's range . Barbwire isn't really a movie made with BAD TASTE , it's more like a movie made with NO TASTE .The ideal symbol of no taste is the star of Barbwire itself &#x96; Pamela Anderson . There is a scene here where she walks down a corridor . You see her breasts first . Almost ONLY her breasts . You will have to wait a few seconds before the rest of Anderson's body (including her face) will show up . I mean seriously &#x96; those breasts are walking by themselves. I can't believe somebody so UGLY was considered to be a sex symbol of the 90's . Maybe people deep down are very primitive like caveman ? Sure , it's good when a woman has more big than small breasts , but not TOO BIG . Otherwise she becomes a parody of herself. Anyway , Anderson was considered sexy and someone thought that big boobs will be enough to make a good or at least commercially successful movie. If you're a fan of Anderson's body you will be probably happy . She wears tight clothes and you can see her boobs few times. As for her acting skills &#x96; well she's better than Steven Seagal , but that's hardly accomplishment. The movie is pretty much a remake of Casablanca only set in post apocalyptic future. It's kinda interesting how you could take one of the best screenplays in the world and f*** everything that was perfect in the original movie. I guess that what you get when you replace Bogart with boobs. Visually this movie rips off Batman and Mad Max. There is no interesting character and you couldn't care less what happens in the movie. A movie scene where half naked woman kills a guy with stiletto pretty much defines what this whole movie is all about. While watching a bad movie I often think A porn version of this movie would be much better. Funny thing &#x96; I don't think that even as a porn movie Barbwire would be watchable.I give it 1/10. "},{"Title":"Plodding dystopian fluff","Date":"11 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Barb Wire looks good. Most of the important roles are acted competently, and its star is luminous. In the hands of someone like Paul Verhoeven, it could have been another Total Recall--silly fun that might have balanced Verhoeven's usual violence with a little T&A.Instead, the story plods along in drawn-out sequences that drain the life out of what little fun was written into the screenplay or available from the stylish sets and lighting. The kinky prostitution scam, for example, is a grueling, humorless 3+ minute setup for a lackluster action scene that is followed by a grueling, humorless payoff scene that's just as long.Worse, whole scenes are completely superfluous. The scenes where Axel and Cora get into the city are unnecessary and unexciting. The drunk who is taken care of by Camille is both valueless to the plot and totally unfunny. It's odd that the story was lifted almost entirely from Casablanca and then flubbed so badly by adding such dull scenes. "}{"Title":"don't call me babe...,","Date":"29 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" and don't watch this movie either,unless you're really desperate for something to do.but trust me,you could always find something better to do.i mean wow,this was not good.i managed to get to the forty four minute mark before giving up and shutting it down.there's just no coherent plot here,and no real acting of any kind involved.plus,the music was awful,although that's just personal preference.the opening scene sets the bar pretty low and it just gets worse from there.for some strange reason,Xander Berkeley(who's a quality actor)decided to appear in this mess.oh,well,everybody is entitled to a bad movie once in a while.anyway,for me, because it's not the worse movie i've seen,Barb Wire is a 3/10 "},{"Title":"A Meatsack Classic","Date":"10 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the Special Features of the Barb Wire DVD is a 9-min, music video-style striptease sequence where Pam struts her stuff, largely topless, while riding a swing and being sprayed down by water cannons. It is pretty hot and definitely the best thing about the movie. If you want to see Pam Anderson topless, at probably the freshest point of her silicone bubblieness, this movie is probably as good as it gets. The rest of the picture, well, it is an incoherent meltdown and plays out similarly to Battlefield Earth and Batman & Robin. Expect a lot of inane character development, a ludicrous story, baffling scene direction; completely subpar action sequences, and unconvincing acting. Unlike the aforementioned films, though, you get to see Pam Anderson run around in leather corsets, bikini tops, and Go-Go boots, which does add a certain something. There are a few topless scenes, but nothing as good as the music video. Lastly, this movie has more anachronisms than I have ever seen; it is just unbelievable. Almost every scene will have you saying something like um...the cops drive 1986 Crown Victorias....in 2017? Anyway, this movie is going to have limited appeal. It wasn't funny or even all that entertaining, but that music video is worth something. ---|--- Reviews by Flak Magnet "},{"Title":"This film's worth watching for Pamela Anderson alone....","Date":"9 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" but the rest of the film is simply an afterthought. As a comic book fan, I picked this up out of curiosity despite the low reviews this movie has gotten. Having just finished watching it, I can honestly say this film plain sucks. There are some decent action scenes and acting it's just too bad that the film, despite being based on a comic book (that I really wanted to check out when I was a child) never really reached it's potential (well there was also the fact that comic book movies took a nosedive after Batman & Robin) and could've been a highly entertaining film. At least Pamela Anderson is worth the price of admission alone but for those of you who want a more in depth insight into the character, I suggest reading the comic book series instead.This movie sucks but Pam's in it so what do I know? "},{"Title":"Depending on what turns you on, this could be either a porn film; a crappy action film or what Casablanca might have been like in leather.","Date":"10 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Oh what fun to watch a film like Barb Wire; a film so bad, it's good as they say. But to say this is terrible and painful to watch would be untrue &#150; it's bad but it's that B-Movie bad that keeps the film on that thin line between watchable and un-watchable. Barb Wire is a film that is so audacious in its ideas and settings that it has to set itself further into the future to compensate for its obscure nature and content. What I'm referring to is the corrupt government run country that is the USA since they're into their second civil war It was the Second American Civil War and the world had gone to sh*t. says Barbara Kopetski (Anderson). Oh right, the 'world' has gone down the pan too has it? I shouldn't think anything was wrong with anything else elsewhere, love (or should that be 'babe'?) In this world, the government officials wear Nazi-like uniforms complete with caps and cloaks; all the civilians apparently wear bondage gear and I think I even spied some of the customs officers early on using AK47 machine guns a favoured gun/symbol of guerrilla and communist warfare. I was puzzled about the bondage gear If Steel Harbour is the only free city left in America and people are walking around in clothing that signifies the pleasure of being restrained, then what are all the other 'un-free' cities like? I suppose they must be the sorts of places where murder is legal or something. Anyway, Barb Wire is a film that places itself in history. It's a story about a hard bodied female hero going mano-on-mano with other men in a violent nature. Reagan's term had ended; the cold war had finished we didn't need any more anti communist Rambo films; we didn't need any more films like Rocky IV where hard bodied American and Russian men beat the hell out of each other and we didn't need anymore western supremacy in the form of muscle man Schwarzenegger kicking arse in his films of the 1980s. No; Barb Wire is about a woman, written BY a woman but generally comes off as a bit of a dud.The actual idea for this film on paper is nothing more than a B-Movie action film wanting to get made. Its premise of a leather clad hero out 'kicking ass' and rounding up all the dregs whilst living in a sadomasochist's wet-dream is the general theme of the film &#150; it's so watered down and one dimensional in its premise that it needs to rip off Casablanca to get across any sort of plot. Barb Wire is a series of scenes from the beginning up until the forty minute mark consisting of Barb seducing, fighting, cuffing and knocking out men dressed in gimp suits with over-sized paddles - OK, well that last example only happens once but it's still there. Once it seems there is an actual narrative to be told in Barb Wire, the film cools down a bit and relies on Barb to narrate what's going on and how she's feeling in true noir style; needless to say it's more funny than entertaining. I don't usual write or talk about acting in a film because it's not something I usually notice; plus who am I to slate someone's acting? If I tried what they're doing I'd probably be awful but Pamela Anderson in this film deserves a special mention. Her eyebrows, eyes and lips do her acting here as she quivers and flexes these parts of her face in a vain and painful attempt to get across some sort of mood or emotion as to what Barb is actually feeling. Along with this, she talks in a low and gruff manner than just oozes the sort of accent you'd probably get on a phone sex line.I know you cannot take a film like Barb Wire seriously but usually when I get this feeling, it's because the film has been aimed at a child audience. This film is anything but aimed for a child audience Anderson struts around in a series of costumes; each one different as the settings change. There are extensive shots of her night club named 'Hammerhead' as Gothic bands and dancers hang out, have fights and dance. There is even room for some apparent squaddies dressed in their normal soldier gear to make an appearance but why they're there, I just don't know. While we are spared horrid, juvenile rock music that is being spurted out from the band (you'd think music would've evolved a little by 2017) for long enough; you cannot escape the obvious references to S&M as women walk around in corsets, boots up to their knees and wear sunglasses indoors. I was surprised there weren't a few scenes set in a makeshift dungeon inter-cut with these tracking shots. Maybe Barb could expand her business and set up some bondage facilities might earn her some money on the side. After all, why would everyone where what they wear in public anyway? Incidentally, when one woman in being 'tortured' by the government very early on via electric shocks; she is moaning in sheer delight, not pain, at the activity.But above all this, the film lets itself down on a technical level. The bad guy's target is right there in front of him and when the scanner fails, he lets them go despite up to this point checking everyone's I.D. card for good measure. He doesn't check these individual's cards because the film would've ended right there! The 'search' of Barb's club is also more of a ransack ale kegs are shot to bits and shelves housing glasses are crashed to the floor you never know, the missing thing could be there(!) The film's final fifteen minutes is pure garbage but what did you expect? For the fetishist inside you, this film is maybe fun &#150; for everyone else, it's dross. "},{"Title":"Just One Additional Thought","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just saw this film for the first time last week,and,yes,I saw the entire plot as having been lifted from Casablanca,too.I guess,in a way,it's a sort of a compliment.They say that,if you're going to steal,steal something good.  I just think that they way they costumed Pam,she appears to be one of the most grotesque caricatures of femininity since Jim McQuade's cartoon seriesThe Adventures of Honey Hooker,seen in Hustlermagazine in the 1970s.Let's face it,real women don't look like this.She personifies every adolescent's auto-erotic fantasies of the most depraved sort.And that's offensive to women.    "},{"Title":"A classic rip off","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  David Hogan has killed my favorite movie.  Barb Wire is a rip off of Casablanca.  Rick is now a big breasted blond chick with a rave bar instead of a classy joint.  The entire plot is the main character, Rick and Barb, have given up on the hope on a cause they believed in.  Then, their deserted lovers, Ilsa and that guy, come into their clubs so they can get a way out, transient papers and pupil contact lenses, from the bad guys, the Nazis and the Fascist Government, with their new lovers, the runaway Jew and a scientist that can cure a disease pumped out by the Government.  It all ends with the main characters letting their supposed love ones leave, and they say some line to the local policeman in an airfield.  I hope Pamela Anderson Lee goes straight to hell for this. "},{"Title":"Typical male response.","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I loved this movie. Pamela looks gorgeous in leather and in a bubblebath. "},{"Title":"B-movie with a capital B.","Date":"16 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie has B-movie written all over it. It's has a typical B-movie action atmosphere, a silly story, stereotypical characters and a lot of B-actors.I'm not a Pamela Anderson hater, she is a real character. She was well casted and is perhaps one of the few reasons why this movie isn't a complete disaster. Further more the movie is filled with some well known, mostly B-actors, such as Xander Berkeley, Udo Kier and Clint Howard. Those three appear in just as many good well known movies, as silly ones, like this movie is. They make this movie a B-movie fan heaven.It's mainly the story that makes this movie a bad one. The story is very uninteresting and most of the characters are very dull. The movie lacks a real main villain and because of this the movie also never becomes really tense. It was also weird to see the villains walk around in Nazi-looking like uniforms. It felt highly unnecessary and was just plain silly and unbelievable for the story.Some of the action in the movie is good but it's nothing memorable, just like the whole movie in general.Only watchable and recommendable to fans of B-movies. For them this is a must see in a way, everyone should just skip this movie.4/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Took me a while to figure out what's wrong with this movie...","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember... when this movie was coming out, I was somewhat in the target group. At least I reacted strongly towards it.Pamela Anderson has everything I like. Those who know me better know what that is. Her corset outfit with those boots are just the right stuff. A lot of that and leather.So what on earth is wrong? It took me some time to figure out what's wrong with this movie and Pamela Anderson - or rather the character she plays.The problem is, Barb Wire is a man! I don't know, that just dawned to me after the umpteenth time I watched this film. I couldn't figure out what was wrong with the character, as the exterior seemed just right.But Barb Wire is a man! That's the problem. She's a man. The exterior is from men's wet dreams. Clearly. It's so much from the wet dreams that it turns her into a man.That made me understand the whole thing better and made it somehow enjoyable. Maybe it's the don't take it too seriously department that others have mentioned around here.But that kind of made it work for me. Strangely. "},{"Title":"Here's looking at you, Pammy!","Date":"4 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" The year is 2017 and the USA is in the middle of a second civil war. Top-heavy bar-owner Barb Wire lives in the country's only free city, supplementing her income as a mercenary/bounty hunter. When an old flame, freedom fighter Axel (Temuera Morrison), re-enters her life seeking assistance to help a wanted scientist escape to Canada, Barb is reluctant to get involved, but after her blind brother is killed by the Congressionals, she finds herself once again joining the cause.With her ridiculously large chest, tiny waist, massive pout and cascading peroxide blonde locks, 90s sex-symbol Pamela Anderson certainly looks the part, but that's about the only good thing I can bring myself to say about this otherwise miserable mid-90s movie adaptation of Dark Horse comic-book character Barb Wire.Clearly never intended to be anything other than a vehicle to exploit the former Baywatch star's plastic sex appeal, the film is a poorly scripted piece of near-futuristic drivel, a post-apocalyptic Casablanca (complete with thinly veiled Nazis!) that deals in well-worn clichés and keeps costs to an absolute minimum by filming exclusively in derelict warehouses, junkyards and dock-lands. David Hogan's direction is uninspired, the 'drama' falls flat (unsurprisingly), and the action, when it eventually happens, is explosive but unexciting, the outcome a long foregone conclusion. "}{"Title":"Unsettling and revealing","Date":"30 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is such a surprise. When you think you can predict all those miserable failures that makes to the box office, you get to know Barb Wire. The most ridiculous, pontless and shamefull movie I had ever seen in my whole life.It's unsettling how bad this movie is. All I can say it reveals to me the moronic guidelines that predominate on moviemakers these days. ¿Can I think on something stupidiest than Barb Wire? Well, maybe if they make something like Barb Wire meets Barney or something like it; otherwise, I really couldn't think of something more idiotic than this movie.Pamela Lee should be locked and never been allowed to get near a studio, after her horrible acting in this picture. The rest of the cast, hopefully, should be starving to death after they commited such crime against cinema. "},{"Title":"Barb Wire","Date":"7 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm sure I'm not the only guy out there who wanted the chance to see the star of Baywatch with little, or no, clothes on in her first leading role. Set in the 21st Century, the USA has been overruled by the American Congress, and there is only one city that remains free, Steel Harbor, where the Hammerhead night club exists. The owner of this club, Barb Wire (Razzie winning and nominated Pamela Anderson, then Anderson Lee, being married to Tommy) resides there, and she has a second job as a bounty hunter. Chief of Police Alexander Willis (Terminator 2's Xander Berkeley) raids the club looking for fugitive and former government scientist Dr. Corrina 'Cora' Devonshire (Victoria Rowell). She has information about a bio-weapon being developed by former superior Colonel Pryzer (Steve Railsback). Cora turns up at the Hammerhead with Axel Hood (Temuera Morrison), who Barb knew when the war broke out, and they are carrying some contact lenses that can get them into any highly secured place, and they give them for Barb to hide. She intends to give them to junkyard gang leader Big Fatso (Andre Rosey Brown) in a deal, being worth a fortune, but he double-crosses her, and everyone is brought together for an explosive chase and battle to settle everything. Also starring Clint Howard as Schmitz, The Fifth Element's Tommy 'Tiny' Lister as Bouncer, Jack Noseworthy as Charlie and Udo Kier as Curly. Anderson did show a little bit of her goods, and enough of her body, but that is the only good thing to say about this pointless science-fiction adventure. I can't see how it is meant to be a remake of Casablanca, I can't see any similarity myself, so I wouldn't bother with it if I were you. It was nominated the Razzies for Worst Original Song for Tommy Lee's Welcome to Planet Boom! (a.k.a. This Boom's for You), Worst Screen Couple for Anderson's Impressive Enhancements, Worst Screenplay and Worst Picture. Pamela Anderson was number 93 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons, and she was number 22 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols. Pretty poor! "},{"Title":"Heavy-metal Casablanca...","Date":"17 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Perfectly dreadful futuristic action thriller-cum-noir set in the year 2017. Baywatch babe Pamela Anderson Lee gives a faintly amusing non-performance as a sexy bar owner/bounty hunter/prostitute who gets involved with Resistance fighters during a second Civil War. Although based on the Dark Horse comic book serial, the film plays like a cross between a heavy-metal music video and an update of Casablanca, complete with campy undermining and throwaway bad jokes. It's a mechanical dirge, a product of Hollywood deal-making (the posters with Pam were on display before the cameras even started rolling). *1/2 from **** "}]