[{"Title":"A misunderstood film that deserves more credit","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"25 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  After reading most of the comments users have written about this film I'm quite disappointed. I am an insane follower of the first Crow film and had to see the second. I knew full well it wouldn't be as good as the first, but then again, what could?The Crow 2 is a very sad and ironic story based on the first films boundaries. Notice how Sarah in the Crow has to sacrifice herself for another version of him in the second. Crow 2 is a film of what happened to Eric Draven in the first and is simply a story of someone else.Just like in the first film a man has his loved one(s) taken from him in a terrible way and then killed, again in a horrible way. For the second time, A Crow guides this tormented man back to the land of the living to claim revenge on those who killed him.Ironically, he meets up with Sarah, a now grown woman from the first who feels for the Crow and sacrifices her life so that he can live and avenge his and his son's death.A very sad and apocolyptic film that depicts the grimy, evil way that humans are steering towards themselves to in the future to come but also keeps the powerful love factor from the first.If you were an obsessive Crow fan, see this film. If not, you may find it hard to understand and will not enjoy it as much... "},{"Title":"Not as commercial as many have thought...","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  Many people who claim to be crowfans say that this film isn't what the Crow is all about but they don't bother to explain why. Many of those people only like the first film and nothing else. While the first movie is my favorite film, it's sequel is certainly worthy of the Crow title and upholds the mythology set by the first film.This movie could have been better than it was, however. 1/4 of the movie was left on the cutting room floor. Alternate dialogue. Alternate endings. The very good fight/death scene of Kali was actually a great scene beforehand. She doesn't die as soon as she is thrown out the window, but there is some additionally dialogue that expands both her character and the character of Ashe.When a powerless Ashe falls from grace at the end of the film, rather than Danny's ghost telling his father that if you stop now, we can never be together, Danny tells Ashe that it's time to go but Ashe refuses because he can't leave Sarah to die. With that, Danny turns his back on his father and we don't see him for the rest of the film. This scene solifies Ashe's internal conflict in a very tragic, heart-breaking manor.What internal conflict you ask? Ashe was torn on whether or not he should complete his mission and join his son in the afterlife or stay with Sarah in the world of the living. You weren't aware of this in the film? It was really only hinted at in the current version. So it all ends happily right? Ashe, Sarah, and Danny are cross into the land of the dead and we have one big happy family, right? Wrong. In the original version, Ashe doesn't go back because his crow is too...well, dead to carry his soul back to the land of the dead. So he is forced to walk the earth separated from those he really loves.COA was originally a more depressing take on the themes of the first film. There was less similarity in story. Saldy, many scenes were cut for no reason and the ending was changed to make the film more hollywood. What could have been a great film with a great story turned out to be a visually impressive film with vague bits and pieces of a story. It didn't have the deep emotional story of the first because it didn't try to. It was a rather depressing drama of a hero who succeeds and fails at the same time. A different take on the Crow.But the complaints of the story being too similar does ring true here. Mostly because the stuff that made it different was cut. The makers were probably afraid of fan backlash. Ironic, huh? Vincent Perez was AWESOME as Ashe. I like Brandon Lee better, but Perez manages to give a good performance of a man who contemplates what exactly to do with the second chance he's been given. He also has the insanity thing going well for him. He's different from Brandon Lee/Eric Draven. Standouts from the supporting cast are Iggy Pop and Thomas Jane. Jane's strip club scene was hilarious and Iggy gives a badly written role more energy than it deserved. His scenes with Vincent were great.There were downsides besides the ones I just mentioned. The movie lacked the good action sequences of the first film. There were a few stand outs but that's it. I was displeased that they never showed Ashe's wounds heal up. The final confrontation between Ashe and Judah should've been longer. The CGI in the movie was terrible. Judah should have been savagely picked apart when he was attacked by the crows, not disappear into nothing. The girl who played Sarah could get extremely annoying at times and the early scenes that focus on her are quite boring. It takes a bit too long for Ashe to get painted up and start on his mission. Why some of the crap scenes were left in and some of the good parts were cut out is a mystery.Oh and for those who complain about this movie disrespecting Brandon Lee, how do you figure that? Really, I'd like to know. I've heard that this movie was done for money...all movies are done for money. Yes, even the first Crow.All in all, COA does have serious problems and an annoying plothole or two, but it is far from one of the worst movies ever. See it if you liked the first film and you're looking for an alternative story with the same themes.Current Version-6 If the original footage was left intact-8.5 or 9 "},{"Title":"Though Hated by Fans, This Film is a Compelling and Unique Take on the Crow Legend","Date":"10 June 2006","Score":"21 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" The first Crow film was a brilliant and Gothic re-visioning of a graphic Novel. Eric Draven was played by Brandon Lee who notoriously died during the making of the film. But even though he died, his work as the main protagonist was very memorable and chilling, and yet sympathetic and beautiful. It would be hard to top something like his performance. This sequel to THE CROW, entitled THE CROW CITY OF ANGELS, takes place in a warped version of L.A. Death and filth litter the streets and the whole city is cast in an ugly and disturbing color of grotesque characters and dust. The lighting to this film is ugly and dark, not unlike CITY OF LOST CHILDREN or NOSFORATU, only more natural feeling. The main character of this film automatically achieves a more personal edge to why he would murder thugs because instead of his girlfriend being raped and murdered like in the first one, this time it is his son. So the loss of an innocent soul feels more justified by murder of the people who did it. Ashe is pulled out from a watery grave as a walking corpse sent to avenge his son. Unfortunitely there is indeed more to this than what seemed possible because the drug lord Judah has a connection to voodoo powers that could possibly disarm Ashe in his fight to avenge his own flesh and blood. Judah has connections to other worldly forces via a blind woman who he has used to gain power of the city. This film employs negative energy very well and the films setting feels lifeless. This way, the film allows us to feel more sorry for the people who live in it by giving us no limits of which the depravity can go. The musical score, while it is true it is not as effective as the first one, casts just the right amount of a somber spirit and hopelessness. This film is excessively gross and violent but doesn't become a distraction since the whole city is full of gross and violent tone. Fans of the Crow hated this film and I can see why. But I felt that this film's lifelessness worked well due to the constant feeling of depression and hate. Vincent Perez plays Ashe with the perfect amount of sympathy and the viewer can feel sorry for him. However, we cannot be scared of him because all of the barely human characters that surround him and much more frightening. When he kills his prey, we are delighted and happy that he got his revenge. The first film was a good combination of extremely violent content and gore mixed with morals and feeling. Nobody in this film has much emotion and feeling except for Ashe, who truly has more than enough. He is shown as a victim and continues to be a victim throughout because the city is so full of them. He cannot gain anything and he is understandably sad. When it comes right down to it, its hard to really compare the two films because the first film is so perfect and so beautiful and the second film, when compared to the first, feels so flawed and ugly. It is really all up to the viewer to decide. I thought this sequel was great and would gladly watch it again. I'd say anyone interested in the set design process of film making should definitely watch this along with the first film. "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" Do not let anyone tell you this is a poor remake of the original. The film is absolutely beautiful, but if you're one of those closed-minded fans who only like The Crow because of Brandon Lee, you will never give this sequel a chance to prove its self that it could be just as good as the original.The storyline is a good one. Revenging your son's death rather than your girlfriend's is a lot more deep. Sarah is gorgeous and has a dark sense of style. Vincent Perez was also a fine choice to play Ashe.There are some very beautiful quotes in the film too.There really is nothing wrong with this film. I don't have the slightest clue why people hate it.9.5/10 "},{"Title":"Very Good! I Really Enjoyed It","Date":"31 December 2004","Score":"48 out of 88 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" Stop criticising this movie! Surly it's no match for the first Crow movie, but in the long run it's a totally different movie to the first. The Characters are different, The actors are different, the villains are different and technically the story is different, for in the first movie, It's Eric Draven's Fiancée that gets murdered and the sequel, It's Ashe's SON that get's murdered.O.K. maybe i'm wrong, it more likely is a sequel. But it's not a sequel to the first crow film, it does not follow the same story, it's about a completely different person.The message I'm trying to get through to you is Stop thinking of it as a sequel. Think of it as it's own movie, THEN you'll enjoy it better. Walk down to a video store near you, and rent it out. Just give the damn movie a chance. "},{"Title":"The evidence is right in front of you....","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  I could go on a more-than-1000-word rant on the underrated good elemtsn of this movie versus the horrible ones....what misfired, and what should've been brought to light...and I was about to a few minutes ago. However, it was in the middle of this rant that i decided to check out the alternate versions section of this movie's info....And apparently, we've all seen a raped movie.The scenes detailed there are PRECISELY what this movie required to make it work the way it should have. Of particular interest is the alternate ending, in which Ashe eventually chooses to stay on earth with Sarah than return to the afterlife, and is apparently punished forhis sentiments with eternity on earth. Even though I am one of the few who believes the ending is actually one of the film's strong points(except for the barrage of crows thing...unexplained in the film, but, according to the alternate versions section, has an explanation), this ending is a much more suitable one to The Crow's universe....so, the question raised is Why? A biggert question raised is Where can I see this?I'd continue, but i dont think any more   should be said until someone sees this print in motion. "},{"Title":"underrated on all fronts","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  this is a surprisingly great movie. in fact, i'd say the crow trilogy is one of the best in the horror/dark action/supernatural genre. all the films are different enough to establish their own personality, but still similar enough in that they follow the exploits of a wronged man trying seeking vengeance. this film does what a sequel should do. while you can't continue the exploits of the eric draven, it brings back sarah from the first movie and continues the story of the crow granting a victim a chance to make things right. the only problem is it suffered from having to follow the legacy of the 1st crow movie. i thoroughly enjoyed the first crow movie, but i must say this is better in just about every aspect. it is shot so much better. in the first one, they try to make the film dark by washing out all the colors. this one achieves to be more twisted and sinister just by using darker hues and washing out most of the bright colors. it also has a deeper sense of foreboding and impending doom, and makes it villains darker and more mysterious by adding a slight touch of mysticism and perversion. vincent perez is fantastic as the crow, playing a more vulnerable ashe to lee's draven. he provides a more frustrated and frantic feel to his vengeance. he also adds more desperation, remembering his final moments when dispatching his enemies. mia kirshner is excellent as sarah and plays the role with just enough emotion to purvey her pain suffering but also an understanding of the crow mythos. the script is better written, making the film darker without resorting to stripping the film of color. the villains are made more sadistic and the crime to spark the crow more tragic. there is also a tighter feel between the characters by having it take place in what appears to be a pretty empty city except for during the climax. i dont want to ruin it, but the setting within the setting helps the story move along so much better to. tim pope does a superb job directing, adding an extra bit of flair to all the visuals from scene to scene while still the more gothic, medieval feel of the film. the soundtrack is also so much better. it isn't as all over the place as the first and maintains the intended feel of the movie with all of its tracks. it is also masterfully peppered throughout the movie, picking just the right song at just the right moment to add the little extra bit of feeling that help completes the scene. this film has just about all the ingredients of an underrated classic.  my advice to you is to go out and rent this movie, but when you watch it forget about the legacy surrounding the crow and just try to enjoy it.  "},{"Title":"A Crow With Broken Wings.","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  CROW &#150; CITY OF ANGELS is the inevitable follow up to the classic 1994 gothic thriller THE CROW. The laws that state all sequels must be inferior to their predecessors are faithfully obeyed here and the result is a rather mundane and disappointing motion picture that flat lines the whole franchise. Here Vincent Perez (badly miscast) gives a weak performance as the doting single father returning from his watery grave to wreak bloody vengeance upon the gang who killed him and his son. He is aided, in his quest by Sarah; a doe-eyed tattoo artist who fans of the series will note is actually the little girl who was befriended by the central character in the original movie. The film manages to be watchable; the apocalyptic cityscapes work quite well, however a maker of music videos directs CROW &#150; CITY OF ANGELS and it shows in every frame. The film totally lacks the edge of raw emotion and inner pain that made the original movie so effective. All you are left with in the end is a gothic re-working of the DEATH WISH movies with nothing to redeem it once you get tired of the garish purple, yellow and green colour schemes. The main merit of this poor film is the raw performance of legendary rocker Iggy Pop as a cocaine-snorting villain. My rating &#150; 5 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"Wrong place, at the wrong time","Date":"4 May 2008","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" I adore the original film that starred Brandon Lee as the avenging angel brought back from the dead. Now a sequel was probably inevitable, and I remember being largely disappointed by it with its wearily cut-up story, dour performances and diluted action. Well nothing has changed the second time around. Again I can't knock that killer hard-rock / industrial sounding soundtrack, haunting score and the dark, Gothic embellishment creating an atmospherically catastrophe post-apocalyptic Los Angeles. It's dirty, smoggy and jarringly bleak. Jean Yves Escoffier's cinematography lenses it with the right free-spirited. However there's nothing overly memorable, or even powerfully gripping to draw any real emotion and interest form the suffocatingly drab and unimaginative narrative. By following the same patterns of the original's tragedy, it doesn't lay any new groundwork. It was a tediously repetitive mess that seemed more fantasy-based and conjures up a script that's weakly penned. Vincent Perez's avenging soul is unconvincingly void in a tortured performance, which doesn't create much heart-ache or grace. There's no imprint, or witty charisma that Lee evoked. Honestly I didn't feel anything. Richard Brooks flimsily strolls by with no impressionable stance as the head villain. Mia Kirshner gives a sound performance and Iggy Pop delightfully chews up the scenery to spit it out. Director Tim Pope can formulate some flourishing visuals and lasting poses, but when it came to setting everything in motion. Flat and unexciting comes to mind. His action set-pieces lacked zest and seemed to plod like they're sliced up music video clips. Never did it infuse any real sense of energy, thrills and urgency. In the end it feels just like a cheap, quick and empty rehash. "},{"Title":"I always loved this film. Give a chance.","Date":"28 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" I'm a long-time fan of this film but I won't go off and say that I don't understand why people trash it. Like any film, The Crow City of Angels isn't for everyone. Believe it or not, the first Crow film wasn't for everyone either. I will say that I did not like this film the first time I saw it. I am a major fan of the first and it's hard to enter the sequel with an open mind and clear perception. The second time I saw this film is when I fell in love with it and was able to by viewing it as it's own film. If you're going to sit there and compare it to the original, chances are you will never be happy with it. If you compared many movies to the first crow film you would never be happy with them either. I love this film completely separate from it's original counterpart. Though Miramax tried to make this a mirror image of the first film do not expect to see what you saw in the first film. This is a different place, a different man, and a different story. In my opinion it is the best of the sequels. Now, the third and forth crow films... whether I compare them to the first or not I just don't like them. They did not interest me in the slightest and I'm sorry I ever watched them.First off, there are throwbacks to the original film. Sarah is grown up and living as a goth tattoo artist in a grungy, post-apocalyptic Los Angeles. Sarah still wears Shelly's ring and has taken care of their cat Gabriel. She is also a painter. She's working on a painting of Eric and Shelly in which it's imagery comes full circle at the end of the movie. However, unlike the original crow film and its other sequels we're not watching the same story. This is what pisses me off about Salvation and Wicked Prayer They recycle the man and his girlfriend gets killed scenario. Eric Draven already did that. There's no need for multiple, watered down versions of this story. In The Crow City of Angels, Ashe Corven (Vincent Perez) and his young son Danny are killed by a drug cartel when they witness something they shouldn't have. Killing anyone is crossing the line but killing a child crosses multiple. For anyone who has been a parent this story will evoke your fear of losing a child. That story in it's own right is very terrifying.The bad guys are an interesting bunch. We have a Pre-punisher Thomas Jane as the perverted Nemo, the energetic and comical bad guy, Spider-monkey, Iggy Pop as Curve, along with Thuy Trang who was the original Yellow Ranger in the Mighty Morphin' Power Rangers. We also have Richard Brooks as the guy in charge, Judah. He's no Top Dollar but let me tell you, Brooks prevails in making you hate him throughout this film. This band of criminals aren't quite as interesting as T-bird's gang was in the original movie. That's okay. I don't want them to be because they're the bad guys and I'm supposed to hate them. In this film, you don't explore their personalities until they are about to die but we do spend a significant amount of time with Curve (Iggy Pop). Iggy brought just the right amount of energy into the film because the rest of the villains are overly calm and collected.I understand Vincent Perez's performance throws some people off. I happen to love and admire Vincent Perez as an actor mainly because of this film and his role in Queen of the Damned. I even admire the fact that he used subtle crow-like movements throughout the film. My perception is that we're supposed to believe the crow and the man are one entity divided. I truly felt that in Perez's performance. There's even a scene in the original cut of the film where the crow morphs into Ashe viewed from a shadow on the wall. You can actually still find it in the original trailer. That along with other things was left to die on the editing room floor, I guess. Perez did a great job in securing all the different emotions of the character. He's killing his killers but even when he does he's not becoming them.What I love most about this film is that on the technical end it was executed almost flawlessly from cinematography, lighting, coloration, production design and wardrobe. This film had everything I wanted to see in a movie. It had all the elements that Hollywood blockbusters are supposed to have. Highly stylized, strikingly visual, and mesmerizing.My last statement is that it bothers me that some people act like Brandon Lee is going to put a curse on them if they show any interest in the sequel. It is not disrespectful to Brandon Lee that this film was made. Them trying to remake the original? I find that much more disrespectful than anything. It's like they are trying to erase the original and Brandon Lee's performance in it whereas the sequels were more about trying to capitalize on it. This entire review is my personal opinion. Like I said, The Crow City of Angels wasn't for everyone. Take it or leave it as you please but I'm not afraid to say this has always been one of my favorite films. "}{"Title":"Do You Know What They Call A Gathering Of Crows... A Murder Of Crows","Date":"19 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" Anyone Who Thinks This Is A Bad Film Should Get Another Look. David S. Goyer Is One Of My Favourite Writers & Lately I Forgot How Good He Really Is (Well I Didn't See Any Of His Movies Lately So Enough Said) & This Film Reminded Me Again. The Plot Is That Some time ago, Ashe Corven and his son Danny were killed when they stumbled across a pack of drug dealers murdering a fellow dealer. The dealers work for Los Angeles drug kingpin Judah Earl. Local tattoo artist Sarah, who has great knowledge of the crow legend because of what happened with her late friend Eric Draven, has been having dreams about Ashe and Danny. One night when a crow leads her to the scene of the murders of Ashe and Danny, Ashe appears before her. The crow has resurrected Ashe, so Ashe can go after Judah and his right hand man Curve. With the guidance of the crow, Ashe starts killing off Judah's men one by one, on his way to Judah. Richard Brooks Is A Great Villain Now The Only Thing I Must Do Is Get My Hands On A Comic Book Of The Crow. Remember My Amnesia Marathon (They Call Me Trinity, Universal Soldier & Mammoth) This Made Me Recover. Vincent Perez Is An Excellent Crow (No Offense But The Worst Was Brandon Lee). Take A Look. You Wont Be Disappointed. "},{"Title":"There will be another...","Date":"27 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" OK, the original Crow was an extremely good movie that is worthy of the pedestal it's placed on.That being said; it's time to put that thought up for a while and open up our minds to the potential of the second film, The Crow City of Angels.I admit, this movie is definitely not as good as the first one, but it's still a great film. The original Crow was geared more towards the action, the vengeance, and the intensity of the unfolding story of Eric Draven's revenge. Brandon Lee was very much an action star who had quite a legacy given to him from his father. He was the perfect candidate for a film like the Crow because they wanted to blow people away with the theatrics of it all. City of Angles does just the opposite. Vincent Perez is a silky smooth, romancer not an action hero (just look at the guy, he has an innocence about him that institutes sympathy for his character, while Lee, being very much an opposite, is a hard edged man with a mission that gets your adrenaline going as you cheer on his character). Also, the whole look and feel of the film is very different from the first. The Crow was very dark and shadowy, it had a sort of cool (as in temperature) feel to it, like the scene where Eric saves Sarah from the car and they talk on the curb for a bit, you could almost feel the coldness of the environment; the film portrayed beauty through a realistic and stark cold darkness. The Crow City of Angels was lighter and more mesmerizing and dreamlike. The environment feels like something from an elaborate dream, and that's a huge reason why this film does not fail, because its atmosphere is very captivating. It's warm and refreshing. This feel goes great with the second film because it's more of a romantic style, while the first film was more of an action/vengeance movie (which is why it's so awesome).City of Angels is an atmospheric movie (rather than a thriller) that adds a new flavor to the Crow series by using the same base with a different formula.The only way to really enjoy this film is to watch it with an absolutely open mind free of any wandering memory of the original film. Vincent Perez is not Brandon Lee, Los Angeles is not Detroit, Sarah is all grown up now, Tim Pope is not Alex Proyas, A son is not a fiancé', and The Crow City of Angels is not a sequel it's a new chapter in the life of a series.The Crow and The Crow City of Angels are two branches from the same tree; they may look similar, they may act similar, but, at heart, they are two separate things. "},{"Title":"great film","Date":"20 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" I give this film max marks man, I'm a massive fan of the original The Crow and like the last person said it is best to watch this film as a separate movie.At first i didn't and i was angry they thought they could rip the hell out the original and then i stopped myself and just gave it a chance, once i realised its about a different character altogether i did see it as a different film altogether and liked it enough to keep watching it and repeat watching it a few times might i add.This film is very well made, love the acting love the scenes love the style of it, everything, its dark and seductive to watch, you get sucked in to it well once you treat it like a separate film.brilliant watch, if you haven't seen it, its a must see! go rent it! ) "},{"Title":"i had reservations--and was pleasantly surprised!  what a follow-up!","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  i was really skeptical about how this movie would turn out in comparison to the GREAT original Crow--who could possibly compare to Brandon???  but Vincent Perez totally blew me away--his acting lent such intense emotion to the physicality of his role as the avenging spirit.  i've seen some of his other work (indochine, bride of the wind, queen of the damned) and that is one thing he always beings to every role--very evocative displays of emotion that really bring you into the film.  and Mia was a perfect choice for Sarah!  what a great little gothgirl she was!  i think the special effects weren't over the top--and the whole lighting and smog/fog effects worked --for me  anyway.  the only shortcoming was the soundtrack--the first Crow had a perfect selection of songs--especially the Cure's burn, Nine Inch Nail's dead souls and My Life with the Thrill Kill Kult's after the flesh.  on City of Angel's soundtrack, the only song that stood out for me was White Zombie's i'm your boogieman.  so here's one positive vote in favor of The Crow  City of Angels.... "},{"Title":"A tale of love and revenge","Date":"12 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  Against the macabre backdrop of the traditional Day of the Dead celebration, The Crow City of Angels tells a new chapter in the gothic urban mythology of Love transcending Death.Creating an all-new incarnation of the brooding dark hero--the victim of urban violence returned to the living world to exact personal justice--Vincent Perez portrays Ashe, the young man who emerges from the night of his own horrific murder with the mysterious powers of the Crow.He returns to seek out and destroy the most savage criminals in a surrealistic city of preponderant evil. As he sets out on his fateful mission, Ashe becomes drawn to Sarah, some-one with whom he seems to share psychic and emotional bonds.Mia Kirshner plays Sarah, the young woman who as a young teenager first encountered The Crow and cannot escape this connection with her past. Legendary punk rocker Iggy Pop also stars as one of the cold-blooded killers responsible for Ashe's brutal death. "},{"Title":"Stunning","Date":"12 November 1998","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  I was amazed at the way that this movie's tone really set a poetic mood.  The visuals and the acting make this movie out to be good.  Vincent Perez deserves a lot of credit for having to use an almost virtually identical script and yet still create a whole new character.  The lighting crew did a great job.  It portrayed this as a entirely new and original movie.  "},{"Title":"A slap in the face to O'Barr, and all involved with the original film","Date":"6 July 2009","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" As a fan of Mystery Science Theater 3000, and the general practice of mocking bad films I can honestly say that there was no redeeming value in 'The Crow City of Angels.' The film is just downright sloppy, and very unnecessary given the plot of the first film and how it didn't warrant a sequel in ANY way, but you know Hollywood if one film makes a profit they need to try and repeat that film's formula and cash in again.This movie was a low-budget film, roughly $18 million in total cost, which doesn't say anything about the quality, because Alex Proyas, with a simple $15 million managed to make the first film- one of the most visually captivating comic-based films of all time. But what the disadvantage this film does have is that director Tim Pope has nowhere near the talent of Proyas. In fact, 95% of this film's visual style is a carbon copy of the original film, only now most of the city is lit by bright, YELLOW lights, and it happens to be situated beside the ocean. Other than this the style of this film is a rip-off and being a rip-off fails to captivate the mind of the audience in the same way as the first film.Not to rip on Vincent Perez, but his performance as the new Crow was downright despicable- a pale, heartless imitation of Brandon Lee's critically acclaimed character in the first film. This is probably more the fault of the director and scriptwriters, but regardless, this comes across more as a perversion of Brandon Lee than of a new character picking up the mantle of the Gothic anti-hero.The script is one of the cheesiest you'll ever see. There is literally a point where the villain kills and drinks the blood of the crow and then gets the strength of the Crow. This makes absolutely no sense and in no way reflects ANY of the mythos in either the first film or the comic series.The Crow is just too simple of a story to be made into an effective franchise because the formula runs like so guy and loved one are brutally murdered, guy kills dudes who murdered him and said loved one, leaving a crow emblem at the crime scene, then when he's done he dies and joins loved one in afterlife. This is all The Crow is. It was good for one movie, but it just cannot be turned into a franchise.Keep in mind, I was half asleep when this movie was on TV, and even then -the time of day when I'm most acceptable of bad movies- I still managed to hate this movie with a passion, and not because I was a fan of the original, or because I had read bad buzz surrounding the movie (I hadn't even HEARD of it before that fateful night- and for good reason!) , but because I honestly, and truly could not stand ANY aspect of this film.If you enjoyed the first film and the James O'Barr comic book, don't do as I did do the smart thing. Avoid 'The Crow City of Angels' with every ounce of your being. "},{"Title":"This Movie is Extraordinary","Date":"25 December 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" I found the movie quite interesting, the history is the typical in the crow saga, the movie is complex and raw, better in some aspect than the original. This is one of my favorites; i haven't seen Vincent Perez and Mia performance until this movie, i think their expressions are strong, they transmit the sadness of his character in a very convincing way, the villain are extravagant but i found Iggy's Pop character the best, I from México, and i particular like the way the director present the dead's altar and the way the woman described how we deal with dead and grieve, Mia looks gorgeous in this movie. I broadly recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Highly Under-rated","Date":"4 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" I admit, I didn't want to see this movie when it first came out. I just couldn't picture anyone else in Brandon Lee's role and was pretty mad that they would even make another Crow movie after what happened to him. I was pretty young at the time. Then, I got older and realized a few things.It's not as good as the first one. But what sequel is? And, let's face it, the title will always make us think of Brandon Lee.The biggest complaint about the movie seems to be, Vincent Perez can not replace Brandon Lee. It's true. He can't. No one can. The thing you absolutely have to keep in mind is, he is not *supposed* to replace him. He plays a completely different character in a very different storyline. There are similarities, of course, but the story is different.*MILD SPOILERS AHEAD*Vincent Perez, in his American debut, plays Ashe Corven, a man who, along with his young son, is in exactly the wrong place at exactly the wrong time, witnessing a brutal murder. As the only witnesses, they are silenced by the killers, with Ashe begging them to spare his son the entire time.Sarah, the young girl from the first movie, played by Mia Kirshner, is now an adult living in Los Angeles. She recalls vividly what happened years ago in Detroit and doesn't think it will ever happen again. That is, until a crow shows up at her apartment to lead her to Ashe, who has arisen and will need her help.The two form a bond and she tells him why he was brought back; to avenge the deaths of himself and his son, Danny, along with all the others that have been killed by the gang who killed them.Things get complicated, however, when an attraction begins to form. Once Ashe's mission is complete, he will be sent back to the land of the dead. And he will never rest, or be reunited with Danny, until it has been done.It gets even more complicated when Sarah is targeted by the same gang for helping Ashe.Despite the bad reviews, the cast gives a worthy performance. Perez brings Ashe's emotions to life in a way that many could not. He also did most of his own stunts, which give the scenes a more realistic look. It makes one wonder why, exactly, he has not become a popular actor in the U.S.A.Mia Kirshner plays a believable version of Sarah. Not the same as her predecessor, obviously, as the character has changed with the years.All in all, if you can remember that Ashe Croven and Eric Draven are two different characters, you can enjoy this movie very much. If not, well, then you will probably be among those who are not overly fond of the movie. "},{"Title":"A Beautiful Story","Date":"23 February 2005","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" If anyone tells you that Crow The city of Angels is just a poor shadow of The Crow, don't listen! The City of Angels is not just a dark and gripping story of pain and revenge. It's much much more. It complements the first movie perfectly, without messing up the whole point. Ash (perez) is wonderful as the main character, not letting you forget for a moment what drives him in his revenge. But what amazed me most is that, as Ash goes through his victims one by one, his ways of dealing with them is not just fearsome, but...beautiful. I mean, some of those scenes really catch your aesthetic eye. And just a look into the girl's eyes takes you into a whole new perspective on things.The Crow City of Angels makes a dark movie beautiful. And what else do you expect from part II? "}{"Title":"Not Great - But Sufficiently Entertaining...","Date":"21 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" I gave this sequel seven stars because, despite the fact that this film has some problems, it's still a good popcorn pusher - and there are worse ways to waste over an hour of your precious mortal life span. It's not Oscar material - but it's OK. Some parts were even emotionally satisfying.I liked Vincent Perez in the title role. He brought an interesting level of maturity to the character, and the fact that he was not playing a natively born American Crow gave a new sense of cosmic universality to the concept of the possessing avenging spirit that is the Crow character essentially. Although I liked the plot twist that the Crow was avenging his child as opposed to a wife or lover because it gave the film somewhat of a different, more across the board emotional relatability, I still felt that about 70% of the film was a template derivative of the original, with far too many common elements to fully assert it's expectations to truly stand on it's own.Richard Brooks made an interesting arch nemesis, but the character of Judah Earl I found to be a little too self absorbed and narcissistic to really invest a great deal of focus on. Brooks's character was more interested in complete personal exaltation and fulfillment and less interested in a grander ethos, which made his motivations too one dimensional and cliché for me to be interested in. Brooks however did do well with the predictable character profile that he was provided by the writers - and I think that he pushed it as far as he could as a gifted actor.Mia Kirshner's character of Sarah, apparently the little girl from the original Crow film, was disappointing. The character of the child Sarah from the original Brandon Lee film was a tough kid that was practical, down to Earth, and that had a more pragmatic, everyday way of looking at things - while Mia Kirshner's Sarah was too vulnerable, creepy, and far too witchy to be believed as the adult extension of the original. Kirshner's character in this film would have been the last place that you would have expected the original character of Sarah to have ended up. It seemed to be a device created by the writers to over accentuate the occultism of the film - which was overkill and over saturating. My problem is not with Kirshner's performance, it was splendid - it was with the revised update of her character that deviated far too much from the personality of the original Sarah character that it undermined the character's continuity from the first film.All in all - not a bad film, but it could have been a lot better, had the film makers been more attentive to the defining elements of the original film, yet had taken the time to develop some of the characters better - and had deleted a few of the more derivative cliché character types and elements. "},{"Title":"Not Bad","Date":"20 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" Everybody who saw The Crow (1994), a grisly but formulaic back-fr0m-the-dead revenge melodrama, knows actor Brandon Lee died from an accidental gunshot wound on the set during filming. Strangely enough, Lee's untimely demise boosted the box office appeal of The Crow. The success prompted Miramax Pictures to release a sequel of sorts The Crow City of Angels. Not only have the film producers replaced Lee with another actor, but they also have conjured up an entirely new character. Sequels typically fail to live up to the high standards of most original films, but The Crow City of Angels proves the exception to the rule. The message of The Crow City of Angels, a nihilistic supernatural sadomasochistic saga, is that love is sometimes stronger than death. Nevertheless, love takes a backseat to violence in this expressionistic follow-up to the ill-fated but financially successful original. Instead, the filmmakers aim their cameras like guns at the more unsavory narrative elements brutal murders and echoes of deviant sexual practices with an incidental node to the love aspect.The premise of the first Crow reechoes throughout the sequel. When somebody dies, a crow carries the soul to the land of the dead. Occasionally, something so horrible occurs that a soul can find no rest. In such a case, the crow leads the soul back to the living so that injustices can be resolved. David Goyer, who penned the original Crow, tinkers rather than tampers with the surefire formula that yielded a $50 million haul at the box office. A cadaverous hero rises from the grave and destroys a depraved gang of low-life hemorrhoids. In The Crow City of Angels, a twenty-something auto mechanic, Ashe Corven (Vincent Perez of Queen Margot), and his young son Danny (Eric Acosta of Cheerleader Massacre 2) witness a gangland execution by a drug kingpin called Judah.The setting has been changed from the Motor City to the City of Angels. Instead of hoodlums celebrating Devil's Night, as in the original, here citizens participate in the Day of the Dead ceremonies designed to discourage departing spirits from lingering with the living. Eight years have elapsed since the first movie, and Sarah (Mia Kirshner of Not Another Teen Movie) is the only hold-over character from the original. Sarah has grown up, moved to Los Angeles, and now runs a tattoo parlor. Sarah has been having nightmares lately, about a double homicide.A crow flies into her apartment, and she follows it to the harbor where the bodies of Ash and his son were dumped. The crow revives Ashe, and he emerges in a frothy fountain of bubbles before Sarah's eyes. When Ashe embarks on his revenge, Sarah paints his face in the same Harlequin pattern as Eric Draven's from the first film. Only this time, she uses Ashe's dead son's paints, giving it a truly symbolic meaning. Ashe begins knocking off Judah's (Richard Brooks) henchmen, working his way, as he calls it up the food chain to Judah himself. The villains comprise an undeniably loathsome bunch. You'd certainly never invite these scumbags home to meet your parents. Curve, (plug-ugly Iggy Pop of Tank Girl) resembles death warmed over, while a dark smooth-skinned Richard Brooks as Judah presents a commanding presence. The drug dealing merchant of pain here is so repellent that he display little remorse when a poorly mixed batch of his own narcotics kills his customers. Every time one of these reptilian characters dies, the image of a crow appears around him. For example, when Ashe pitches one baddie from a window, the blood from the dead person's head coagulates in a puddle shaped like a crow.Compared with the first film, City of Angels isn't as violent. There is nothing here that comes off as violent as the table scene where Brandon Lee's Eric Draven got blasted by a barrage of gunfire. French heartthrob Vincent Perez animates his slain avenger with a Gallic exuberance. Perez's performance also conveys a quality that makes his character vulnerable and at the same time somewhat melancholy because he is deprived of life. Ashe reveals his reluctance to Sarah to blindly adhere to the fix path that fate has paved for him. Audiences learn the bare minimum about him. All we know about his wife is that she abounded him and their son after she became a drug addict. Unlike Eric Draven, Ashe's body doesn't erase the signs of violence. Gunshot wounds don't magically vanish. He spends more time tooling about on his motorcycle in search of felons and he never carries the crow around on his shoulder.Goyer's episodic script resembles a formula Republic serial from the 1940s. A mysterious hero enters a destitute city and topples a tyrant. Compared with the longer original film, City of Angels amounts to a severely pared down exercise in minimalism. The filmmakers have sacrificed exposition, which would clarify characters and story, for supercharged, headlong momentum. If you're looking for exposition, try the web site for The Crow City of Angels, because only the most essential information for pushing the plot forward remains in the film. Goyer and director Tim Pope keep the narrative simple, the characters shallow, and the story free from complications or digressive sub-plots. Extraneous characters, such as Ernie Hudson's cop from the first Crow don't clutter up the storyline. The Crow City of Angels marks the motion picture debut of music-video director Tim Pope. Previously, Pope helmed music videos for Paul McCartney, Iggy Pop, Queen, and David Bowie. Pope clearly draws on his background so that his Crow boasts a fast-paced, no-nonsense, imagine intensive appearance. The film possesses a murky, Gothic look. Smoke swirls around the different bombed-out nocturnal settings, and Pope bathes different scenes in harsh, abrasive color schemes. The wide-angled point of view shots from the perspective of the craw have an avant-garde quality. You don't need to have seen The Crow to appreciate The Crow City of Angeles. "},{"Title":"Daddys gonna buy you a big black bird........","Date":"25 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" Some time ago, Ashe Corven and his son Danny were killed when they stumbled across a pack of drug dealers murdering a fellow dealer.The dealers work for Los Angeles drug kingpin Judah. Local tattoo artist Sarah, who has great knowledge of the crow legend because of what happened with her late friend, has been having dreams about Ashe and Danny.One night when a crow leads her to the scene of the murders of Ashe and Danny, Ashe appears before her.The crow has resurrected Ashe, so Ashe can go after Judah and his right hand man Curve.With the guidance of the crow, Ashe starts killing off Judah's men one by one, on his way to Judah.Yes, many think that this film is sacrilege and trounces on Lees grave, but in my opinion, it's a great sequel, very dark, and seems very visceral at times.I love the first movie, it has that tone to it and obviously what happened to Lee makes the film more poignant and essential. It was inevitable that there was going to be a sequel as the film shouts our franchise, whether you like it or not.Perez is obviously no Lee, but he wasn't supposed to be, he is his own 'Crow' ans this film has more of a paternal feel to it, rather than the dark romanticism of the first.And this is where the film usurps the first, the villains in this are more entertaining, even if they are over the top and more theatrical. Judah though, isn't a patch on Top Dollar, but has some good scenes and hilarious dialogue.So all in all it's a sequel, but a heavily underrated one, thanks to obsessed fans of the first who dismissed this.The set pieces are great, the soundtrack as dark as the first, and a whole 'dusk' vibe throughout the whole movie.It's obviously directed by a music video director, as the editing is sharp and some of the cinematography is stark.It's okay to say that this movie is good, you won't offend anyone, or lose the mysticism of the original. "},{"Title":"Great visuals, a twist on the story","Date":"21 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" To be honest, this movie doesn't deserve the hate it gets. The visuals are amazing, and the city feels fleshed out. It really feels like you're in a drug infested Los Angeles in the middle of the 90's, something the first film achieved greatly. They didn't go cheesy with this movie as much as they did the titles that followed it (with Ed Furlong and the other guy), but people still see it as a remake. It's actually a sequel, with a more pure love in my opinion than the first movie. I enjoyed the movie, try to watch it with an open mind. Vincent Perez does a great job as the lead role, and completely steals the spotlight from everyone else in the film. It's worth watching for him alone. "},{"Title":"Love it.","Date":"24 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" I watched this movie a few years ago then I watched it again quite recently and I loved it. I've read quite a few things about people going on how Vincent Perez is trying to replace Brandon Lee. He isn't really. They play two totally different characters. Thus affecting how Ashe and Eric react differently when they are borough back in both films. They are two DIFFERENT people. Looking past this and actually looking at the movie I still love it even if it is a bit dodgy in places. All the actors did a great job in this film. I think had a directors cut of this film been done and it had not been so mulled by Miramax it could have done really well. "},{"Title":"Great, underrated sequel","Date":"21 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" directed by Tim Popecast Vincent Perez, Mia Kirshner, Richard Brooks, and Iggy Pop.plot Sarah (Mia Kirshner) is now all grown up and living in Los Angelus. She has dreams of another man returning from the dead with the powers of the crow. Enter Ashe (Vincent Perez), who is murdered along with his son by a group of thugs into drugs and the occult. He rises to seek revenge with the help of a mysterious crow and Sarah, who he has a psychic bond with.the bad Iggy Pop is not that great of an actor and the thugs don't have as much depth as the ones in the original.the good This is a sequel that has it's own story, a different revenge plot, different villains, and a slightly different atmosphere. People do not understand that City of Angels is a separate story and call it a disgrace to Brandon Lee.This has an atmosphere of a post-apocalypse-like Los Angelus that shows a yellowish air, which is still pretty cool. The only connection this has to the first is the character Sarah (who I love) and how she still has Eric's tragedy mask, his cat, and his engagement ring. It was nice to see reference to Brandon Lee's last great character.*** "},{"Title":"An Interesting Find!","Date":"4 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  I am a big movie buff, always have been always will be. I tend to wander around the video section more than DVD's since I like a little variety in my movie. I wandered into the Horror section and picked up some cheesy horror flick with Ron Howard's brother and decided to check it out. While I was walking towards the front of the store I saw the Fantasy/ Sci-Fi section and saw the movie box for 'The Crow City of Angels'. I liked the way the box looked and, knowing Vincent Perez was in it, I figured 'What the heck!' and decided to rent it instead.When I got through watching it I thought 'I have to get this movie!' I had seen the first one a looong time ago and barely remembered it since I was like...8 or 9 but I went out and watched that one as well. I saw a real comparison between plots but it was its own movie. It had some pretty good lines and the acting was great! There were a few times I could scream out what was going to happen but then again most movies you can.It is a really good movie, good acting, good dialogue, and it holds its own. I don't think it is the first movies since it was a lot better but hey! I own both and I love each with the same amount because to be honest it tells the same story but has two different reasons for revenge. I love it! Go out and rent it!  "},{"Title":"A good film in its own right!!","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  I have both films + the pilot of the series of the crow. My belief is that if people did not constantly compare City of Angels the the original then it might have actually made it. Though there are great similarities that probably would have done better to not be included, ie the resemblance of Vincent Perez to the late great Brandon Lee. But i love both films and i am trying to get hold of the Crow Salvation to add to my collection if anyone can help!! "},{"Title":"Nothing really original, but still enjoyable","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  The Crow II City of Angels is pretty much a rehash of the original except for the fact that this Crow has a different reason for his revenge. However, that doesn't mean it's a completely worthless film. It's actually pretty enjoyable and like the original, has great visuals.!!!POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!!A father and son are murdered and thrown into a nearby river. The father is resurrected and with the help of the Sarah from the first film, now grown up, gets revenge on those responsible.A pretty well written script(Even if it isn't original), good acting, and effects. *** out of *****. And then there was 3. "},{"Title":"Good movie on its own..","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  Obviously, many fans of the original movie did not like this supposed sequel.  At a glance, it does steal the same plot points.   But when i first saw it, I saw it as its own movie.  I may not have lost a son but i can feel what Ashe feels.  The only bad point of this movie is the addition of Sarah from the original. "}{"Title":"What can you say?  Sequels are rarely ever impressive, but it does have it's moments.","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  Again I find myself defending a Crow movie.  Not as good as the original, but it is mostly the originals fault.  The studio put so much unneeded pressure on it by over doing it with promotion, and in the long run, it hurt the film.  In my opinion, amazing visuals, and a good story line to work with, but again, comparison to The Crow, which is unfair, hurts the films quality in many people's eyes.  It is hard to replace such a loved star in a movie, and Perez probably had a hard time dealing with the mystique or whatever with the role.  What would you do if you had to play a role that made a man famous, but also cost him his life?  Overall, I think that the story and actual filming of the movie were very good, but the characters often lack substance, but it is a quality movie if you like the series, and I give it much, much higher than the IMDB rating. "},{"Title":"Not bad, just different...","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, this movie has flaws. And, it was done an injustice by being made under The Crow name, which drew the inevitable, damning comparisons to the original, which is well on its way to being a modern classic. But, if you can just forget about the first one for 2 hours, this a completely enjoyable, immersive film that you can easily get lost in.It details the story of Ashe Corven, a young mechanic who, along with his son, is shot and thrown into a river after witnessing a murder. As is the custom in the Crow series, he is brought back by a mysterious Crow to make his killers pay for what they did.Vincent Perez's Ashe is, in my opinion, a completely different character from Brandon Lee's Eric Draven, which says something for Perez since he had to work with a very similar script. When Eric was brought back in the first one, he was initially quite insane, but he was originally able to regain his composure and adopt a more menacingly calm demeanor. As he never regains his sanity. He is completely insane for almost the entire movie. If I were put in his situation, I would probably be more like Ashe than Eric, so this made the character more believable, at least to me. I'll be perfectly honest, I didn't much like the other members of the cast, except for the beautiful and talented Mia Kirshner, and, surprisingly, Iggy Pop, who does an excellent job as one of Ashe's killers.One thing they could have implemented a little better was the romance between Ashe and Sarah. We were given just a brief glimpse of this, just enough to let us know that they were in love. If this could be shown to be a deeper romance, it would have really set this one apart from the first, presenting Perez's character with the moral choice of avenging his son, or forsaking him in favor of Sarah. Seeing as Ashe tells us that his son's mother was a drug addict who ran off after his son was born, it would be a great chance for the character to find the love that he might never have had. But, alas, the production was rushed, and this just was not explored to my satisfaction.So, overall, if you can accept that this movie is a different movie, even with all the similarities, you will be able to watch it and enjoy it. Keep an open mind with this one. "},{"Title":"Simply Breathtaking!","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  True, no sequel can top the original, and I know people will disagree with me on that subject, but I believe that this film had more of an emotional attatchment than the first one did.  Yes, you feel for the characters in the original Crow, but with Sarah being older and knowing the meaning of the crow makes the film seem more believeable.  This movie is wonderful; the cinematography was different and made it a struggle to see what was going on, but all in all, the movie was a keeper. "},{"Title":"  A classic revenge story with a beautiful Aesthetic","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" It's true that all of the characters in this movie are fairly typical action movie type characters.  Judah, the occultish, sadistic leader of the future underworld, Ash and his Son, the perfect family, etc.  And yes, the film is Archetypal, a story that has been told and will be told again. This being said I think the script has a basic appeal and the visual aspect of this movie is stunning. Both the violence and the landscape are very stylish.  Whether Ash is dropping one of the murderers out a building, onto a car, or in pursuit on a motorcycle and looking overhead, the films maintains a visual richness not found most films, and hardly ever found in most action features  I'd give this film a 7.  "},{"Title":"Sarah and the Crow again guide a wounded soul to justice.","Date":"5 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  Would that this film could have come out without all the hype that the studio was trying to generate for it. And would that the director Tim Pope had never seen the first film before doing this. Come to think of it the writer should have skipped the screening too. The story follows Sarah, grown up and now living in LA pushing ink to support her painting. She is tormented by nightmares involving a Crow and the tragic killing of a man and his young son. While trying to help him to justice and revenge she becomes a pawn. Notice I don't even mention the revenant Ashe or his nemesis, Judah Earl. Mostly because both characters have been pulled right out of the screenwriters archetype book. Judah in particular. There is a hinted romance between Sarah and Ashe, but it is quickly buried and is a huge missed opportunity in my opinion. Story is this film's Achilles heel, but it's visuals are its strength. In fact it's the only place where a successful departure was made from the first film. Mia Kirschner and Iggy Pop are really the only to presences on screen with any life at all. It's a great looking film, and has some truly magnificent sequences, but in the end it's only average. I suspect that it gets a worse treatment than it deserves because it is inevitably compared to its predecessor. "},{"Title":"Truly great movie","Date":"18 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" This movie does not continue from the first Crow, it's has it's own individual storyline and shows that love does not have to be between a man and his girlfriend/fiancé, but for anyone that you hold close.Although the accent of Vincent Perez made his lines a little hard to understand, he delivered a passionate performance as Ashe Corven, during his quest for revenge after the wrongful death of himself, and his young son.The plot moved a little fast, but was very effective in showing many emotions held by a man driven by revenge and a city, lost in it's own madness.I enjoyed this movie, and I hope anyone lucky enough to see it will as well. "},{"Title":"It's not the same","Date":"9 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" The Crow is one of my favorite films. After seeing the Crow II I had a different feeling, Sarah's dead is strange, it would be a better end when she won't die. Also is the film a undirected follow up of the first. People that didn't see the first one might be confused. They should better introduce Sarah as the girl from the first movie. Also I missed sometimes the crow feeling, The Crow - City of Angels is more commercial & action minded, I miss the emotional & psychological dialog in this movie. I also miss the story over Sybil, she tells how the kill Ashe but at the end she helps Sarah ... All by all is The Crow 2 is a good movie but some scenes are wasted & other scenes are not clear. Conclusion 7/10, but if you seen the first one, I recommend to see the second one. "},{"Title":"Beautiful in a very gritty and disturbing way","Date":"6 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" Very different movie from the first Crow. This feels like what it came from which is a comic book. If you watch this and expect Brandon Lee and expect it to be exactly like the original you will be disappointed. If you watch this movie and expect it to be what it is, you will love it. There is much more action than the first and I felt like it was darker. I am forever in love with Iggy Pop's character. His darkness and energy should have also been in the first as it was intended. Watch Ashe and Sarah and appreciate their characters for who they are, don't compare them to Eric and Shelly. James O'Barrs pain comes flaring through in the second as it did in the first, and that is what the movies are really about, never ending love and the pain that comes with it. "},{"Title":"An Emotionally Driven Film","Date":"17 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" The Crow City of Angels is the sequel to the amazing 1994 film The Crow. While in some ways it tries too hard to be like the first, the film also succeeds in other areas, such as emotion and style. While not as good as it could have been, it is still pretty enjoyable.Story The film begins in post-apocalyptic Los Angeles, with a grown up Sarah, who as you may recall, is the little girl from the original. She has visions of another man rising up. In comes Ashe, a single father raising a son, Danny. Ashe and Danny accidentally witness a gang attack, and therefore, are attacked and killed themselves. Guess what happens? Ashe returns from the grave to seek vengeance. One by one, Ashe hunts down those responsible for his murder, which eventually leads him to Judah, a drug kingpin and crime lord of the city. The story really focuses on Ashe's pain of losing his sun, and there are some really powerful and emotional moments in the film.Directing Tim Pope is an acclaimed music video director, and his knack for music videos really shines in this film. While he sets and certain mood and doesn't let it up, the movie really jumbles around in terms of style. It's like watching one huge rock video, and at time, it can be a little hard on the eyes. Most scenes were staged quite well, and other than the style, Pope did an adequate job.Acting Vincent Perez(Ashe) did an excellent job with his part. He had a lot to contend with, such as filling Brandon Lee's shoes. Regardless, he shined, and in his scenes of pain and grief, I really felt for him. Bravo. Mia Kirshner(Sarah) did great with what she had. I felt that the character was wasted in the film, but she did fine. Richard Brooks(Judah) played the sadistic drug-lord quite effectively, although I never really had an opinion of the character either way. That could be the fault of Brooks, the director, or the writer. I'm not sure which. Iggy Pop(Curve) overacted beyond belief, and I was quite amused.Score Once again Graeme Revelle proved himself an excellent composer. His music helps the mood incredibly. I only wish more of his music was in the film, and less of the hard rock.Violence While it is felt and implied everywhere, there really isn't tons of on screen violence, and when it was there, it wasn't overly bloody, though it had quite a brutal feel to it. The violence was in your face, and not overly entertaining or exciting like in the first film.Profanity/Sexual Themes Strong language throughout. The f-bomb is used all through the film. There is also a lot of S&M in the film, as well as female nudity.Substance Abuse The film is about a drug-lord, so, there is quite a bit of drug use in the film. Almost all the villain characters snort the coke-like drug, Trinity.Overall The Crow City of Angels was a decent sequel, and really excelled in some ares, although it failed in others. If you're a fan of the first, it's worth a look. I really dug the fact that the movie was mostly about the pain of losing a loved one. It's a pretty stylish adventure. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Just read if you want to...","Date":"18 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" I think that this movie is really great.I'm whole into Gothic movies and The CrowCity of Angels is just the perfect film for my taste.Mia played just wonderful,and she is a natural.Also,she is so cute!And incredibly BEAUTIFUL!!!Well I'm 16 and I'm into girls,what would you expect,Mia is perfect!if anyone'll argue,I will find you,hunt you down,torture you and kill you...OK?I don't care...,I warned you...Anyway,let's leave the what am gonna do to someone who's gonna tell TESL 'bout Mia.I have seen all the three movies(The Crow)and I honestly can't tell which is the best,'cause they're all so cool!But I will say this one,because Brandon rocks!And his performance is really amazing(Mia's too)and also I choose this film for one more reason.Guess which one,Mia is in it!Ithink I've got something like three more lines left to write,so that is what I am doing right now...Just filling in up 'till the end and the funny thing is,that who ever you are,you're still reading this and you're gonna read this until the en,before you realize that for the past five and a half lines you've been reading absolutely nothing,OK,bye rekcus,hoe you enjoyed wasting your time!!! "}{"Title":"Great flick","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" I recently bought this movie and I really liked it. What I love about The Crow movies is that they are perfect revenge movies. You know, getting revenge on the bastards who f***ed your life up. The only Crow movies I have seen so far are City of Angels and Wicked Prayer. And I love them both. One of my fav. scenes from City of Angels is when Ashe throws that Asian chick out of the window and her head bashes the side of a parked car. Just one complaint, though WHAT THE F**K IS UP WITH THE 'SPIDER MONKEY' character!?!?!? That's one of the most faggoty-ass villains I've ever seen. Aside from that, I thought this was a great movie and I hate when people say it sucked....what the f**k is wrong with you people???I give this a 7/10 "},{"Title":"The Crow the City of angels","Date":"27 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" The Crow the City of angels First off I would like to say all the people who said this movie is bad should go and try to make a better movie because in my view this movie was fine just as good as the first crow or better just because this movie is not by today's standards (action pack) doesn't mean it's a bad movie. I prefer a movie with some action and a lot more story telling I enjoyed this movie based on these facts the plot was good and presented a strong emotion to it between a farther and his son The acting was perfect Vincent Perez gave a great look to the crow his eyes are so deep and filled in sadness in this movie The movie is in a great location really giving L.A. a deep feel to it and I still don't see why people say this movie bad this movie by no means made me feel vile This movie is a work of art an 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Good movie, bad ending","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" I personally think that this was a great movie. What most people don't realize is that this isn't a sequel. A sequel has the same characters as the one before it, and this one does not. The only character from the first one is Sarah.As far as the performance of Vincent Perez, I think he did a wonderful job. Take into consideration that he tried as hard as he could to be totally unlike Brandon Lee with his representation and presentation of the Crow character. Many people say that it was a bad movie, or that it was a terrible sequel. All I have to say to that is that it isn't a sequel. It is a completely new story with only the same very basic plot.City of Angels was also much darker than the first one. Ashe was portrayed as being insane, which was done very well, especially in the scenes with Spider Monkey (the first person he kills) and Kali (the third person he killed).As far as the ending goes, I have seen very few endings that were as bad as this one. Yeah, it was cool how Ashe quoted Judah by saying Pain is my power. but aside from that, it was a total let down. Crows fly through Ash and Judah, and then Judah vanishes. I saw that and just sat there thinking What the hell was that? "},{"Title":"I like this movie very much.","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  I love this movie just as equally as i love the first crow. I like Vincent Perez's acting and I thought that is was a very good movie but it could have been a little bit better. I don't think of it as a sequel but as a separate movie. "},{"Title":"Dark, depressing, pretty to look at. And I hadn't seen the original in years. ; )","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  It was probably best that I didn't much remember The Crow when I saw this one for the first time. 6 years after the sequel came out I've finally seen it. I love it. I can see where people would like to compare the two and say which one is better. It's hard not to. Looks like I'm going to do it as well.The plot of the first seemed much stronger. It flowed nicely and you didn't wonder about anything really, you knew what was going on. Brandon was an amazing fighter, and the villain was definitely convincing and evil. In the second the visuals were much much better, I loved the art and Sarah's apartment was especially beautiful. Another different but pleasing aspect was that there was more hand to hand street fighting (no real technique, but passion was behind it,) and Vincent Perez is one of my favorite actors. In the films I have seen him in, his presence is always felt. He can be very charming and predatory, he played a vampire for instance, very convincingly in my opinion . Overall he is cultured, beautiful, emotional, and intelligent. (He is European and was educated in France, he has that foreign mystique.) There is one part that come to mind when I think of him.(*spoiler*) Ashe moves in to kill one of his enemies, in a very interesting way. The man had been watching a peep show that you need tokens for, when his time is up the shade goes down. He scrambles to feed more tokens, and when the shade comes back up, Ashe is sitting there instead of the girl. He repeats the words of the peep show girl, Do you want me?...Baby? Incredibly sexy and evil!!*Spoilers* The differences I see in the movies are what makes them good in their own ways. Eric was cruelly assaulted along with his love. He came back with a mission, his grieving was brief because he had a job to do. He seemed more supernatural than human much of the time, and that was good in that movie. He came off as an invincible, untouchable avenging angel. Eric came back, did what he had to do, went back to the afterlife. I couldn't identify with someone that seemed not of this world.Ashe displayed all his pain and anguish, he was confused and more like you would expect a human being to act, coming back from the dead, pretty much remembering death like it had just occurred. In addition, the reason he and his son died had a little more believability. Seems realistic that if you live in the bad part of town and witness a crime, you might not live to tell about it. All in all I have to admit I enjoyed this movie more because of Ashe's humanity.Ashe comes back, figures out what he has to do and takes revenge for himself and his son. But finds himself unsure of whether he wants to be taken from the world again. Some of this seems to stem from a desire to stay around for Sarah, the possible romance is heartbreaking. Examples of his humanity are his emotions, they are more open and he grieves angrily and sobs over his loss, whereas Eric holds it in to effectively get the job done. Ashe has very human weaknesses, and that is what eventually leads to his near downfall. This makes him more likeable, and I cried for him. That's why I'm more partial to this one, it could make me cry so much.So both movies in my opinion are awesome. I'm not worried about whether or not City of Angels lived up to the first, I cared about the movies as separate entities, and so I can like them both. 9 * out of 10 *.  "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  I know this will never be better than the original, but I felt that Vincent Perez was as close to Brandon Lee as he could be as far as performance. I always hear Oh, Vincent is a good actor, but he is no Brandon Lee. That is true. But I feel that no one could match Brandon's excellence.In this movie, Ashe Corven comes back from the dead to avenge the death of him and his son. Judah Earl (Richard Brooks) and his gang killed the two because they were not supposed to leave any witnesses. So Ashe does what only a Crow must do, GET REVENGE! After seeing this, it shows even more evidence to Brandon's theory (Those who saw his interview probably know what I mean).One thing I thought was really cool was the orange tint. I thought that was very creative. It made the movie seem darker.Overall, I would give this movie a 7 because even though some people don't think this movie is good, I thought it was well acted (mostly), well thought, well planned, well written, and well done! My hat off to Vincent! "},{"Title":"Very Good Movie","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  I would like to suggest that if given the option, people should see CoA, then The Crow, then Salvation later when it comes out.  CoA is an excellent movie in its own right, when you compare it with its source, that being a comic book.  It's source is not the original Crow.  It's a different movie experience all together.M2c "},{"Title":"Why do people think The Crow and The Crow City of Angels is the same?","Date":"2 November 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" First of all, I don't see why people say The Crow City of Angels was like The Crow. Okay, so yes there were some similar parts (Kali and Skank both got thrown out of a window, Spider Monkey and T-Bird were both blown up, etc.). But it wasn't completely the same! Ashe and his son were killed, not Ashe and his fiancé. Eric didn't fall in love with Sarah. Top Dollar didn't drink the crow's blood and gain it's power and Judah did. The only similarities in the whole plot were the deaths (partly) and the basic theme (a guy and someone he loves gets killed and he comes back to avenge their deaths). But the point is not to continue the movie and replace Brandon Lee, or am I that misinformed? I think not. The directors weren't trying to replace Brandon Lee, because that would not be easy. He was the best actor ever. Still, why do so many people think they're supposed to be the replacing everyone? Admitedly, the bad guys were a little stale in this movie. Judah and the Sybil were so old! They were like some kind of tribal leaders. So boring. But the whole movie was (in my opinion) better than the first one. The Crow was way hotter to. And that IS NOT the reason I watched it; that's just a comment. Hey, I'm a sucker for magicians with accents. Sue me. Anyway, it was much more wild. The blood and guts part- I'm not into all that gore, but it made the movie better. Ashe was very manic and driven (headfirst into a wall 80 times when he was a kid) to kill because of his love for his son. Eric Draven was so emotional. Don't get me wrong, I liked them both. I just think City of Angels better. If Eric had a little bit more entusiasm and rip-your-fu*king-guts-out mania, then we'll talk about replacements. Until then, Jesus settle down kids! It's not trying to play copy-cat! "},{"Title":"The movie was decent","Date":"17 January 2006","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" Yep. The movie was great and it's in the third place.First of all, Vincent Perez did was really great and he did with his best to play as the Crow.Second, my favorite actress of childhood who used to be as Trini, the original Yellow Ranger in 'Mighty Morphin Power Rangers.' I was very sad that Thuy Trang died in 2001.Anyways, Thuy did really good job in this film. Keep in mind, she had a very brilliant martial art skills. Sadly, that was her last film. (Rest in peace, Thuy Trang. May the power protect you.Third, the action scenes were amazing. One of the best part was the Crow chased Curve and apparently, Curve got owned by The Crow. That was great part overall.Last, overall, this movie is very underrated and I give this film 8 out of 10.Very underrated. "},{"Title":"One of the only movies that studio interference made watchable","Date":"4 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" I don't think we as an audience appreciate just how disastrously wrong The Crow could have gone. The Crow is one of those stories with such dark subject matter and such brooding visuals that in the hands of lesser filmmakers it could have gone horribly wrong and ended up as some dark bitter mess like Batman Returns. Thankfully the right people were involved and we got the movie we did. And then they made a sequel. Now I'm not one of those people who thinks that 'The Crow' shouldn't have a sequel. The idea that there are other lost souls who must return to earth to right some wrong is not a bad one. But not like this. This movie fails across the board, the story goes on way too long and is hopelessly convoluted despite a pretty simple set up, the music is almost none stop grunge punk rock that adds nothing to the scenes. But the biggest problem with this movie is the way it looks. The director is a man named Tim Pope. Never heard of him? Well before this movie he directed music videos and do you know what he made after this movie? More music videos! This movie is shot like a music video, the camera is too close, the shots are all framed wrong, the angles are weird and the editing is nauseating. Of course this style could be forgiven if it wasn't for the fact this is the ugliest movie I have ever seen in my life. Gone is the smooth neo-Gothic look of the first movie. In its place is hideously ugly punk grunge look with bright colours and nauseating shades that are actually difficult to look at half the time. The music video style directing and editing only makes it worse and I'm sure those with weaker stomachs might actually throw up watching this film. To make all this even worse the story goes out of its way to be dark and gritty adding even more nauseating imagery to this already stomach turning movie. But even the worst movie can be saved by the performances, sadly the performances in this movie only serve as the icing on the garbage cake. The script is ridiculously cheesy and grimy and the actors they picked to say it are dreadful; Vincent Perez doesn't have the aura of menace Brandon Lee had and so he just comes off as sulky half the time and the other half he spends pretending to be intimidating, Richard Brooks's performance as the villain Judas Earl is terrible as none of his lines are delivered properly, they all come off as either bored or forced. This is one of the absolute worst movie I've ever seen. This is a joyless grungy mess that no on should ever have to watch even for the sake of curiosity. I would tell you to destroy it but that would involve buying it and I don't want that. Instead I want no one to buy it. I want all the copies to sit on stores shelves for years and years and years until the company has no choice but to take them all out in the middle of nowhere and bury them in big pit so they can slowly biodegrade until there is nothing left but a grungy patch of earth where nothing can grow. I hate this movie. "}{"Title":"This Crow never flies","Date":"15 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" Plays most of the same notes as the original, but not half as well. Vincent Perez - playing an entirely different character - still seems to be doing his best Brandon Lee impression, which sadly isn't very good. Only the hauntingly beautiful Mia Kirshner manages to transcend her paint by numbers role. In truth, I'd rather have seen her as The Crow.'City of Angels' was reportedly heavily edited by Miramax (no surprise there if you know anything about their butchery practices) and has subsequently been disowned by director Tim Pope and screenwriter David Goyer. At 86 minutes with credits, it definitely feels chopped up. A so-called Second Coming edit of the film apparently exists, and perhaps it's better as some claim, but there's an inherent artistic failure here that no amount of more can fix. "},{"Title":"Not a sequel","Date":"14 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" The first Crow film was a brilliant and Gothic re-visioning of a graphic Novel. Eric Draven was played by Brandon Lee who notoriously died during the making of the film. I loved the original. I watched this one hoping that it could at least hold a candle to the original. In the long run it's a totally different movie to the first. Yes this movie is still dark and gritty as the original but it's also has different feeling. The characters are different as well as the story line. This movie doesn't follow Draven. It follows a different character. You will definitely enjoy it more when you stop thinking of it as a sequel. It is it's own movie. Once you get that stuck in your head you'll find it much more enjoyable. For one thing this about revenge of a sons death. Not a girlfriend. I think this movie is a great movie and perfect for Halloween. "},{"Title":"For a Bad Cut, Still a Beautiful Film","Date":"8 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" Many years after the first film, the spirit of the Crow resurrects another man (Vincent Perez) seeking revenge for the murder of his son.Now, apparently there is an extremely long cut that exists out there, approved by the director. The version we see today is heavily cut and put together by the studio, against the wishes or the writer and director. But, regardless of that, it is still a good movie.This film really captured the dark nihilism of the 1990s in a way that the first one did not. The music, the barren image of Los Angeles... this is very much the philosophical sentiment of the time. Movies and music in the 1990s did not have to leave the audience happy. Sometimes they left us empty, or feeling alone, and this film has much of that... even the heroes are lost souls.Also, excellent choice in casting Mia Kirshner. Whether it was from Exotica or from a screen test, whatever got her in this film was a good thing. She shines, even more than the Crow himself. "},{"Title":"Put A Bullet in This Sequel.","Date":"11 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" The Crow City of Angels (1996) Dir Tim Pope / Cast Vincent Perez, Mia Kershner, Iggy Pop, Thomas Jane, Vincent Castellanos Thankless chunk of sewage that delivers nothing but visual effects. We never learn anything of this city of angels but it's probably just as well. Vincent Perez steps in replacing Brandon Lee who died while filmmaking the original. In that film a young man is killed by a gang and the revenge he enacts when a crow becomes his vision. In this sequel the same crap happens again and he kills the guilty one by one. Director Tim Pope allows everything to get away on him. Instead of a man and wife, it is a father and son who witness a murder and are erased for it. He kills them one by one and we don't give a rat's ass. Perez is not doing anyone any favors by appearing in this mess and Mia Kershner delights in sharing the overacting credit. Also wasting our time are singing sensation Iggy Pop, looking less than sensational here, and Thomas Jane who looks even less sensational. This junk exist only because the first Halloween act of lunacy made money. But let it be known that the first film is basically Death Wish in costume. For better use of your time, listen to any number of Iggy Pop songs. This pathetic sequel should be placed in a trash bag and burned along with the other garbage that emerged from Hollywood this year. Score 1 / 10 "},{"Title":"Like a series of bad rock videos stitched together to make a feature film","Date":"8 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" Sarah, the skateboarding street urchin from the first Crow film, is now all grown up, looking fine, and living in Los Angeles, where she meets Ashe (Vincent Perez), who has recently returned from the dead. Recognising all the signs of a recently resurrected soul from the netherworld&#x97;the tortured expression, bedraggled hair, and a crow for a companion&#x97;Sarah (played by hottie Mia Kirshner) slaps some paint on Ashe's face and sends him off to find those responsible for killing him and his son.The Crow City of Angels is basically a retread of the first film, only with cheesy characters and laughable dialogue, a less charismatic actor in the lead role, and a less talented movie-maker in the director's chair. Perez has none of the screen presence of Lee, while Alex Proyas' replacement, MTV video director Tim Pope, tries to bring his own sense of cool to proceedings by plundering his music promo bag of tricks, swathing every scene in smoke and brightly coloured lights. The result is a garish multicoloured nightmare that has none of the dark splendour or haunting atmosphere of Proyas' Gothic vision.Matters are made even worse by a weak head villain in the form of shirtless S&M fetishist Judah (Richard Brooks), who gets all of the worst lines, and a couple of terrible supporting performances from Iggy Pop as Judah's crazy henchman Curve and Ian Dury as Sarah's lovable tattoo parlour boss Noah. "},{"Title":"This movie really isn't that good.","Date":"23 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" I really enjoyed the first one. It was an exceptional movie with a unique plot and great action sequences. This one however is just a big mess compared to the first. It's not the change in characters that bothered me at all, or how different it was from the first, it was just a messy film with mediocre action sequences and flat, boring dialogue.I was really hoping that this movie would be just as good as the first one, but the second one was a huge disappointment on my part and is a lot worse than the original. If the action sequences would be more refined, and the dialogue would not suck so bad, this movie would have hopefully been great. But it's not.If you like the film, that's totally okay, I respect your opinions. I just didn't really like this. "},{"Title":"Fav Crow Movie","Date":"3 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" The first Crow... yeah, it's a good movie. I love it. Brandon Lee died, yeah, that sucks. If you watch both CoA and The Crow, you will know the big difference between these two movies. In the first one, you feel sorry for Eric Draven, yes. But there is absolutely NO substance, no personality(talking about Eric before he died, not the dead/zombie Eric), no nothing. It was his fiancée the one with personality. In the second film, not only is the ''son'' thing a lot more deep, but this guy actually has layers, things about him to discover and learn, you can see him torn away between the two worlds. In the first one, you don't even see Eric having a relationship with Sarah, he kinda just wanted his revenge and to go back to his dead girlfriend.Brandon Lee was brilliant as The Crow, but he lacked personality. Vincent Perez brought a lot of beauty to his character, he simply cannot fill the shoes of a good, beloved actor who died in the making of The Crow, because, well... how can you fill the shoes of this situation in particular? "},{"Title":"The opening is weak but","Date":"28 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" It takes off after about 20 minutes or so. Pretty much once we reach the hell ride there is a leap in quality that is of course overshadowed by the weaknesses of the scene which follows. I feel it's at about the point where he pulls out the deck of cards and the way he does it the film finally starts to fulfill expectations.Overall it's certainly worth watching but I do not challenge the dislike so many people have for it. When you watch it with an open mind, you can see about 20 minutes of footage needs to be cut, rewrote, reshot and maybe 5 or 10 minutes of footage added for story and character setup. I watch this movie once every couple years and each time I think omG this is BAD. Then as always, it gets better as the story continues not better each time you watch it. The fact is, they could have fixed everything wrong with it and it might have still been a box office disappointment. People wanted Brandon or at least an exact duplicate of the first in far too many respects for this B caliber sequel to get a chance.All that speculation cast aside, I still see the potential in this film that if explored properly, would have produced a sequel as amazing as the first. The soundtrack just wasn't there and the 20 minutes of turd needed to be cut, rewrote and reshot. It also doesn't help that the footage looks like it was shot on a high quality JVC commercial grade camcorder with the same texture as soap operas and low budget TV shows then some type of opaque effect added for a generic comic book feel.That says everything really. This was one of the first B-movies in many years to find it's way into the theater. That in itself is quite an achievement even though it's pretty common today. However, you'll find majority of the B-movies that followed it's coat tails into theaters were similar genre and visual style. It actually paved the door for a lot of the B-movies that squirmed their way into theaters from various genres, not just these dark fantasy action thrillers.For better or for worse, we now see a lot of B movies in theaters that are absolute garbage compared to this film. "},{"Title":"enjoyable, but not overly memorable","Date":"28 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" naturally this movie was not going to live up to the original which is a classic. But, it has its good points. the set up was done well with the murder of the man and son enhanced by good cinematography. I also think the landscape was done well creating a post apocalyptic feel. i think in my eyes the best scene was when the crow retrieves his son from the river and buries him which was enhanced by music from the original crow(best scene id say). the bad points for me was character based, the crow's dialogue and witty remarks i found were not effective. the villains (besides Iggy pop who i think did well) were portrayed weak and not in depth. Main bad point for me was a real weak ending where the crow summons crows to fly through him and destroy the immortal bad guy. thought that was i really poor written ending.I suppose as this was a sequel they couldn't make the concept as subtle as the first one without completely replicating it. still it was enjoyable to watch again after 14 years. probably wont be watching any time soon again tho.oh and at least it didn't have Tara Reid "},{"Title":"1 star","Date":"2 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" I wish you could give negative ratings.This is awful, a film without redeeming features. Let's list them.Story - 100% copy Bad Guy - Pathetic Good Guy - An shambolic shadow of Eric Draven Aesthetics - not sure was too dark to see anything.The Crow is one of a few films I would give 10/10 to. As such it is obviously one of my all time favourites. This is my actual least fave film and it includes films I couldn't watch in their entirety such as the original Re-Hash of The Hulk or recently Barbarossa! There is no reason at all to watch this film. it's not camp and therefore funny. It is not ironic, self deprecating or even a decent stand alone flick. Its appalling.Watch something else "}{"Title":"This film sucked","Date":"15 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" I admit that Salvation was the first version I watched before looking for the original from 1994, but I'm glad I did or I wouldn't have given it a chance after this great disappointment.The actor choice and acting was poor at best and it was slow moving.The directing was everywhere and though the soundtrack was still good, that's about the only good thing about this film.Vincent Perez is the worst version of The crow yet! I couldn't help but view him as a spazzed out Carrot-Top, No, even that comedian would have done the role better! They murdered the character that was supposed to be Sarah, and though I'm sure it's supposed to be because she grew up and matured, they chose the wrong direction for a character that was so lovable.Not to troll, I love the feelings any father has for his child, but the feeling just wasn't the same. It felt more like Oh my god, was he more with his son then a dad? Is he gay? Just a personal opinion, Salvation and the Original were way better then this piece of scrap and I'm glad I didn't waste the money to see it in theaters. "},{"Title":"Not good enough","Date":"3 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" This movie is complex and slow and it is too much similar to the first one as the plot, a lot of scenes seem to be like copied from the first movie and pasted here. Same for the bad characters, they are too similar to the first one. One example could be Top Dollar and Judah, they are too similar in their conduct and in both the movies they immediately realize that; if they kill the crow, the human crow loses all his power. They already used it in the first Crow, it is not good to repeat such an important detail. But the thing that I don't like is the fight with Judah, i mean he is the evil character, one of the most important character in the movie and you wait for the fight from the first scene and they cannot do a thing like this, he had more difficulty to kill the gang's members. This seems to be something close quickly, you lose the movie's heart, that episode has been the main factor of my decision to the 5 to this film. Maybe if they did this scene better it could be a good sequel. I think this is the reason why everybody knows the first Crow with Brandon Lee but a few know about its sequels. "},{"Title":"Have I seen this before??","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"   Why the hell was this movie made?? It's exactly the same as The Crow. Why bother rehashing it with a different character?? This almost angers me. I loved the first film, but this changes The Crow characters from dark antiheroes to merchandising prostitutes. What a waste. This is basically The Crow set in a new location, with some generic guy named Ash instead of Eric Draven. In place of Michael Wincott's badass, nameless villain, there's some guy named Judas, who hangs out with a prophet of some sort. Naturally, the psychic waits to show Judas how to kill Ash until after all of his henchman are dead. Oh yeah, and Iggy Pop shows up as some thug that serves only as fodder for Ash's campaign of contrived vengeance.  This movie actually wasn't all that bad, if you can forget the beginning and the conclusion. But then again, it wasn't any good, either. I saw this movie because Thomas Jane is in it. Imagine my joy when his big scene features him dressing up as a woman, masturbating, then being subsequently butchered by Ash. Sadly, this may have been the most remarkable moment of the film. "},{"Title":"Lousy movie; great music video!","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  The Crow City of Angels gets so much debasement for not living up to the original. I saw it in the theater, and while it couldn't help but be a let down after all the hype it was given at the time, I still found things to like. The plot was in fact a remake of the original, yes, the movie had many deficits, of course, but there was still elements that could be enjoyed.The reason why the first Crow was such a cult classic is that it appeals to people for different reasons and to different kinds of people. It attracted martial-arts and action fans, but it also attracted those of us interested in the dark, noir atmosphere of the film, and of the highly emotional content and relationships between the characters. For the action fans, COA was of course a waste; in that department it was nothing but rehash of the original. For those of us (like myself) drawn to the gothic feel of the movie and the emotional relationships between the characters, there was something to enjoy in the dazzling visual displays and the romance between Sarah and Ashe. I loved Mia Kirshner in this and wish she would have done more afterwards. Also I thought Iggy Pop was a kick. Too bad he couldn't be in the original. And I loved the soundtrack - almost as good as the original.It wasn't an accident that the director, Tim Pope, had previously only worked on videos (most notably for the Cure). City of Angels is less a movie than it is a very long music video - short on plot and characterization but long on visuals and music.  "},{"Title":"it sucked","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  This is the worst movie I have ever seen. The first one was good I have not seen three yet but I here it is better but the series was the best. This movie was just all around BAD it was disjointed and after watching it I was speachless. I cannot think of 1 redeaming qulaity for this movie it SUCKED! I hope 3 is alot better.  "},{"Title":"Me,Complaining.Again(Contined To '.....' I guess)","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  AND not to mention when he killed Iggy,how he sets him adrift and all of a sudden BOOM out come so freaky people throwing blossom petals in the water! Hello I would be quite freaked out if I saw some guy kill another guy and send him down a canal(or whatever it is) Certintly not throwing Blossom petals in the water,Magicly forming a crow. But I like the Greek Mythologly added in thare with the whole 'Coin in the mouth' PLUS The Crow was horribly drawn in The CrowCity Of Angels.I probably could not do any better,but I mean Come on the picture of the crow looks horrible, in The first and third it actally looked like it had feathers not just wings! "},{"Title":"I think I've seen this one before","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  City of Angels was not bad, but no movie in this franchise will be able to replicate The Crow starring Brandon Lee. Now there is a new one called Salvation. The flaws with City of Angels is the too dark, almost un-realistic world that we're placed in while watching this movie. The insanely stupid characters also add to the faults. I was baffled on why the guy with the crow tatoo on his chest was attacking Sarah in the tatoo parlor. I mean, he says its a target on his chest, but I still think its a little angle that could've been thrown out of the movie! All it does is add to the stupidity. Judah I also feel was a little un-realistic, having that lady that could see into the future with her eyes cut out was way too much for me. As far as Vincent Perez as Ashe Crowe goes, I approve. Again, he's no Brandon Lee, but he made his role work. Feel free to e-mail. "},{"Title":"good movie but it just can't beat the first one","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  The first movie was flawless it had everything action, drama, and even a creepy demeaner . But city of angels lacked a lot . in the first one you experienced every emotion felt by the hero Eric Draven . Ashe ( the hero of city of angels ) doesn't seem to show much ange , pain , and sadness . He acts more like someone who had his car stolen than someone who had his son murdered . also the envolvement of sarah was really unnecessary . the writer and director tried a little too hard to make this a horror movie by making it extremely strange . the bad guys are all pretty likable except the main guy Judah . because no black guy is gonna be all gothic and creepy like he is in this movie . however the rest of the characters are good like spider-monkey which is the most entertaining character in the movie but gets wasted first. curve who is played by iggy pop is an awesome character . the movie's fun to watch but you'll get easily bored by sarah and ashes ten second love moment but it's a good to watch film at last once if not many more times "},{"Title":"What Went Wrong?","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"    ***SPOILER*** Excuse me for joining in with the crowd and coming flat out and stating that this film is bad. It is not without its high points, but unfortunately, its low points outweigh them. This is a film that could have been great, even brilliant, had it not been rushed. Watching the final product, one can see how hurried and rushed it was. The story, yes there was a story in there somewhere, just wasn't given enough time to be properly developed. I don't blame the film makers or the cast, because they were just doing what they were told. The amount of talent involved with this film is damn-near jaw-dropping. This is virtually a wet-dream for someone like me...the collective talents of David S. Goyer (a truly brilliant and somewhat unappreciated screenwriter) and Tim Pope (a top-notch genius director). I once read somewhere that Goyer was very displeased with the finished product and placed the blame upon Crow fans for being impatient. He said that his original idea was to have a female Crow killed by Jack the Ripper in Victorian England and her hunt for justice. Maybe us Crow fans should stop pinning the blame on the film makers, and just start accepting the fact that our impatience led to this dull and uninspired film.The visuals in this film were mind-blowing, but unfortunately as with every other film out there today, it's a matter of style over substance. The acting was somewhat sub-standard, Mia Kirschner (or however you spell it) gave a truly heartfelt performance as the older, wiser Sarah; Iggy Pop was kind of over-the-top, but then again when isn't he?; Richard Brooks was a good villain, but not nearly as good or efficient as Michael Wincott (but who is?). Vincent Perez was very dull and uninteresting, watching his performance I felt that he just wasn't giving it all he had. Eric Mabius did the exact same thing in the follow-up. Both actors failed to convince me that they were feeling the emotions and rage of their characters. Brandon Lee was brilliant at parlaying Eric Draven's pain and agony, he made one think that he truly was Eric Draven.This movie did have a few good moments, some of the death scenes were pretty clever and interesting...but did they really have to put the Crow symbol at every murder scene? I know the first one did it, but the way they did it was clever, in City of Angels it seemed as though they were straining to put the symbol in. I liked the slight change of formula, where Ashe lost his son rather than his lover. ***SPOILER***  I also liked the end, where Judah gained Ashe's powers and for one brief moment we had not one but two Crows on screen.All in all, this movie is bad, but it is definitely not the worst movie ever made. If anyone should be blamed for this film, it should be the Weinstein brothers and their talent for creating mediocre film franchises out of some brilliant films. Us Crow fans should also absorb some of the blame as well, being that we acted like moronic fan-boys and just couldn't wait for this sequel. I propose that Miramax and Dimension do the right thing and just leave the series alone. Being a cinematic fan-boy, I must quote Highlander There can be only one. "},{"Title":"A Simple Error","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"     I made the mistake of seeing this movie and the original The Crow at the same time. I rented both and watched them back to back. Obviously, no sequel can compare with its predecessor. By the middle of the film, I was starting to tally up points to see if Eric or Ashe was the 'cooler' crow. Eric won by a landslide.     But this movie wasn't bad. The supernatural elements (unexplained crow shapes at the murder scenes) were nicely done. The subplot Sarah/Ashe romance was something I would have loved to see explored. But it wasn't. This film had the same basic vengeance plot as the first one, but for some reason, it just doesn't play as well the second time around.   My recommendation, watch it before the first one or a long time afterwards. Try really hard not to compare them. You'll probably enjoy it better that way. And don't think about the immortal cat. No one knows. "}{"Title":"I felt dumber when I left the theatre.","Date":"14 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  Having never seen the original Crow, my so-called friends convinced me to go see this film.  I understand that many audiences loved the first Crow film, however, due to my painful experience with the sequel, I have absolutely no desire to see the first one.  Merely mentioning the word Crow conjures up images of pathetic attempts at entertainment and even worse attempts at acting.The fact that I'm sacrificing my time now to even write about this failure bothers me.  But, I want to make certain that none of you waste your time as I did.  Learn from my mistake.  "},{"Title":"GREAT DIRECTING/HORRIBLE ACTING","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  you might want to see this movie just to know it sucks.  If possible borrow it from someone because you might be mad that you spent 1-3 dollars to rent it.  It will make any crow fan sick to his stomach. The Crow City of Angels makes it onto my list of the 101 worst movies ever made, whereas The Crow makes it into the 101 best movie sever made. It has  absolutely horrible acting with A LOT of cheesy one liners.  Not to mention a horrible and sloppily placed together story line.  the story line is basicly the same as the last crow movie only it is too rushed and too dull to accent or actually accomplish any real feeling or emotion.  The casting job is no big accomplishment either.  and most of the music in the movie is not even used a whole lot.  The directing skills are really good though.  probably the best (and most original) use of lighting and color in a movie i have ever seen, which may draw your attention a bit away from the horrible acting and story line (or in this case lack thereof). But the bad acting and story line are way too bad to not notice. in fact it will probably bother you during the entire movie.  this movie is a weak attempt of a sequel, or any quality movie.  It is very sloppily put together and like i said already the acting, casting, story line, and cheesy one liners completely pollute this movie of any artistic vision it may have ever had.  I give this movie a 3 just because of the great use of color, lighting and some atmosphere.  "},{"Title":"as good as the first","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  i can understand that people do not think that the second crow movie is as good as the first.  yes brandon lee did create a memorable character but did you ever think of how difficult it is to follow in someone else's shadows? lee did and i think that he would applaud the cast and crew for the second crow movie. sarah and ash have a excellent relationship.  the chance for a budding romance.  they display a new meaning of love. give them a break both movies are equally stellar. "},{"Title":"ReI thought It was a good movie","Date":"23 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  (one Spoiler) Hey I thought It was a really good movie. It was funny and sad.At the end, it was none stop crying. I was so upset what they did to Sarah....... That wasn't just one reason I cried at the end.I always cry about the memories, with him and his son. I also cried in the first one with Eric and his fiancee Shelly.  But anyways, If you want to see this movie with a loved one and cry go a head, it's good.  "},{"Title":"They could not leave it alone. (Spoilers)","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  Each time I view this film (don't consider me insane just yet)a different element strikes a chord with me, both in a good way, and in a really bad one. First of all, this film could have been great. Vincent Perez et all could have made this film work, instead, it opts out for the rushed B-Grade movie approach Cardboard Characters, steriotypical vilian, etc. etc. It's only saving graces are both from the original film Alex McDowal (production designer) and Greme Revell (composer)make the film worth watching.SPOILER ALERT although why bother, huh? -); There could have been a few changes that could have made the movie a lot better for instance, when Ashe arrives to take revenge, he is recognised all to easy (it is not made clear that Ashe is resurrected almost immedietly, not having to wait a year) Bad Guy We Killed you, man! You're Dead! Ashe Sorry to dissapoint you. comes to mind. In reality, he would have been forgotton as another victim (unless he was chummes with one of them!?!?!)Also, there is Sarah, again not made clear enough that she IS Sarah from the original (on the preview, Sarah says people once believed that when a man dies.......I thought Eric was the last. I didn't think there was another but not in the movie. That would have helped.There are some scenes that generate an energy of sadness the confrontation between Ashe and Curve, for instance, was quite good. Also, the buriel of Ashe's son was also moving. But there wasn't enough of it to go around for 120 minutes.The ending made NO sense whatsoever. Sarah dies (apparantly) but there is her voiceover in the end. That is also a no no.But, like I said earlier, there could have been some changes that could have made the movie a lot better than it was- for instance Judah Earl was totally off the mark (Richard Brooks should not have been cast Tony Todd would have been a lot more threatening.) A good example is how he delivers his line Damn That wuz a bad batch was simply pathetic. UGH. But, of course, Richard Brooks is no Michael Wincott. NOT Even close.Also, it would have been more emotionally satisfying if Ashe actually knew the bad guys before hand (and were not buddies, but more perhaps working for Judah Earl in different ways)therefore, that would have explained why they recognise Ashe, and Ashe has trouble killing the second victim. (it looks like he is in pain, killing him)However long I try to justify that this is a flawed (obviously) movie, I can't help but realize that this movie should not have been made. The original had a gritty feel that perfectly captured the original comic book, characters were three dimensional and well rounded, and everyone put in great performances.City Of Angels, however looks and feels like cardboard. The producers could not leave it alone. There should have only been one movie. This, along with the new TV series, degrades the fact that a man who could have been a great actor died whilst trying to complete the film.  "},{"Title":"awful","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  Having seen, and loved, the original film, The Crow, I expected the sequel The CrowCity Of Angels to be good too. I was wrong and disappointed. The film lacked any emotion, and did not encourage the audience to become involved, as The Crow (the first film) did. Maybe I was expecting too much after Brandon Lee's excellent performance in The Crow, but I was willing to give it a chance. I don't think I'll ever watch this film again. "},{"Title":"The worst movie I have seen in a theater!","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  This was simply the worst movie I have ever seen in a movie theater.  The lack of any coherent direction to the story is masked by attempts at visual style and profound action.  I was highly tempted to leave the theater, but instead opted to gut it out in face of the $4 I paid for entry.  This proved to be a poor decision.Avoid this movie at all costs! "},{"Title":"Another soul has come back to the grave to avenge his son's death","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  This was a poor film. I did not like it. Just another lame sequel. I felt they shouldn't have made this one as the sequel. Just waited for a good script to come along....or at least one that wasn't the exact same movie almost. The plot went absolutely nowhere, and you didn't even know some of the characters until they died. They shouldn't have taken the risk of getting a different director than Alex Proyas. Even though his movies are dark, he at least made them clear to the people who were watching them. I think this film did not help the 1st's reputation, and maybe the producers consider what the film's about before shooting and releasing it.  "},{"Title":"A common misunderstanding","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  After reading through several of the other comments about this film, I feel that I need to point out that this film, as well as the original, starring Brandon Lee, are designed as stand-alone works.  Lee's character in the original film, Eric Draven, had finished what he was brought back to do....his story is over.  Even if Lee were still alive, it would not have made sense to have him star in any kind of sequel.City of Angels could have been a better film.  It seemed a little bit rushed, without much insight into the people who were responsible for Ashe and his son's brutal murder.  When I first heard that Iggy Pop was starring in this film, I was a bit skeptical...but his performance was probably the best out of the entire cast.Bottom line, if you can get past the fact that this isn't Brandon Lee, or even Eric Draven, you might be able to enjoy this film for what it is....another chapter in the mystery of the Crow.  I look forward to the next.  "},{"Title":"Blasphemous.","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was a dismal effort to live up to the high standards set by the cast and crew of The Crow. I felt this movie was a bad idea when I first heard that there would be a sequel to The Crow; it was stated by James O'Barr that The Crow was 'a complete story' - does this not imply that a sequel would be simply belittling The Crow?Beyond the story (which is too pathetic a story to mention), the bad acting, and the obviously overdone effects, the idea of somebody trying to do better than Brandon Lee is atrocious.Vincent Perez (aka that french guy) sadly had no hope from the beginning. The Crow was Brandon's film - dedicated to the memory of Brandon Lee. It should have been left at that, instead of this pitiful attempt to better, or even equal, the stunning beauty of The Crow. A story such as this should be remembered as one of a kind, not 'watered down' with imitations. "}{"Title":"Damn this was bad","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  If you have seen the original and not the so called sequel don't.  The first one was visually stunning and the second is not.  The original is one of my favorite movies and I had high hopes that were shattered with the second one.  Brandon Lee brought the character to life and the new guy killed him. "},{"Title":"Sucks","Date":"7 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the worst films I have ever seen.  If you haven't seen it yet, don't.  Not now, not ever. "},{"Title":"do yourself a favor, just watch the crow.","Date":"9 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" aaah, the crow city of angels. bad acting, poorly choreographed fight scenes, s&m gimps, men with prettier hair than the ladies, men kissing each other and lots of okay, why did that just happen? moments. what not to like? the only Strong point to this movie would probably be its set design. other than that its damn near unbearable. have you ever been somewhere at night or on a cloudy day and saw a guy rocking dark sun glasses? you think to yourself what a total douche! but you know in his mind, he's totally cool. thats the vibe i get from this movie. the movies far to overkill with the goth thing and it doesn't work. it did in the original crow. but this one feels like its just trying way too hard. then we have Vincent Perez. wooden and just not as interesting to watch as Brandon lee and makes the character boring. plus the whole 1970's looking feathered out haircut just drains any intimidation factor to the crow and makes him look plain comical. to put it simple, i wish i didn't even watch this mess. "},{"Title":"This film is visionary, but studio-heads and producers butchered it","Date":"6 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" I am one of the rare few who absolutely love this film. It's gorgeously filmed, the cinematography is stunning. The production design is brilliant as well, it's rich and textural and ethereal and apocalyptic, and Jean Yves Escoffier's golden and green-hued film color only serves to create an otherworldly yet nightmarish and mythical LA landscape. The score is ethnic and tribal and primitive, but also spiritual and very haunting. All of the roles were well-cast and the actors delivered strong performances. So why doesn't the film work? Well, if you listen to the audio commentary, it's clear that Tim Pope's original cut of the film was, for some reason, rejected for something that money-hungry studio execs felt resembled the original film more. But the creative team behind City Of Angels made it clear that they didn't intend to replicate the first film's narrative, and this film wasn't shot to facilitate that. Nevertheless, the film was hacked to a mere 91 minutes because apparently, someone at Miramax didn't trust first-time film director (but veteran music video director) Tim Pope's vision. But, despite all this, the film still really works for me. It's visceral and Shakespearean. It's skillfully-made with very, very high production values. I would absolutely LOVE to see an actual director's cut (the little director's cut label on the DVD is an out and out lie.) I am a HUGE supporter of this film. I recognize that it is flawed, it is far from perfect, I completely understand people's arguments against the film and I share some of those grievances. But the visual look of this film, even all these years later, is still so strong and striking and unique. Again, I blame the STUDIO for hacking into Pope's final cut and trying to create something that I can only assume they felt was more marketable and commercial. The talent of the creative team speaks for itself. The screenwriter has gone on to do incredible work with the rejuvinated Batman series. The strong production design of the first film was carried over into this one by the same production designer. The costume design is very thoughtful and beautiful. Vincent Perez is a charismatic actor, Mia Kirshner emotes a lot through her eyes without the help of a lot of substantive dialogue. It's a shame that the finished product isn't in-line with Pope's vision, because something truly special could've come forth. In the end, the film is still a visual marvel and a must-see for any Crow fan. "},{"Title":"all we are saying is give deuce a chance","Date":"11 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" i think people are really hung up on the whole Brandon Lee thing and don't really even give this movie a chance. i mean... i was a fan of Brandon Lee when he came out, i even seen rapid fire and that other move he did, laser'something'. i was as big of a fan as anyone else but after over a decade i'm able to look past the tragic death of Brandon Bruce Lee and see the fact; city of angels is a good movie. i'm not saying it's great, but it's good. the whole theme and feel of the movie follows in the footsteps of number one and was done well, not great but well. you got to like the under water scene and the scene where he gets suited up as the crow and jumps on the ducati. i'm just trying to say that there is still a lot to good scene and the music is pretty awesome. how often is a sequel better than the first one? rarely never and with out Brandon of course this one couldn't be better. i mean, at least it's better than number III and IV, those ones where really bad, you got to give it that. just let the hate go and give number deuce a chance. IT CAN'T RAIN ALL THE TIME. "},{"Title":"The Crow City of Lost Angels underrated","Date":"22 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" Okay, I really don't get what everybody is complaining about. This movie was great, the special effects were fine for it's time. I had no problem with the fight scenes, and it's just as good as the original. Most people complain about the sequel being a travesty or something, and it makes me sick. The setting was macabre, and it differed from the original. (1. His son died with him because he was a witness. (2. Ashe never actually decided to be brought back. (3. the setting was much different from the original. (4. Ashe looked older, was taller, and wore different clothes than Draven did in the original. I know that Brandon Lee was a great actor and all, but it's not as though we can lift him up to Saint Hood. I mourn his death, but come on. "},{"Title":"An example of why director's need full control","Date":"1 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" The Crow City of Angels suffers from the greatest sin in movie making; too many hands in the editing cookie jar.Had the film that Tim Pope shot been allowed to be presented, I think fan reaction would not be near as harsh as it has been. Granted, no matter what the production did, this film was going to be spit upon by those holding Brandon Lee's performance and death during production of the first film on a pedestal. Still, had the studio trusted Pope's vision more and most importantly, trusted the audience more, this film had the potential to be great.As is, I love the style of the film. I love the story and the performances of Vincent Perez and Mia Kirshner. The only casting mistake was made in the form of one Iggy Pop. Granted, the man is a living legend in the Punk circles and is a personal hero of Crow graphic novel creator James O'Barr (Eric's movements are based on the lean Pop's stage antics). However, one can not escape the reality that Iggy Pop was way over his head acting wise in this. A far more seasoned actor could have turned Iggy Pop's Curve into a great scene stealer. As is, he may look the part and at times even act the part, but he never IS the part. The biggest flaw is the tampering done by the studio in regard to the romance. They did some knee-jerk cutting of the film when some test screenings showed people were weary of a romance between essentially a dead man and a woman who is alive. However, had the core audience been trusted, but more importantly, had Pope's original vision been trusted, they could have pushed that doomed relationship story arc further. It would have given the story a lot better balance than it has (when a director makes one film and the studio wants edits to make it something else, you loose a lot of story cohesion). A long with that, sticking to the original story would have given us a darker ending, but none the less, an ending truer to the story than the eluded to happy ending we have. The final trapping of the film is that with all of the input outside of the director's, too many story elements are repeated from the first film to try and make it more in line with it (the first film) than being something entirely of its own accord. This caused an even harsher reaction from fans as they saw this as merely being a product pushed on the coat tails of the first film. Most definitely flawed; a cop out ending and a bitter-sweet romance not fully realized, the film still manages to stake out its own place in the Crow world for me. "},{"Title":"It isn't all bad... (i'm not sure if this is condsiderd a spoiler...","Date":"21 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" It's an OK movie if you haven't seen the first one, but stacked against the original you will most likely be disappointed. I didn't really mind them bringing back Sarah,she was a pretty good character in this movie. But I also saw this movie before I had seen the original, if you are looking for the sequel to the original, this really isn't it. The only similarities are the crow (obviously), the symbolism of the crow when ever he kills someone and the fact that Sarah is once again used as bait.I agree with Kristine, it was a great concept they just didn't do it right. I loved the realism of the first one but the way they did this one suited the storyline they were trying to do. It's really a matter of opinion, I am happy I saw this one though, it made me seek out the original one which I fell in love with. "},{"Title":"Will you stop badmouthing it?!!","Date":"2 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" I like this movie and think it is a good story. STOP LOOKING AT IT IN THE BASCHE OF A SEQUEL!! Because it is NOT a sequel it is a movie of it's own. There are very few people who hate this movie because of the story, theme or actors. They hate it because Brandon's not in it. I admit that sometimes I think what it would've been like if Brandon had lived and done this sequel, but think One day he would've eventually left the franchise, right? He couldn't have stuck with The Crow 'forever'.What makes me sad the most is how you people don't even give it a chance. It's a good movie people. Not as good as the first,yes, but it was never meant to be, now was it? So, stop and think about it, go re-rent it and watch it without looking at it as a sequel. You'll see this movie is not bad. "},{"Title":"A Guilty Pleasure Of My Own...","Date":"24 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" The Crow was an amazing film and is probably the best of its kind in movie history. It made millions at the box office.Three years later, the sequel arrives entitled The Crow City Of Angels. WOW, I have never seen so much hatred for a movie, but who can blame those for hating this movie, the original one was such a masterpiece and is regarded as one of the best movies ever, at least for it's genre or as an independent film alone.The let downs of this film was the lack of character development, the acting, the lack of beauty. Vincent Perez i think was an awesome Crow in terms of the look, but unfortunately, his accent got in the way.The positives of the film were the sexy Mia Kirshner and infernal Iggy Pop. Those two were probably the better reasons to see it, and also not to mention, Iggy's character is my number one favorite bad-guy if not number two favorite. I loved seeing Sarah again in this movie.I am speaking in general to what most people think of this movie, and probably the let downs and positives were what i thought as well.Still, this is an all-time favorite movie of my own, and probably will stay that way.Many people speak of the PPV and Workprint versions of the movie, due to the fact that they were SO MUCH better than the director's cut that was released in theaters and video/DVD. I still have yet to see it. "}{"Title":"So often viewed in the wrong light","Date":"18 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  I often think that people look at this film in the wrong context. This is not a sequel to The Crow (a great film in its own right). Instead, it is simply another tale of the Crow. The first was a gritty revenge story set in a realistic Gothic/punk world with a touch of the supernatural.The Crow City of Angels is a fairy tale.And like a fairy tale, there is no real attempt to conform to the rules of the real world. In this world, the sickness of a city is palpable and can be seen by the light that covers it (yellow). The city is run by a man who, as an earlier reader noted, is demon-like in visage and manner. A girl can even paint her death before it happens (perhaps unwittingly, perhaps not). Portents and symbolic abound. Once you accept this, you'll understand why the symbol of the crow appears around each victim, why a small cage can drop exactly where a bird lands, and why Ashe must climb the tower of his enemy (rather than just take the elevator). This movie is, in all ways, a fairy tale, full of magic and not-quite-human characters. A note on the lighting Borrowing from Fitzgerald, you'll notice that the sickly yellow that denotes the sickness of the city bathes nearly every shot, save where a character stands apart from this sickness. Sarah, for example, often is given a red or green light. Beckett, the only member of Judah's group that seems to have a conscious, similarly gets different lighting during his death scene. Ashe and his son also get this coloration.The lighting choices are intentional and symbolic to those who know to look for them. I understand why most people don't care for this film, and I don't fault them. I do feel that if viewed for what it is, and taken by itself (not as a sequel, as it really isn't one), the film is a beautiful tale of magic, tragedy, and loss. 8 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Could of been great, but falls short of the original.","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  The Crow City of Angels is a good movie. Vincent Perez gives a strong performance considering the circumstances (following in the footsteps of the fallen Brandon Lee). However, I do have a problem with the added crap, aka THE SPECIAL EFFECTS!!! The scene where Spider-monkey dies and they show he before the explosing screaming BLAH, leave it out, who cares? Or where the birds go through Judah  at the end. That is just too supernatural, they should of had him use the pain, not the birds, they are  not the pain. Other than the crappy special effects the film is a good film.  "},{"Title":"Not a bad Sequel","Date":"17 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie when it came out in the theatre and I admit I didn't have much interest because the first one was so awesome and Brandon was gone. I just watched it again and actually thought it is pretty good. It has dawned on me that the crow is about people coming back for revenge or redemption and Brandon as Eric Draven had accomplishe that in the first movie so there really wouldn't be any reason for him to stick around. It makes sense that some other victim would return. This movie did not have the depth or emotion the first one had but Vincent Perez did a fine job and the girl they picked to play Sara was perfect. All in all I would say this movie is worth watching at least once. It is very dark and similar to the first movie. The soundtrack is not as good as the first but the movie is worth watching. "},{"Title":"Think before you write","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  I find it hard to believe how people can be so arrogant.  The Crow City of Angels is not a continuation of the original.  While this movie didn't capture the same feel of the first Crow film, it must be looked upon as a seperate film.  This movie is not a sequel, i can;t stress that enough, and for all of you who think this ... research and understand the crow before you trash it.  The orignal Crow is and will probably always be the best in the franchise, but just becasue Bradon Lee isn;t in them doesn't they won't be decent movies.  Even if Brandon Lee were still alive, he wouldn't have been in City of Angels or any other Crow movie for that matter.  The whole plot of the movie is that a person is brought back from the land of the dead to put the wrong things right.  I leave you with one last thing to think about.  How can the original character come back after he has put the wrong things right? "},{"Title":"From the sublime to the ridiculous...","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  After the cinematic masterpiece that was The Crow came this truly dreadful sequel. Playing as more remake than continuation of the original film, it offers nothing new whatsoever to the Crow storyline and only goes to serve as a reminder of how great the original was.Everything about this film is a mess, from the horrendous visual look of the film (substitute visual flair for tacky colour filters), to the flat acting by numbers from the leads.If you want to see a good sequel to The Crow, don't waste your time with this one, check out The Crow Salvation instead which is a far superior film and a worthy continuation of the Crow legend.Rating 1/10 (I Only gave it the 1 for the Rob Zombie song on the soundtrack!)  "},{"Title":"*** out of 5","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  This is where most people make their mistake in rating this movie, as a sequal it is very poor but as a movie on it's own it does deliver. I don't know how film makers thought that anyone could ever top the late Brandon Lee in a sequal and for the most part they haven't. Vincent Perez is the man who comes back to life to get revenge on the gang that killed him and his young son with the help of a grown up Sarah. Just to bad this movie comes off as more of trwading in old water than making an attempt to expand on anything presented in the first movie. The concept is the same as the first but the idea of the bad guy is just plain ludicris. The other fault here is where the first movie used its dark atmostphere to creat a sexy gothic world this one is so dark that it makes you feel sort of dirty, even the cocain is black. On the upper hand the action is great as was in the first and there is plenty of death in obscure manner as in the first one so anyone who really loved the first will probably like this but I suggest you stick with the first. "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  THE CROW CITY OF ANGELS (1995) *** (Out of 4)A faithful installment and one of the most stylish in the series, with a brighter colored city. A crow once again brings back a tortured soul to avenge his son's brutal death, and doing so by violently killing off the villians. Good special effects, and a well decorated hero cannot hide the dry performances. Perez's humor is not funny. Iggy Pop is a standout. Covers new ground that the first one avoided, lots of explicit sex, killing, and a much more dull leading bad guy (Brooks). ABOVE AVERAGE. "},{"Title":"..........","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  I rented this video,mainly becuase I was bored..And I loved the first movie.Anyway..It was not the best.I can actally name Quite a few things that were bad about this film. *1.* First of all Brandon was mad that his fiance was dead,but he did not go throwing like tool boxes around and practicly destroying the warehouse.I mean I would ben ticked,But no need for this hissy fit Ashe!~~~~ *2.*The repeating what they said before he killed someone(Like someone already mentioned) was RATHER annoying.~~~~ *3.*Whats with the cat coming back???? I mean Sarah was like 12 in the first one and all of a sudden shes what,in her 20's maybe and the cat is still alive!~~~~ *4.*Whats with the Crows bombarding Judah and killing him???~~ *5.*Mia Kirshner so did not look like Rochelle Davis(Sarah in 'The Crow') they could of at least got her to do the role of Sarah,seeing she WAS Sarah.~~~ *6.*(Last One)Sarahs painting whare she is dead and a guy is holding her with a crowd around them,Well I certiantly thought 'Well that must be Ashe holding Dead Sarah because she is certintly Not going to live(just to put the drama in they kille her off)' and Bingo! I was rightVincent Perez is a good actor,but noone can replace Brandon "},{"Title":"P**s-yellow color filter to match the p**s-poor movie","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  The first film had reasons for the color filters red for Eric's painful memories of his fiance, and blue for Albrecht's memories, while the rest of the movie was basically in a black & white mood, to match the mask Eric painted on his face.Whenever a sequel is made, it is inevitable for people to immediately compare it to its predecessor.  Honestly, this movie had more potential in the beginning, with the original story (and before the yellow filter!). At one point, the spirit of Ashe's deceased son (the one whose death he has to avenge) appears before him... in the original idea, the boy says something to the effect of Dad, you have to stop this now, or else we'll never be together (presumably in the afterlife/land of the dead), and Ashe replies No, I have to go save Sarah (which really makes you feel that the bad guy kinda wins when she dies).  But in the final release of the movie, the boy says Dad, if you stop now, we'll never be together.  So basically, we have this little kid saying Yeah, Dad!  Go kill some more people!  Woo-hoo! ...Call me crazy, but I don't think that's as emotional as desired.Continuity problems between the original movie and City of Angels * Eric returns one year after his and his fiance's death; Ashe comes back after one day.* The crow acts as a sort of guide to help Eric along the way in his quest to avenge his and his loved one's deaths; Ashe is just stupid and needs to be told what to do.* THAT CAT IS STILL ALIVE AFTER HOW MANY YEARS??  It's the same fluffy white cat, Gabriel!Overall, a failure. "},{"Title":"Not a very good sequel ...","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  The first Crow movie was the best , Brandon Lee was so cool , but this one is not as good as the original. Most of the times the sequel dose not bring anything NEW , and this one is the same , the story is almost the same , but even worse.I recommend this movie only to the Crow fans... "}{"Title":"Pure Garbage","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  This film is a complete waste of space.  It should never have been made. The original Crow was an amazing movie, and Brandon Lee gave a great performance.  This film is a disgrace to his memory, and it is a major let down.  The acting is poor, the plot is worse.  Don't waste your time seeing this, no matter how large a Crow fan you are.  (And I'm a big fan of the comic). "},{"Title":"Better than I expected, less than I had hoped","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  The Crow was going to be a hard film to follow. Not only was it a cult classic, but the sequel also had to do justice to the character of the driven anti-hero, who must come back from the dead to seek revenge. After all, Brandon Lee perfected the role, and the follow-up character would have to be at least up to par with him.All in all, this sequel's premise is about as good as it could have been. Vincent Perez is Ashe, the next man who comes from the dead to seek revenge for the death of he and his son. Mia Kirshner is Sarah from the first film, guiding him throughout his quest for revenge. Iggy Pop and  Richard Brooks are the villians, the latter who is some sado-masacist with deadly agendas against the Crow....Unfortunately, the film in itself, though it could have been great, is basically a (poor) retread of the first film, with the same plot, the same basic structure, the same haunted characters...the only thing it lacks is the heart and the soul...and the very emotion...of the first film. Hardly anything is different until the very end, even down the the musical score and opening credits. In the faces of Iggy Pop and Brooks, we only see T-Bird and Top Dollar from the first one. Only this time, the villians are a bunch of sadomasacists that like to beat people with whips and all that jazz....there are a few scenes like this, and they are so unnesseccary that the film would have been more effective if they just left them out. This is a comic-book superhero, after all....Not Silo.In the same way, in the face of Vincent Perez, all we see is Brandon Lee. Actually, Perez does an incredible job with the role, but unfortunately, he has little to work with. This is more a film about Sarah, and hence, all the deep stuff about him, including his longing to stay on Earth and his romantic feelings with Sarah, are subplots that are never resolved, and the viewer has a desire for more. All this said, though, I must say that the final scenes are absoultely phenominal. Beginning with the scene in which Ashe falls from the building and sees an image of his son, the movie at last picks up and is completely captivating and worth watching. Not only do these final scenes capture the spirit of the first film, but they take them to new levels. If only the rest of the film could have been this effective...So let's see...The beginning gets one star...the last few scenes get four stars...That averages out to two and a half...Yeah, two and a half will do....Like I said...better than expected, but less than it could have been...**1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Er...Haven't I seen this film before? (Spoilers)","Date":"1 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  Basically, this is a more expensive remake of the first Crow film.  There are good points to the film, one being the really cool Iggy Pop and excellent cinematography, but Perez as the dead avenger doesn't exude the same presence on-screen as his predecessor, Brandon Lee.   "},{"Title":"awful","Date":"14 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" Just about the most time I have ever wasted in my life watching this rip-off of the original The Crow. It is an insult to Brandon Lee, and to any true fan of the original. For anyone one ignorant enough to say that it is nothing like the original is either blind or mentally handicapped. It is a disgusting sequel and the writers, producers, actors, and anyone involved in the production of this piece of trash should hang their heads in shame and leave the movie industry forever. I read a comment that said The Crow - City Of Angels was nothing like the original masterpiece, they could not be more wrong, it was a shameless scam of The Crow for example the dark setting of the movie, the make-up on the wanna-be Brandon Lee, and even the character name Sarah. Please people if your going to defend a movie, have an argument (laughing). The Deftones were the only thing good about this movie and I would have rather just watched them perform. "},{"Title":"Turkey season around again","Date":"19 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" Well, big fan of the first Crow movie, like a lot of people. This extremely unfocused and soulless sequel opened the floodgates for the Crow franchise and more family-orientated versions, in the same way that the Robocop franchise disappeared down the toilet.Not a huge amount of sense nor drive about the narrative, this version has been over-edited so it's often confusing what is going on, big holes in character motivation, you end up not caring about any of the characters.Whereas the first film conjured up a magnificent air of Gothic gloom, this one just isn't nasty enough, and that's how revenge thrillers work - you need to know how bad the bad guys are and how horribly the hero has been wronged to care about his mission to avenge himself and take some pleasure when he ices a bad guy. What you get here is a watered-down version that misfires on a number of levels, the acting isn't great and the script truly sucks, but I can forgive those if there is something genuine at the film's core. There is something wholly ingenuine at this movie's core however, even the photography and iconography plays like a long soulless rock video, full of its own importance but actually delivering nothing. Proper turkey "},{"Title":"The Crow city of angels is best Crow movie ever made--but sadly, it was never released","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  WARNING HUGE SPOILERS AHEAD!!This real cut of the movie is 100 times better than the chopped release, (30 minutes of the movie is missing..please click on the alternate versions option for more info on this). The scene order is completely different; the pacing of the movie is a lot more fluid and is alot more interesting to watch. The beginning of the movie is different, and has a different Sarah voiceover. The musical scores are different, and more horror-like. There are even different sounds. After Judah steals the crow power, he is more demon-like, and growls. The love between Ashe & Sarah is also apparent in this cut. Before she dies, there is a scene, Ashe tells her that he loves her. Ashe says You can't die...I Stayed for you..(pauses for a moment gathering his words) ..I Love you.. Sarah then smiles, and dies happy knowing that she is loved, as a tear runs down her face. After Ashe places the dead Sarah on the offrende table, he kisses her one last time before he leaves. The ending is different, and tragic. Ashe is all alone, his son Danny is dead, and so is Sarah. He simply rides away on his motorcycle into the sunset, as a different, 'tragic' musical score plays. Fade out to the ending credits. Different ending credits music. The end.It's a shame, that the general public will never get to see such a moving, great movie and powerful love story. I give this Real version of The Crow city of angels A Very Deserving 10 out of 10. The best crow movie ever made, and my favorite Movie of all time. ) "},{"Title":"Shouldn't had been made.","Date":"8 August 2011","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" Although his this a painfully sleep inducing movie this movie shouldn't had been made because it and it's sequels tarnish the image of the first movie. Although this has never stopped Hollywood from making movies before. This movie doesn't even seem like a Crow movie. It seems like a very typical revenge movie (something that the original Crow movie managed to make work for itself) you don't really care about the characters, the movie is obviously put on a lower budget, and it's the kind of movie that you can't help but not get involved in. It really seems like you could go out to eat, watch a different movie, and then come back and you wouldn't had missed anything. The movie also relies far too much on the clichés of the first movie (the following sequels also do that as well though.) "},{"Title":"There are no words....","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  Where do I begin?  I can't believe I wasted 1 hour of my life to this pitiful excuse for a movie.  I know that sequels are never as good as the original, but this is an outstanding example of an attempt at sponging off of the success of a well made movie with a low-budget piece of crap.Bad acting.  Bad direction.  Bad lighting.  Bad camera angels.  Bad special effects.  And a story that, though searching for originality, ends up being a copy-cat version of the original The Crow movie.This movie is a stain on Brandon Lee's memory.  The Crow was his legacy. His greatest role.  I will have to watch the original several dozen times to purge my mind of this insulting waste of film.Watch the original The Crow.  Avoid the sequel at all costs! "},{"Title":"Tedious sequel","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  I guess they had a lot to live up to. The original Crow was a classic and without Brandon Lee, it was difficult to follow it up, but City of Angels is just a rehash of the original. Pretty much the same type of story, same things happen. The acting is extremely poor. I didn't feel bad for anyone in the movie cuz they were so fake and unrealistic. The movie stretches on way too long as well. The last 20 minutes are somewhat interesting and there is even a performance by the Deftones (who contribute to the soundtrack) but there isn't enough in here to keep you awake. "},{"Title":"We all have our pleasures, mine is the pain of other's. Surprisingly good.","Date":"21 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" The Crow City of Angels starts with a kind hearted tattooist named Sarah (Mia Kirshner) having a dream about a man & his young son being killed & thrown into the sea. For some unexplained reason this makes her travel to a local dock where the dead body of Ashe Corven (Vincent Perez) comes back to life, rising Excalibur like from the water all overlooked by a Crow... Back in Sarah's apartment she tells Ashe that he has been brought back to life by the Crow so that he may avenge the injustice dished out to him & his young son Danny (Eric Acosta) who were both brutally killed after witnessing a murder ordered & overseen by local drug dealing bad guy Judah Earl (Richard Brooks). After Ashe remember's the events of the night he was killed & a bit of grieving for his son he sets out to kill Judah & his gang, first up is Spider Monkey (Vincent Castellanos) as all the mayhem unfolds under the watchful eyes of a mysterious Crow...The Crow City of Angels is music video director Tim Pope's one & only full length theatrical film & I have to admit I really rather liked it. The script by David S. Goyer based on the comic series & strips by James O'Barr moves along like a rocket & while it's a simple tale of revenge & isn't a massive departure from the original The Crow (1994) I was throughly entertained throughout. There isn't much to say about the story as I've pretty much summed it up already but it does feel a little dream like at times & I could have done without the heavy handed supernatural elements like the psychic & the stupid ending. The one thing that really impressed me about The Crow City of Angels is it's look & feel, director Pope & cinematographer Jean-Yves Escoffier create a wonderful Gothic futuristic world populated by black & white character's, their either good or bad. I love the lighting, Pope films almost everything in a yellow tint & every shot in this film appears to have been considered & manipulated in some way. There are some great scenes in The Crow City of Angels in particular I liked the shot of Ashe speeding along on his motorbike with the two flaps of his long leather coat flapping behind him either side in the turbulence like wings of a bird, maybe a Crow? The flashback scenes work less well, Pope uses slow motion, blurriness & hand held jerkiness which come across as cheap compared to the visual excellence of the rest of the film. The stylised comic book inspired production design credited to Alex McDowell is great as well with a bleak run down city overrun by depression & darkness, from Sarah's apartment to Judah's hideout complete with living S/M sculptures & the graffiti covered walls of the filth ravaged streets The Crow City of Angels looked fabulous to my eyes & a visual treat. The special effects are good with some terrific shots of the Crows flying over & around the city as the camera follows them. The action scenes are decent if a little low key, there's a cool motorbike chase, some good explosions, various fights with weapons like swords & butterfly knives & assorted gunfights. With a budget of about $13,000,000 The Crow City of Angels is well made throughout & has that Hollywood polish about it, the acting is OK with Perez doing alright with both the action sequences & the sentimental bits as well, Kali the sexy leather clad bad girl was played by the late Thuy Trang & was her last film appearance. I'm not sure about Iggy Pop as Curve as he looked a bit on the old side to be running around with guns & speeding around on motorbikes. There isn't much in the way of explicit violence or gore just a syringe shoved up someone's nose & someone who lands on their head after being thrown out of a window. I am aware that the studio who pumped money into this film drastically re-cut & altered it before it's initial release, according to the IMDb the extra scenes & changes would have made a huge difference to the finished film but that's history & we can't change it, this is the version we got & that's all there is to it. There's no use crying over spilt milk, right? I was very surprised at how much I enjoyed The Crow City of Angels, I'm not sure it's for everyone but then I don't really care as I liked it & that's all that matters in the end. Personally I think it's well worth a watch if you like dark, violent Gothic action orientated fantasy films! "}{"Title":"What a waste","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  They almost had it. If someone else had had access to some of those sets and visuals, and the Crow franchise, I would bet green money that they could make a decent movie. This movie is a laundry list of failures. It seems neither the actor nor the director were capable of making proficient action scenes, horribly missing the bar the first movie set. The plot is sluggish and the main character dull and apathetic. They stole a character from the original for use as a cheap plot device and thus tarnish the original. The villains of the movie aren't nearly as compelling, the main lackey looked 60 years old. Then to wrap it all up the film dies on a convulsion of bizarre, pulled-out-the-rear nonsense. Bad bad bad! For shame! "},{"Title":"Caw blimey","Date":"13 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" A barely coherent sequel that drowns the plot of the first movie in a soup of flashy visuals, rapid editing and loud music, none of which adds up to very much. Vincent Perez is revivified after he and his son are shot by hoods and dumped in the river. After getting his face painted and doing a card trick, he RoboCops his way through the members of the gang responsible for his death.There's little to recommend this messy racket, which has a couple of neat images here and there but spends most of its time piling on pretentious dialogue and gloomy lighting and pummelling what little plot there is into a pulp. The best thing that can be said about the cast is that everyone remembered their lines, but as they're all swamped by director Tim Pope's belief that 'style' equates to 'making everything as incomprehensible as possible', it doesn't really matter. "},{"Title":"Poor Attempt to Copy the First Film","Date":"25 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" The Crow City of Angels (1996)* 1/2 (out of 4) A vicious drug dealer (Richard Brooks) has mechanic Ashe Corven (Vincent Perez) killed along with his wife and young son. A year later the crow leads the mechanic back from the dead for revenge. Like many bad sequels to good movies, this one here is basically just a remake without any imagination and in the end you're just watching a cheaper, less entertaining version of the 1994 film. THE CROW CITY OF ANGELS is pretty much dead from the word go as there's simply nothing here to get excited about. I think the only reason I didn't rate the movie lower is that while watching the thing you can't help but hope that something exciting will finally happen and you keep hanging in there hoping for it but in the end it never comes. The entire look of the film just seems like a weak copy of the first and there's no question that this contains a real lack of energy, excitement or simply any characters to root for. I say that because it's hard not to root for anyone who has had their family slaughtered, that's a given, but the problem here is that the film simply doesn't make us care for Ashe or his family. Even the villains here are all forgettable with the exception of Iggy Pop who goes all out with his funny, over-the-top performance. Perez is pretty bland in the lead role. It seems he was going for the same type of laid back approach that Brandon Lee did but it just doesn't work here. Bringing the Sarah character back from the previous film also doesn't work here. The action scenes are all rather boring and I'd say that the majority of them lack any real imagination. The lack of imagination is something that can be said about the majority of this film as this sequel just never gets off the ground. "},{"Title":"Didn't we see this exact same film, only done better, two years prior... ?","Date":"17 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" Ah, 1996's The Crow City of Angels- the first sequel in the downfall of a once-promising franchise. Directed by Tim Pope and written by David S. Goyer (whom both went on to disown the film due to studio re-edits that destroyed it), this is the tragic misstep that destroyed the series after the incredible 1994 debut.Vincent Perez stars as Ashe, a man whom was murdered, along with his child, after witnessing a gang-related hit. Some time later (it's never exactly established, but I think it's a short time later), Ashe is brought back by the power of a crow, to seek vengeance. He is helped along the way by Sarah... yes, the same Sarah from the first film, now all grown up and quite stunning (portrayed by the sexy Mia Kirshner). She uses Eric Draven's influence on her to paint the iconic crow makeup onto Ashe and send him on his way, also acting as a slight love interest in the rushed narrative.Ashe is after Judah (Richard Brooks), the drug lord of Los Angelas, who is sort of responsible for the loss of his own life and that of his child. Judah's men (including Thomas Jane, Iggy Pop and the late and great Thuy Trang) are the ones who murdered him. Through a bizarre series of events that just don't gel together properly, Judah forms a plan to steal the powers of the crow to make himself invincible, and Ashe must stop him at all costs.To give credit where it is due, there are some good aspects to the film. For starters, Pope's direction is quite nice, on the whole. He went for what seems to be the exact opposite of what Alex Proyas did with the first film. The movie is all in shades of red, orange, purple, etc. It's much harsher and more angry, and camera-work is generally good. Graeme Revell also returns to score the film, and he utilizes a fantastic combination of new themes with musical cues from the prior film. It helps ground them both in the same universe. And the performances aren't bad.However, it stops there. The films really, truly suffers from the studio re-edits. Rumor has it that the original cut of the film was much longer and significantly different, but Miramax, wanting to cash in on the success of the first film, had more than an hour of footage cut, and many scenes re-arranged in the narrative, in order to make it more like the original. And it shows. The pacing is sloppy and characters are left completely undeveloped. In addition, the tragedy and connection to the characters is also severed, and the ending (without spoiling anything) makes no sense whatsoever.The film feels like it's missing the backbone to the story, and what's left after these studio edits feels like an empty shell. It's barely watchable as-is, and isn't very enjoyable.Here's to hoping that one day, we may get the original cut of the film (which isn't the DVD Director's Cut, don't be fooled), and see this film in the best possible way, as the original cut does sound far superior.As it stands, The Crow City of Angels gets a 3 out of 10. It's a worse version of the original film, and should be skipped over by all but die-hard fans who feel they need to see it. "},{"Title":"The Crow City of Angels","Date":"21 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" With the success of THE CROW, there was bound to be a sequel.CITY OF ANGELS would be a decent movie, if it wasn't following a great movie like THE CROW.The beginning of the movie is far more Gothic than the first. It begins in a tattoo parlor, with flash backs of a father being killed with his son. If only we cared.That's the thing with this movie. We don't care. The first movie was sentimental, heartbreaking in a sense. This one, it's like they try to get us to care, we just can't.When the father is resurrected from The Land of the Dead, he's dusted off, some stuff is peeled off of him. And...he...is....the...Crow! Too bad this movie sucks. "},{"Title":"Something to pass the time *MAJOR SPOILERS*","Date":"1 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" The Crow City of Angels obviously is the sequel to the The Crow starring Brandon Lee, who was tragically killed before the final cut was made. The first film told that the story of a musician named Eric Draven (Lee) who is brought back to life by a crow to avenge the deaths of him and his fiancé Shelly. Since Eric succeeded, he does not make an appearance this time around as he had finally found peace. The only character from the first movie who reemerges in this one is his friend Sarah (this time played by Mia Kirshner) who still wears the gold engagement ring that Eric gave her and is seen drawing a picture of him and Shelly. The central character in this film is a mechanic named Ashe Corven (Vincent Perez) who is murdered along with his son by a gang of thugs. Ashe of course is brought back to life by a crow to avenge the deaths of him and his son. All in all this movie was tolerable. Something to pass the time on a weeknight when you can't go to sleep just yet. It could have been better if the dialouge and fighting sequences were up to par with the original film, but the acting was as good as it could get. This may not be the best film ever made, but it certainly isn't the worst as it is still watchable IMHO. "},{"Title":"These people should never work again","Date":"15 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" I wasn't a great fan of the original Crow, but it at least had some atmosphere, and a halfway decent storyline. With no Jason Lee and a low budget, the sequel was never likely to be good, but surely it shouldn't have been this bad.At this point I usually try to describe the plot, but I don't think there is one. I think someone died and took vengeance on the people who killed him, but frankly most of the time I was buggered if I could understand what was going on. The whole thing has the look and feel of a Duran Duran video circa 1982, and makes about as much sense. The best so-bad-it's-good part is the evil gangbangers, who look like nothing so much as the Spiders From Mars. Here's a hint for all you movie makers out there - real street gangs do not look like glam rockers.The acting is even worse than this would suggest, with only Vincent Perez able to salvage some pride from a cast who run the gamut from abysmal to hilarious.So why two stars rather than one? Two words Iggy Pop. Iggy can't act for toffee - check out his 'horrified' reaction when he finds Nemo's body - but the very fact that this movie has a bona fide legend in it gives it an extra star. He even tortures Ian Dury at one point - two legends for the price of one! Just a shame about the god-awful movie. Even the music was lousy. "},{"Title":"God Awful Sequel to The Crow","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" The Crow was a surprising film, maybe because nobody expected anything from it in the first place. The Crow wasn't (and still isn't even despite the film) a successful or very well-known comic book character. However, the dark atmosphere, story and tone of the movie was a hit with fans and served as inspiration for many superhero flicks that wanted to transition to a much darker side. Additionally, a lot of the buzz around Brandon Lee's death in the film also attracted so many to the flick, since it was an extreme travesty that was a once in a lifetime occurrence.So despite Brandon Lee, there was a sequel made, hoping to cash on the wild cult popularity of the original, dark and moody Gothic flick. City of Angels really does only one things good here. It definitely captures the spirit of the first Crow and didn't butcher it too bad like some sequels do (Batman Forever ring a bell?). The dark settings, the creepy atmosphere, it's all there in it's gloomy Gothic glory. However, once you get past the fact that you're in the Crow's world, everything goes south pretty quick. And I mean real quick.First of all the acting is atrocious. Maybe it's the acting or maybe it's the script, but it's probably a combination of both. Vincent Perez sure doesn't capture the spirit of the Crow character completely, but then again, this a wildly different character from Brandon Lee's in the first film. He doesn't need to be Brandon Lee, so I didn't care if his personality was different. However, Perez nor anybody involved in the film didn't understand that, and they tried so hard to emulate a character like Brandon Lee that they just did a laughable job and Perez suffered because of it. Kershner and everybody else were awful as well, but then again, maybe it was the script. It was almost as if i was watching the first crow done again, seeing the same characters trying to play roles similar to ones in the first movie, only this is supposed to be a sequel, not a remake. Somebody didn't tell the dircetor that i guess.If the acting is bad enough, things still go sour. The story is a mixed up piece of trash. It was okay at first, I liked the idea of a man getting revenge because of a slain son, but the whole film detracts from that idea and tries to capture a superhero good vs. evil thing. The only thing, it does a poor job doing that. So instead of getting a simple story, which the first crow did, and did well, we get a whole crow mythology which isn't developed enough and only falls flat on its face. If anything, this film should've stuck to either one story the revenge of his son or the mythology of the crow, because combining the stories only left with a muddled plot that seemed rushed and corny beyond belief.I wanted to like the Crow City of Angels. I loved the first movie's plot, its atmosphere, the bizarre world that seemed to blend fantasy and reality oh so well. Unfortunately, while it does a good job capturing the first film's atmosphere, everything is a mess, a glorious mess of when a director goes too far in order to recreate something that doesn't need to be recreated. All the City of Angels really needed to be for me was its own movie with its own story, its own style. Unfortunately, I didn't get that, only a pile of muck that has sunken the Crow comic and character only deeper into mediocrity. "},{"Title":"What a piece of crap","Date":"12 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" Even though I'm only soon 16 years old I have already seen about 1500 films and haven't been sleeping to any before i saw this. The original Crow is on my top 3 best films, this one the other hand might end up on the top 10 worst films. Now it's not just it's a bad film because it's a sequel. No, the story is alright but they don't use it right. In The crow we got into the characters. Bruce Lee fitted like hand in glove in his role as and the acting was awesome, know in this film we don't get that. The acting is bad, I would say that some of my classmates could make a better film with me in it. And second the first film had great footage, very good miniatures and cool stages and such. This movie tries to get you too feel that but doesn't even do that. In the first movie there also where a great soundtrack but this is some of the worst soundtracks I've heard so far. If you got problems sleeping this is the movie for you and if you want to see crow films watch the first again on the 3rd which is quite good but don't see this. "},{"Title":"It's crap, crap, crap, crap, crap... crap.","Date":"9 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" Every actor in this was given a brief overview of the first film and then told to make up their own lines as they rolled camera, and all the blocking, camera angles and special effects were hashed out early one morning while waiting for the coffee to brew. Some of the set designs were nice but so are several items located in my kitchen cupboards and staring at those for 2 hours would have been a more uplifting and challenging experience. The music is taken from the last K-Tel goth-cash-in compilation (excepting the Iggy and PJ Harvey tracks, brief and demolished as they were), the dialogue trite and non-stimulating, and just because you've been handed a dumptruck full of cash and told to sort of re-make the first movie doesn't mean you can't strive for little more than your next music video elongated and dragged across the senses of anyone fooled into paying to see the thing, the glimmer of hope in their eyes snuffed out within the first ten minutes. As it garnered four occasions of laughter at the film's expense I wouldn't say this would be the in-flight film playing on the trip to hell but I also wouldn't mind being refunded the minutes of my life back that were wasted in reaching the end of this unpleasant situation. "}{"Title":"one of the worst films I have ever seen","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" It is a badly made terrible horrible sickening film. It always appears like a low budget copy of the original crow film. But a really really bad copy. There is no tension no atmosphere, there is no sense, there is plenty of bad acting, ridiculous unbelievable characters. Even the music is ridiculous and does not fit to the acting. And it is so obvious that they did not have any money. Actually I do not know why it is aka Crow II since there is not much difference in the baseline but of cause much more difference is the execution. What a waste of time watching this film... "},{"Title":"this film was on the right track but then it simply blew up in the faces of all fans of the original Crow.","Date":"12 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  I consider myself to be one of the biggest fans of The crow starring Brandon Lee and Michael Wincott. However, when I saw this so-called sequel to it i was left depressed. First off, the acting in City of Angels is simply horrendous. The main villain of the movie, Judah, was a horrible character to begin with and as for Iggy Pop starring in the movie... let's just say he should stick to his musical career. The best actor of the movie was Mia Kirshner who played Sarah. This is pretty sad because when your main character lacks acting skills your movie is simply going to flop. One thing I liked about the movie was that it resembled the original Crow but still had something in it's storyline to keep you from walking out of the movie. One thing I liked was that the movie was partly based on Sarah when she grows up. This was good because I myself wanted to know what happened to her afterwards. So in conclusion, the movie had the makings to live up to its prequel but the horrible acting made it die out like a drowning rat in a public restroom toilet stall.  "},{"Title":"So much potential wasted","Date":"4 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  By now, the stories about the extensive cuts made to this film are probably common knowledge (on the slim chance you have no clue what I'm talking about read the 'alternate versions' page or find the screenplay somewhere on the net). Like most Crow fans, I think the film would have been helped tremendously by the additional footage. But unlike my fellow fans, I don't think that even with all deleted scenes restored the movie would have been very good.The problem is not the direction. I think Tim Pope, along with production designer Alex McDowell, brough a great style to the film. Nor is the problem the acting. Despite what many others have written, I like Vincent Perez in the lead role. And although Mia Kirshner is basically Sarah in name only, she is still very good in the film. No- there is one thing that sunk this project bad writing.David S. Goyer is one of the worst screenwriters working today. I find it interesting that on the commentary for Blade II, the director and producer rip apart his script and talk about all the work they had to do to turn it into a servicable movie. The man is full of great ideas and p*** poor execution. His dialouge is crap. For all of you who attack the film's acting, YOU try reciting lines like Does the corpse have a familiar face and I am all your nightmares rolled into one and not sounding like a total fool. Add to that his complete lack of character development and you've got yourself a doomed movie.Everyone complains that the relationship between Ashe and Sarah that was hinted at needed more fleshing out. Even in early version of the script, and in all that cut footage, there is still NOTHING that makes that aspect of the film believable. You can't just tell us two people are in love and expect us to buy it. We have to see it. We have to feel it. The same is true of the villains and their motivations. In the original Crow each gang member had a distinct and memorable personality. In COA, there is nothing of the sort. Just comic book bad guys wearing flashy costumes who basically just wait to get picked off one by one. Goyer basically says Here's the good guy. These are the bad guys... now watch them fight. I'm sorry, it doesn't work that way. How about taking a lesson from Crow 1 and injecting a little soul into your action?Even the alternate ending bothers me,  it makes absolutely no sense. The idea itself is good. The intentions were good. Like I said before, it's the way it's executed that ruins it. It really is a shame. When you consider the film they were trying to make, you can really appreciate it. But they should have hired a different screenwriter. Goyer killed this film. I can't believe he's still working. I'm heartbroken they're letting him near the new Batman film.To be fair, COA is not as bad as I thought it was when I first saw it in t he theatre. But the dialouge is groan worthy and you run a high chance of it stimulating your gag reflex. But it's almost worth watching for the atmosphere they create and for the music that accompanies it. Just don't expect much else. Especially if you're a fan of the first film.  "},{"Title":"Sorry guys, Not as good as the first and i'll tell you why","Date":"5 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  the crow 2?? pope... sorry but it just can't be done without brandon lee. he was the crow and trying to bring back another person to in what some ppl say take his place as the crow.  the directer tried too hard to bring back elements from the first one to make the second one better. and in my opinon it didn't work any one agree with me on this one?? let me know your thoughts. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies ever made","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  I wanted to walk out of the theater but gritted my teeth and stayed to the end. The only reason I post this is to warn people away from even wasting their time by renting this drek, unless you want to see how to NOT make a movie. Absolute garbage from start to finish, very poorly directed, TERRIBLE acting, bad editing, bad script, badly shot. It goes on and on.Do not punish your brain cells by subjecting them to this movie, even if you loved the original Crow.  "},{"Title":"dont buy or rent this bad sequel","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is one of the worst movie sequels ever. It had really bad acting, lame storyline that seemed like the first one's. Speaking of the first one, watch it because it is a really great classic. Please dont get this movie because it really did suck... one out of ten... "},{"Title":"Weak sequel","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  The Crow (1994) with Brandon Lee will always be one of a kind...City of Angels, the second in the series, is too weak. The producers are trying to rehash the first one with the same dark and gothic tone with an actor who I felt should not have played this role in my opinion. No offense, Vincent Perez is a good actor (seen him in other films), but he just didn't fit the role in this one. And what is the deal with the character of Sarah returning? I mean, what happened to her after the first...you know what I mean...where's Darla? This film is too weak...all you're getting is a weak rehash of the original film, which will forever stand on its own.  "},{"Title":"Compared to The Crow or not, this movie is still horrible.","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  When the first Crow came it, it blew me away. It sparked my interest in dark film-noir type movies, and it also was one of the movies that made me want to be a movie director. When I first heard about a sequel being in the works, I was a little apprehensive. I thought, Well, okay. As long is it has nothing to do with the original. Later on, I read the producers as saying This isn't trying to copy the original. It is its own movie. I even read the movie novel before the movie came out and thought that it would actually be very good. But as I watched The Crow City of Angels, I couldn't believe the horror that was unfolding before my eyes It was a complete retread of the original, with different characters. You could probably parallel each character in this one, with someone in the original movie. The dialogue was laughingly bad. The worst was the Hush little baby scene. I was actually dying laughing. The screenwriters also majorly overdid the lets have the hero repeat everything the bad guys said to him before they killed him. I believe they were trying way to hard for that sense of irony.This movie isn't completely without good points. I actually think Vincent Perez is a good actor (especially for English not being his 1st language), and could tell he was trying his best to dig himself out of this hole of a movie. The cinematography looked good, but used too much of that pee colored lense filter. And Graeme Revell's musical score was awesome.The whole commercialism of this movie was sick. James O'Barr (the creator of The Crow) wanted nothing to do with it. Alex Proyas (the director of the original) was sickened for the same reason as I The creators of COA actually digitally altered the poster, to make Vincent Perez to look more like Brandon Lee. That's a line that shouldn't be crossed.If you want to see a better sequel, see The Crow Salvation. Wasn't anywhere near perfect, but should've been released theatrically, instead of this stinker. Oh well, at least this isn't as bad as the atrocity known as The Crow Stairway to Heaven. "},{"Title":"skip this sequel...","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" ...and see either the original movie or the third movie in the series.  The main bad guy wasn't portrayed by a believable actor (he is famous for being on NBC's Law and Order).  The ending doesn't go with the theme of the movie, which is about the revenge of one man for the fact that he (and the ones that he cares about) has been wronged.  This movie is a case in point of how Hollywood messes up a perfectly good movie with a sequel.  I wish they would just let good movies end where they are supposed to. "},{"Title":"This One Just Didn't Fly","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  I was so irritated that this film was made in the wake of the tragedy surrounding the original Crow that I waited five years to try and watch it on video.  Put simply, City of Angels lacks all of the things which made The Crow such a wonderful movie--not the least of which is Brandon Lee's superior work in the lead role.  Now Vincent Perez is certainly an excellent actor, and he wasn't all that bad of an avenging angel.  However, this role as defined by Lee in the original is physically challenging and demanding, both of which Perez couldn't quite handle.  Additionally, Perez' accent was such that many of his lines--which might have been quite clever--were garbled.  I did like the backdrop of the Day of the Dead, but I don't feel this was used as well or as much as it could have been.  In short, I'd suggest that fans of The Crow stick to the original movie so as to avoid the pain of discovering what all is lacking in the sequel. "}{"Title":"Embarrassing. Offensive. Disgusting.","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  How lame can one film be?! It's soooo useless. I'm forced to destroy the video so as not to taint the rest of my collection. Iggy bloody Pop?!?!?!?! Jeeeeeezus. Mia Kirshner - top totty BUT NOTHING LIKE SARAH. Vincent Perez - nice idea. He tried. The screenplay was sooo godawful that I can't even start to go into it . . Wonderful idea for Judah - gaining the power of the crow - unbelievably badly executed. I cringed. This is to The Crow as every sequel after 'Returns is to Batman.NEON?!?! WHAT IS WITH THE NEON GREEN, RED AND BLUE ALL OVER THE PLACE?!I can't even BEGIN to describe how embarrassed, offended and disgusted I was when I watched this. I'd put off watching it until now - hey it was cheap at the video store, ok?! - and now I remember why. Acting that doesn't even rate as acting in the loosest sense of the word. Casting that was doomed from the outset. Screenplay/script - unbelievable. How can anyone take 'credit' for something to pathetic? I thought only I felt so strongly about this travesty of a film, but having read other reviews here, I'm glad I'm not alone in wanting to give it a -10 rating.I call to arms all those who were equally offended by this mockery of a film - offending the previous film, Brandon Lee's memory, the comics, and the writing talent of James O'Barr. join me in the ultimate destruction of any copy of this film!! Chainsawjoe.com is the beginning of the end for Crow 2 - record the destruction of your film and add it to the growing database of pictures devoted to this act!!I feel better now. "},{"Title":"Stinks ! Sucks !!!","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  This movie realy sucks !!! It has a very very bad and stupid not original script and a very bad direction with few big actors that play bad. I don't know if the movie has anything good , it is so stupid. In comparation with the first it really really SUCKS !!! "},{"Title":"Pales","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  What really got me was the APATHY of the whole thing. The entire movie isn't trying. Perez gives a lame performance, and not just compared to Lee. The main villain is totally uninteresting, and not just compared to Wincott. The secondary villain looked cool, but had nothing to do or say. The part of Sarah just SHOULDN'T have been there to begin with. I never read the comics, but carrying her over from the original was totally lame in my book. The whole plot was a lame retread, except now our Crow needs to be told what to do, and after long periods of mopey dialogue he just about says Well, might as well get more of that revenge that's expected of me, before dragging himself into a by-the-numbers action scene involving bikes, exploding barrels, or other available cliches. And finally, while the end scene in the original was poetic, the end to this one is confusing, annoyingly subject to the sequel one-upsmanship curse, and downright dumb.I found one worthwhile line and image in the entire movie the part in some club where people are throwing themselves against taut sheets looked like a nifty NiN video effect, and the Murder of Crows line, while obvious, was delivered well.  "},{"Title":"It STUNK","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  How could someone cheapen a movie so good as The Crow by comeing out with a sequel.  All I have to say was they were not thinking about plot, style or quality....Just cashHey lets use the name of a great movie to bring the kiddies in so we can fatten our wallet!I wish the voting area has the ability to give a movie a -10, because thats what I would give this movie "},{"Title":"the movie fails to connect","Date":"16 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  I worked as an extra in this movie for three days in the Day of the Dead sequence.  I got a close-up which has so far been my best exposure in a movie.  This movie fails on all levels, it simply fails to generate any tension.  The hero cannot be destroyed by fire or fists or bombs and so where is the tension?  It is physically beautiful but that is the only positive thing which can be said about it.  A movie which is all form and no substance does not work.  The first Crow movie was excellent, this was not. "},{"Title":"It make look, smell, and even feel like the first Crow, but this movie misses the mark by miles.","Date":"29 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  I gave this movie a 4 out of 10.It make look, smell, and even feel like the first Crow, but this movie misses the mark by miles. If you have seen the first Crow movie then I think you owe it to yourself to see the second but be warned you will be disappointed.BackgroundI am a 24 year old male engineering and computer science student living in SC. I do have a large humanities background.OverviewWhat a let down. If you have seen the first Crow movie then you should be wondering how could the sequel possibly be bad? Trust me, somehow they found a way. There is so much that is the same between these two movies the atmosphere, the characters, the storyline, the attitudes, and on and on but something essential is missing this time that was there in the first movie.Have you ever seen the episode of Bugs Bunny where all of the characters are being replaced with badly drawn copies of themselves? That is what comes to mind when I watch the sequel to the original Crow movie. Not one of the good copies either one of the really bad, close to pathetic ones that only show up towards the end of the episode.The only real improvement was the second Crow rides a motorcycle and it seems more fitting to the character. I wasn't too fond of the ending in the first Crow movie but the one in this movie is a *LOT* worse.I think everyone will agree that the second Crow movie isn't half as good as the first. The first one had a depth and richness to it that would cling to your soul after you were done watching the movie. It is not as strong as say Star Wars', or Saving Private Ryans', or Titanic's, but it is there. The sequel is almost completely flat and empty.Basically it is the same story with different people which never works in a sequel anyway, but that is what they did. It is like with the Bugs Bunny thing I was talking about. They used the same set, the same storylines, and everything but the soul was gone from the movie.One cool thing about this movie, if you watch it on DVD, nothing extra on DVD though, then you can get the 5.1 Dolby Surround sound if your system supports it and hear the fight scene which reminds me of the on in The Matrix. That is almost worth the price right there.I think it is worth seeing because the first one earned that from me. It is sort of like I would recommend anyone who likes Star Wars to see that Return to Endor movie with the Ewoks in it, not because the movie is any good but because it is more Star Wars and the first ones were great.Be sure to check out my other reviews.Thanks. "},{"Title":"trash is an understatement a sequel worse than the exorcist 2","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  As someone that has watched a movie almost every single night for what is almost to be 4 years straight, this has to be the worst film i have ever seen in my entire life. The crow city of angels was a pathetic and pretentious attempt at trying to recapture the feeling of the original, only that it falls short in so many ways, it almost seems as as if it were a parody. tim pope (which i expected much more of due to his long time work with the cure) truly turned this film into a live action comic book (a very bad comic book). the plot was a carbon copy of the first, only lacking the stunning performances of Brandon Lee, Michael Wincott and Rochelle Davis. It also completely lacked the emotional impact of the first in every single way possible. All throughout the first crow i was immersed within the story of Eric Draven avenging the rape and death of his fiance'. It was such a stunning performance you could actually feel the anger and longing exuding from the character. City of angels does its best to pull out an emotional impact of the murder victim in such a cheap way of it being a child and it's father.In the area of villains, instead of the truly twisted character of Top dollar from the first film, we receive a sadistic and stereotypical villain that portrayed such cheapness that you could only find elsewhere on the WB or UPN at 2 in the morning. I couldnt have cared less about the characters and only sat through the film to truly witness in it's entirety of how much it did its best to defimate the first one. Yet constantly the argument is made that it is an entirely different film with different characters and shouldnt be compared to the first, well after sitting through city of angels i only had the impression that the character was originally intended to be Eric Draven and the writers simply fell asleep at their desks during production. Only it gets worse, yet another sequel is in the works at the very moment, hopefully it will be better than this waste of film was. The only bright spot is knowing that i am not alone in millions of other fans out there that seen this film as a complete travesty to the memory of both the original film and Brandon Lee.  "},{"Title":"Its a good movie!","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  After reading comments on this movie.  I have to say people are very ignorant about The Crow character.  The first and second movies are two different stories.  Eric Draven accomplished what he needed to do and was gone.  Ashe Corven is NOT the same character.  Not only that, but people say its the same storyline.  Well anyone who really knows anything about The Crow fan wise will know that the reason why a Crow brings a soul back from the dead is for revenge.   "},{"Title":"Worst sequel ever made","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  I was a big fan of the orignal Crow with its dark humour, superb music and effective cinematography. This, however, is dire! To put it short this is a dull, poorly acted remake of the original that should never have even been attempted. Watching this film  spoiled my enjoyment of the original to some degree - a shame given that it was Brandon Lee's swansong. "},{"Title":"The Crow City of Angels - Should never have been made.","Date":"31 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" Now, I would like to point out first of all, that this movie is NOT that bad. But no matter what you do, you always have the first movie, The Crow in the back of you mind for a couple of reasons Many of the scenes are clear rip-offs of the first, I can't help but shake my head when these scenes crop up and know how much better it was done in the first Crow movie, The storyline is virtually the same, having someone come back from a horrible death and to kill those involved, to be reunited with a loved one and having The Crow guide you, but yet I still feel this movie did not do this storyline justice like the first one did so bloody well. The deaths are ridiculous, badly directed and not imaginative enough (The fight scene between him and Kali is laughable) and the dialog is poor. Ashe or The Crow himself is badly casted, yes, Vincent Perez is a good actor but in this role it does not suit.There are some scenes however that are very well done, including the scene in which Iggy Pop gets murdered. The amount of potential this movie has is astounding, seeing these flashes of genius that never fully shine and the directing and the way it is shot are masterful in parts, but it was a missed opportunity.I say buy/rent/somehow watch this movie and judge for yourself, but it is nothing compared to the first movie and as a movie on its own, it doesn't live up to its potential. It shouldn't have been made in my opinion, trying to fix a movie that was nowhere near broken, it seemed almost pointless. "}{"Title":"Didn't like it too Much","Date":"25 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" This movie is over-rated. It didn't make a whole lot of sense, and the acting was horrible. Everything happened too fast and the reaction time of everyone was too fast. There were some good parts, I admit, but overall this movie sucks. For example, when Ashe is going to attack his first victim, he didn't even get into the light yet and the man immediately recognized him as some guy that they killed. Number one, if someone attacks you, you aren't going to right away think it is some person that is already dead. You are going to think it is some living person. Also, even if he did see his face, it was painted up, you wouldn't recognize someone in a split second whose face is all painted up, especially someone you only met once and you killed at random. Also the whole Sarah and Ashe relationship, I don't understand. "},{"Title":"The Crow?","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" This movie is the worst Crow movie I have seen, I've seen 1-3. The symbolism that was so cool in the first movie was totally lost here. In the first movie, Eric was jolted by memories every time he touched an object or seen through other's eyes, this was the best effect I've seen in a movie. Also, he and the bird do not have as close of a relationship as they did in the first film. It really gets one into the character. In City of Angels, however this effect is lost. I was excited to hear that Iggy Pop was on board as he was suppose to be the first movie's Funboy, and he might have the best role in this film, although that isn't saying much. The acting is terrible and the dialog is even worse. There is no depth to the story and there is no emotion. The first one makes you feel the love, feel the pain, and in the sequel you feel the pain of watching such a bad movie.They bring back Sarah from the first movie in the most horrible way. She's not the same actor nor does she even appear to be the same person. Her past and story isn't developed in this film at all. This raises the question of what happened with officer Albrecht (Ernie Hudson), but there is not a true link between this one and the first one.The entire story from beginning to the end is unbelievable, they bring back a gang of people to be killed but they are introduced very poorly. If you want a good sequel to the crow movie, Savation is just a tad better, but not by much. But it is hard to match a movie which carries the heart and soul of Brandon Lee. A better movie than the first Crow I have yet to see. "},{"Title":"If you seen one CROW movie...","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" You seen them all & THE CROW CITY OF ANGLES is no different. Virtually recycling the first films plot, this sequel/remake features yet another murder victim, a mechanic (& magician on the side) who seeks vengeance for both his & his young son's murder, at the hands of a gang of thugs, after they witness a killing. Dressed in kabuki make-up & black leather & guided by a hypnotic black crow ASHE CORVIN (Played this time by french actor VINCENT PEREZ) seeks revenge on Judah & his gang of odd ball crazies, leaving a symbol of the crow after each murder scene. Like the previous films hero, he is impervious to pain, that is until the crow which gives him his powers is captured, with Judah attempting to drink it's blood & turn Ashe mortal again, all the while giving him the powers he needs to stop the dark avenger, before his days as a crime lord are over. Set many years after the first, SARAH (now played by MIA KIRSHNER) the little girl from the previous film, is now all grown up & is a tattoo artist. VINCENT PEREZ dons the garbs of the hero, but lacks the charisma, the late BRANDON LEE brought to the role. There's no belittling Perez, in fact he is quiet good as the new hero. The rest of the cast is fine & the direction by TIM POPE is as stylish as always, with the dirty landscape & where crime riddles streets being as prevalent, but rather than bath the film in darkness, director Tim Pope decides to give the nights an amber look, while at the same time infusing the streets & alleyways with fog & plenty of colour, dropping the bleak rainy atmosphere of the first & makes the street look just as dirty as before, (Heck, even the underwater shots shows the bottoms of the cities lakes to be littered with garbage) even the cocaine is black! But you have to ask yourselves the question, what was the point of all this? THE CROW CITY OF ANGELS does nothing new, nor adds anything to the franchise, in fact it's a complete remake of the first films plot, with with the hero seeking vengeance on the scum who did him in, making his way up to the head of command. Even the villains are the same (Also worth noting is how the main villain has a psychic seer at his side, much like the previous villain did) & have the same agenda's, at the end of both films, the crow is captured or injured by the main villain, who gets the upper hand before the tables turn again, in the hero's favour, but the action is not as exciting as it was before. The set pieces where the villains meet their demise is also pretty weak, with it's vengeance fulled energy that the first had being somewhat watered down here & the film looks arguably cheaper & lacks the emotional pull of the first. It's story is just not as involving & the characters are just not as interesting. In fact the original films story left no doors open left for a sequel. I mean if they were going to do a sequel, why not venture into other areas, such as having a female crow instead of a male? a crow film set during the old west? or medieval times? I will give it this though, RICHARD BROOKS is fun to watch as the gang leader & I like how the film plays up on the S&M fetishist, with people running around in black leather masks & fetish gear, all part of the decor in Richard Brooks rooms & how many films can you name where IGGY POP gets killed by an undead hero, that sends his body out into the water, where people throw flowers around it, making the shape of a crow? All in all, THE CROW CITY OF ANGELS is a good movie, but not a great one & missed a real good opportunity to take the series in a fresher direction & if you seen the first film, than you have officially seen this one. But still it's worth a look. Followed by two direct to video sequels, the first being THE CROW SALVATION *** stars "},{"Title":"I imagine not nearly as good as the original!","Date":"7 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" I haven't seen the original The Crow so I, unlike most people cannot comment on the comparisons between that and the Crow City of Angels. I can however say that I have read numerous reviews, outlining the original as a 'hauntingly good film'. From my standpoint, without having seen the first movie, I can say that overall I found the film somewhat enjoyable. The atmosphere is dark and brooding, perfectly suiting the character of the crow and the vengeful plot line of the story. Vincent Perez does a decent enough job in his role as a distraught father, craving for revenge after his son is tragically shot down for witnessing a crime. Sometimes I felt his performance was overdone - what was with his accent? But overall he did his best with a script that unfortunately lacked any real depth. Mia Kirshner was adequate in her role as Sarah, though the script didn't call for her to do much bar look gorgeous (Notice whenever she's in a scene, the director chooses to emphasize her eyes and facial features in numerous close-up shots). Richard Brooks as the sadistic leader of a drug dealing gang of thugs isn't entirely effective and the only thing I can say about Iggy Pop is that he makes an amusing sidekick. Take that as a good thing if you want, but in a movie like The Crow The City of Angels, amusement isn't what I imagine an audience expects nor craves. Overall the film certainly wasn't terrible, but if your looking for a great film or even just a plain good one, The Crow The City of Angels may unfortunately fall slightly short of your expectations. "},{"Title":"very nice one, don't listen to losers","Date":"28 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" city of angels is a very nice movie.yes, i understand, it is the continuation of a very successful concept, that of the Crow....but as some bright people above stated it is not a sequel. it is a story, a fairytale. just because the protagonist is not a Chinese guy is not a valid reason to humiliate city of angels, is it?face it. you are stepping on brandon lee every day, walking your wife to the asylum and your only son to the morgue. no matter how much you want it, brandon lee will never star in the crow again.commenting negatively just because brandon lee's brand new set of holes prevented him from making another crow is hilarious. keep it up "},{"Title":"oh please by definition alone sequels are inferior films","Date":"8 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  The Crow was truly the best film ever made and to add to its record it starred the late great Brandon Lee, who as we all sadly know, was killed during filming of the film.It would of been great to just keep The Crow as a one off film ......but they had to make a sequel.The crow City of angels was truly..........rubbish, it lacked everything that The Crow had to offer, crap enemies, crap story line and Crap lead role by Vincent Perez.Do not get me wrong, Vincent Perez is a truly good actor and I have seen a few of his films. But this film was beyond help, the only appealing things about this film was the appearance of Sarah, who is older, and the cat Gabriel, who belonged to Eric Draven,the mask that Brandon used to surprise Shelley with and the ring that he gave to Sarah at the graveyard.apart from that the film was rubbish.I give this a 2 out of 10. because just the thought of a crap sequel to a great Brandon Lee film, makes me fell sick "},{"Title":"This is the WORST movie I've ever paid to see.","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was bad.  I don't just mean bad, I mean BAD.  Bad story, bad acting, no point.  Painful to watch.  Completely missing any element that made the original such a special film. This film should only be viewed as an academic exercise into what can go wrong with a movie. "},{"Title":"It certainly is number 2","Date":"20 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" Set in a surprisingly bland LA, this has Ashe(no, really) coming from back the dead to avenge his son, Danny(who enjoys drawing blue suns and getting himself killed by going exploring when he hears gunfire. He's a bit of a moron like that), by going after the quirky and weird gang responsible, yet not going after poetic justice. Sarah returns, sexualized(hey, what self-respecting sequel doesn't crap over what good the original had?). The characters aren't interesting and the acting is lackluster(Perez is devoid of charisma). In place of the stunning Gothic locations and visuals of the first, we have a lot of yellow fog. No, seriously. As a music video director, you'd think Pope could at least build mood, and even that he barely succeeds in. A lot of the shots are far too tight; they're awkward and they fail to stick with the subject... it just looks amateurish. The FX are lousy. This has too much exposition, explaining every time something supernatural happens(except for of course the few strangest of them), and The Crow is overly exposed so he loses mystery(and he's never threatening). The face make-up is dull, it's only lines... while I'm not saying the '94 one had an elaborate design, it definitely did look great. There's a little martial arts, and I think the choreography might be OK... I can't tell because of how terribly it's covered. We get fantasy elements again, with clear religious overtones, and it's just not effective. Some of the awful dialog consists of cheesy poetry. We get a motorcycle in place of the stylish running across rooftops. I know a director's cut of this exists, however, I can't imagine it really improves this. It wasn't what was missing, it was what was there that made this suck. There's brutal, bloody violence and disturbing and/or disgusting content in this. I recommend it to people who refuse to believe that it is this dreadful and have to see for themselves. Well, the tunes are fine. 2/10 "},{"Title":"All round a poor movie","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" This film is awful. So its the crow's son that dies and not his girlfriend. This is the ONLY difference in story! If a sequel was written thoroughly and with enough imagination, new angles and feelings could have been included. Sadly they weren't! this is basically the crow but filmed in some sort of murky green tint and with poorer actors!! Seriously, don't waste your time! I don't understand why they bothered filming this. The crow IS Brandon Lee, just as the terminator is Arnold Schwarzenegger. This may sound like a harsh comment, but when you watch it you will see what i mean! As poor movies go, this one really does take first prize... "},{"Title":"It's like The Crow, without emotional resonance, thought, or a strong lead.","Date":"21 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" After seeing (and very much liking) the original movie, The Crow, I was terribly disappointed by City of Angels. It seemed to me a movie that knew some of the steps but didn't understand the basic reason for the dance. While some of the most basic elements of the original are present (Death of hero and loved one, hero's return as a supernatural avenger), some embarrassingly so (Wannabe top-ten hit blares out of window of passing car), in other ways the movie falters badly.The original movie understood symbolism and had both an emotional and an intellectual depth that City of Angels lacks. But to me, the most jarring element is how the movie understand's the hero's powers, both how they're gained and lost and their basic nature. The Crow was about a grief so vast that it empowered the person on whom it was inflicted to set wrongs right. The hero of City of Angels seems to be a character whose powers are using him, whether he likes it or not. He considers abandoning his quest entirely, and is forced back to it by one of the most pathetic and blatant attempts to manipulate the viewers emotions I've ever seen in *any* movie. Finally, while characters from the original are included in this storyline (perhaps a mistake) their ultimate conclusions do nothing to enrich or enliven this story or the original.Much to my surprise, the *third* Crow movie seemed to be more in step with the emotional resonance of the first. Skip this one. "}{"Title":"Awful!","Date":"24 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" A sequel? Now way, it's more like a remake. Surely, just watch the original again, as this sequel is basically more of the same, but done ineptly and without much interest.Pretty much this one has tainted the very good original that starred Brandon Lee. His performance is what made The Crow and the look of it was powerful. None of the glowing factors from the original make their way into this production and so the original comes across like a masterpiece. Everything about it lacks bite and ferocity. The performances are far less memorable and the characters are basically the same ones we saw in the first. Where's the imagination gone? I just can't believe how derivative it was. After seeing this one, I'm not all that curious into catching up with the following sequels. "},{"Title":"This movie was awful!!!","Date":"24 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" Normally I write awesome 5 hour reviews (for other things; this is my first time writing here) but there really isn't much to say about this movie except that it was dumb. Like most sequels it ruined the original but at least the other sequels had some fans. I can not see anyone being a fan of this movie. Whoever directed this seriously needs to get another job because this just isn't his talent. Same goes for the writer. My suggestion is that you don't waste any time for this movie no matter how good the first one was. It's not that it was even bad! It was lame, choppy, corny, revolting, gross, boring, and so much more! There was absolutely no plot!! It was just some guy on a revenge quest! If we wanted to see that we'd go murder some guys son and see what happened! I wanted to see justice, not bloodshed or payback! Final Warning PLEASE, PLEASE, PLEASE DON'T WASTE YOUR TIME ON THIS MOVIE!!! "},{"Title":"when your brain stops, so should your pen","Date":"7 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" The first 4/5 of this movie is standard formula stuff, overwrought and self-conscious (especially Mia Kurshner, who was trying way too hard for my taste), but that's not so much the writer's fault. The last bit, though, is just plain stupid. The crowd acts with absolute disregard for a human life, the head villain's death was cheesy, Sara's death wound didn't seem like it should be so fatal so fast (and Stevie Wonder could see it coming, even though somehow she couldn't -- too many drugs, maybe??), and after the massive beating Ashe takes *after* the crow dies, he still is able to walk around and carry Sara's body at the end as if he's totally fine.Ridiculous.This isn't abysmally bad, but it just didn't have much life for me, and the last part is entirely brain-dead. The movie feels like a comic book adapted -- barely -- for the screen. Also the effects on the main villain's death are lousy; I own computer games from that time with comparable cinematics. Hollywood films should deliver more than that, when doing shots where the effects are the reason for the shot (and I don't like effects to be the reason for a shot, either... I'm cranky tonight, LOL).3/10 for me. Big disappointment after the original was so solid. There are just enough marginally decent scenes to save it from being a total wreck, but it feels too much like a comic book and leaves too many better ideas on the table undeveloped. "},{"Title":"worst. episode. ever.","Date":"24 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  i'm not even sure why i'm writing a comment, except for the fact that this sequel to a movie i actually enjoyed is one of the most hideous aberrations ever put onto celluloid. imagine-the well-funded sequel of one of few cult/box office hybrid breakouts, with a decent musical lineup. now, throw away the script, and have a thinktank of talentless marketroids create the entire movie from scratch. everything in this movie is disappointing, some parts manage to revolt any serious fan of moviemaking, and the whole project should have been circular filed before giving a horde of eager fans one of the biggest letdowns of their lives. ranks with fear as one of the worst movies of all-time, only you can't even laugh at this, at least if sober. it's a shame to see that this movie was allowed past the cutting room floor. i don't know what went wrong, or why, or who could be to blame, and there were some talented people involved in the making, but something went hideously wrong, and i feel genuine empathy for anyone who actually bought tickets to see this. avoid at all costs! "},{"Title":"A simple rehash of the first film","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  The Crow was always going to be a hard act to follow and any sequel would be under close scrutiny.  However the answer was surely not to have the same plot and characters as the first film.  We find another Eric Draven lookalike who this time has lost his son and has to battle the 'generic gang' of cyber punks and cult leader. Hmmm how long did it take to come up with that? Yes the visuals are good and the feel of the first is captured to a degree but the film still misses on several levels.  Watch it by all means, but watch it only once! "},{"Title":"Quite possibly, the worst film ever made","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  I would have to say that this is the worst film I've ever seen.  I walked out of this, and I've never walked out on anything else before or since. I even sat through all of Powder (although it was mainly due to my being in awe of how bad it was)!  A complete disgrace and a sore on the face of the original.1/10  "},{"Title":"Don't mess with heroine...","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  I suppose this movie re-defines heroine chique (especially by the director).Otherwise, it doesn't add anything to the original Crow - this movie is extremely plodding and beyond predictable.Atmosphere and a killer soundtrack simply aren't substitutes for a plot (let alone intricate plotting) or characterizations. The only bright and slightly sad spot was the appearance of the recently deceased Ian Dury in one of the roles.The StoryThere is no story. Oh, ok. Guy gets killed. Guy is brought back by crow (don't ask or wonder how). Guy goes after and kills everyone who was involved in killing him, until they are all dead.The End. (You have to wonder why anyone would dare to claim writing credits on this one.)A quick look at the end-credits shows that a possible soundtrack might be a lot more interesting than the movie ever was -Bush, The Toadies, Filter, White Zombie, Hole, NY Loose, PJ Harvey, Deftones, The Gravedigger, Grace Slick and Iggy Pop.Buy the soundtrack instead.  "},{"Title":"This movie is a waste of film","Date":"21 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" I couldn't even make it through the movie it was so bad. When you're reduced to enlisting Iggy Pop as your Star, you really should fire your person in charge of casting. This movie had a bad script, bad actors, bad acting, bad effects, bad plot, bad martial arts choreography. This movie lacked the poetry of the first movie. I can't believe that anyone would have wasted money to see this in the theater. I was bored, so I watched on cable for free. Needless to say, I wasn't that bored. Having my teeth cleaned was more enjoyable then watching this movie. No mystery, no mythology, no plot. Gremlins had a better plot line than this flick. There is absolutely nothing redeeming about this movie. "},{"Title":"Migraine inducing.","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"     Absolutely every element of this film is inferior to its predecessor.  Director Pope obviously thinks he can compensate for the loss of Alex Proyas' artistic flourishes by getting numerous colour filters and using them indiscriminately to make us think he's being 'arty'.  It just illustrates the appalling lack of imagination displayed here.  The film is a complete mess; a visual and aural assault that will have you wincing at the mention of its name even if you don't happen to have a fondness for the original, as I do.  For fans, it's heartbreaking that such dross can be churned out under the same name.  Not even the novelty value of seeing Iggy Pop and Ian Dury as 'stars' can save it.  Apparently, Pop was lined up to play Funboy in the original, but had to star in this instead.  Who did he murder in a past life? "},{"Title":"Can you look destiny in the eye without flinching?","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  Just one of the pretentious, would-be meaningful lines peppering this 1996 Tim Pope movie. City of Angels is a watchable sequel yet lacks the potency or voyeuristic qualities of its predecessor.That is, the most controversial element of the original &#150; and perversely the most crowd pulling &#150; was that its star was killed during filming. While the death is understandably not seen on screen, the film was completed after Brandon Lee's tragic demise and does add a macabre plus that this sequel does not have. What it does have in the way of unique plusses is a chance to see rock stars Iggy Pop and Ian Dury in fairly large acting roles. Pop gets the bigger part, but it's Dury who's the real find as sole likeable character Noah. An accomplished lyricist, he sadly died in March 2000 and this is just one of over 15 acting roles he undertook. I was quite surprised by this element of his career, not realising he had taken on acting jobs, particularly in high-profile (if not actually any good) movies like Judge Dredd and Split Second.The Crow, a sort of Batman for Goths, is a strong character, a soul drawn back from the dead to avenge his murder. This sequel is really just a retelling, a rehash of the first story with different characters and a different lead, rather than a direct follow-on.  Yet City of Angels crucially lacks the style needed to carry off it's adult content, lending the harsh violence a vicious edge. A predilection for gouged eyes runs throughout, though this does fit in with the series' skewed eye for an eye philosophies. So too the leader of the gang, Judah (Richard Brooks), has his characterisation etched in by watching unpleasantly directed S and M.Where the original was stunning because of it's direction by Alex Proyas, (where we saw events from the actual crow's POV, something overlooked here) this sequel manages to look cheaper than the original, despite it's $13 million budget being over twice that of Lee's vehicle. Pope cannot be fully faulted, although the graphic novel leanings of the architecture do look remarkably fake this time around. Though while Pope's only other directorial work prior to this was a concert movie for the Cure, he is not helped by a script that is often unsubtle. Witness the overstated symbolism of the Jesus Saves neon sign with burnt-out letters causing it to read save us. This religious analogy is a vague undercurrent (The Crow is a resurrection after all), and many of the character names are biblical, from the afore-mentioned Noah and Judah to Beverley Mitchell's Grace. In one of the truly remarkable scenes, the crow is crucified, causing The Crow (i.e. the man not the bird) to fall from the side of a building. This is a nice vertigo-inducing scene, and the animatronics are superb. In fact, I half suspected they'd offed a real crow before I saw the end credits.The Christ analogy being a subtext is one way in which it perhaps scores over the first movie, which had it fully signposted. Even Brandon Lee's cat was called Gabriel in the 94 version. Yet, while mildly pretentious, the original Crow possessed a high-reaching ambition and irresistible style. City of Angels, while not awful, only reaches as far as a TV Movie. "}{"Title":"Movie not that great","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" I guess I was expecting a movie as good as the first Crow movie and I was terribly disappointed with City of Angels. Not only was it not even close to the superb acting and story line of the first Crow, it wasn't even close to being related to it in content, context, or special effects. This movie, rated as a movie by itself and not compared to the first Crow and Brandon Lee, is a mediocre half-baked attempt to keep The Crow alive. Extreme violence and a sexual scene that leaves nothing to the imagination makes this movie a candidate for late night viewing when all of the infomercials and paid programming is on. I would not watch it again and it did not stir me in the slightest like the first Crow movie did. Some gross scenes were not necessary and the movie could have been much better. The cast did a superb job though, and in recognition of their superior acting, this movie should not reflect badly on them. I hope the rest of the Crow movies are much better than this one. "},{"Title":"Homesick for the Motor City...","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" Considering the tragic death of actor Brandon Lee during an on-set accident didn't stop Hollywood from completing the original Crow film, it shouldn't come as a big surprise that the premise quickly got exploited even further with a couple of (very inferior) sequels. James O'Barr's brilliant comic strip idea revives as a boisterous and 80-minutes-lasting music video that doesn't feature the slightest bit of creativity. As informed by the title, the setting moved from Detroit to Los Angeles and, no matter how hard director Tim Pope and his crew try to reproduce the original's brooding atmosphere, it's just not dark or disturbing enough! The story is pretty much identical, with a resurrected father avenging his own murder and &#150; especially &#150; that of his 5 year old son by a violent gang of drug dealers. The best story elements are simply copied from the original film (such as the big boss' spiritual sidekick and even the entire capture-the-crow finale) and the acting performances all are far below average. Vincent Perez is forgiven though, as I realize it's an ungrateful part to play after Brandon Lee, but particularly main bad guy Richard Brooks comes out really weak. Positive aspects include an exciting, albeit messy, climax sequence and a memorable supportive role for rock star Iggy Pop as the rough biker-gangster. "},{"Title":"Considering what City of Angels was up against, it didn't stand a chance","Date":"18 March 2005","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" I'm serious, I mean, how could a movie ever be expected to live up to the potential that The Crow did? Even though I saw what they were trying to do, I didn't think it was that bad. Continuing for the crow to bring people back to avenge their horrible deaths wasn't a bad idea. What came into this bad idea was that they used the same exact story and fight moves as the first Crow. Bringing Sarah back also wasn't too necessary. She's a sort of depressed loner that just seems to get worse and worse from the first story. You mostly wonder what happened between her and her mother, what does she remember from Erik, and her and Ashe? The love story? It was so not necessary. Again, they used a gang as the killers. Only the first gang from the original Crow was more realistic, in fact besides Erik coming back from the dead, the first movie was very realistic. City of Angels on the other hand is more magical and fantasy like. The characters also were not well developed like in the first one. This wasn't a bad movie, but it wasn't good either. I was in a lot of denial to see this movie. All I could think was How could they do this to one of the coolest movies of all time?. To me, City of Angels didn't exist. But I was curious, and this is what I got.4/10 "},{"Title":"Pretty lame","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  Crow 2 City of Angels is directed by Tim Pope, pretty unknown name for me. The film is not a sequel as it has totally new story and characters, and only similarity to Alex Proyas' original seems to be the revenging dead guided by a crow. This time Ashe (Vincent Perez) and his son are killed by some hooligans and their sick leader and soon Ashe comes back to life with a crow guiding him. He meets a beautiful girl Sarah (Mia Kirshner) and most likely falls in love with her. He starts to kill the guys who killed him and his son, and he does it with skill, as always. The film is set in some hellish netherworld where evil is everywhere, and also the criminals who killed our hero are very bad and evil, if not too believable all the time.The atmosphere of the film is occasionally pretty impressing and the presence of evil and feeling of depravity is powerful. Mia Kirshner's character brings some positivism to the story and she is among the few positive characters in this film. There are couple of great visuals and styles like fast editing and impressive cinematography techniques, and there is also dust and colorful smoke everywhere. These create great atmosphere for the film, and that's almost all this film managed to give me.The bad guys are bad and one is played by Iggy Pop. They should have been little more believable as now they become little irritating and stupid, as usually in these movies. Also, it would've been nice, if the film had had some spirit and message under its surface; now it's just empty revenge story without any point.The film is also often little slow moving and even boring. In fact, I felt myself almost uncomfortable during the last scene at the street when nothing seemed to happen or happen logically or satisfyingly. The film has too many easy conclusions and that makes the demanding viewer feel stupid and willing to stop the viewing. It is great that there are still those visual elements and angel like Mia that keep the film together and made it possible to watch without falling asleep.The tone of the film is pretty depressing as this tries to be as rough and violent as possible, but still I think the first film is far more impressive. Crow 2 is also dark, dirty and gritty but not as rough experience as all the adverts said on the DVD cover (not that I believed them, but still). However, I found these mentioned merits from this film and so give this 4/10 and recommend mostly for fans of exploitation/trash/horror cinema; in other words for those who have used to seeing not so great movies and movies that most people cannot even sit through. There are also many great bands in the soundtrack of the film. "},{"Title":"Horrible sequel","Date":"21 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":" Tim pope's sequel to an amazing original, is just a failure. Everything from the lead to Mia Kirshner, to the horrible screenplay, atmosphere and film in general was just too much. In the first one, there was good hard rock music, a genre i don't like myself but enjoyed in the first one, in this film there is ANNOYING waste of time music that should not even be called music, it is pathetic. The idea to come out with this movie was a mistake from the beginning, thus it became a financial problem as well(cost 13m to make, made 17m in us theatres, not a great stat). The supporting performances were okay i guess from jane and Brooks but this film was just disappointing and not even a an entertaining action flick. IMDb rating 3.7, my rating 6/10 "},{"Title":"Stick to the original","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Thriller","Review":"  The Crow City of Angels (1996) D Tim Pope. Vincent Perez, Mia Kirshner, Richard Brooks, Iggy Pop, Thomas Jane, Vincent Castellanos, Thuy Trang, Eric Acosta, Ian Dury. Followup, rather than a sequel, the hit 1994 original pits another murdered-then-resurrected man up against his killers. While the original was dark, exciting, and stylish, this awful, awful sequel just comes across as lame and dull.  The filmmakers fail miserably at rehashing THE CROW, with Perez a poor replacement for Brandon Lee. Most aspects of the film are pretty lousy, including the horrendous acting. Stick to the original. RATING 2 out of 10. Rated R for graphic violence, grisly images, drug use, profanity, and sexual situations.  "}]