[{"Title":"Awesome movie!  Good for kids too! (8 and older)","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"22 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I just saw this movie today with my children (son, 10 and daughter, 4.5) at the 3rd Annual Roger Ebert Overlooked Film Festival. After the film the children in the audience were allowed to ask questions to the Director, Tian-Ming Wu.  He (through a translator) told several stories about his life and the making of the film.All tangents aside, both of my children really enjoyed this movie.  Of course, I had to paraphrase many of the subtitles for my daughter, but much of the film is visually self-explanatory.I won't give anything away, but the bottom line is that this film is SO MUCH better than 95% of the Hollywood crap (especially children's films) out there.Cheers.p.s. There is a real/original King of Masks who can/could do 12 masks at once.  The actor in the movie trained and learned to do up to 4 masks at a time (then they would cut and change to 4 new masks). "},{"Title":"A Work of Warmth and Tenderness","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The world is a cold place, but we can bring warmth to it. - Master LiangPredictable, manipulative, and emotional? Yes, but if you still have a heart that beats, you may find Wu Tianming's 1996 film, The King of Masks, to be a moving and memorable experience. Beautifully photographed in gorgeous color, the film tells the story of Wang Bianlian, a lonely old street performer with rotting teeth who lives in a houseboat on the Yangtze and is a master of the art of face-changing. This involves putting on and taking off silk masks in the flash of a second so that the process is almost invisible to the eye. In the highly patriarchal society of the 1930s, this sort of magic could only be performed by a male; therefore, Wang, abandoned by his wife and children many years ago, must now find a boy to carry on his tradition or it will die forever. When a famous transgender opera performer called the Living Bodhisattva, Master Liang (Zhao Zhigang) offers him a job in his acting troupe, Wang declines and decides he must find his own grandson to pass down his gift to. Thinking she is a he, Wang goes to a slave auction and buys a sad eyed little eight-year old for $5 in a dark alley. He calls her Doggie (Zhou Renying) and takes his new companion to live with him and his beautiful monkey General (who comes close to stealing the show). When Wang accidentally discovers that Doggie is a girl, he is ready to cast her out, but having been sold seven times previously, she begs to stay.Xu Zhu, an outstanding actor in the Beijing People's Artistic Theater, portrays Wang as a man still operating within the rules of society but one who is full of kindness and good humor. Out of compassion, the old man agrees not to teach Doggie the art of masking but allows her to stay as a servant and to learn acrobatics to perform in his act. Both social outcasts, the two form a friendship based on mutual need and longing. Cutting to scenes from a Chinese opera, Attaining Nirvana, attended by Wang and Doggie, in which a princess, upset over her father's suffering, vows to find and comfort him in the underworld. Sacrificing herself, she becomes a Bodhisattva. This mirrors the emotional pivot of the film when Doggie, now lovingly devoted to Grandpa (whom she must call Boss), is willing to sacrifice herself to help him when he is in serious trouble with the authorities.   King of Masks is a work of warmth and tenderness, yet is also an indictment of the emotional harm caused by gender preference in society. Zhou (Doggie) is so real in expressing her feelings of being unloved and unworthy that her performance is truly radiant (she is an orphan who performs acrobatics in real life). One of the most poignant moments in the film occurs when Doggie picks up a statue of a Bodhisattva and asks Wang, you worship her, don't you? Tianming, who returned to China in 1995 after a prolonged absence, stated I wanted to make this film, he said, because I fear that society is forgetting our Chinese traditions. Those traditions emphasized the value of morality and ethics, proper manners, a sense of honor, and taking care of each other&#133;Through this story of an old man and a child in a world full of struggle and suffering, I wanted to express the importance of love. He has succeeded far beyond his expectations and, in the process, has elevated us to a new level of understanding and compassion.  "},{"Title":"Wildest thing I've ever seen!","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"23 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This spectacular film is one of the most amazing movies I have ever seen.  It shows a China I had never seen or imagined, and I believe it shows 1930's China in the most REAL light ever seen in a movie.  It is absolutely heart-breaking in so many situations, seeing how hard life was for the characters, and yet the story and the ending are incredibly joyful.  You truly see the depths and heigths of human existence in this film.  The actors are all perfect, such that you feel like you have really entered a different world.  I simply can not recommend this movie highly enough.  It may just change you forever once you have seen it.  "},{"Title":"A Beautiful Film","Date":"22 March 2005","Score":"14 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a beautiful, rich, and very well-executed film with a rich and meaningful story. Basically, it tells how an old master story teller needs to find a (male) heir to carry on his craft, but ends up not getting what he expected in his very male-dominated world. The characters must then deal with their situation and the old master must grapple with the conflict between his desire for a companion and heir and his and society's traditional notions.The story is fun, emotional, and complex. The exploration of the characters, their lives, and emotions, is rich and compelling the character development is strong while the characters are complex and not one dimensional at all. The film expertly conveys the old man's emotions and his desire to find an heir, and compellingly shows how he and the kid handle the situation. There is also humour, sometimes quite subtle, at appropriate points. The film also examines the good and bad of traditional Chinese culture, creating further interest and depth to the film.The directing, acting, and scenery are all outstanding. Added to the other strengths, this creates rich and convincing visual images and compelling, real characters. As a result, the film evokes strong empathy for, and feelings about, the characters.Some have claimed that the ending weakens the film, but I do not necessarily agree. Perhaps it could have been stronger with a different ending, but any improvement in the overall film would have been rather small. "},{"Title":"A beautiful movie that is criminally misrated.  It is","Date":"22 December 2000","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The movie is truly poignant, unique and uplifting.  The story is universal in that it's a battle between good, evil and the world between.  THE MOST IMPORTANT thing is that its rating is wrong, misleading, and a travesty. Blockbuster has it rated as though it were an X rated movie.  The truth is is that it is closer to G than PG and should be seen by children who can read the clear and simple sub-titles.  "},{"Title":"Nice Story; Lousy DVD","Date":"14 July 2006","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The fact that this film was put out on DVD still formatted-to TV and with a fuzzy picture really annoyed a lot of film purists......and rightly so. This deserves a lot better treatment.The story is about a street performer who needs a son to pass on his craft (the rules of the day) and winds up with a little girl instead (not the conventional way) ....and the problems that ensue afterward. The old man had bought the kid at a slave auction and soon discovers the kid is not a boy, which he obviously thought was the case.The old man Bianlian Wang (Xu Zhu)is kind of funny-looking with a missing front tooth and an infectious grin. The little girl Doggie (Zhou Renying) is a cutie. The rest of the story is how the two manage after that. I usually like a nice sentimental ending but this gets a bit carried away in the final 15 minutes.Overall, it's involving story complete with drama, suspense, humor and sadness. Just don't expect a good quality picture for the money you are spending on the DVD. Until it comes out on widescreen, rent it. "},{"Title":"A rethink of Traditional Chinese culture.","Date":"21 November 2003","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In the rapid economic development of 1990's in China, there is a resurgence of traditional Chinese culture, partially due to the rise of nationalism accompanied by the increase in wealth, and more importantly, due to the sense of spiritual belonging after the collapse of the old socialist ideology in the post Cultural-Revolutionary era.However, the resurgence of Chinese traditional culture, namely, the Confucianism, was not without disasters, because Chinese are adopted the entire tradition without eliminating the bad part, and the discrimination against girls demonstrated in this film is an excellent example.Moreover, not only the part that should be discarded were inherited, the good part that was supposed to be inherited, such as the traditional opera, and its technique, such as changing face, was ignored in the resurgence, and facing extinction.The director used this film to criticize the problem of re-embracing tradition by contemporary China and this is the deeper meaning behind the movie.  "},{"Title":"It reminded me of Mulan.","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie reminded me of Mulan- only because I saw Mulan first.  It was a great film, and as an Asian female and a first-generation American, I found myself relating to Doggie (the little girl; by translation).  I usually don't cry during movies (and I don't think being 8 and watching The Land Before Time counts), but I do admit my eyes did water up.  I was impressed at the production quality of this film and I appreciated the accuracy of its set period.  It's imagery was hauntingly beautiful and throughout the film I was questioning this film's budget (The Red Violin as well)- I was contemplating how they were able to afford props and costumes and still be able to release, promote and distribute the film at the same time.  The King Of Masks is one of those wonderful pieces of International Cinema that almost everyone can agree on. "},{"Title":"The best Chinese movie I've seen","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It was a delightful surprise! This movie does not have Gong Li as a lead actress, but it has the quality that beats any other Chinese movies I've seen. I watched 3 Chinese films yesterday Crouching Tigers, Hidden Dragons, The Emporor and the Assasin and King of the Masks (Bian Lian). Despite of the high profiles of the other two, King of the Masks is the only one that left tremendous impression on me. It is a beautiful, touching film. Well done.  "},{"Title":"beautiful and sentimental","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed the cinematographic recreation of China in the 1930s in this beautiful film.  The story is simple.  An older male performer wants to pass on his art to a young man although he has no living children.  The faces of the actors are marvelous to see.  The story reveals the devotion and gratitude of children to those who treat them well and their longing to be treated well.  The operas in the film remind me of FAREWELL MY CONCUBINE, which was more sophisticated and intricate.  The story here reminds me of a Dickens tale of days when children were almost chattel.  The plot is a bit predictable and a bit too sentimental for me but well worth the time to view for the heroism, humanity, and history portrayed.  "}{"Title":"Wonderfully heart-breaking without cloying sentimentality","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is probably my favorite movie of all time.  It is perfection in its storytelling.  It will break your heart not because it's over sentimental but because you will truly feel every emotion these characters go through. You feel for Doggie because of the hopeless situation that existed for young girls in China at that time. "},{"Title":"Beautiful Chinese Tale Sweeps Across the Screen","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Masks is a moving film that works on many levels.  At its simplest, it is the haunting story of a street performer who bonds with a young child while trying to pass along his creative art (masks) to the next generation.  Although, at times the story makes the old man into a Job, it is so well crafted (written, acted, directed, wonderful production values), it is easy to move beyond his plight.  And, if you hang with it, the film is ultimately very sweet and uplifting.  Kudos all around. This is a wonderful film for children as well as adults.  The trick is how to get Americans who may not like foreign language films to see it!   "},{"Title":"Life's changing face.","Date":"21 April 2004","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The theme of this film is tradition, which can be a good thing when it preserves continuity across generational lines, but harsh and restrictive when it allows no room for growth.  Ironically, the skill of the grandpa is in surprising his audience with masks that are ever changing, yet change is the one thing he finds hardest to do.  Tradition requires that his skills can only be passed down to a male heir, and hence he would sooner allow his skills to be lost than to break with that tradition.  The message he ultimately has to learn is that tradition can sometimes be wrong, and that even he can be surprised by the unexpected mask.This is a Chinese film, in which we are given the Chinese perspective, but the message is universal.  On another level, consider the Christian perspective.  Metaphorically speaking, what if Jesus came back wearing the mask of a little girl?  Would that representation be rejected on the grounds that it wasn't what they were expecting?  Would they reject the mask, and thus miss the message?  Or consider the Aztecs of Mexico, who fell victim to the Conquistadors, because Cortez resembled what they thought was the return of their god Quetzalcoatl?  Beliefs about traditions can not only be wrong, but potentially enslaving.  When we become so blinded by tradition that we can see no room for change, change may have no room for us!This is a marvelous film, which begs to be compared with Whale Rider (2002), having a similar theme but presented from the perspective of a New Zealand Maori tribe.  They, too, had a tradition in which the mask of the leader could only be worn by a male, and when a male could not be found, would sooner the tradition die than change.  The point of these stories, of course, is not the girl, but the change.  There is more to value than gender.  When tradition can only accept the one, it might be surprised by the other. "},{"Title":"Beautiful and touching","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Beautiful and touching movie. Rich colors, great settings, good acting and one of the most charming movies I have seen in a while. I never saw such an interesting setting when I was in China. My wife liked it so much she asked me to log on and rate it so other would enjoy too. "},{"Title":"Simply brilliant acting","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The opening scene in this movie is poetic and evocative of a China long gone,the Opera scenes are also aesthetically pleasing, but what impressed me most was the acting by the three main actors and the monkey (though I felt sorry concerning his/her rights). The old man displayed a repertoire of feelings that one rarely sees in the cinema today. The ancient craft of masks was sublime. The last scene was beyond words.  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable and true-to-life","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Very moving film, beautifully directed and well-acted. Chinese women have been treated like second class citizens for years and this films captures much of the fallout of that societal decision. A good look into Chinese life in general.  I saw the movie with a friend who understood the dialog and commented that the sub-titles did a fair job of interpreting. "},{"Title":"instant classic","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  As I was watching this film on video last night, I kept getting these tingles that told me this one will endure. I've a feeling I'll be watching this again and again for years to come.It's got all the timeless qualities you could ask for in a story/film. And even though some cultural references are obscure for me, a Western viewer, at the core this is a universal tale. "},{"Title":"The perfect antidote to Star Wars!","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is how movies are supposed to be made  a fascinating setting; characters about whom you come to care deeply; writing and editing that move the plot efficiently and build suspense.  This is a wonderful film -- deeply moving without being sentimental.  Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Very moving and entertaining film situated in China's past","Date":"10 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" http//www.imdb.com/title/tt0115669/?ref_=rvi_ttMovies aren't inferior than books. They are documents using dialogue and images from a certain era to tell a story. The King of Masks still breathes the Deng Xiaoping era. Even if the story is based in the early 20th century, it's obvious that the film precedes the modern China we know today. An old performer of the dying out art of mask changing is struggling through life and has no son. One day he buys himself a child in an orphanage which should one day inherit his skills and the tradition.Very intense and emotional, the story shows a time which even modern China didn't completely overcome. The plot is nice and straightforward, the images haunting and the actors performance very charming. I think I learned something about China. I recommend it strongly - it's one of the best Asian movies I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"Chinese director Wu Tianming makes good use of opera to sensitize viewers about the plight of the girl child.","Date":"30 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 'The King of Masks' impacts viewers enormously as it has all necessary ingredients to be an entertaining film.Apart from being a great visual document highlighting the importance of traditional opera in the lives of Chinese people,it doubles as a wonderful cultural tool which shows its usefulness to the traditional society by discussing the plight of the girl child.It must be noted that it is not only China but other Asian countries too which are affected by this social malaise.Chinese director Wu Tianming makes good use of his actors and different minor plots to suggest that a girl child is inferior to none as she is absolutely capable of doing all things which are done by men.Although 'The King of Masks' is set in China,the reach of its impact is universal as there are many countries like China where traditional art forms are dying due to non availability of young performers.The popularity of traditional Chinese art of mask making owes a lot to this film as it throws light on different sections of Chinese society who have multiple visages.It is here the usefulness of a mask comes into picture as it reveals a completely new facet of a person. "}{"Title":"Very touching and atmospheric movie","Date":"10 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie beautifully captures the sights, sounds, and even the smells (almost) of old China. But what makes this movie a jewel is that it brings to life, in the story of a filial granddaughter, all the joys and heartbreaking moments of the first half of the 20th century in China. I've never watched a movie that could bring such warmth to a time and social milieu so injust. Most Chinese movies which depict the second-tier (more like animal-tier) level of treatment and value given to women in much of Chinese history always have a forced feel to them. However, this movie really breaks your heart without making you lose faith in humanity, and the believability of the atmosphere is simply amazing!Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Shockingly beautiful, profoundly touching film","Date":"25 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" King of Masks (Bian Lian in China) is a shockingly beautiful and profoundly touching film. Winner of 16 awards from around the world, this film based on a true story centers on Wang Bianlian, a street performer in 1930s China who is growing older but has no heir to pass on his art of face-change opera. He has a unique talent of quickly changing masks in performance, and no one knows how he does it. He has a longing desire to have a grandson, as his art is a family heirloom that can only be passed on to a male heir. We then go to the streets, and see that people are selling their children because they can't afford to take care of them some are even begging to take their daughters for free, because daughters are not worth much in this society. Wang Bianlian's story goes on from there.The film was so astonishingly good, the acting was amazing, and the issues were so weighty and well-addressed. There is the gender inequality and the depressing fact that in this time and place, no one wants a little girl. Also interesting to note is that the famed opera actor who always plays a woman and is known as the Living Bodhisattva is a man who dresses as a woman, and while he is famous and well-respected, he regards himself as something low, a half woman. As we go further into the film, the face the issues of human slave trade and its demand and thus the lack of a possible solution for it, the brutality and corruption of the military and police, and the helplessness and lack of power any individual can face due to unfortunate events or even good intentions.This is definitely one of the best movies I have ever seen in my life, and Xu Zhu, the actor who plays Wang Bianlian, presents yet another beautiful performance. "},{"Title":"A loving lament for the loss of old traditions, old times","Date":"18 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a superb movie, suitable for all but the very youngest, though accessibility for younger people was marred (at least in the print which I saw) by the use of some unfortunate choice of English sub-titling! For much of the film it is almost impossible to guess in which time-period it is set - there is no modern technology shown, not even the ubiquitous Chinese bicycle, just a drab, almost monochrome, everyday life, against which is contrasted the dazzling display of the Sezuan Opera and of celebratory fireworks. Even when a group of soldiers refer to their imminent departure for a theatre of war, this could still be any time in the past 150 years.But then we briefly see a motor car - late 30s, early 40s style - and we realise that we are watching a China on the verge of huge upheavals, and that much of the world we are seeing is about to be swept away in the cataclysm of World War 2 and the Communist revolution.Which makes the central character's desire to adhere to old customs and traditions all the more poignant.But the film also raises issues which are of vital importance even today, both within China and in other parts of the world the inequality between boys and girls, men and women; the trade, for various purposes, in young children; corruption in society; injustice; the importance of friendship.Maybe I'm reading too much into this film; but I don't think so! I also think that it is a scandal that films of this calibre are often not shown in the United Kingdom, whilst dross is passed off as quality material.But don't get me started on that... "},{"Title":"Exceptional and Rare Gem","Date":"12 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The King of Masks is a beautifully told story that pits the familial gender preference towards males against human preference for love and companionship. Set in 1930s China during a time of floods, we meet Wang, an elderly street performer whose talents are magical and capture the awe of all who witness him. When a famous operatic performer sees and then befriends Wang, he invites Wang to join their troupe. However, we learn that Wang's family tradition allows him only to pass his secrets to a son. Learning that Wang is childless, Wang is encouraged to find an heir before the magic is lost forever. Taking the advice to heart, Wang purchases an 8 year old to fulfill his legacy; he would teach his new son, Doggie, the ancient art of silk masks. Soon, Wang discovers a fact about Doggie that threatens the rare and dying art.Together, Wang and Doggie create a bond and experience the range of emotions that invariably accompany it. The story is absorbing. The setting is serene and the costuming simple. Summarily, it is an International Award winning art film which can't help but to move and inspire. "},{"Title":"Thank you Columbia Tristar, not!","Date":"8 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" quote by Nicolas Martin (nicmart) from Houston, TX Fine film, but DVD reformatted for TV, 8 April 2002 - This is a charming and emotive film. On the other hand, the DVD I purchased has been reformatted to fit your TV by the clods at Columbia Tristar. There is no excuse for not providing the film in widescreen format, except that Hollywood treats all films like the moronic, disposable trash that it is so used to producing. What a shame.What a (criminal!) shame indeed. However, there is another version out though. See here for details http//www.dvdbeaver.com/film/DVDCompare2/kingofmasks.htmWonderful performances by the two main actors (The King and Doggie) BTW. "},{"Title":"This Movie Lives In My Mind","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It has been three days since I watched this film and yet its colors, its sadness, it's simple beauty stay and stay.  This is the kind of film I would like to leave to my grandchildren to let them know what life was like for some...and how perfection can come to those who hold on, even when it seems there is nothing to hold on to. "},{"Title":"Superior in every way.  Near perfect.","Date":"29 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Wow. What a wonderful film. The script is nearly perfect it appears this is the only film written by Minglun Wei,I hope he has more stories in him.The acting is sublime. Renying Zhou as Doggie was amazing -- very natural talent, and Xu Zhu was a delight - very believable as the jaded old traditionalist. The soundtrack was very effective, guiding without being overwhelming. If only more movies like this were made whether in Hollywood or Hong Kong- a family friendly, well acted, well written, well directed, near perfect gem. "},{"Title":"Heart-warming & Disturbing Story","Date":"22 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One of the most heart-warming foreign films I've ever seen.The young girl is an amazing talent. Stellar performances by her (Doggie), the old man (the king of masks), and Liang (the Living Boddhisatva).(SPOILER) The deplorable treatment of children, especially females is disturbing.Loved the music. The original Chinese dialog heightens the emotional intensity of the performances and the story.This is a MUST SEE -- enjoyable family film, although not for very young children. Would have rated the DVD release even higher if the soundtrack had been transferred better onto the DVD and the transfer had included the widescreen version. "},{"Title":"Loved it! Fantastic and Sentimental","Date":"2 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is the best film ever. I can't remember the last time a movie has drawn tears out of me. with a tear in my eye, I admire this movie. It has all the elements that a good movie must have Excellent Dialogues, Music, Acting, Story/Plot. A story of friendship, courage, kindliness and loyalty between a Street performing who famous to The King of Masks and a little girl that sold as a boy in serf bazaar. Little girl liked to be his granddaughter and King of Masks liked a grandson. They were not conventional in real. Every scene they were together was priceless. The camera work is flawless and grips you. The acting is inspired. Xu Zhu was Excellent as The King of Masks. Renying Zhou Doggie looks pretty and played her character very well. Zhigang Zhao as Liang Sao Lang was great. He played his helpful and kindhearted character extremely well. If you have't this movie, try it once, Do watch it. "},{"Title":"Grim AND Heartwarming","Date":"23 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I admit to being somewhat jaded about the movie genre of a young child softening the heart of his/her reluctant guardian. I've seen enough of them &#151; Baby Boom, Kolya, About a Boy, Mostly Martha, and to some extent, Whale Rider &#151; to expect to be bored by the formula. What held my attention in The King of Masks was the grimness of the setting small-town China in the 1930's. Extreme poverty was the norm, and girl children were considered so worthless to poor parents that they killed them at birth or gave them to whomever would take them on the black market. When Wang discovers his purchased grandson, whom he's nicknamed Doggie, is a granddaughter, he initially casts her out, even though she's showed great promise as street-performing heir. Even after he reluctantly takes her back, he's not too upset when she's kidnapped. The film is gritty then, showing the lengths to which a young, street-smart girl had to go to survive in that society.The two lead performances are believable and beguiling in their societal context. In a Western society, one would expect at least a hint of resentment from Wang at not having achieved more material success. Wang so thoroughly accepts his station as a celebrated artist with low societal status, though, that I did, too. While Doggie exhibits a level of precociousness and cunning that would be suspect in a modern, suburban child, it's completely believable in the context of a kid constantly in survival mode in a society that treats poor girls like garbage. And after learning that her previous seven owners have physically and mentally abused her, her fierce attachment to Wang makes perfect sense.The peek at small-town life in a foreign country, the naturalness of the two lead actors, the surprising plot twists, and of course, the heartwarming resolution all contribute to a very watchable film. "}{"Title":"What a wonderful surprise!! -) *possible spoilers*","Date":"18 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I was going to bed with my gf last night, and while she was brushing her teeth, I flipped channels until I came across this Chinese movie called the King of Masks. At first I thought it was going to be a Kung Fu movie, so I started watching it, and then it immediately captured me in, and I had to finish it.The little girl in the movie was absolutely adorble. She was such a great actor for being so little. Maybe the fact it was in Chinese, so the English was dubbed made it harder for me to tell...but she really seemed to be in character perfectly. I felt so bad for the girl as she kept trying to please her boss but everything just turned out rotten. lol. Even when she brings him another grandson, just so he can pass on his art...it turns out that kid was kidnapped, so he gets arrested and has 5 days to live. lol...whatever she touches in an effort to be nice to her grandpa, just backfires.In the end, he sees how much love is in her and teaches her the art of masks...which is just so heartwarming after all the mishaps in the movie.Definitely a gem, and totally original.Scott "},{"Title":"Amazing Movie","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" We watched this in my Women's Health Issues class to point out how women are treated inferior to men in many societies, and I absolutely loved this movie. I plan on trying to get a copy of it myself to watch. The story is very touching and I would recommend it to anyone. I am a fan of different cultures and this movie was just what I needed. This is a movie for the whole family despite its rating. This is a movie I will show to my children. The professor of our class meant for the movie to primarily be a too to educate about women, but this movie was more than that. It is one of those movies that will forever stick out in my mind and will be a favorite. "},{"Title":"Video does not do this movie justice","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When I screened this it in the theater, was absolutely mesmerized by its sheer beauty. You are transported back in time effortlessly by director Wu and what a pleasant trip it is!Telling you anything about this movie would ruin it for you so just rent it and prepare to go to a place and time very far away...This is the extremely rare period piece that can successfully pull it off, 100%. I WILL say that it is an interesting, uniquely beautiful story and comes with a pitch perfect performance by the lead actor, Xu Zhu, who does more with his facial expressions than most actors do with five pages of dialog. It is one of the best performances I have ever seen on film. A master class in acting. The film's only slight misstep is a subplot involving, let's say a different type of performer. This is the only thing holding back my 10 star rating. The King of Masks still makes me smile years after I first laid eyes on it and I look forward to revisiting it every few years. An absolute delight! "},{"Title":"All filmmakers, please take note Watch this film to define the word soul.","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Learn from this film and if you incorporate one tenth of its substance, than the rest of us will be fat and satisfied!  I loved this fim from the cinematography to the story and let's not leave out the incredible acting.  I was bawling.  It's visual eye candy! It's even appealing to those who testify that they hate foreign films.  It's very clear subtitles are a breeze and what you see on the screen will make you forget that you are reading! "},{"Title":"Welcome to my personal top 10","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Welcome to my personal top 10 parade of beloved movies. This is the best film that I saw lately. I warmly recommend to go and see it, it has an amazing beautiful filming, intelligent and moving acting, and a strong social and political comment, especially taking into account where it comes from. Even the rather Hollywood-like happy ending cannot prevent me from giving this film anything but a mark of 10. "},{"Title":"a lovely humane film","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  An unexpected pleasure as I had heard nothing about this film.Shameful since it warrants having a wider audience.A wonderfully humane story with a social message gently told, although admittedly predictable in its resolution. Solidly acted by the principals. Beautifully photographed with muted colors floating against grey that captures the nostalgic tone of the film.My recent foray into Chinese film (Shower, The Road Home, Not One Less) has been an exciting one that I hope to continue exploring. China and its people is an amazing canvas for film-makers. The King of Masks can be highly recommended as a starting point for anyone similarly interested in recent Chinese film. "},{"Title":"Amazingly beautiful movie!","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I just saw this movie today for the first time and I was blown away by the beautiful story.  This movie is incredible.  Great story, and amazing acting.  The little girl in the movie is beyond talented.  She moved me without saying a word, just by the look on her face.  This movie is a truly uplifting piece of art.  And all who can even remotely stand reading subtitles should see this movie. "},{"Title":"A many-layered and beautiful movie.","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When tradition dictates that an artist must pass his great skills and magic on to an heir, the aging and very proud street performer, known to all as The King of Masks, becomes desperate for a young man apprentice to adopt and cultivate.His warmth and humanity, tho, find him paying a few dollars for a little person displaced by China's devastating natural disasters, in this case, massive flooding in the 1930's.He takes his new, 7 year old companion, onto his straw houseboat, to live with his prized and beautiful monkey, General, only to discover that the he-child is a she-child.His life is instantly transformed, as the love he feels for this little slave girl becomes entwined in the stupifying tradition that requires him to pass his art on only to a young man.There are many stories inside this one...many people are touched, and the culture of China opens itself for our Western eye to observe. Thousands of years of heritage boil down into a teacup of drama, and few will leave this DVD behind with a dry eye.The technical transfer itself is not that great, as I found the sound levels all over the meter, and could actually see the video transfer lines in several parts of the movie. Highly recommended -) 9/10 stars. "},{"Title":"Beauty and cultural discord in China.","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is worth seeing for the visual beauty and moving acting alone, but there also is an interesting cultural subtext of alienation.  Women and performers (both brought together in a supporting role of a transvestite opera star) are both doomed to be relegated to subserviant roles in China. This makes the unlikely bonding between an aged street performer and a young girl even stronger as a triumph over the native culture.The only problem I had with this movie was the tendency of the soundtrack to swell up with emotion rendered unnecessary by the actors' performance.A welcome alternative to unsatisfying summer action movies.  "},{"Title":"An art that can't die.","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie was excellent.  A sad truth to how culture tends to clash with the sexes.  This is just one big warm fuzzy type of movie.  You have the master who is steeped in tradition and kind hearted in his own way, Doggie despite being a girl thing to win his affections and you top it off with one cute monkey with a thousand facial expressions.  This equals on big happy movie in the end.  This movie does a good job at showing how steeped in tradition one can be, so steeped that they are willing to die without sharing their secrets.  You see sides to a culture never seen before which helps enhance the drama that unfolds near the end of the picture.  The cinema-photography is excellent, in particular the opening parade sequence with all the sparkers.  Bound to be in Oscar contention for best foreign film. "}{"Title":"Magical performances by young and old alike!","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The mask mastery of the title was fascinating to watch. I had never heard of that variety of street performer.The storyline was very powerfully written, directed and performed. I came to care about the main character quickly and profoundly.The color and fabric of the Far East in those times was beautifully rendered.There were multiple levels of interest. Human comedy and drama were both well represented.The film depicted both the noble and the ugly boundaries of man. There were enough twists to keep most viewers interested, but the film could be appreciated on several levels.I highly recommend this film for most any audience. "},{"Title":"Long Live The King","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's a tale that could have taken place anywhere really, given the right circumstances. Street entertainer catching the attention of famous opera star and friendship ensuing. The aging entertainer finds/buys a male child to pass his art to. From there, we follow them through the rigors of their challenging, but free life along the river. Traveling town to town, he performs and has some degree of notoriety. Despite the times and the influences, the man is kind and good.Overall, the performances are first rate, especially Xu Zhu, who portrays the street performer. The child (Renying Zhou) is beautiful, and downright strong, and withstands the overt prejudices well. The two protagonists, along with supporting help from the kind opera singer, Master Liang (an interestingly androgynous Zhao Zhigang), paint a very interesting tale of forgiveness, sadness and love. Some have mentioned this film's remote similarities to BA WANG BIE JI (FAREWELL MY CONCUBINE); yet this film can't stand easily on its own, any resemblance is remote at best.My only qualm with the KING OF MASKS, is the ending. It was weak, cliche and about as subtle as a sledgehammer. The audience was already wrapped up in the story, what was the needless manipulation for? What a shame. To bring a fine motion picture that far, only to surrender to emotional (and corny) pathos like that. It frankly made this film good, instead of the classic, it should've been. That aside, the KING OF MASKS is still very well worth your time. I was happy to see the Shaw Brothers are still producing good films. Highly recommended.   "},{"Title":"It is a superb movie with value, love, artistic talent and reality!","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this movie. I would write a thousand words to extol the virtues of this movie but it has been already done well by Howard Schumann Vancouver, B.C.Date 2 December 2002 Summary A Work of Warmth and TendernessPlease read his comments. Thx. "},{"Title":"A great movie for all ages!","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It seems that in Holland we're luckely blessed with our national television service. Under the name of Worldcinema, they broadcast movies every sunday from around the world, not noticed by the big audiences in the cinema, watching Hollywood blockbusters. Films from India, China, Russia, Greece, Senegal they surprise you with their high quality. Bian Lian (1996) is one of those movies. A man who performs magic with his masks, needs a new assistant, and thinks that he starts off with a new boy, only to find out that it is actually a girl. The relationship between the two is difficult, but slowly there is a friendship growing, and in the end they can't without each other. The use of light and dark, the great camera-work and the interesting story, combined with great acting, makes this a wonderful movie to watch. It is a movie for all ages, and there is nothing in this movie that would shock children or would hurt them. In Holland it was shown in the afternoon around 1 p.m, which means on sunday that lots of children watch. Rating sometimes is useful. In Indonesia, families with little children enter the cinema to watch the most awful horror movies together. But it seems that the rating in the USA sometimes takes over the responsibility of the parents. Big brother is watching you?   "},{"Title":"A Great True Story","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One of the great things about many of the superb Chinese movies you can find, if you are lucky, in the video stores, is they are very accurate retellings of actual, true stories.  Farewell, my Concubine, The Emperor and the Assassin and this movie are perfect examples.  The film makers take a true story and work hard to accurately create a movie without compromising the facts for dramatic or commercial convenience -- the hallmark of much Hollywood, and especially Disney films.In this story we follow the later years of an famous local street performer dubbed the King of Masks for his mastery of Sichuan Change Art. Along an having lost his only son many years earlier, he searches to find a male heir to carry on his rare and dying art in a society that forbids females to have such work.  Master Wang is sold a son by a slave trader.  All is well as he joyfully prepares to pass down his art.  But the son eventually is found out to be a girl.  From there, the story get very interesting, with a good performance by Master Liang of the Sichuan Opera -- a regional operatic style related to Peking Opera. Fans of Farewell My Concubine should look carefully at Master Liang's portrayal of a male playing the female role in Chinese Opera. It may help them come to understand that the players of these female roles were probably not homosexuals or castrati, but people who have be so psychologically conditioned as to be totally unaware of their own sexuality. "},{"Title":"Fine film, but DVD reformatted for TV","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a charming and emotive film. On the other  hand, the DVD I purchased has been reformatted to fit your TV by the clods at Columbia Tristar. There is no excuse for not providing the film in widescreen format, except that Hollywood treats all films like the moronic, disposible trash that it is so used to producing. What a shame. "},{"Title":"heartwarming movie","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A joy to watch.  The King of Masks is truly a worthwhile movie.  The cinematography is beautiful, the colours so bright.  The story is very powerful and moving.  Zhou Renying has such a sweet face and is so good as the little girl. The other main characters were excellent as was the atmosphere of China, Sichuan Province in the thirties.   "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Wonderful performances of an aging street performer who seeks an heir that can learn the secrets of his quick-switching masks act.  The bonding between the street performer and his new apprentice is the main basis of the movie, but the movie also touches on the caste system of the old China, on female infanticide and the importance of male heirs, and on transvestites in Chinese theater.  Check it out! "},{"Title":"A rare masterpiece","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It has been a long time since I last saw such an excellent movie.  This movie is warm and sweet.  It illustrated the characteristics of the Chinese culture in acutely.  Yet many scenes are just simple, and beautiful.  I highly recommend this movie.  "},{"Title":"A true roller coaster from start to end","Date":"5 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Wang Bianlian is an old street performer who is known as a 'King of masks' for his mastery of Sichuan change art. Liang is a famous opera performer of Sichuan art and respects Wang as an artist and as a person. Liang is worried that a precious art shouldn't die with Wang and so he sows the seed of an heir in to Wang's mind. The film is about prejudices, male domination, state of art, values and most importantly warmth.I can't recommend this film enough. The whole film is in loops. Everything has a significance. Its a long story which has been edited so well that the length of the film is just 91 minutes. A total satisfaction. For five minutes it is an artistic film, next five minutes its a sad film, next five minutes its a thriller. It just keeps changing its mood like its protagonist changes his face. Last scene on the rope is phenomenal. Story and script is flawless. Actors are brilliant. Both the protagonists are artists you can tell the way they have performed. Very impressive. It was not even nominated for Oscars. That year 'English patient' got the best film Oscar and in the foreign film category 'Kolya' won. 'Kolya' was just OK and about 'English patient' the lesser said the better. Watch it 9/10. "}{"Title":"pure yet puerile","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The filming is pleasant and the environment is keenly realistic. I liked that it boldly redresses conceptions of the many difficult moral and social morays of the 1930's Chinese-mainland countryside as well as more basic human questions - I felt I could get a real sense of the times, recreated even in splendid shots of traditional Chinese theatre and in purist depictions of street living. It seemed worthwhile to experience. The interwoven role which Buddhism plays is probably the most true-to-form - both in its menial and in its philosophic aspect, perhaps the most effective that I've seen in Chinese film. Casting is great. Images are memorable. Acting is solid enough. Thematically puerile but still rich enough to compliment the vehicle of its expression. "},{"Title":"Chinese cinema at it's best","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There's something really beautiful about every chinese movie I have seen and The King of Masks couldn't possibly be the exception to that rule. The story starts with an old man, a street actor whose art is to change masks really quick making it look like magic.  According to a family tradition the father passes the secrets of his art to a male member of his family but never to a stranger or to a woman. The old man though does not have any children and is afraid that he will be the one who will break the family tradition and take the secrets of his art with him to the grave.  He therefore decides to adopt a young boy.  The little boy he buys turns out to be a girl.  The old man doesn't want to keep her anymore since he can't teach her his art but after she begs him to keep him, he decides to let her stay at his boat and perform with him. The King of Masks, is so beautiful it's almost like a fairy tale.  I don't think it's wrong to say that the movie has a feminist message because it centers on how the little girl tries to convince the old man that the fact that she is a woman doesn't make her any less worthy than a boy to learn the secrets of his art.The performances by both the little girl and the old man are brilliant but it's the little monkey called The General who steals the show. A great movie that will bring tears to your eyes. "},{"Title":"What a Sweet film!","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It is so nice to see Chinese films.  I have not yet been let down by one. They are so beautiful and always have a nice story.  Though this one did not have my favorite actress, Gong Li, it was a great story that touches one's heart. As I watched this film I saw what I have seen in other Chinese films and that is a great use of color.  The costumes were great as well.  Though the little girl was great, she gave me that Ponette feeling in that I wanted to slap her a few times.  In the end I was not as annoyed by her as I was Ponette (in the French film Ponette).  The grandfather character was very good and very convincing.  He gave off a great I'm in pain look.  Though I got no sense of time in this film, it did not matter.  It is a story that could happen at any time.  So I would suggest this film to anyone who enjoys foreign language films because it is not one that you will forget.   I give it 3.5 stars "},{"Title":"Watch = True","Date":"28 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Rank1. The Sixth Sense 2. The King of Masks 3. Unforgiven~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1. Good Will Hunting 2. The King of Masks 3. Ulee's GoldMovies are either WATCH / DON'T WATCH. Rank them if they are WATCH.Reasoning Movies are a binary experience. Either you watch them or you don't. So they should reflect such a sentiment when you rate them. But, even though a movie may be a WATCH there will be a sequence by which one should watch it. Only by ranking movies will you know if you should watch one vs another. "},{"Title":"melodramatic tripe","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I remember leaving the theater with a barely containable sense of nausea. Think of the most infantile soap opera you have ever seen.  Now translate it into Mandarin and get rid of all that pesky intellectual sophistication.  Add a kid so shrill she makes the Olsen twins look like Lawrence Olivier, politics so simplistic they could have been a conspiracy by the Chinese Communist Party to Lobotomize the People, and directing that would be overly emotionally manipulative for an abandoned puppy shelter.  This gives you somewhat of an idea of the excrement that is King of Masks.If you must see this, avoid greasy foods at least three hours before viewing.  Or better yet, go see Not One Less To live or Eat Drink Man Woman instead.   "}]