[{"Title":"An Actor's Movie.","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" There are movies that are made because the studios know they'll make money. There are the movies that are made because someone believed they would and they held out long enough to get them made. Then there are the actor's movies, the ones any actor worth his/her salt would love to make themselves. This is Kevin Spacey's actor's movie. That's not a bad term in the least. The majority of the movie is set inside a New Orleans bar, but the scenery doesn't get tiresome. This is due to the fantastic performances of the cast. I love it when I can watch a movie and forget that the person I'm watching is otherwise known as Gary Sinise, Faye Dunaway, or Viggo Mortenson.The film is also a classic tale of inhumanity, on how far people need to or will go to save their own skin, on choices. It sounds cliché, but the movie doesn't come across that way in the least. Overall, I recommend the film for a lazy Saturday afternoon, like it was for me. "},{"Title":"See you later alligator","Date":"7 November 2005","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Kevin Spacey's film debut impressed this viewer when this film debuted   in 1996. On second viewing, recently, it still is an interesting film   to watch, but it basically left a lot of questions unanswered because   of the screen play Christian Forte wrote.    One can see what attracted Albino Alligator to Mr. Spacey. It's a   film where the situation that is created at the beginning of the film   allows for intense performances by the first rate cast the director was   able to put together. There are holes in the plot, like the enigmatic   presence of Guy, the Canadian man one sees sitting at Dino's but whose   role in the whole thing is not well explained by the screen play.    Matt Dillon, as the man in charge of the bandits makes a good   contribution. Faye Dunaway is excellent as Janet, the bar maid that   must make tough decisions at the end of the film. William Fichtner is   at his most intense playing Law, the loose cannon. Gary Sinise doesn't   have much to do. The ensemble cast is good under Mr. Spacey's   direction. John Spencer, Skeet Ulrich, M Emmet Walsh, Joe Mantegna,   Melinda McGraw and Frankie Faison are effective in their roles.    A film to be seen as a curiosity because it marks Kevin Spacey's film   debut as a director. "},{"Title":"Uneven directorial debut for Spacey","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Kevin Spacey is, of course, one of the best actors we have, and he shows talent in his first time out as director in this crime story.  Specifically, he does a good job creating a tense atmosphere in such a claustrophobic environment as a bar.  And although there's a lot of camera movement, it's not overdone.  Also, he's good with his actors, especially Dillon, Dunaway, and Sinise.But the movie suggests Spacey should learn about reading scripts next time. The movie harks back to films like PETRIFIED FOREST, but is little more than a clone of them, and writer Christian Forte often falls back on obscenities to substitute for character development and plot.  And some of the scenes strain credulity, like the ending. "},{"Title":"Okay, the cast is better than the script but it's still a solid hostage drama, and definitely worth watching.","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Any hostage drama can't help but get compared to 'Dog Day Afternoon' and will therefore be found lacking, but 'Albino Alligator', while not without a few flaws, does a credible job. Kevin Spacey shows some promise as a director, but the script sometimes let's him down. Even so it's pretty entertaining, and the best thing about it is the outstanding cast. You might think Spacey would call upon his Usual Suspects buddies but instead we have Matt Dillon, Gary Sinise and William Fichtner as criminals on the run, Faye Dunaway, M. Emmett Walsh, Skeet Ulrich, John Spencer and Viggo Mortensen as the occupants of an after hours bar they hold hostage, and Joe Mantegna as the cop on the scene. All the actors performances are good, but I especially enjoyed Fichtner's redneck sociopath and Mortensen's mysterious French Canadian who may not be the average joe he appears to be. Both actors have been favourites of mine for some time. 'Albino Alligator' is no masterpiece, but if you want to see some good actors do their thing I suggest you check it out, you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Interesting and engrossing","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  As everyone already knows, Kevin Spacey is an extremely good actor who never does a bad job acting. The man is also a great singer (check out the soundtrack to Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil), so it's not a surprise that he turns out to be multitalented; he's obviously a great director as well. This is the first movie he has ever made and it is such an engrossing and interesting movie. The acting is also superb, Matt Dillon doing such a great job was a surprise to me. The story itself is also interesting, and I liked the fact that this movie was in many ways theatrical. It doesn't work in every movie, but with this premise it worked out fine. Let's hope Spacey directs many more movies! "},{"Title":"When criminals get put in the line of police fire. When Actors get behind the cameras.","Date":"9 February 2004","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" by Dane YoussefA gang of crooks. The perfect plan. It all goes wrong. They're in trouble. The police are outside. They're cornered. What are they gonna do now?Sound familiar?The movie seems like it's trying to be a combination of the acting workshop, the indie film and the theater.It's the kind of things that actors love--it's kind of like a workshop or a play because it mostly consists of tight focusing on the actors acting... acting angry, tense, scared, conversing, scheming, planning--giving the performers a lot of free range to really ham it all up.A trio of crooks, one leader, one goon, one brother, come up with a big heist scheme... and a monkey wrench is thrown into the works. To top things off, there's a bit of a fender-bender and one of the crooks in flung through the back of the windshield.The cops are on their tail and they stumble into a bar named poetically (and leadenly) Dino's Last Chance.Spacey, as a director, tries to keep the focus on the actors' performances and delivery of dialouge. He pans over to a bright passion-red cigarette ad of a smoking and smoldering Bogart. And he keeps all the violence off-screen, really.I think that was a mistake. Focusing on the intensity and gruesome violent scenes would have given the movie some edge.The problem with the movie is that it moves too slow and suffers from miscasting in almost every role. Matt Dillon (Drugstore Cowboy and Wild Things) seems too young and too idealistic to be the leader of this gang.Gary Sinese seems to brooding and deep in thought to be a spineless tag-along with these guys and Joe Mantaga is effective as the traditional routine foul-swearing mad-dog police lieutenant who's all thumbs, but he isn't given anything to really do here.William Fischter is the only actor who is believable in his role as a brainless grunt who just wants to spill blood.And the crooks are in a tense situation where they either go to jail or they try to think of some way out of this.Spacey lacks the ability to create a lot of tension and keep it going. The characters are mostly chatting away, trying to think of a plan... and they're to calm and too articulate. There's even a scene where the crooks are playing pool with a whole swarm of armed cops right outside, ready to strike. At one point, one of the crooks even call the police who are right outside the bar. Oh brother. Oh bother.These cops are going to either blow them away or going to lock them up. Shouldn't the holed-up crooks be a little scared, a little uneasy? Meanwhile, all the real action is happening inside.Someone whips out a gun, a baseball bat, which leads to an ugly confrontation off-screen and there's one more casualty that happens that's... well, kinda sad. But...Faye Dunaway also should have spent more time with a dialect coach, improving on her New Orleans accent. Skeet Ullrich is fine in a smaller part.A cop listening in reaches for a pack of matches at the absolute worst time is a nice look. And so is a scene where someone goes right through the rear windshield. The dialouge is obviously trying to go for a David Mamet approach and it's as profane, but never as realistic or as insightful. I'm guessing Christian Forte is a fan Mamet fan. The movie feels like too much of what it really is... a really low-budget movie with an actor behind the camera for the first time directing other actors from a script that's not bad, but needs a few more re-writes. Spacey shows he's not a terrible director, but he lacks a sort of feel for shaping a movie and it feels like he's just filming actors act.These actors are all talented and could work with the material, but they all feel out of place. As I said before, the movie really suffers from miscasting. I don't mean that the wrong actors were cast. I think they found just the right cast, but placed them in all the wrong roles. I think switching some of the roles would've helped immensely.Having veteran mob actor Joe Mantagna play the leader of the pack, Gary Sinese as the angry police lieutenant outside on his bullhorn giving orders and barking at his troops, keeping Fischter in his bloodthirsty goon part and Matt Dillion as the sacrificial lamb. That would have been a big improvement.When some actors direct, it works. They can even win Oscars for it. But a lot of the time, when actors direct, they have a tendency to just focus on the performances. Just shoot the actors acting.Sometimes it works... but they need a good showcase for it. An excuse for it.Hostage situations are all pretty much the same in real life just like coming-of-age stories so it's only natural that movies about them will go from point A to point B as well.There are a few really great entries into this genre.' Spacey himself appeared in a similar movie about hostage situations The Negotiator.This certainly won't become a cult classic, let alone one of AFI's 100. Still, it does have a few nice moments and personal touches, but in the end, it's instantly forgettable and the kind of movie that would play best on regular TV. It's just not worth going out of your way to see.I give a 3 out of 10. Spacey's other directorial credit, Beyond The Sea was reportedly a better effort. Hmmm... maybe it's true. You need to fail before you succeed.--One Bad Alabaster Crocodile, Dane Youssef "},{"Title":"Grand Film, Small Scale","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The look and feel of this film is that of live theatre.  The minimalist approach in set and costume as well as simple, yet dramatic lighting, create an intimacy and immediacy which accents character development and showcases each actor's individual talents.  Beautifully written, directed and acted, it's worth a look, and a look again.  Most notable is the character of Law, portrayed by William Fichtner, whose electric intensity keeps the nerves raw and the eyes riveted.  Kudos to Kevin Spacey for a deliciously original directorial debut.   "},{"Title":"All-around terrific film","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Kevin Spacey is obviously an amazing acting talent, but this film proves that he's almost as good a director.  This film was satisfying from beginning to end, and it just got more interesting as it went along.  The story is fairly simple, but it was powerfully performed by a hugely talented cast.  Dillon, Sinise, and Dunaway all give stand-out performances, but really, the whole cast is top-notch.  Mantegna wasn't given as much material to work with, but he still had the only truly funny scene in a generally serious movie, and yet the humor didn't seem out of place.  There is certainly room for Spacey to improve as a director, but this is most definitely a great way to start off. "},{"Title":"Molasses-slow but worth it (vague spoiler alert)","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Kevin Spacey assembled a first-rate character cast for his directorial debut in 1996 Faye Dunaway, Matt Dillon, Gary Sinise, etc.  He gave them an intelligent script and a film noirish style to work with.  Faye plays a Cajun barkeep in a 20's vintage speakeasy in modern-day New Orleans run by M Emmett Walsh.  Dillon & Sinise play thieves who hold the bar and its few inhabitants (two men drinking and a young man playing pool) hostage late one cold morning along with their psycho accomplice (played by the versatile William Fichtner) after a shootout with police.  It rolls along at a leisurely pace and reminds me of a filmed play, not unlike The Petrified Forest but with less ham & almost zero humor.  One of the hostages is brutally beaten to death and Dunaway reacts beautifully; the tension-breakers are few and far between.  Loads of foul language including the one hilarious moment involving the lead cop (Joe Mantegna) and a nosy reporter, the only time obscenity is really crucial to the plot. If you like your cops & robbers films stagy and smart, check this one out, but don't expect a lot of action. "},{"Title":"An admirable cast, but a slow movie","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Kevin Spacey's first try at the director's chair is a nice one to say the least, but he could have done much much more with the actors. There are just to many great and known actors in this movie and sadly not enough screen time for every one of them.  But this movie has other things to offer; besides the good photography, the nice music and a strong cast it draws its energy from the script that has some great moment(albino aligator), but somehow fails to deliver in the end. Albino Aligator will appeal to those who like a dark crime movie but is just to plain to be something more.    6/10 "}{"Title":"Not a lot to show for so much talent","Date":"5 May 2004","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" With so much talent aboard this could have been great cinema. That it's not is due to an unsure screenplay, lacking in credibility, though not lacking in promise. The story in itself, if tightened up, could have been riveting. But despite the actor's efforts, Albino Alligator fails to deliver the goods. By the end (which in itself is powerful), one has become a bit tired of it all.Spacey was obviously drawn to the clear theatricality of much of the action taking place on one set, in effect on one stage. It's hence very talky and stagy, though Spacey is careful to keep the camera moving in interesting ways. The few outdoors scenes too are shot with great visual style. Combining a keen eye, together with his understanding of actors and acting, Spacey will probably at some point bring his directorial talents to fruition. Hopefully he will be more fortunate as far as a suitable screenplay is concerned.Matt Dillon in the lead does a fair job. As is often the case with him, he manages some moments of excellence, but on the whole is capable rather than brilliant. (He sustained an exceptional performance is the Saint of Fort Washington and surprised many with Drugstore Cowboy.). It's as if there is a depth to him which he seems to have a lot of trouble reaching. There is a brief scene in Albino Alligator in which he talks to himself in a facing mirror. It's a moment which reveals those depths which so often seem to elude him.The other players do as well as one would expect. Gary Sinise is superb as Dillon's elder brother, William Fichtner is truly edgy and sinister and Faye Dunaway's bartender has a ring of truth to it.Despite all this talent and a story with possibilities, this is not one to seek out. "},{"Title":"Interesting...","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A fairly good directorial outing for Spacey for his first time. Considering what Spacey was given, he worked his charaters out well. It was an interesting movie. I really liked Sinise's performance as Milo, Dillon was also good, as well as Fichtner. The other acting was average at best. But in conclusion, this is a fairly suspenseful movie with lots of twists and turns. It makes a good rental on a boring night. 8/10 "},{"Title":"AWFUL MOVIE THAT WILL WASTE YOUR TIME!!!","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Although it has been 2 years, I still remember the complete waste that comprises the entire plot of the movie.  Unfortunately, I came across this movie after my friends and I selected it while browsing through the new releases at Blockbuster.  We decided to pick the movie because it was the only one we all had not seen and it sounded like it may be enjoyable. Although it has been quite some time since I viewed the movie, I still remember the lack of plot (seriously, there is no true plot), and complete waste of time that was spent watching the movie.  If you are in the video store and this film catches your eye, walk on and find a better movie.  If you did end up seeing this movie, I understand your pain )  "},{"Title":"GREAT","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I've seen most people rented this movie b/c of Kevin Spacey...truthfully, I rented it b/c of Gary Sinise. I've seen a lot of his stuff, and only one turned out to be a dud-Mission To Mars. I went to get Of Mice And Men and saw him on the cover of this movie and immediately grabbed it. This is one movie that kept me saying What's gonna happen!? Who IS this guy?! and random things to that nature. I think the plot is amazing. It took the second time watching it for me to really grasp what went wrong in the beginning. It has just the right amount of comedy relief as well. I think everyone has a 'great!' role and acts in it well! Dillon and Dunaway could have been more 'convincing' but all around, wonderful! I plan on buying this movie! "},{"Title":"Half stage play, half independent film, half baked","Date":"31 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Albino Alligator was Kevin Spacey's directorial debut, produced in 1997 for $5MM. It has a talented cast ,with Matt Dillon, Gary Sinise, Viggo Mortensen, E. Emmet Walsh, Joe Mantegna, Faye Dunaway and William Fichtner. The film asks the dramatic question Would you kill an innocent person to save your life? It's an intriguing question that deserves a much better screenplay. It also deserves a much better answer than offered by the filmmakers. The screenplay is a mess. What should be a character-driven story seems largely driven by unlikely coincidences.Much of the action occurs off screen. A burglar alarm is tripped, a character commits suicide and a character commits murder &#x96; all off screen. These are three points that alter the course of the plot, but the audience doesn't quite know why they happened. The burglars seem to have tripped the alarm trying to gain access. If so, the police wouldn't be able to charge them with much, unless they have prior warrants. They could have simply split up and walked away in separate directions. They might have dropped their weapons and lock picks down a sewer grating. Instead, they call attention to themselves by speeding away in a stolen car. The character motivations are unclear. An international criminal arranges a meeting at closing time in a basement bar with no back exit. The person he is supposed to meet never shows. A possible exit has been covered over with cinder blocks. Unless the cores are filled with concrete and steel bars (which is uncommon), cinder blocks are fairly easy to break with a sledgehammer, claw hammer or anything reasonably hard. With enough shells, they could break through with the shotgun. But they don't even try. The police procedures make no sense at all. The plan for escape made sense in the Bill Murray comedy Quick Change, but not in a serious drama, although the trope worked reasonably well in 16 Blocks. The least sensible and least satisfying part is the answer to the dramatic question. One character commits suicide, presumably because he's been betrayed and he refuses to kill innocent people. One person is a sociopath, so doesn't face a moral dilemma. One character is given a revolver and given a choice between killing an innocent victim and going free, or dying. But one would think holding a loaded weapon would offer a third option. This is the climatic moment, but it occurs off screen. The characters who choose to kill an innocent person do survive, while those who do not die. Buried was produced four years later with a much smaller budget of $3MM. It was gritty, compelling and effective. AA is not nearly as effective. The difference is primarily due to the caliber of the scripts. The film looks more like a stage play than a feature film. Most of the exterior shots could be eliminated without severely damaging the story. Since the exteriors really show the budgetary limitations, the film might actually have been improved. The movie has a good cast. It's not sufficiently compelling to engage the audience, but neither is it sufficiently egregious to completely alienate. "},{"Title":"Overall a big disappointment","Date":"1 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" With a fine cast, and set in New Orleans, one of my favorite cities, I was anxious to see what Kevin Spacey could do in his first feature directorial effort. Overall I came away disappointed.First off, it doesn't appear to be actually filmed in New Orleans. We see a couple of stock shots, the bridges and a few streetcars, but the movie takes place almost completely in a small basement bar, and New Orleans doesn't have basement bars. The water table is so high they bury bodies above ground.Second, the petty crooks end up in the bar around closing time, to get care for an injured buddy, terrorizing the four occupants. The cops are alerted and they have to try to figure out how to escape from a small bar with no rear exit and no windows.I came away unsatisfied with my viewing experience.SPOILERS In the end it turns out the cops were after a different set of major crooks and when the survivors finally got out around daybreak the cops didn't even try to arrest them. "},{"Title":"Watering Hold Up","Date":"27 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" When a New Orleans robbery turns into a deadly pursuit, three crooks take refuge in a spacious basement bar and hold those inside hostage. The Dino's bar invaders are handsome bad-boy Matt Dillon (as Dova), muscular psychotic William Fichtner (as Law) and quietly wounded Gary Sinise (as Milo). Of those unlucky enough to be in the bar on this eventful night, the biggest parts go to mouthy barmaid Faye Dunaway (as Janet), secretive businessman Viggo Mortensen (as Guy) and cute pool player Skeet Ulrich (as Danny). The drama was written by Christian Forte (son of 1950s teen celebrity Fabian) and directed by Kevin Spacey (the highly accomplished actor)...The term Albino Alligator is explained in the story and has some character parallels. This is an enjoyable directorial debut for Mr. Spacey. However, the actors appear to bounce around a lot, and a hidden rifle could have been handled better. Three big secrets are revealed - the most important could have been introduced along with the opening robbery, for maximum tension; let's anticipate that explosive confrontation. Of the other character relationships, one is a surprise and the other is not; neither adds anything by being held back. Also, the hero we're left with at the end would probably be unmasked in real life. But, this is the movies, and the story is engaging.****** Albino Alligator (9/9/96) Kevin Spacey ~ Matt Dillon, Faye Dunaway, William Fichtner, Viggo Mortensen "},{"Title":"Blu-Ray version of this is 1.77, not 2.35 to 1 aspect ratio","Date":"20 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A number of new movies out recently in Blu Ray, this one, and many others, are in much smaller aspect ratio than original theatrical release! Next of Kin is another example. This should be protested and not allowed to continue. Normally I expect a Blu-Ray to be a duplicate of the original release. HOWEVER, I BELIEVE THIS IS SIMPLY AN ERROR IN AMAZON'S PRODUCT DESCRIPTION. I CHECKED OUTLAND AND THOUGH LISTED AS 1.77 TO 1, IT WAS THE CORRECT 2.3 OR SO TO 1 THAT IT SHOULD BE. This is a rip off of the customer. I bought a very good Blu-Ray of Cellular a few weeks ago, but it's in 16 X 9 aspect ratio. Now the new version of Cellular in Blu-Ray is the correct 2.35 to 1 aspect ratio.The Cellular BluRay at 16 X 9 was excellent but for the aspect ratio.I don't know if this is a ruse to force cinephiles to pony up for another Blu Ray later or not. But I do hate it. "},{"Title":"Flat hostage drama","Date":"24 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" In the past I have enjoyed a number of movies involving hostage taking, from Dog Day Afternoon to The Negotiator. So I was pretty sure I would enjoy Albino Alligator. While the movie is not without merit, overall I felt let down. I will say the movie is well made for a low budget, there is some good acting, and some humor in the movie is funny. But there are a number of problems. For one thing, none of the characters - hostage takers, the chief ATF agent, nor the hostages - are made to be colorful or compelling enough. And I found the central story to be surprisingly dull. There is little tension, the movie moves VERY slowly, and the movie resorts to using clichés found in other hostage movies instead of trying to put a new spin on things. While this isn't an awful movie, it is pretty flat, and you'd be better off instead rewatching those movies I mentioned in the first sentence of this review. "},{"Title":"Boring chit chat hostage movie","Date":"12 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Three guys running from the police hide out in a bar and hold the handful of people inside hostage. One of the men is badly injured and they talk and talk and talk about what they are going to do then near the end you find out one of the hostages inside is actually a bigger outlaw than they are. Some get out and some don't. By the end of the film you will more than likely find you don't care about any of these boring characters.I have seen this a few times and never have enjoyed it. It is so extremely slow that it's hard to set through. Kevin Spacey behind the camera offered nothing. The acting was good, but with such a boring movie it didn't matter. Faye Dunaway, M. Emmet Walsh, William Fitchner, John Spencer, Viggo Mortensen, Skeet Ulrich, Joe Mantegna and Gary Sinise all did good, Matt Dillon is a horrible actor and should not be in anything. The music was horrible and made this bad film even worse.This movie is pure drama, 95 percent of the film is spent in the bar with the three idiot bad guys trying to figure out what to do next, it's a hard film to watch because it is so slow.2/10 stars "}{"Title":"Out  of control negotiations.....","Date":"10 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Joe Mantegna definitely has the best scene in Albino Alligator. It is a humorous infusion into a movie that at times borders on being terminal. Starts out fast with three petty criminals, Dillon, Sinese, and Fichtner, fleeing a botched robbery. Unfortunately once they take refuge in a basement bar, their endless posturing and planning, grinds on the film. There is nothing wrong with the acting, including a great supporting effort from M. Emmet Walsh. Other than the above mentioned scene, Mantegna is somewhat wasted in a one dimensional role. Faye Dunaway is interesting, and William Fichtner is in menacing psycho mode. Marginally recommended. - MERK "},{"Title":"It cost me $1, and I still think I got ripped off","Date":"30 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" For some reason I really wanted to see this when it first came out. Whether it was the intriguing trailer, or because Kevin Spacey was involved, or because there wasn't much else on I don't know. Funny thing is I never got round to seeing it until yesterday after I picked it up on VHS for $1.The movie has a decent cast, but a very slow storyline. 3 petty criminals get involved in a bungle, kill 2 cops and need to find a hideout. They stumble across a basement bar (think of Cheers) early in the morning and quickly take the few drinkers and workers hostage. They are soon trapped with only one entrance and cops swarming. How will they escape? See it and find out (or read a review with spoilers and save yourself one and a half hours). "},{"Title":"Tense little drama","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Albo Gator (to quote Bill Fichtner) is a tense little drama, superbly acted. The film is so small in scale and so tightly staged that it feels very personal to watch. The film, written by Christian Forte, tells the story of three small time hoods (Matt Dillon, William Fichtner and Gary Sinise) on the run who take shelter (and hostages) in a small down-town bar. As the tension escalates within the bar, so does the chaos outside, as the police surround the building and begin negotiations. The film feels very much like a stage production, which is not a bad thing. In fact, it feels like a very good stage production. The performances are nothing short of dynamite, the bar itself being filled with the who's who of modern character actors and supporting players. The great M. Emmett Walsh is the owner of the establishment and on this particular night his unfortunate customers includes trucker John Spencer, tough-cookie Faye Dunaway, pool player Skeet Ulrich and enigmatic stranger Viggo Mortensen, who may or may not be hiding something. They are all great in their respective roles. Dillon, Fichtner and Sinise shine as the conflicted criminals. The jazzy score from Michael Brooke is the icing on the cake. Albino Alligator, small but perfectly formed. "},{"Title":"Too much trouble to figure out a convoluted and under-developed plot.","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When a new screenwriter is trying to get his script made, the best way to draw attention (nee money) is to attach a star, someone with visibility, someone bankable. Surprisingly, I don't think stars really read a lot of scripts, certainly not all the way through, certainly not with a mindset toward how to make this into a good, completed film.At the time this film was made, Kevin Spacey was hot, very hot. His performances in Seven, Swimming with Sharks, and The Usual Suspects had brought him not only rave reviews, but an Academy Award. His want to direct, this inherent heat, plus his ability to attract additional star power, namely Faye Dunaway, Matt Dillon,  and Gary Sinise, and a spec script from a first time writer had the financial backing it needed.Maybe Albino Alligator would have been a weak film in even the most accomplished hands, it certainly is a weak film in this first time director's. The premise is sketchy, the through line distorted and vague. Some of the characterizations seem forced, or contrived, as if, for example, Faye Dunaway (or Gary Sinise)'s part were quickly created or expanded to accommodate their agreeing to particpate.Many good young film makers are making daring, exciting, edgy films right now. This is not one of them.  "},{"Title":"Spacey is not a director","Date":"11 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" On the face of it, this should be a great film, a great cast, a plot with many possibilities and one of Hollywood's finest behind the camera for the first time.However, its clear why it was another 8 years before spacey decided to try directing a movie again. This movie fails on so many levels. In a film where there is not much action and most of the scenes are shot in a couple of locations, it is imperative that suspense and continuity are provided by the director. Not so here, the great cast is horribly under-used, none more so than the great, late John Spencer, the plot is so run of the mill and nothing you haven't seen in a hundred other TV movies. There is so little character development you end up not caring for any of the protagonists. At least we know spacey has a lot of mates and clout in Hollywood studios to get away with a poor flick like this "},{"Title":"Nice little diddy","Date":"19 July 2004","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Albino Alligator is a relatively short and cheap crime thriller. Still, it managed to hold my attention for its duration. The sets are simple and cheap, but they work. The film has a nice plot with a few good plot twists. I was unable to find something I didn't like about this film. However, I didn't find something I really liked either.This film is ideal for a rainy evening when you have nothing better to do. It will certainly entertain you for an hour and a half and you will want to know what happens, but you won't stay awake at night thinking about this film. Albino Alligator is a film like there are so many a nice little diddy, but quickly forgotten. If this film is on and you don't have anything better to do, by all means watch. But don't rent this film. There are so many better films available.  "},{"Title":"Unimaginative direction by Spacey ruined this potentially great film .....","Date":"7 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Dear Kevin Spacey,you had everything a director could ask for. This film has a great setting - a bar in New Orleans. A great story - a hostage thriller inside a bar but the patrons and staff at the bar are not what they seem like. There is a brilliant twist as well. The dialogues were great. It has a great cast - Matt Dillon, Faye Dunaway, Viggo Mortensen, Emmet Walsh and William Fichtner. What could go wrong? Well, the direction was crap. I mean how scenes were shot. Where the camera is placed. How tension is built. What the actors are doing. How the scenes are edited. How the background score was used. All of this contributes to making a film great. You failed in all these areas, Kevin.The film did begin with a bang. The action scenes were terrific. But the drama inside the bar soon becomes uninteresting due to bad direction. And the actors mumbled too much at times. The scenes outside the bar with the police officers and the news reporters were not particularly well written. I am not saying it was utter crap. It was interesting for a while. This is another film Tarantino might have been inspired by when he made The Hateful Eight.Best Regards, Pimpin.(6/10) "},{"Title":"Talk, Talk, Talk About Your Missed Opportunities","Date":"28 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Exhibit A of How a Film Can Fail to be Better than the Some of its Parts. Every Character is Portrayed by a Name Talent, the Director is an A-List Character Actor, the Writer is of Note. So What Went Wrong?Almost Everything. The Pacing is Slower than Slow. There are Pregnant Pauses that Reek of Look at Me Craftsmanship. Almost Anything of Significance Takes Place Off Screen. The Camera Turns Away from the Violence. Etc. Etc.The Whole Cast is Virtually Wasted and Wanting. Especially Viggo Mortensen with a Strained Accent. The Dialog is Pedestrian and Less Than Insightful About Anything or Anybody on Screen. Some of it Makes Little Sense in the Scheme of It All as Both Hostages and Criminals Scheme to Survive and the Ending is Less Than Satisfying.The Best Thing About This Thing is the Design of the Bar that has Some Pretty Cool Gangster Era Movie Posters. Sheesh...Hardly a Recommendation. "},{"Title":"He's not  a hero...None of us are.","Date":"25 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" ***MAJOR SPOILER ALERT*** Tense filled hostage drama that takes place in Dino's Last Chance Bar in New Orleans with a trio of petty crooks hold up there not knowing what exactly the surrounding police are accusing them of! As it later turned out it's one of the hostages whom the cops want for gun smuggling that the FBI set up a sting to catch him. It's in all the confusion that resulted in a deadly car chase where three cops & FBI Agents were killed that the gun smuggler found his way to Dino's Bar! That was just minutes before it was raided by the trio of petty crooks that the police were chasing thinking that their part of the gun smuggling operation. That trio consisted of the brothers Dova & Milo, Matt Dillon & Gary Sinise, and their partner the psychotic Law & Disorder or just plain Law for short, William Fichtner.With Dova Milo & Law not knowing exactly what their wanted for and with the cops and FBI Agents not realizing whom those in the bar are, hostages and hostage takers, the tense stand off lasts for hours into the morning. That's when the police under the command of FBI Agent G.D Browning, Joe Mantegna, plan to raid the place at exactly 700 AM with the help of a SWAT team. As the minutes tick away the usual level headed Dova starts to lose it who against his brother Milo's, who was badly injured during the car chase, sound advice plans not to off the hostages plans to blow them all away if the cops make a move on the besieged bar. As for bar owner Dino, Emmet Walsh,who tried to be a hero and take on the trio of bandits he sadly ended up getting killed with his head bashed in, by Law, for his efforts.***SPOILERS*** It's hostage Janet Boudreaux, Faye Dunaway,the waitress at Dino's Bar who does her best to keep the tension from boiling over and becoming deadly. That's by her advising the leader of the trio Dova that she and the rest of the hostages in the bar won't point him and his motley crew out after the police raid the joint! By her telling the police that the hostage takers escaped thus,in mistaking them as hostages, giving the three a free ride home. What Janet kept from Dova up until the very last moment is that her son like the person whom the police and FBI are really after is one of the hostages! Kevin Spacey directed film that comes across much like the Humphrey Bogart & Bette Davis 1936 crime classic The Petrified Forest with a lot more meat or story to it. With a totally unexpected and heart dropping ending that would not have been possible back then in 1936 due to the prudish and My way or the highway moral constraints of the then powerful Hollywood Hayes Commission. "},{"Title":"Kevin Should Stay in Front of the Camera  ***Spoilers***","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A trio of low-life criminals, led by Matt Dillon, botches a late-night burglary. They flee but quickly cross paths with the police who just happen to be in hot pursuit of a terrorist. Of course the police mistake the burglar gang for the terrorist, the real terrorist gets away, and the burglars are forced to take refuge in a small dive of a bar, taking hostages, unaware why the police are so intent on catching them.  And guess who else has picked the bar as a sanctuary for the night?Unbelievable? Absolutely. And it goes down hill from there. Spacey did acquire a good bit of acting talent; Matt Dillon, Faye Dunaway, Gary Sinise, Viggo Mortensen, and M. Emmett Walsh, but they're all wasted.  Mostly because after all the characters get stuck in the bar, all they do for the remainder of the film is argue.  Endlessly and aimlessly. Long before the conclusion of the film you've stopped giving a damn about what happens to them.  "}{"Title":"Don't watch it!","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When I saw Spacey's name on the title credits, I thought it'd be a great movie, which wasn't so. I got so disappointed, the movie is a drag, not much of an action, no psychology involved, plain bs.However, there were some good spans, but in general, it's a weak flick, with not so bad actors. Nevertheless, I still love Faye Danoway, especially in Scorchers (1991), which is a so funny film. Matt Dillon is much better in Wild Things (1998), which you have to watch untill the full end, the credits open the whole picture.To recommend Heat along with the Alligator is a mistake. Heat is much more powerful, thrilling, action and psychology packed.Don't watch the Alligator.  "},{"Title":"A very good movie with some great actors (matt dillon, faye dunaway...)","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A lot of people say that this film is boring and awful. But it isn't so, this film is just great. There was a lot of suspense in it and I loved the performances of Faye & Matt. Faye plays the barmaid who try to save her own life and that of her son. Matt plays the scaring  bandit who don't now what to do, but at least he becomes free man. This thriller is one of the best that I ever saw, be sure you don't waist your time when you see this movie!*** out of **** or 8,5/10 "},{"Title":"not too shabby","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Not a great movie by any means, Albino Alligator was still enjoyable and worth the $2 spent on renting it.  The dialogue wasn't the best, but the plot was intriguing and held my attention throughout.  All in all, not a bad directoral debut by Kevin Spacey - I look forward to seeing more from him behind the camera.  After you're done renting all the Traffics and Gladiators out there, give this sleeper a chance -  you'll be pleasantly surprised. "},{"Title":"Intense crime drama ...","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  1st watched 4/24/1998 - (Dir-Kevin Spacey) Intense crime drama where the hostages and the criminals have to work together to resolve the situation.  Great character portrayals from Dillon, Dunaway, and Fichtner as the violent criminal.  The story keeps your interest until the end. "},{"Title":"Pleasantly Surprising","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This was a movie in which I resisted seeing ever since its release. This was mainly due to all the bad reviews I have heard about this movie. The director and cast was always a drawing factor for my interest. Finally I took the plunge, not expecting much at all from this movie. The movie was well paced and I had never lost interest throughout the movie. Dillon, Dunaway & Ulrich hold this movie together. I found Sinise's character a bit weak. I found Spacey's directing interesting - I have either get used to his style or he'll need to make minor changes to it. Worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Taut, well acted, did not glory in gratuitous violence","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  On the genre of The pertified forest, and the desperate hours (there's a photo of Bogart, who was  in both movies on the wall of the saloon and on view during much of this movie) The Albino Alligator focuses on the changes in a group of ordinary people --ordinary hostages and ordinary criminals who are holding them (they're not super anything)--- and how they deal with their choices under great pressure.An actor's movie which is how Spacey got so many good people to act in it for low pay I'm sure since it's a low budget affair. It didn't play in any of my local theaters. I saw it on DVD. It deserves a very high rating. "},{"Title":"worth a look, but not the hype","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Spacey is so spectacular in the acting realm that I hope he gets the chance again to hone his skills at directing.  Unfortunately, he didn't get it right the first time. The visuals work well, the acting is tolerable.  However, even though the story provided some good ideas, these ideas were not fleshed out in characterization or action.  It is a simple story with a few twists that could have been done more convincingly in another writer's hands.  Also, I believe that a different edit of the film would have created a more boxed-in, no escape, hopelessness feel that was missing in this film. watching this film, it looks as if Dunaway wants to do so much more, but is stifled by the script.  Dillon is unconvincing in his role.  I wish he could look back to his earlier roles for some inspiration (drugstore cowboy, rumble fish, even my bodyguard).  However I think this is only a stumble for him, not a downfall.  And worst of all sins, Joe Mantegna is wasted in this film.  Again, mostly I blame the script, which almost seems like a ripoff of dog day afternoon, including the reference to media intervention.  To assemble this crew of actors and use them so inefficiently is not good filmmaking. This film should be looked at by those interested in making a film, because it has the potential to be a lot more than it is.  An admirable effort, but misses the mark. "},{"Title":"Not entertaining and no substance","Date":"19 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Albino Alligator saw Kevin Spacey play director for the first time. The film is your every day story of a bunch of criminals holding a bunch of people against their will. It's not very original; and it's not very good either, as while Spacey was casting the film, he seems to have forgotten to think of a point for it. Albino Alligator features a rather impressive cast list, which includes the likes of Faye Dunaway, Matt Dillon, Gary Sinise, Skeet Ulrich, Viggo Mortensen, William Fichtner and M. Emmet Walsh; but no Kevin Spacey himself, who spends the entire duration behind the camera. In fairness, Spacey's direction is assured enough, and he ensures that the film runs at a smooth pace all the way through. The majority of the film focuses on what is going on inside the bar that the thieves have hijacked, and this is offset by the police and media presence outside of it. However, rather than going down the road of Dog Day Afternoon, Albino Alligator keeps both of these sides of the story separate...and the result is a film that is more boring than it could have been.The acting is your typical 'heavyweight' stuff, but I can't say that it impressed me much. I was a bigger fan of Matt Damon before his role in the cheesy flick 'Crash'; but this is one of his 'miss' films. Faye Dunaway enjoys herself in her role, but doesn't impress with it. Gary Sinise and William Fichtner aren't given a lot to do, despite appearing for most of the running time. I liked Skeet Ulrich in Scream, but roles in films like this have ensured that he doesn't get noticed. Viggo Mortensen proved himself recently with an excellent performance in A History of Violence - but here he's simply in the movie and the only actor here that I like is The Simpsons' Fat Tony, M. Emmet Walsh, who is entertaining as a copper outside. He is rewarded in this respect with the film's best scene, which sees him swearing to a press reporter. It would seem that writer Christian Forte tried to fill in the gap where the point should be with an anecdote about albino alligators; but quite how this really figures in the plot is anyone's guess. The film doesn't even capitalise on the fact that it has a load of different characters stuck in a space together. On the whole; there is nothing to recommend this for. "},{"Title":"I've seen worse debuts","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" As an actor Kevin Spacey hasn't got to prove himself anymore. A man who has played in movies like Glengarry Glen Ross, The Usual Suspects, Se7en and L.A. Confidential needs no more recommendations because his outstanding record already speaks for itself. But being a good actor who played in several excellent movies doesn't make you a good director yet. Both jobs are completely different and not everybody who can act is able to direct. With Albino Alligator, Kevin Spacey made his debut and he certainly had some good actors to work with. But good actors aren't enough, what you need is a strong story.Albino Alligator has nothing to do with a white reptile with red eyes. It tells the story of three petty thieves who are chased by the police after the alarm went of at the place where they wanted to break in. Because one of them gets wounded during the chase, they decide to flee into a basement bar where they take five hostages including all of the bar's employees. But what they don't know is that the police isn't looking for them, but for one of the hostages who is actually a Canadian criminal. They see no other option to get out of their but by using a trick called the Albino Alligator, they will have to sacrifice a couple of their hostages to get out of there alive and stay out of the hands of the police...As a debut this isn't a bad movie, but it never reaches to a high level. The main reason for that is because the story isn't all that good. It uses too many clichés and doesn't offer any exceptional material for the director and his actors to work with. In fact, I might even say that it is thanks to the professionalism of actors like Matt Dillon, Faye Dunaway, Gary Sinise,... and the good direction of Spacey that this movie is still worth a watch. It's obvious that the movie has been made with a small budget and it certainly didn't have the best script ever, but it is good enough to be entertaining on a rainy afternoon during the summer time (that's when I saw it) and I must admit that I've seen worse debuts than this one. I give it a 6.5/10. "},{"Title":"Kevin Spacey's Directorial Debut","Date":"20 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Wow, this could've been such a great movie... such a shame that a great premise was wasted.One of the only things I liked about this film is the story from which it gets its title. Something along the lines of, Every once in a while, in a family of alligators, they'll get a white one, pure white, an albino alligator. Now, it's weak, and it can't do anything, but what happens is all the other alligators will send in the albino one to another alligator family's area. The other family will kill it, but this gives the first family information on how many and where the other family are. Deliberate sacrifice for deliberate gain.I don't know why I put quotation marks around that; it's sooo far from what they actually say. Anyway, don't see this movie. It was crap. Actually, it was fairly decent up until the ending, but that just makes it not worth even mentioning again except as a warning to others.So in that I've seen it so you don't have to, it's like I'm an albino alligator, and... never mind. Just don't see it, 'kay?  "}{"Title":"Top-performances in a middle weight movie&#133;.","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Kevin Spacey's first (and so far only) film as a director is especially worth checking out for the brilliant performances by an all-star cast. The plot &#150; which involves 3 fugitive criminals who're stuck in a clandestine bar, surrounded by the police &#150; is highly unoriginal and regretfully mediocre. There's no doubt that Spacey is a talented storyteller, though&#133;he makes intelligent use of the claustrophobic location of the bar, as the villains slowly realize they have nowhere to run to. Unfortunately, the script tries to include too many intrigues and it aims towards sentimentality near the second half of the film. Like I said already&#133;the performers lift up this film to a status higher than it deserves. The gangster trio exists out of Gary Sinise (as the remorseful and ethical crook), Bill Fichtner (who's downright psychopathic) and a terrific Matt Dillon as the `leader' who constantly bounces between heartless cruelty and remorseful tact. Faye Dunaway shines as the hostess against her will, while the young Ulrich makes a good impression as the seemly doomed hostage. A final honorable mention for M.Emmet Walsh who still is one of cinema's most underrated actors. I'd love to give more praise to Viggo Mortensen as well, but his role really lacked some background and inspiration. It's all very professional and admirable but&#133;.what's the point?  "},{"Title":"So-so debut.","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Kevin Spacey's directorial debut neither dazzles nor disappoints. It sets up its premise a bit haphazardly, but gets better as it progresses,  and the temperature of tension begins to rise. The material is cliched and some of the tough-guy dialogue sounds forced (especially in the beginning), but Spacey has wisely let his excellent cast do most of the work (under his guidance, of course) all the performances are good, but the best one is probably given by the least-known star, William Fichtner, as the edgier of the three crooks.     (**1/2)  "},{"Title":"Script so boring it'll put you to sleep","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I agree with other comments about this film...a fine pool of actors but the script!?  I couldn't believe Dillon said some of his lines without laughing. They were so by the book, you knew what was going to happen long before it did.  With the names attatched to this film I know I held it to a higher standard than others before I ever saw it, heck that's the reason why I wanted to watch it in the first place, but it just didn't make the grade. I had to struggle to stay awake after the 45-50 minute mark.  I was just waiting for it to find it's feet and it never did.   "},{"Title":"Endless boredom","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I cannot understand how some films ever get into production - like this pitiful attempt at a crime drama that I sat through on TV hoping it would get better. It didn't and I wasted two hours on pure garbage. It's the sort of movie that has made me hate most contemporary films that are pretentious, boring and a total waste of time and money. "},{"Title":"A good ending does not itself make a movie great","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I wasn't sure beforehand why Kevin Spacey's directorial debut had gone straight to video. Now I know.Albino Alligator centers on three men. Dova (Matt Dillon), Milo (Gary Sinise) and Law (William Fichtner). Besides having very unique names... they get themselves into the 'ol situation of digging the hole deeper and deeper taking an admittedly bad situation and making it even worse. The men are nothing more than petty criminals, who find themselves camping out at a local bar after a job goes wrong. It's not long before the police show up and naturally they believe they are there for them. Nervous and somewhat edgy, they take the few bar patrons hostage. Then they do what people do they panic, they become unpredictable. Things progressively deteriorating as they overplay the situation and dive deeper into a mess they've gotten themselves into.The only real answer is to walk out of the bar, but desperate men don't act rationally in movies because if they did the whole thing would be over. So they sit there flipping off dialog and things get progressively worse while the bar as the backdrop for the majority of the story serves as both a blessing and a horrible limitation. While it creates some much needed tension and paranoia for a tightly knit boxed in story of this sort - it doesn't add up to much scenic variety or any real excitement.Which leads me to wonder why there are so many people involved in this film. The story seems so low budget minded that I believe it could have easily have been done with a no-name cast and director to a possible better result. Never less having a crowd of recognizable faces in a film is always helpful when the character's aren't really fleshed out. At a certain point, I believe it was only the recognizable cast keeping me watching. Matt Dillon is easily convincing as the ringleader of the trio who slowly loses control of the situation and Sinise gets to carry out in vain the role of the wounded puppy dog who has to be put down. Everyone is playing a turn on a character we've seen before. The guy who wants to do what's right, but loses control in the end, the man who knows things aren't going to turn out right etc etc.In the end, Spacey breaks no new grounds with his directorial debut. It's soundly made both in front and behind the camera, but lacks any real distinction. The whole production is handled adequately, but it never gets creative within the scope of the story it's trying to tell. It's a tale that we know won't have a happy ending and while it does not, it's at least unpredictable... and it's here that I find the finale to Albino Alligator more worthy than the sum of the movie. "},{"Title":"Good crime drama","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I appreciate it when an actor directs a film and does a great job.  Here, Spacey gets the maximum performances from his actors, and still entertains with camera angles I have never seen in the movies before.  Great job by Dunaway, this should have put her on the comeback trail.  I give this an 8. "},{"Title":"Under-appreciated","Date":"10 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"     I remember waiting for this movie for months before it actually came out to rent. I worked at a video store, and I had seen previews for it long in advance (It's previewed before Swingers on the video version), and though most movies I build up in my mind waiting to see disappoint (see Eyes Wide Shut), this movie did not.Simply put, this is a really good movie that few people have seen.    Kevin Spacey is my favorite actor, and his directing here is excellent for a debut effort. The plot may be a bit far-fetched, especially the ending, but we don't need exact realism for every movie. That's why it's a movie. Matt Dillon has a good role, Sinise is great as always, and Joe Mantegna steals the show, most notably during his interview scene with a local reporter. I loved the the camera-work, it made for some interesting visual effects and added to the suspense of the movie. The movie may have tried a little too hard to accent the drama, but it does not undermine the story at all.  Many people may find Albino Alligator boring, as it is not an action movie at all, but I did not feel the story was slow at all. I thought it had many well-thought out ideas, especially when the captors are looking for a way out of the bar. I was engrossed throughout, and the best I can compare it to is Dog Day Afternoon (not quite as good, but that is not a bad thing) Recommended to any fans of Usual Suspect-Seven type movies, and movie fans in general. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Slick, Groovy and very well done indeed!","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  After a good long wait to see this film - I finally managed to get some time and remember to rent it from my local video store. Being a big fan of Kevin Spacey as an actor - I was interested to see what he was going to be like as a director. I was impressed.The slick camera shots and acting covered up for the not-so-slick script, and thanks to the good casting of Matt Dillion, Gary Sinese and Faye Dunaway, the film rolled along and a pace which left the audience thinking - What IS going to happen.I think it was a shame that this film didn't get a big distributer as it is rather good, but in a way perhaps that is a good thing - it keeps the movie for people who like movies and not just car chases and explosions with past-it action heroes in a vest. "},{"Title":"Please, Kev, direct another movie.","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is incredible.  There are few movies that can combine a good story, good acting, and great directing all in one package.  Albino Alligator does all that.The story is not outstanding in the fact that it is very simple but it is elegantly written.  There are a few twists but they are not unbelievable and make for a very interesting film.Dillon and Siniese are incredible and Fichtner delivers a solid performance. Skeet Ulrich surprises.  There is one really funny scene by Joe Mantegna. Together they provide one of the most impressive performances by an entire cast in awhile.On top of that, Kevin Spacey, in his directorial debut, was able to combine magnificent editing, and lighting and camera effects with the already-mentioned acting and storyline to create one of the best crime-dramas ever.  Give us another, Kevin. "},{"Title":"Spacey's directorial debut is a dead one","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Kevin Spacey is very talented, but unfortunately directing is not his forte.  I had high expectations about the film before I rented it and maybe that is why I disliked it so much. I admire Spacey's attempt at making a film that takes place mostly in one small setting, but it's not the attempt that counts.  I found the film dull, boring, and stretched out.  The acting was nothing spectacular.  Gary Sinise has done much better, especially since he is conscious in most of his other films.  Skeet Ulrich was disappointing, but this was one of his first films (I did get a kick out of how young and chubby this Scream star looked). The only thing that impressed me about this film was the one shot of the car wreck from above.  The center line of the road was perfectly centered and the camera moved on along the line and past the wreck. However, that shot was very Usual Suspectsish and my guess is Spacey got the idea from that earlier film of his (which is very good mind you). If you want to see a fabulous film that takes place in one small setting, watch Hitchcock's Lifeboat.  Maybe Spacey should have watched it before filming this. "}{"Title":"Excellent Movie!!! Do yourself a favor, don't fall for the title!","Date":"27 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'll have to admit that when I first heard of this movie, the name Albino Alligator extremely discouraged me. Even if it was directed by one of my favorite screen actors, Kevin Spacey. That was some time ago. I never heard of the movie again so I figured that yes, it was a stupid movie with a stupid title. Not too long ago I saw this movie in the video store. I normally wouldn't have rented it if it wasn't for the fact that I had seen The Negotiator with Kevin Spacey that day and was very pleased with it. I wanted to see what he had to offer as a director so I decided to give it a try.I couldn't have been more pleased. The movie had an excellent plot with great performances to match from Gary Sinise to even Skeet Ulrich. The movie brings up some very good points and is excellently directed by Kevin Spacey.Although the movie title makes sense now to me and doesn't seem stupid at all, I fear that many others neglected to see this great movie for the very same reason that I did.  So if you are debating whether or not to see this one, do yourself a favor, don't fall for the title! "},{"Title":"A well hidden Gem for the crime genre!","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" With such an excellent cast, and actor/director, in his first ever directorial role, Kevin Spacey, i cant believe how unheard of this film is, it has an amazing cast with Faye Dunaway, Matt Dillon, Viggo Mortenson, William Fichtner, Skeet Ulrich, Gary Sinise, Joe Mantegna, this would be a straight to cinemas hit! these days, a well established cast, of well known big screen names nowadays, and it's an awesome film, a classic Kevin Spacey-type pace film! i love it and would highly recommend it, esp if your paying £5.99 like i did! buy it or rent it you wont be dissatisfied. A pretty modern time day crime gem with some tiny flaws. "},{"Title":"an interesting, well acted, competently directed but ultimately hollow movie.","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  there is one truly superb sequence in this film within the opening few minutes when one of the lead characters is flung out of the windscreen of a car which is beautifully shot overhead. apart from that, this is an otherwise run of the mill low budget effort which is well filmed by kevin spacey and complemented by an ensemble cast of well known actors. most of the action takes place in a former 'speakeasy' bar in new orleans which is held up by a group of on the run heavies. the two cop characters who are assigned to monitor the situation are completely cliched and unconvincing whilst most of the action situated in the bar lacks any real tension and never quite gels. if you'd like to watch a far superior siege movie then check out 'dog day afternoon' instead. "},{"Title":"Tense and engrossing thriller","Date":"29 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A trio of small-time crooks -- dim-witted Dova (a sound performance by Matt Dillon), his more smart and sensible brother Milo (the always excellent Gary Sinise), and volatile psycho Law (William Fichtner in peak creepy and intense form) -- are forced to seek refuge in a bar and take everyone inside hostage after they botch a robbery. Director Kevin Spacey, working from a tight and gripping script by Christian Forte, relates the riveting story at a smooth pace, milks plenty of nerve-rattling claustrophobic tension from the premise, maintains a tough no-nonsense tone throughout, delivers several startling moments of abrupt'n'brutal violence (a car crash that sends a man flying out of a windshield at the start stands out as an especially impressive set piece), and pulls off a fairly surprising ending. The sturdy acting from the fine cast keeps the whole thing humming Faye Dunaway brings her redoubtable A game to the role of sassy and cynical barmaid Janet Boudreaux, Viggo Mortensen likewise excels as the quiet and mysterious Guy Foucard, Skeet Ulrich is solid and likable as the naive Danny, Joe Mantegna huffs and puffs with rip-snorting élan as the hard-nosed Agent G.D. Browning, and M. Emmet Walsh is a total rascally treat in his regrettably smallish part as crusty old bar owner Dino. Mark Plummer's handsome widescreen cinematography makes fluid use of a gliding camera and boasts one doozy of an overhead tracking shot. An enjoyable nail-biter. "},{"Title":"a lot here","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Kevin Spacey's directorial debut portrays some thieves hijacking a New Orleans bar while the police try to manage the situation. Albino Alligator does an interesting job looking at everything the people in the bar trying to maintain their composure and sanity, while the cops try to figure out what to do.Maybe this is a look at our lives in general (the way that we find out some things about the characters), or maybe it was made so that Spacey could call himself a director, I don't know for certain. It's not a great movie, but interesting. Matt Dillon, Faye Dunaway, Gary Sinise, William Fichtner, Viggo Mortensen, John Spencer, Skeet Ulrich, M. Emmet Walsh and Joe Mantegna all do as good a job as we can expect from them (don't let anyone tell you that Faye Dunaway has outlived her usefulness; trust me, she still has what it takes). "},{"Title":"solid debut","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film was enjoyable without ever really thrilling the audience. It seemed to be a safe option for Kevin Spacey's directorial debut. He managed to assemble a fantastic cast for not very fantastic roles. The cast all do well without anyone really excelling. To be honest I thought Matt Dillon was a bit over the top with his hard man role which I dont think he really pulled off, on the other hand Fichtner was suitably scary as the cliched nutter. There are some nice touches in this film as well as a great scene where the policeman is interviewed by the nosy reporter.Overall a good film but Spacey must take more risks as a director if he is to carve out as good a directing career as his acting one.  "},{"Title":"Unassuming and slow but still quite good","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In New Orleans three criminals flee and bungled robbery late at night and get involved in an ATF organised sting on an illegal guns operation.  Mistaken for the target they hole up in a bar to find themselves surrounded by police.  With no way out the three are forced to take the bar hostage as they work on an escape plan.Kevin Spacey's directorial debut is an understated little thriller that is a little stagy but still enjoyable.  The plot is simple and the twists are a mix of predictable and silly &#150; however the slow pace makes it easy to accept.  The drama is mainly in the bar and is mostly dialogue &#150; this makes any action seem even more sudden, although the end happens very quickly and is a bit of a letdown.The director uses the one room well and has plenty of nice visual touches.  The rest is down to a good cast who all give strong performances.  And what a name list it is &#150; Dillon, Dunaway, Sinise, Mortensen, Ulrich, Walsh, Mantegna &#150; even an actor as good as Spencer only gets a few lines.Overall, despite the star laden cast this is an unassuming thriller that is slow but still enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Not at all bad for a first try what you call a sleeper","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was not expecting much, but there wasn't anything else to choose on the other channels. What seemed to be an ordinary rough bit of film-making suggested that it definitely was not worth while sitting down and typing out any kind of commentary, and so, in these cases, I consulted some of the comments from other contributors to IMDb about this film. Which I do not do when I am going to write a comment I read other contributions after sending mine.With the result that Kevin Spacey behind the camera is much better (or at least probably will be) than in front of it. A little in the style of Robert Redford who took up directing to give us some excellent films such as Ordinary People, A River Runs Through it, and even The Horse Whisperer (albeit in this last case with a Redford dutifully sleeked out to appear much younger and thus more desirable&#133;&#133;..), Spacey has tried his hand at directing nothing less than a character-driven drama.And the end result is not at all bad. A couple of scenes of violence I personally could have done without, perhaps, but given the entire value of the film I should not quibble. The directing was pretty good, the acting was not at all bad in the most part, and the story-line had enough twists to keep it interesting right up to the closing scene. Michael Brooks' music was spot on, as it had that evanescence which never intruded, but you felt it was there; imaginitive composing.As far as theatre drama goes, Albino Alligator had a few failings in interpretation, perhaps, as, for example, one could expect something a bit more convincing from Faye Dunaway, but certainly the other main actors played their parts rather well. There was enough credibility in the production which makes me think it is going to be worthwhile waiting for Spacey's next film as director; and I've never really had any great taste for him as an actor. And if he chooses Christian Forte for the script again he could well be on course for another film worthy of comment.On the high side of 7 out of 10 for this one.  "},{"Title":"Sundance Recommends...","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  (This is the section I found it under) A very GOOD section!EXCELLENT camera shots, angles -- Mr. Spacey has an excellent eye for such things.  The dialog was kind of, eh, but as a whole I liked it.  The music definitely fit the mood and setting of the movie.  I, however, did not expect New Orleans to be the setting?  Curious...  The lighting was also great!  I kind of felt this Mike Hammer/Mickey Spillane/Hill Street Blues vibe some of the time.  You can definitely tell that Mr. Spacey comes from a theatre background because of the claustrophobic feel of most of the scenes. I look forward to seeing more work from him... "},{"Title":"pretty cool and very interesting","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  We've seen movies like this before. A holdup where the police surround our criminals and they are forced to make hostages of the customers inside. No movie will ever do it better than Dog Day Afternoon, but Albino Alligator gives it a nice try. The criminals seem like decent characters and their mission is to find a way out of the mess they're in. There are three major surprises that are discovered one by one. One of these shockers changes the entire outcome of their plan. The movie is well written and always keeps you focused and interested. There is no waisting time in this one and everything that happens is important. The surprises are thrown in to make sure the audience will not get bored with the story which takes place almost entirely in the same room. The movie was never boring to begin with and the surprises just make it even better. The movie is good fun. "}{"Title":"great","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I know it's sort-of late for this, but I loved the movie. I saw it tonight, and I thought it was brilliant. The plot was twisted, tying all these different things together. I thought it was great. Gary Sinise did an amazing job, as did Matt Dillon. As for the other familiar faces, you've got Skeet Ulkrich, etc..For one of those people who usually mock the absurdity of Dramatic films, I commend Kevin Spacey for creating one of the more creative films of the year.  "},{"Title":"Excellent, suspenseful story with twists & turns excellently directed by Spacey.","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One of the best movies I've seen in a while.  Edge-of-the-seat story full of twists and tragic irony, excellent cast, unusual but interesting music. The one disappointment was that Kevin Spacey wasn't in this himself, but his cast was marvelous.  I picked it up in the video store because I saw his name and Gary Sinise's and ignored the odd title--was well rewarded. "},{"Title":"..And the rival pack...","Date":"23 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Three criminals run from the cops in a stolen car, trying to escape inevitable capture.  After a few problems they stash away in a seedy downtown bar, late at night.  The patrons are few, and all are wary of the gang. In order to keep the peace the criminals take the bar hostage.  Then the story unfolds, all inside one room while cops line up outside. Brilliantly directed by Kevin Spacey, and with some of the best performances by Matt Dillon and Gary Sinese.  This is one of the year's best films.  Crime lovers will immensely enjoy this movie, despite its title which offsets nearly everyone to renting it.  It is by far, one of the best movies I have seen in a long time.  I hope Kevin Spacey decides to direct a bit more, the plot is amazing, and the outcome incredible.  When you see this movie in the Drama section, rent it.    "},{"Title":"Matt Dillon giving his usual multi-faceted bassett-hound-eyed performance","Date":"24 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Since I'm on a Matt Dillon kick, I'm comparing his movies to one another. So I really 'enjoyed' this one, especially William Fichter's performance. Now I'll have to have a Fichter Festival!But here are my questions How can Matt get away with his crime, with his brother being carted off to the morgue? Does he just walk away? Can he? Why was the gun runner from Montreal, who they were really looking for, in that particular bar? too much deaux ex machina, if you ask me. They all had a thing for mothers, which was very good but probably wouldn't ring true today. Sinise gives himself up as the albino alligator, but why does Faye shoot the bar fly. Why didn't she just shoot Matt? After all, she had the gun with one bullet in it. Of course, they wouldn't have been motivated to cover for one another if that had been true. Good acting, lots of suspense. And there was quite a few funny lines, for a murder/robbery movie. Matt does really well playing a slightly dense criminal. And have you noticed At least 5 of his movies feature his relationship with an older brother Outsiders, Rumble Fish, Tex, and this one, not to mention 'Over There'. Why they didn't blow open the front of the building to begin with, I don't understand, but i loved the duplicitous media woman, so realistic, so true for our time of propaganda bull hockey media, who care nothing about the truth. "},{"Title":"Will the Bar Flies Get Swatted?","Date":"23 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I gather that this neat little movie was loosely based on Humphrey Bogart's The Petrified Forest (1936), which I have never seen in its entirety. An oblique tribute to Bogart is made as the bar in which most of the movie takes place has an old Bogart cinema poster on its wall which features Key Largo (not The Petrified Forest).If there is any similarity between the two movies separated by sixty years it is mostly at the beginning and the bar-hostage situation which occupies about four-fifths of the film. However, Albino Alligator is not a remake of The Petrified Forest. In the Bogart film escaped convicts end up in a bar and terrorise its denizens. In Albino Alligator (referring to a type of pool shot derived from a legend about the alleged habit of alligators to sacrifice weaker members of their own group in order to trap and destroy their rivals) three men are running from the police after a botched warehouse burglary and end up in a basement dive in a pre-Diluvium New Orleans named Dino's Last Chance Bar; a one time basement speak easy which is just about to close for the night. They terrorise the barman , the middle-aged waitress-come do-it-all and the three customers though it is fairly apparent that they are amateur villains but for the one dangerous self-acknowledged sociopath.The Petrified Forest was criticised for being a bit too theatrical, not surprising as it was taken from a stage production. And that may also be true of Albino Alligator but one could say the same of the highly acclaimed Bus Stop starring Marilyn Monroe, in which all the action takes place at a Bus Stop-Coffee bar in Montana.The first ten minutes or so of Albino Alligator -where the burglary is botched in the most amateur way by setting of the warehouse alarms and the escape from the chasing police cars takes place - are basically irrelevant accept to explain why the men are forced to find refuge in the bar. The movie is mainly about the interaction among the burglars and between them and the bar denizens and outside between the local police chief , the FBI and an investigative woman TV reporter. Every character has a vital part to play in the unravelling tale. Nobody is quite what they seem at first sight.There are a few twists, quite well done, and it would be unfair to reveal them. Inevitably the cops arrive as unnoticed the barman has pressed a below counter alarm. But it is never explained how the cops knew exactly who they were seeking in the bar- the film's only flaw. Some of the best film actors alive today comprise the cast and perform wonderfully. The film has been criticised for its profuse use of foul language and violence by those who would prefer to watch Walt Disney movies but such criticism is laughable.This is the sort of film you either detest or love. I loved it. It was never destined to be a blockbuster. It seems the producer and actors didn't expect it to be one. It is the kind of movie actors love to be in and producers die to make but this what those brought up on Hollywood mush don't seem to understand. Some admiring American reviewers would describe it as a European style film .But few European films ever get this good. The whole setting and characters are purely American proving that America can make really good movies if the desire is there. "},{"Title":"Bleached","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers herein.This is not the Faye Dunaway of `Chinatown' or `Bonnie and Clyde,' or even `Network' who understood how to layer herself under another actor.This is not the Matt Dillon of `Mary' or even `McCools,' whose timing was inspired.This not the Sinise of `Snake Eyes,' who understood self-reference of the Reservoir' kind.This is not the Spacey of `Kahuna,' who instinctively knew how to weave a high energy ensemble.This isn't the Fichtner of `Go' who was able to fabricate his own world within that of the film.This is a dream that mistakes their identities while they sleep, just as the plot indicates.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 4 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Albino Alligator written by Christian Forte","Date":"2 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The interesting dilemma of a woman having to kill an innocent man in cold blood so that she and her son could survive a hostage situation maximizes the tension in this thriller. Despite the talent of a host of great actors, Dillon's weak performance led to this movie only showing in a few theaters before being put out to video in my opinion. Kevin Spacey's other big mistake, besides casting Dillon, made to avoid looking vain, is not casting himself as one of the two brothers. On the positive side, Faye Dunaway is outstanding. The fast-paced opening, however, slows to a crawl after the set-up, which put the audience to sleep. The twists and turns inside the bar, and the character's reactions to them, don't seem like how real people would react. For a young writer that doesn't read the how-to books on screen writing, however, Forte wrote a well-structured, derivative, but innovative thriller. I was one of the few people that saw this movie in the theater, and the light was too dark. Best wishes to Christian and his new wife, from the uncle of his old girlfriend from CAL BERKELEY. "},{"Title":"This film is perfection!","Date":"1 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Albino Alligator is perfection! Everytime I settled into the type of film it was, BAM! the writing would knock me on my butt. The performances are flawless in their humanity. There are many scenes where the actors hold your breath without saying a word. Brilliant performances and talent direction by Spacey. The DP/Cinematographer was remarkable! I wore out a VHS tape I've seen it so many times and still there are scenes where I have yet to draw a breath simply because of the fluidity, pacing and beauty of filming techniques!Truly, a remarkable film and one that should be seen by everyone -- especially anyone studying film.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"29 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I loved this film, the character Law played by William Fichtner was sinister but very funny. There is violence but not on a huge scale. The story of the Albino Alligator is brilliantly linked in the film. As the viewer you do start to feel sorry for the three petty criminals who are just there by accident.Each character has a heart but the quiet character of Mortensen is chilling because you don't know anything about him and he's far too calm for the situation. In this film you never know whats going to happen next because the characters are very unpredictable.Overall the film is fantastic and a definite recommendation to watch. "}]