[{"Title":"Good enough to watch, but not my favorite Disney sequel","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"30 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" I know that a lot of people had preferred Aladdin and the King of Thieves over The Return of Jafar, but honestly I thought it was a notch lower. Don't get me wrong, I did enjoy this movie but it was just an alright story. One thing that I really did love about it though is that we do have the original cast back and the animation was really lovely. The problem I had though is that at this time we did have the Aladdin animated series, which was awesome to watch, but this felt like a story that they could have just done on the TV show. Aladdin finally gets to meet his father, but of course this wasn't exactly what he was expecting, maybe he was expecting a Ward Cleaver type of guy, but hey, this is Aladdin after all.Aladdin knows his future is being married to Jasmine but can't remember most of his past. But he remembers that his mother died when he was a child and he never knew his father. The oracle, however, reveals that his father is actually still alive. Aladdin chooses his question and asks about his father's whereabouts. The oracle reveals that his father is with the Forty Thieves, trapped in their world. Believing him to be their prisoner, Aladdin tracks them down and stows away into their hideout. He is shocked to find that his father is not their prisoner at all, but their leader Cassim, the King of Thieves. But, family or not, Aladdin has trespassed in their lair and Sa'luk, Cassim's irate right-hand man is eager to have him punished for it. Cassim, however, suggests that Aladdin instead face the Challenge - an initiation ritual - where he must defeat another one of the Forty Thieves and take his place. Sa'luk volunteers to fight Aladdin. The two engage one another in a fierce battle which ends with Sa'luk falling into the ocean. Afterwards, this gains Aladdin a place among the Forty Thieves. Sa'luk however, has survived the fall, and makes his own plans for revenge against both Aladdin and Cassim. Aladdin and Cassim bond, and it is then that Aladdin learns the true motives behind the raid and his father's leave of absence from his family he had discovered evidence of the existence of the Hand of Midas, a powerful artifact that can transform anything it touches into solid gold. Cassim believed that, with the Hand, he could return to his family and give them the life they deserved instead of one living out in the streets, and had instigated the raid so he could capture the oracle's staff so he might question the seer as to the precise whereabouts of the artifact. Only, Aladdin had stopped him. Aladdin convinces Cassim to come back with him to the Palace as his guest and, for a while, he is happy to spend quality time with his son. Cassim meets with Jasmine, Genie and the Sultan, and they immediately take a liking to Aladdin's father. But Cassim may still be up to his old tricks as Aladdin still tries to fill the relationship that he never had with his father.So is Aladdin and the King of Thieves worth the watch? Yeah, I did enjoy this movie over all, it's a lot of fun and it was cool to have Robin Williams bring life back into the genie. The animation was really great and I loved seeing the action sequences between Aladdin and his father. The effects that the animators put into this movie was great and very entertaining. Then on top of that, Aladdin and Jasmine are finally getting married! They invited you to come along as well! Well over all I do recommend that if you're looking for a cute family film, this is a good one, I just preferred Return of Jafar a little more, but it's all good, this was still a worthy sequel and a good finish to the story of Aladdin.6/10 "},{"Title":"By far the best Disney made for video sequel.","Date":"19 June 2006","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" voices Scott Weigner, Linda Larkin, Val Bettin, Frank Welker, John Rhys Davies, Gilbert Gottfried, CCH Pounder and Robin Williams.Unlike later made for video sequels, this one does not follow the plot line, Main character has a kid, who longs for what he/she can't have. This movie has a great plot, it's that Aladdin and Jasmine's wedding is crashed by the 40 thieves, the leader of the group is his long lost father. This also marks the return of Robin Williams as Genie, where the sequel and television show had Dan Castellaneta. Of course, since Robin returns he has a gag every ten seconds, but most of them land pretty well. The songs are quite good, and the characters are really quite fun. The animation is not that great, but it works well enough where you don't really notice it. I recommend this finale to the Alddin trilogy.My rating-*** out of ****. 81 mins. Rated G. "},{"Title":"Good sequel!","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Now this was a sequel well done! Robin Williams is back from the first movie and just as funny! I think they let him go loose a bit more... Which works nice! The music is totally different from the original. The Return of jafar had music that sounded a bit like the original music, but this has a totally different approach. The result is a very, very decent soundtrack! Nice songs, though not impressive. Animation has some flaws, but all and all very well drawn, too! The new characters are fun, I just love Cassim!!! However, I don't like the characterdesign of Sa'Luk... But maybe that's just me...All things considered, this is a very good sequel!!!  "},{"Title":"A Worthwhile Sequel","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" I enjoyed this sequel to Aladdin. Another of Disney's direct-to-video releases, the movie features decent animation, a good story, and music that is pretty good.In the story, Aladdin goes in search of his father. Upon discovering him, he finds that his dad is the leader of a gang of thieves.I enjoyed the movie and it was nice to see (or hear) Robin Williams providing the voice of Genie again. King Of Thieves is a great improvement over Return Of Jafar.In the original Aladdin, the animation of the flying carpet was computer generated. Here, it is done with conventional animation. There did not appear to be any extensive computer animation in King Of Thieves.Still, I thought that was okay. This is a made-for-video picture, and obviously it would have been made on a much smaller budget. This was a movie that was meant to be seen on television screens. I relish that Disney has made some fine direct-to-video sequels. Most are pretty good. King Of Thieves is worthwhile. Disney's first made-for-video picture was The Return Of Jafar (the first Aladdin sequel). Lion King II - Simba's Pride, and Pocahontas II - Journey To A New World are others. I recommend all of them.Give Disney some credit. These are great additions to my Disney Library. "},{"Title":"One Of The better Sequels...","Date":"7 June 2006","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" This was one of the better sequels. The humour was not too cheesy, hardly surprising, seeing as the excellent Robin Willams was again voicing the Genie, and the voice of Cassim did a wonderful job. The animation wasn't great, but better then the Return of Jafar by a mile. The songs were a bit limp, but were upbeat and not that often. Welcome to the forty Thieves, was my personal favourite. The storyline was strong and we even got a touch of mythology in there! A good yarn to keep the kids quiet, and compulsive and entertaining enough for the adults. The best sequel out there.....Jasmine looked a little dodgy on some parts of the animation, while Cassim looked better then all of them. A few old gags and scenes from the first movie were woven in, but not to such a extent that it was major clinch overload. A enjoyable enough film, which I actually quite like.^^ "},{"Title":"Worthy Sequel...","Date":"6 September 2003","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  All of the recent Disney sequels have a set formula that makes them generally the same movie. The main characters have a kid, the kids a rebel, and gets into trouble. Not so with this one. It effectively combines the Aladdin story with the legend of Midas - a touch that turned everything to gold. Again we get to see Robin Williams in character as the blue genie, and funny as always. Again, its a movie meant for the kids, but everyone can find some value in it.  "},{"Title":"Great from start to end","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The third Aladdin film is not as good as the first film, but better than the second. Animation is vastly improved over the last one, but still can't compare to the first. Hey it's a direct to video movie, so it won't get the big budget of a theatrical release. Robin Williams is back as the Genie and is as hilarious as ever. I don't care if he was over done or not, he was very funny and vital to the movie. The songs were much better than people make them out to be. This movie had a great story and was a fitting end to the Aladdin story. Thumbs way up on this one. "},{"Title":"Worthy","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Robin Williams came back as Genie,fortunately,and most of his jokes arehilarious.ALADDIN AND THE KING OF THIEVES is one hundred percent better than THE RETURN OF JAFAR. But then,a root canal would be better than TROJ...anyway,the story is interesting and the voices are wonderful (John Rhys-Davies is brilliant as Cassim.) My only complaints are the rather limp songs and the animation of Jasmine,who looks like she'sbeen deflated. Other than that,the characters are more like themselves than they were in TROJ,and Rasoul just rules. A fitting,imaginative conclusion. "},{"Title":"pretty good","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This was not the best disney animated sequel of all.  but in all Aladdin and the king of thieves does absolutely have a good story line. the story of aladdins father is very heartfelt,  that is why i gave it a 6 rating.  and why did Iago have to be in this one also.  i mean he got to be in the first two and he was the 2nd main character in the return of jafar. alls well that ends well though.  aladdin and jasmine finally get married. the song for this sequence is very sweet.  i liked this one better than the second, since robin williams returning role as the Genie.  I liked it when he was Mrs Doubtfire.  this is a good movie to watch over again. "},{"Title":"Robin Williams is BACK!","Date":"17 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" I never knew why Robin didn't do the second movie, now I do. It was due to an dispute with Disney over merchandising. But all that's over Robin Williams is back as Genie and God did I miss him. Not that Dan Castellaneta didn't do a good job filling in for him in THE RETURN OF JAFAR and the TV SERIES. But Robin is genie. Now the music and the plot works for the most part. The only thing I don't get is why they didn't arrest that one Guard who hates Aladdin and will do anything to see him dead. He worked for Jafar in the first movie, he should have been executed for treason after that. But when they find out the King Of Thieves is Aladdin's father they treat him like dirt. Forgetting this was the man who abandoned his family to search for wealth, and he never saw since he was a mere boy. Guilt by bloodline is just wrong. But it makes up for that in other ways and I give it 7 STARS. "}{"Title":"Animation is NOT better","Date":"27 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie... I like it just because it's an Aladdin sequel but if I was a critic which I am not I would absolutely hate this movie Bad The animation was absolutely terrible... Jasmine's face looked like spew and the carpet was treated badly. The carpet was a flat piece of paper for most of the flying scenes. A lot of things looked bad for example in the Saluke and Aladdin fighting scene if you can call it that the background damn red! Red! It looked horrible! Some of the jokes were terrible for example None for you, your the designated flier all he had to say after that was Ha ha boom boom and it would have been one of the worst jokes in the movie. Kids won't like this movie let me tell you that. Saluk had no reason to be mad at everyone. Just because he doesn't get what he wants it a terrible reason to hate everyone and everything. I watched the movie today and I saw (I hope someone else noticed) the Sultan wearing the horrible orange thing. When he met Al's dad his costume changed from Orange to White a few times? Everyone should watch it and stare at the Sultan in that scene because it will make you go Oh god. I liked this movie but they had about 5 cents budget... Merwin Foard was Cassim's singing voice? Why did Cassim need a singing voice? He didn't sing anything that was too hard for John to sing? What next they get someone for Robbin Willaims to sing for them? Yeesh Good Well... The songs were pretty good... Gilbert Gottfried was good as usual... John Rhys-Davies did his best... The story was OK... I don't think Al needed a Dad but hey I can't choice for them... It was a nice movie but I don't think anyone will ever be able to give a good enough reason... Like I said I like it because it's an Aladdin sequel and I think that is why some people like it.6/10 "},{"Title":"Aladdin and the King of Thieves","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" This straight-to-video second sequel to the successful Disney film (the first sequel being the disastrous Return of Jafar) is a really good idea for the end of a trilogy. Aladdin is finally marrying Princess Jasmine now that he is a real prince. Aladdin is wishing that his father (voiced by John Rhys-Davies) could witness this day. When Aladdin and Jasmine are about to do it, the forty thieves intrude and wreck the Palace and the King of Thieves tries to steal a gold stick containing an Oricle. Aladdin tries to find his father with this Oricle and soon discovers that he is the King of Thieves. A very good father-son story with some good action and a happy ending. But of course, the main attraction to this film is the return of Genie. Homer Simpson, Dan Castellaneta voiced the first sequel, but they managed to bring back the even better Robin Williams as the blue guy. He does even more good impressions, e.g. Forrest Gump, his own Mrs. Doubtfire and Elvis Presley. Very good! "},{"Title":"The Return of Robin (Williams)","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Before I saw this movie, I thought that Robin Williams' return would solve all the problems The Return of Jafar had. I was wrong; really, really wrong. King of Thieves started out with such a good premise, Aladdin discovering his father as the leader of a band of thieves, and that's why I can't stand it. It took the perfectly good premise and destroyed it with Genie overkill. I was glad Robin Williams was back and everything, but I really didn't want to see him in almost every single scene. Also, the jokes seemed a lot more forced; it all reeked of been there, done that. The animation was once again shoddy in comparison to the original, the colors once again murder to the eyes. The songs were really bad, not a single one of them memorable in any way. I came off hating this movie even more than Return of Jafar despite Robin Williams.     "},{"Title":"Best DTV sequel","Date":"11 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" OK, it isn't as good as the original, but it is a huge improvement on The Return of Jafar.TROJ wasn't terrible, it was just disappointing. The characters are more mature here, and yes Robin Williams is back and in hilarious form. The only reason why this isn't a 10, is because it just can't compete with the original, which is a 10. The animation is better than in TROJ, and so is the humour. True there are colour changes in some scenes, but that is what is to expected. Jasmine's animation is my only complaint, it was a little deflated, but I thought she was animated worse in TROJ, where she lacked her vivacity that she had in the original. I loved all the Genie's jokes. Here, he imitates Sylvester Stallone, Bob Hope, Forrest Gump, Mrs. Doubfire and Steamboat Willie to great comical effect. My favourite was when he shouted STAMPEDE dressed up like a cowboy. The story, while complicated, is well-told, much more involving than TROJ, and fills the running time perfectly. Never once is it boring. The songs are so much better than TROJ, bringing a nostalgic feeling to the original, and some of them have humour in them. In or out is my favourite. The score by Mark Watters is just brilliant, and deserves a mention.The voice-talents are great. Iago is less irritating in this movie, and Robin Willaims is fantastic. There is also pitch-perfect support from Jim Cummings, Jerry Orbach and John Rhys-Davies, especially from Rhys-Davies. All in all, watch this movie, you'll enjoy it ! 9/10. Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"What Disney Sequels Should Be...","Date":"6 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" Okay, maybe the movie isn't perfect. Aladdin's singing voice sounds a bit weird, and the animation isn't quite as good, but this is worthwhile. All Disney sequels should be something like this.This movie comes up with an original plot, rather than reusing the old one. The songs might not be quite up to par with the originals, but they are still a lot of fun. The best part is that the movie ends well. It brings the trilogy to a rather sensible closure, rather than having some sappy ending like the Little Mermaid II. This is the type of movies Disney should at least be making as sequels.Best sequel they've made. "},{"Title":"Best Disney sequel I've seen so far and nearly on par with the original","Date":"24 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" I remember seeing the trailer for this Disney sequel (plus the original and 'Return of Jafar') when I was younger and up until now the only part I could remember from that trailer was about Aladdin and Jasmine finally getting married. Fast forward several years later when I rediscover this film in the Nostalgia Chick's Top 5 Least Awful Disney Sequels where she placed this at no. 2 and it looked good, especially with the Genie's hilarious pop-culture references. Another part of this film I remember seeing when I was younger was the song 'Father and Son (one of the best on the soundtrack),' which was on a Disney Sing-Along-Songs video but I can't recall which one. After having finished watching this film, I was satisfied with it despite some of its qualities not quite matching those from the original.First off the animation quality was decent for a DTV sequel if not quite as good as that in the original and the magic carpet wasn't as elaborately designed as in the original but the animation itself still had good uses of cel-shading and the squash and stretch principle. The incidental music has a similar structure to that in the original but it had its moments of power and poignancy. Besides 'Father and Son,' the other songs I really liked were the rousing 'There's a Party Here in Agrabah,' the lovely 'Out of Thin Air' and the reprise of 'Arabian Nights.' The script consisted of a mixture of funny, dark and rather moving lines. A couple of lines to me seemed like twists on common phrases such as out-of-movie experience as opposed to out-of-body experience and 'Open caraway, which was shortly corrected to, Open sesame - both of which were amusing nonetheless. The story was also well-written for the most part although its only flaw is that it was sometimes hard to follow. As for the voice acting, Aladdin, Jasmine and the Genie sounded the same as they did in the original although Iago and Sultan sounded a little different this time around. On a more positive note, John Rhys-Davies was superb as Aladdin's long-lost-father Cassim and their ups and downs were suitably dramatic. Further to the pop-culture references, these included Disney ('Snow White,' 'Steamboat Willie,' 'The Lion King') films and non-Disney ('Rain Man,' 'Mrs Doubtfire and 'Forrest Gump') films. Overall I found this a very enjoyable Disney sequel which is the best one I've seen so far, although I would like to give 'Return of Jafar' a chance one day because I like its song 'Forget About Love' as well as some of its clips featured in the Nostalgia Chick's Top Five Least Awful Disney Sequels. 8.5/10 to round up to IMDb's 9/10 rating. "},{"Title":"Very well done","Date":"17 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" Some people argue over which is better Return of Jafar or King of Thieves. To be more specific, they actually argue over which one is WORSE. When I watched this film, both as a child and an adult, I didn't see much wrong with it. In fact, I really enjoyed it!The animation had picked up again to a fantastic standard compared to the last movie, with quality only dropping in short moments. However, while the animation didn't quite seem to stay on par at all moments, I thought the music was sublime. Very emotional music which is used to convey emotions successfully in creative dramatic ways. One example of this would be in Aladdin's fight to join the thieves. Most of the diegetic sound drops out, leaving only the sounds of fire and lighting, leaving the music to convey the process of emotions running through the characters Sa'luk's thirst for Alladin's blood to vent his rage for Cassim, Cassim's fear of losing the son he only just found, and Aladdin's desperation to survive. Very creative and poetic, with similarly poetic scenes later in the film.Although the characters' goals and reasons for alternating in decisions can be confusing, if you keep up with it it remains logical and the narrative successfully develops. The narrative kept me interested, and I thought it worked being a short film (Just over an hour). The plot doesn't drag too much, there is often a sense in development in both the story and the characters, and the action is meaningful.One other part of this film which is always entertaining is the genie's (Robin Williams') small 'sketches' that, while they seem to stray from the plot, are very entertaining, witty and comical. It was clear Williams had a lot of contribution to his character and the jokes that were made.Overall, I found this film very entertaining Both as a child and an adult. "},{"Title":"Should Have Gotten a Theatrical Release.","Date":"6 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" Most of the time when straight to video Disney Sequels are made you can understand why the film was not released in theatres. However in the case of Aladdin and the King of Thieves I feel that this film should have been released in the theatres.Aladdin and Jasmine have their wedding interrupted by an attack by the Forty Thieves. Soon Aladdin learns that his father is the King of Thieves. He brings his father back to Agraba hoping that he will reform, however Aladdins father has hopes of finding the ultimate treasure no matter the cost.The artwork for this film is way better than in The Return of Jafar. Also the story is excellent and action packed.One of the main reasons why this film works is the return of Robin Williams. He is as hilarious as ever as the Genie, and actually I think that he is much more funny in this film as opposed to the first Aladdin film. Genie is hilarious in this film and that is the major reason this film is great.Also I like how Aladdin's father is in this film. A great idea and I think that this somewhat is similar to the third Indiana Jones film. Not only is the idea similar but the fact that they got the actor who played Sallah in the Indiana Jones Trilogy (his name escapes me) makes the idea work all that much better.Also there is a good villain in Suluk, a sort of huge evil guy with a sharp claw thing on one of his hands.I guess the one flaw might be the lack of great songs. If they had improved on that a little this film would have been perfect. But I would rather there be great humor, action, and story than a few great songs.If they had improved the artwork a little, and added some awesomer music this would have been a great film to release in theatres.Of all the Disney sequels that have been released straight to video, this is BY FAR the best. I recommend this film greatly. "},{"Title":"A Great End to the Trilogy","Date":"11 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" I have to say, this is without a doubt one of the only watchable direct-to-video features Disney has ever given us. Now, for those who haven't seen this, and have seen the likes of, oh, I don't know, The Hunchback of Notre Dame II or Tarzan and Jane, you may ask how this is possible.Start with the voice actors. You have the complete original cast back on board (minus Jonathan Freeman, for obvious reasons), plus a few extras. Jasmine may sound slightly different than she used to, but my spies tell me that she is indeed the same actress. John Rhys-Davies provides his voice for Aladdin's father, and the King of Thieves, Cassim. Jerry Orbach (of Beauty and the Beast fame) plays one of the forty thieves, Sa'luk. And finally, the star of the show has returned. I like Dan Castellaneta, and I think he did an acceptable job as the Genie, but Robin Williams is still the best.In fact, William's performance here could be best described as 'unleashed'. The Genie impersonates no less than five Disney characters, including Mickey Mouse himself, becomes an entire army (comprised of SWAT, cavalry, paratroopers, bagpipe men, the ED-209, and Pocahontas), picks up an elephant with his bare hands, and comforts Jasmine as Mrs. Doubtfire, albeit a bearded version.This movie has a coherent plot, which is, you know, strange for a Disney sequel. Some may say it was stolen from 'The Last Crusade' and I'd have to agree. You know, hero meets father, father is looking for some important artifact, appears to love it more than his family, but&#133; doesn't. Yeah. Except instead of the Holy Grail, we have this awesome Hand of Midas that can turn anything into gold.The villain foundation is not as good as the original, but Jerry Orbach still manages give us the next best thing with a grey-skinned, muscle-bound, wolverine-claw using man known as Sa'luk. I would rate his death scene as one of the best in cinematic history.Songs&#133; Ha. Well they don't measure up to the originals, but they do the best they can do. Genie is so over-the-top with his two songs that it's almost unbelievable, and the forty thieves song is quite entertaining. Just, uh, pretend that you can't hear the sappy song Aladdin and Jasmine sing about his childhood, as it may induce vomiting and/or cancer.After the exercise of utter futility that was 'The Return of Jafar', this movie gives us some of the best direct-to-video animation you'll see out there. It's truly a satisfying film that provide a satisfying ending. While I'd rate 'Aladdin' 9 stars, 'Jafar' would get 2 and this would get 7 to 8. It's that good, check it out. "},{"Title":"Certainly not as good as the original, but an improvement after The Return of Jafar","Date":"14 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" 1992's Aladdin was one of Disney's very successful efforts of the decade, which lead to two straight-to-video sequels, The Return of Jafar and Aladdin and the King of Thieves. Sadly, The Return of Jafar, while not exactly bad, seems more like a cheap parody of the theatrical Disney blockbuster than a sequel, and the same can probably be said about the Aladdin TV series. Fortunately, at least that isn't the case with Aladdin and the King of Thieves, the final installment in the movie trilogy, which concluded this particular Disney franchise.Aladdin and Princess Jasmine are finally getting married, but their wedding is interrupted by the Forty Thieves, who raid the place! The bride and groom, along with the Genie and others, successfully fight the thieves off, but the wedding is still ruined, as the pavilion has been destroyed. After this, Aladdin finds a staff, which is what the Forty Thieves were after! Inside this staff is an oracle, which can come out and answer one question! Desperate to learn more about his past, Aladdin thinks long and hard about what question to ask the oracle, and finally decides to ask her about his long-lost father. She directs him to the secret lair of the Forty Thieves, so he is convinced that his father is their prisoner, and sets out to rescue him. However, once he arrives at their lair, he soon learns that his father is not their prisoner, but their king! This movie shows a return to form for some of the characters. In The Return of Jafar, Aladdin and Princess Jasmine seem silly and less mature, but in The King of Thieves, they are back to the way they originally were. Another character who shows a return to form in this final installment in the trilogy is the Genie. Robin Williams as the Genie is one of the main merits of the first Aladdin, and the character isn't nearly as funny with Dan Castellaneta providing his voice in The Return of Jafar and the Aladdin TV series. However, with Robin Williams back, the Genie is once again hilarious! Aside from the characters, this second straight-to-video Aladdin sequel also has better animation than the first, though not quite as good as the stunning animation in the original.I must confess I didn't like this movie quite as much the last time I saw it as I did when I saw it last year, which was the first time I saw it in many years. I found some parts a bit bland, and like The Return of Jafar, most its songs are forgettable. I also didn't find quite as much excitement in it this time. However, overall, it had enough to impress me, with its humour, animation, and some reasonable adventure. It's definitely a stronger effort than the middle film. So, if you've seen The Return of Jafar and were severely disappointed by it, so you decided there was no point in watching Aladdin and the King of Thieves, assuming it would be the same or worse, you might want to reconsider. While not nearly as good or memorable as the original theatrical film, it could be worthwhile. "}{"Title":"The Return of Genie.","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" Robin Williams is Back! He livens up this second sequel to the classic Aladdin. Joining the fantastic cast are CCH Pounder(ER), Jerry Orbach(Beauty and The Beast), and John Rhys-Davies(Raiders of the Lost Ark, The Lord of the Rings) who brings his warm Scottish burr. Johnathon Freeman is gone, but not forgotten. The lack of a really fun to hate bad guy is my biggest qualm with this movie. The animation, songs, and story still lack the punch of the original, but they easily outclass The Return of Jafar. The great casting of the original along with it's refreshing concept have kept the two sequels afloat with little tinkering, but a fourth movie in the same vein would be a mistake. "},{"Title":"Robin Williams Elevated This Movie To a Greater Level","Date":"29 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" You really can't review Aladdin and the King of Thieves without comparing it to its 1992 theatrical predecessor, or even the first direct-to-video sequel The Return of Jafar. As an earlier reviewer on this site has mentioned, this movie is not as good as the original Aladdin, but much better than the second one in both story and animation.Having Robin Williams come back to reprise his role as the Genie was probably what made this movie above average. As talented a voice over artist as Dan Castellaneta is, he just couldn't fill Williams' shoes (or his lamp). So it was a pleasant surprise to have Williams back as his manic self with all his authentic, gut-busting gags and various celebrity impressions.However, that being said, having the Genie present a lot of the time created some fairly noticeable improbabilities and definite plot holes. For instance, when the 40 thieves raided Aladdin and Jasmine's wedding in the beginning, the Genie could have stopped all of them and sent them all to jail. I had the impression that the Genie's powers were infinite, so he was definitely capable of doing that. On the other hand, it wouldn't make for an interesting movie if the Genie magically solved everyone's problems. It still didn't seem right that the Genie just stalled during those climactic scenes, though.But with every problem the Genie didn't magically solve, there came a plot that was slightly more complicated than expected, and that's a good thing. The complicated plot made the story far more intriguing, and it added a great deal more depth to Aladdin's character. Caseem, Aladdin's estranged father, was also a great addition to the cast, and his character was equally appealing.Although we didn't see too much of Jasmine in this movie, she appeared to be a much stronger character than even in the original Aladdin movie. I commend the Disney company for making her a strong, supportive companion to Aladdin without making her appear to be a damsel in distress. In fact, the part where she punches one of the thieves for ruining my wedding was an excellent touch.The animation itself could have been better, but it was above average for a direct-to-video sequel from the 1990's. With just a little bit better animation, it could have easily been released to theaters. I don't think that was Disney's intent, though. So for what it was worth, it's an above average movie, and Robin Williams made the movie all the better by returning as the Genie. "},{"Title":"Good movie better than Return of Jafar","Date":"9 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Yeah it was better but it still didn't beat the original Aladdin, It had the jokes, animation, and Robin Williams as the genie. But it was still missing the one thing that the original had...Magic. So if you don't think too much of it you'll like it. I give it a 6 out of 10 or *** out of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"Skip this direct-to-video sequel and watch Matilda","Date":"17 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" When I was four years old living in Texas, my sister used to be obsessed with this sequel to the original Aladdin movie which I used to love a lot. We even owned the short Sing-Along video to Aladdin where Jiminy Cricket from Pinocchio is the host. My family and I then moved to Florida and sometimes I would watch this sequel after swimming in our neighborhood pool if I didn't have school homework to work on. Then when I was 14, I went to a summer camp in Pennsylvania and bought myself a DVD of the movie Matilda starring Danny DeVito and Embeth Davidtz from a mall we visited. I watched Matilda for the first time on my DVD player when I was in Junior High, and ever since then I haven't watched this floppy direct-to- video sequel to Aladdin that isn't as good as Matilda or the first Aladdin, so we gave away our VHS of this movie. I highly recommend to anyone who likes original films the best to not watch this sequel unless you want to be entertained by Robin Williams playing the Genie. This isn't bad or good, and nor is the original (in my opinion), but I thought this was inferior to the first Aladdin just because this is direct-to-video. If you're looking for a movie to watch besides Aladdin 1, pass on its sequels (this and Return of Jafar) and watch Matilda instead, because the rating of Matilda on IMDb surpasses that of Pocahontas, while this film's rating doesn't. "},{"Title":"An OK Disney sequel.","Date":"20 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" I was never a fan of the original Aladdin movie and I just happen to catch this movie on TV on a slow night. I wasn't expecting too much from the film, but did find the story about Aladdin finally getting to marry Princess Jasmine only to find the wedding being disrupted by the 40 Thieves a bit intriguing.The animation wasn't the best, but was serviceable. Robin Williams returned to voice the Genie and gave, as I remembered, a less-than-annoying and less American culture cliché portrayal than in the first movie. The songs were OK, not as catchy as the ones in the first film. But, the plot was a tad more exciting due to more exciting sequences and the incorporation of the Midas storyline. Other than that, however, it's not one of the better Disney movies out there and if I would randomly select a Disney movie to put on for guests, it wouldn't be this one. I just find the movie to be a tad boring and find it better suited for little kids.Grade C "},{"Title":"Arabian night","Date":"12 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" Well, I was a kid insanely in love with 1994's The Return of Jafar. I watched thousand of times with every relative that came into home. Last weeks I was surfing channels on cable and saw Aladdin and the King of Thieves passing, which made me wonder Have I ever seen that picture?. So I decided it would be a good idea to watch this, you know, just in case. I can state this movie is very creative, with some eventual funny lines-- mainly coming from Genie, I admit it. There are some nice songs to entertaining the spectator instead of telling a never ending story. Sometimes the relationship Aladdin has with his father looks too shallow for a children movie, but it doesn't spoil the movie's overall quality. Princess Jasmine sometimes is forgotten and she barely comes up in the screen. Director makes some metalinguistic scenes with reference to other Disney movies, providing an old spectator like me (I'm 21) a nostalgic feeling. All in all, this isn't as great as 1994's installment, but does its job. "},{"Title":"I really enjoyed this movie and it took me until NOW to see it where have I been","Date":"10 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" I saw this movie today and let me tell ya I laughed so much at it why because Robin Williams is in this movie better than ever YEAH. The film chronicles on Aladdin's big day with Jasmine,but problems arise when Aladdin's long lost father returns and he is working for the King Of Thieves(hence the title). So its up to Aladdin to track him down and help him retrive this golden hand that he is looking for.The animation is great(and hey I never knew there was a studio Down Under eh LOL),the songs are good I liked the first song There's a Party Here In Agrabah as well as Out Of Thin Air.The impressions are so funny I laughed when I saw the Mrs Doubtfire one and the Rocky Balboa one too. Overall if you liked the first Aladdin then sit back,relax and enjoy the epic finally of Aladdin which is one of my all time favourite movies ever. And even at the age of 22 I still love this movie. Can you imagine it took me 22 years to see this film even though it was made in 1996 and I was 6 years old at the time and it took me till now to see it.7/10 "},{"Title":"Not on par with the original, but way better than Return of Jafar","Date":"19 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" After having been disappointed with Return of Jafar, I thought that this might even be worse than that film. Boy, was I wrong. Sure, it's not on par with the original classic, but it's in my opinion a slight improvement over ROJ. There are some color changes and it could've been a little bit longer, but those flaws doesn't matter. What really matters is that it brought a nostalgic feeling to the original film by being an even better DTV Disney sequel than others.The story is very original and the father-son relation worked really well throughout the entire film. The animation is beautiful and fluid with some nice visual scenery especially the island that had the Hand of Midas which is by far the strongest aspect of the animation along with it's fine character designs. The characters are likable and the voice acting is neat especially the new cameos John Rhys Davis and Jerry Orbach (Lumiere from Beauty and the Beast is in this, by the way). The songs aren't on par with the songs from the original film, but they're still a lot of fun to listen to.Overall, not excellent, but a slight improvement over Return of Jafar and totally recommended to others who have not seen it yet! "},{"Title":"Done on the cheap","Date":"27 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" I really like how Disney expanded their version of the Aladdin story in their TV series and the direct to DVD sequels, but this one kind of let me down. The voice acting is great and I really liked the music, but the quality of the animation is quite poor by Disney standards. Normally, I wouldn't be so particular about the art but the drop in quality from the first movie, to the TV show to this sequel is precipitous. The color palette is so muted it seems like the animators were told only to use a maximum of 16 throughout the entire running time. The familiar characters are still quite recognizable, but they all lack detail and depth that you come to expect from Disney. I know that the direct-to-DVD products are given smaller budgets, but that doesn't justify just how cheap this movie looks.There are still lots of redeeming parts of this movie, but the lack of visual polish is too distracting for me to enjoy them. "},{"Title":"Far too US orientated  (spoiler included)","Date":"27 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" Don't watch this if you are not American as they have tried to make all the humour colloquial machine gun US and tragically succeeded.The concept of a genie as a permanent character with unlimited assistance is absurd both in terms of the original story and the fact that he could have whipped the opposition after five minute, but somehow doesn't bother enough.Concept of bad father and struggle of same interacting with the son is very good though far too subtle for any child under ten I would suggest and end the end of the day is bad role model for the young.Technically, seems fine.I don't know why I am forced to do ten lines when a film is so bad. This policy should be reviewed. Five lines is more than enough for a film rated bad by the reviewer . "}{"Title":"Better than The Return Of Jafar","Date":"4 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" So Aladdin and Jasmine are getting married (finally) and their wedding is crashed by the 40 thieves who are there to steal a magical oracle that allows anyone who has it to ask it one question. The King of Thieves wants to know where the magical hand of Midus is. Aladdin finds out the King of thieves is his father and they find the hand of Midas together.The hand of Midas was the only thing cool about this film, some of Robin Williams improvised stuff is funny as well. It had even worse quality than the last one and looked low budget and about neck and neck with the TV show as far as quality goes.I was glad to see CCH Pounder as the voice of the oracle and that was a bonus, but nothing can save this film for me, it was really boring, kids might enjoy it if they don't require too much to entertain them. 2/10 stars. "},{"Title":"OK straight to video 3rd entry...","Date":"19 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" 1st watched 2/14/2010 -- 4 out of 10(Dir-Tad Stones) OK straight to video 3rd entry in the Walt Disney Aladdin series tries hard to be like the Disney movies of old that we love(but that's also it's problem -- it tries too hard!!) It has the many songs, the good guy-bad guy theme, and the guy gets the girl scenario but it obviously has less heart and funds to pull it off. It was made by the TV animation studio and it kind of has that look and feel to it with it's incomplete, un-realistic backgrounds but otherwise looks OK. Robin Williams as the Genie is funny at times(but overbearing at others)and some of the other minor characters brings some laughs but the movie tries to be too grand and too good even though it wasn't meant to be. The story is about Aladdin and Jasmine getting married but is interrupted by the forty thieves. We later find out that Aladdin's father is the king of thieves and he goes on a quest to bring him back and reform him. There is a bad leader of the thieves who keeps fighting with Aladdin's father over the kingship of the thieves, who amazingly is voiced by Jerry Orbach, in a very different role for him. They are then lured to the ultimate treasure of Midas's hand by an oracle and they eventually have to decide what's really important(the treasure or the people). As most Disney films, it all works itself out in the end but the movie overall doesn't deliver the kind of craftsmanship in the story that usually keeps us interested in a Disney movie. A good try by the TV animators but it's not quite what it could have been. Given a little more money and time it could have been a worthwhile effort but instead it's pretty mediocre. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"26 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" Weell, after seeing Return of Jafar I wasn't expecting so much for this movie. A few reviews saying King of thieves was better than Return... decided me to saw it and...wow! what a great movie!. As an Aladdin fan, I loved this one, mainly because its good plot and the good animation. King of Thieves has a good script, good songs, and our loved characters are back after that very bad movie between the original and this one. Aladdin and Jasmine are such a sweet couple! And I can't forget Robin Williams! He's back too and it's a delight.Now, I'm going to forget once I saw Return of Jafar. This one will be the only sequel of Aladdin in my mind. "},{"Title":"At least, They didn't steal my pleasure ! (DVD)","Date":"16 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" In a time where animation means animals, it's great to see a coming back to roots with human characters.It's all the more enjoyable that the Arabic culture isn't very exposed today.This opus is much better than the previous sequel, as well in the art than for the story it mixes some tragedy, fun, adventures & historic appeal. The Midas Hand is really based on a myth.I am delightfully surprised to see that there's no time-out, except the silly songs parts it's always based on jazzy tunes, so if you heard one, you heard them all! "},{"Title":"Aladdin is getting serious","Date":"10 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" Before Disney began to spit out sequels to almost every animated movie they've made, Aladdin was the first film who got two sequels and a television series. For me they could just make the sequels, cause the TV series were, except some few episodes, really awful! The good ol' Aladdin from 1992 has earned it's Disney classic reputation. Unlike the people I know, I enjoyed Return of Jafar (although it had some flaws).Still, Aladdin and the King of Thieves has a better plot and story than Return of Jafar. But it's also is a more serious and heavy-handed cartoon than the two previous Aladdin films, even surpassing Pocahontas for seriousness. Still, King of Thieves is a watchable and a okay movie.It's great to see the good ol' Genie (with Robin Williams' voice) back in action! Aladdin himself has gone through many changes throughout the films and the series and this film he's more sentimental and selfless in this picture (unlike the selfish kind of hero in the series) and so are Jasmine and Abu. Unfortunately, Rajah the tiger doesn't appear so much in this feature.This movie has a new composer for the score, which is a nice change. The animation is of course not so great, but still it's colorful. "},{"Title":"They got married again.","Date":"24 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" + SPOILER ALERT + Well, after seeing this movie, I often pondered to myself; Why did Aladdin and Jasmine get married again?. It's true. If you remember at the end of Aladdin, the two were clad in fancy, purple wedding vestments. But in this third Aladdin movie, the two are about to wed (in their plain, white wedding digs) when suddenly, Aladdin's random father, (who never even existed up until this point) along with his forty thieves, crashes and destroys the ceremony.Then, some random wand is really an Oracle who tells Aladdin where his father is. Aladdin is all like, DADDY!! and goes to find him.(I won't give the whole movie away, but I'll sum it up into this...)Aladdin ends up helping his dad in his quest to find the Hand of Midas. (Seriously, it's like collecting PokeMon cards. Just get a life.) They find this Hand, that brings out many goof ups.One; the Hand turned Aladdin's dad's cloak to gold. It moves freely and seems flexible. Yet, when the bad thief Sa'Luk touches the Hand and turns to gold, he can no longer move at all.Two; the items that the Hand touch turn to gold instantly. Yet, Sa'Luk takes a while to change.Three; after all the trouble poor Aladdin goes through to get his dad the Hand, his father hurls it out to the sea. What a waste!! Though this film was way better than Return of Jafar, it couldn't save the film's cheesy songs and sappy storyline. Aladdin's dad gambles with his son's life several times, really making Al's, He's a good dad. philosophy go to poop. It's really a poor movie.3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Worse then Jafar, better than the awful series...","Date":"14 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Alright, so it is better than the series... BIG DEAL. The series are the worst thing that could happen to the original (brilliant) movie, if Disney was god, this would be it's second mistake... The animation is crappy, although it's better than RETURN OF JAFAR, but the characters are just annoying, they just took the front most characteristics of the characters and based everything on it, for example Iago is just the most annoying character in this movie, he's just greedy and cowardly. The only things that are positive about this movie, are Robin Williams and John Rhys Davies. Williams is not as good as in part one, and some of his lines are just awfully annoying. But it's the way he copies most celebrities that actually kinda saves the movie (it sure is the only reason why I'd ever want to see it again). As for John Rhys Davies, he's good, but we all knew that. It's just sad to see him in such a very very bad movie... As for the whole plot, it stinks... It's all much to forced. Aladdin suddenly has issues with his family, and the whole magic lost city thing and the magic scepter with the silly woman in white in it, it's just too much bullsh*t to take. The first Aladdin was no bullsh*t, just Aladdin. As for the songs, they're the worst I've ever heard in a Disney movie, it's like the characters are just talking, followed with a magical Tadadaaaa, and then they talk again... My conclusion, avoid this one, and the series, stick to the original. Boycot this movie for all I know, just make Disney stop making all these cheap rip-off sequels, they're better than this... I give it a 4/10 for Robin and John...  "},{"Title":"Possibly the best Disney Sequel ever!","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  99.9% of Disney sequels SUCK but there has been exceptions and this movie is one of them. Not only is it one of them but it's perhaps the best they've done. Anyway, the best part of this movie is the return of Robin Williams as the Genie! It's great to hear him do the Genie again.The movie as an overall is actually pretty good. It has a great and interesting plot, nice action and humor sequences. And above all the wedding of Aladdin and Jasmine is finally happening.Now what I thought was clever of this movie was the last 3 seconds of the movie because it resembles the first 5 minutes of the original. Which in other words means that the saga is over. And with the three movies and TV series it was a GREAT saga and possibly the best Disney has had.3(***)out of 4(****)stars "},{"Title":"I Wet Myself","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  All I will say about Aladdin and the King of Thieves is that the segment where the genie splits himself into multiple clones and for two minutes goes around chanting 'Code Red, Code Red!' I thought I would absolutely die.  It was, and still is hilarious to me, and you'll always find me in stitches, for one. "},{"Title":"Too many in-jokes","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Overall, this is not a completely bad movie.  My kids like it - in fact they watch it more often than the original.The problem I have with it is like I said - too many in-jokes.  I've tried to count the number of other movie references but lost count about half-way through.Plus - do the people who made this film think only of their US audience? Does it not occur to them that maybe - just maybe - other countries in the world don't screen Ozzie and Harriet, Lifestyles of the Rich and Famous and other such junk, and that people might not get the joke?  And what on earth are nutty butties?IF the in-jokes had been cut down a bit, I would have enjoyed this movie, in spite of the fact that Jasmine is a lot uglier and Carpet a lot less detailed than in the original, but the sheer number of them just became annoying.Very disappointing. "}{"Title":"More Aladdin!!!!!","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" The Aladdin series of stuff keeps on piling up in 1996 with its third part and its second video- only movie so far, Aladdin and the King of Thieves.Here, Aladdin has decided to marry Princess Jasmine. But as the ceremony was about to go through, something bad happens!!!!! There are bad guys; thieves!!!!! Now, Aladdin's job is to stop them before it's too late and that the wedding will go on!!!!!I must say, Aladdin was a very successful Disney medium of the 1990s. Yes, I have enjoyed Beauty and the Beast, but I too have enjoyed Aladdin. This spawned three movies (one theatrical and two video), plus a TV series and a video game, and lots of toys, too.This final chapter in the Aladdin series is a must see!!!!!10 stars "},{"Title":"Okay entertainment to keep kids busy","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  You know, the main problem with sequels is trying to outdo the popular hit its fashioned after. All others, merely ride coattails. Of course, sequels roll if the movie is extremely successful. That's why we've never seen, ISHTAR ON THE ROAD AGAIN or YENTYL THE SAGA CONTINUES.ALADDIN AND THE KING OF THIEVES really tries, but another problem pops up when you have this sort of storyline. That being, there's only so much that can be expounded upon. How much palace intrigue and character development can be rehashed on characters that we all like and know so well from the original movie? Only a few new characters were added. The plot pretty much rotated around a singular event between Jasmine and Aladdin, and an estranged relationship. Thrown in, of course, are the usual sight gags, the bread-and-butter GOOD VS EVIL morality script. This time around, Robin Williams' performance is rather tepid, if uninspiring. The music score was pleasant, but not memorable.The execution comes off okay, and nothing more. In fact, the screenplay comes off as too cookie cutter. These plotlines have been used for many moons. From Disney, from whom the art of animation is judged, we tend to expect better.   "},{"Title":"Not as good as I hoped","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is a really disappointing sequel to Aladdin. Currently they have been making unnescasary sequels to some disney movies. Like Lady and the Tramp 2 to The Lion King 2, which all failed to live up to the original.This does no betterThe plot is so mediocre and the voice acting is rubbish. The only good thing I found about it was that it was a bright enigmatic movie. If you are a kid under 10 you will love this. Anyone over is advised to stay well clear.  But if you REALLY want to see it then see it. 6/10If you like this tryAladdinKazzam "},{"Title":"Well at least the art quality improved.","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Unfortunately, the animation and art quality still don't live up to the original. The art improved somewhat from the second one but still isn't as good as the first. The songs sucked, but the music was good. The facial expressions on the characters were often overdone. Robin Williams is back as the Genie but you never get to hear his real voice because he is constantly doing impressions. The Genie was overdone in this movie. I give this one a 8/9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Excellent sequel to two smash hits","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" ALADDIN AND THE KING OF THIEVES, in my opinion, is an excellent sequel to two smash hits. The romance in the film really touched me. To me, Aladdin (voice of Scott Weinger) and Princess Jasmine (voice of Linda Larkin) were a perfect couple. However, if you ask me, the Genie (voice of Robin Williams) gave the funniest performance of everyone who acted in this film. I really enjoyed the music. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say everyone involved in this film did very well. Now, in conclusion, I highly recommend this film that's an excellent sequel to two smash hits to all of you who haven't seen it. You're in for a good time, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it. "},{"Title":"This one promises to be the last installment and that would prove that wishes really do come true","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is the third installment in the animated Aladdin series produced by Walt Disney Pictures and the studio promises that enough of a story has been told so they can end the series at this point. That's good because after the excruciating The Return Of Jafar and the terrible syndicated Aladdin animated TV series, I didn't know how much more I could take. This is a direct-to-video installment just like The Return Of Jafar was and most of the characters from the first two films have returned. The only problem is that they're not likable anymore, not even the Genie and Iago. Whatever jokes that there are in the script are nonexistent and the characters don't seem to have all that much of a purpose in the story. The story has to do with Aladdin getting married to Princess Jasmine and the forty thieves crash his wedding party. They are led by the King of Thieves, a man who is actually Aladdin's father. After reuniting with his son, he considers changing his ways and going straight but his old rival Saluk won't let him get away without a fight. The story offers no surprises and everything winds up being just a tad too predictable.  "},{"Title":"A lot of hype.","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Okay, so they reunited MOST of the original cast. So what? The result is still a second rate sequel with poor animation, and worse music. I especially loathe the ridiculous lines fed to Robin Williams as Genie. His character was completely overdone from a plethora of excessive costumes to interjections that really didn't belong. Just don't expect to see the magic from Williams' original performance. Let's focus on the positive The story itself does have intrigue. Aladdin decides to search for his missing(?) father and finds him as the leader of a band of theives. He hopes to change him from his treacherous ways, and well... Watch it to find out. Jasmin's singing voice is the very talented Broadway veteran Liz Calloway (back from Jafar and most recently heard singing as Anastasia). As a whole I must say that King of Thieves is an improvement from Jafar and we can't be too critical toward a video aimed to please children in the 4-9 range. "},{"Title":"Wonderful!","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I rented this from Hollywood Video. As it seems Cassim and Iago are on a treasure hunt. Cassim's enemy by accident falls off a cliff. At the wedding Iago is browsing and breaking all the gifts. Then Genie and Jasmine go on a quest to find Aladdin and Cassim. It starts out when the forty thieves sing Aladdin the forty thieves theme song.  "},{"Title":"Better than the original","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is my favorite Aladdin movie! Even better than the first! There's so much action, adventure, humor... It's just my kinda movie. It's definately the best! People who think this movie is trashy should really think about it. Aladdin and the King of Thieves rocks!!!!! "}]