[{"Title":"If you were yogurt....?","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"47 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a 50/50 movie, you either love it or you hate it. Funny lines are few and far between, but do exist. The rest of the film is just mindless humor that wasn't funny even for mindless humor. Great for Pauly Shore fans and for those who enjoy slapstick comedy. Otherwise the other 99.9% of the population will probably tire quickly of the lame jokes and one dimensional, almost cartoon like characters. You have to wonder why anyone thought it was a good idea to go ahead and make it. The movie ensnares the viewer by opening with a promising start. The movie quickly deteriorates from there. Stephen Baldwin only adds to the overall idiocy. As if one bad actor wasn't enough. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Terrible","Date":"12 May 2005","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Bio-Dome is an all out failed attempt to make another classic Dumb and Dumber (1994) film. The story is stupid, the acting pitiful, and the comedy, not even present. The story is simple and tries to be a crusade for world ecological preservation but does nothing for the message.The story is terrible. Bud (pauly Shore) and Doyle (Stephen Baldwin) are to morons who have just been ditched by there girl friends and are down on there luck. They take a drive out to a dump to find the girls not cleaning there. On the way back home Doyle has to go to the bathroom so they pull over at what looks like to be a new mall. Instead it is Bio-Dome, an ecological preservation center and now Bud and Doyle are locked inside with four scientists.They cause chaos and homeostasis drops until somehow the idiots realize what they're doing and are able to become top scientists over night. I wanted to to throw up after seeing this. Pauly Shore is annoying beyond belief and Baldwin should really think twice about being an actor or working at a gas station. The film fails on all levels of comedy and acting and should be avoided by everyone.Bio-Dome. Starring Pauly Shore, Stephen Baldwin, William Atherton, Kylie Minogue, and Denise Dowse.1/2 out of 5 Stars. "},{"Title":"I hate this movie... I feel so stupid because of it... I hate this movie... I really hate this movie... it makes the Paris Hilton movies look like Citizen Kane","Date":"12 February 2010","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Oh, my mind, my mind, 2+2=4, wait, does it? I think it equals 19? I'm not sure, I've lost so many brain cells while watching this movie. One of my friends had mentioned this movie to me, we were talking about how some stoner flicks are fun, he mentioned Biodome. I had never heard of it, but he said that he saw it once in junior high and it was hilarious, so I was kind of curious to see it. Pauly Shore, the guy is annoying but can sometimes be funny, so I figured I would have an open mind to it. Now here's the thing about this movie that I'm still trying to figure out, I did not laugh once, I didn't even laugh at the sheer stupidity of this film, is that even possible? I just ended up crying so hard after this movie, I couldn't believe how stupid this movie was. When I called my friend, he said that it was funny in junior high at least, I don't know, maybe I did give the film too much credit from the get go, but judging from the rating on IMDb, I don't think I'm alone on how stupid this movie is.Doyle and Bud are best friends who pull a stunt to get out of Earth Day activities with their Earth conscious girlfriends, Monique and Jen. When the girls find out about it, they decide to get even by pretending to have met two men at the event and gave Bud and Doyle a red herring location. The two leave to go after them but soon realize they were fooled. On the way home, they pull off the road at the Bio-Dome, which they mistake for a mall, and are turned away by a security guard at the entrance. They get around this by using firecrackers as a distraction and by the time they are ready to leave, they find they have been sealed inside.The scientists, and chief investor Mr. Dick Leaky, discuss what to do about the situation. Mr. Leaky wants the two out immediately. The scientist in chief, Dr. Noah Faulkner, decides since the experiment depends on the time of one year, they must stay and the system will have to adapt to 7, not 5, people. This soon proves to be a mistake as Bud and Doyle aren't the most environmentally friendly guests.I just will never get how anyone could ever find this movie funny, Stephen Baldwin and Pauly Shore have no chemistry what so ever and their stupidity is more annoying rather than funny. Every scene where they're screwing up something for these scientists made me want to punch them and the fact that the girl scientists(that are Victoria Secret rejects) find them hot is just&#x85; I can't even come up with a word, forgive my low IQ on this one, this is what Bio-Dome has done to me. I really tried to give this movie a chance, I accepted this absurd plot and tried to go with everything, but it's just impossible when the two main characters have no chemistry. At a time when Beavis and Butt-Head were really popular, I think people were trying to cash in on the stoner audience, but while Beavis and Butt-Head were clever and was a stupid funny situation with them, Pauly and Stephen just don't work well together. Just to think of the money spent on this film that could have gone to starving children, the sick, the poor, the homeless, the abused, education&#x85; well, if I continue on what else the money budget could have been spent on, I'm wasting time when I could be reading a novel trying to get my brain cells back. As you can tell, I'm not going to be kind with this rating, believe me, this movie wasted my time and if I ever see the director, I am going to take the DVD case and beat him to death with this movie.1/10 "},{"Title":"ugh.","Date":"10 March 2008","Score":"20 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" One of the few movies I couldn't even watch in one sitting, I had to split it up into two. I always despised Pauly Shore, but now I really really can't stand him. There are a few moments where the jokes are relatively funny, but they are few and far between. The only neat thing about it was the overwhelming mid-90's pop culture melting pot, which appealed to my nostalgic side, but even that was squashed by the overpowering obnoxiousness of Pauly Shore. Stephen Baldwin is slightly less annoying than Shore, but not by much, and its sad, because I've seen him in other roles which he played incredibly well. I usually find at least some redeeming features in 'stoner' movies, or even like them-- (the Clerks series, Bill and Ted, etc.)-- but this movie is just really bad. The supposed protagonists are so idiotic and obnoxious that its painful to watch. "},{"Title":"A hard hitting documentary about how an actor destroys his career","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"22 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Sure, the basic premise for this film was  absolutely ludicrous, it was still good for a  few laughs (and I mean a few). Based on  the failed and flawed experiment of Biosphere 2  (which I have been to twice, and even got to  look inside), this film proves to be the hard- hitting expose of an experiment which was  flawed to begin with. Follow Pauley Shore  and Stephen Baldwin as they unearth the  cruel and meaningless system set inside  the confines of the dark and steely Bio-Dome.  What a documentary to watch! Sometimes  funny, most of the time stupid, this proved  to be one of the last stands for Pauley Shore. "},{"Title":"As bad as it gets","Date":"6 December 2007","Score":"19 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This has to be the worse attempt at comedy i have ever seen. It was shocking as is reflected in the viewer's rating ave of 3.8. I first saw this about 10 yrs ago, and it came up again on cable...and man, it's worse second time around!, i just couldn't stomach it all again and switched off after 20 or 30 mins... I can only assume those that have given high rapts to this poor excuse for a comedy film are either die-hard Baldwin and Shore fans or family related.After the film bombed in American cinemas, in Australia it was decided by it's distributors that it would be dumped straight to video-store shelves, even though it had huge Aussie-born singing star Kylie Minogue(Dr. Petra von Kant) co-staring. That just about says it all, because other then the closing credits there's nothing positive to say! "},{"Title":"Stinkbomb","Date":"4 February 2010","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" There are worse things to do with your time then watch this movie, but unfortunately i don't know what those things are. Because committing yourself to ninety minutes of this crap is enough to go on a maniac killing spree. Now its no Batman and Robin. But its so bad its terrible and that takes much, well maybe just Pauly Shore and a low rung Baldwin. I was really impressed looking on here that there are so many people involved with this movie, i mean its got the supporting cast equivalent to a Cop Land. I just hope these actors if you want to consider them professionals got paid millions to do this so they could disappear but it doesn't seem likely cause i still see their dirty faces in other movies and t.v. shows. Now we all have low points, and people need to eat and pay bills i guess so projects like this start rolling. I actually saw this in the theaters when it came out. I was in middle school and on a double date with my friend. The whole place was empty so me and the girl were off somewhere trying to make out when ten dudes sit in the row behind us. God i hate this movie, kill the weez, he must not sip the juice! One frikken stah, awful, just terrible. "},{"Title":"Oh my!","Date":"27 June 2011","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I used to love this movie as a kid, and now I have no idea why. Maybe it's because, at the age of 10, I enjoyed watching grown men act younger than me. Look back on your own childhood and you likely enjoyed a few movies with that quality for that very reason.There is not one funny part in this movie. Seriously, not one. I've even re-watched it stoned (let's be honest, it was probably made to be viewed that way) just to see if the altered perception would make it any better, and it actually killed my buzz.Pauly Shore and one of the Baldwins that's not Alec seem to be in a pissing contest to see who can come off as more talentless. In the end, it's too close to call, so they both win (or lose, however you wanna look at it).The only reason I gave this movie 2 stars is because I tend to throw in an extra star if there is nostalgia associated with it. If you're in the mood for this kind of movie, you'd be better off watching Encino Man, even if you've seen it already. "},{"Title":"Down with The Dome!","Date":"2 December 2008","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Not quite as bad as people make this film out to be. There are some genuinely funny moments in this film. Sure there's lot's of silly moments and potty-humour jokes which may only appeal to 16 year old boys but still these lame jokes are done in such a light-hearted-let's-not-take-ourselves-too-seriously way which still manages to amuse and make me chuckle! There are also several cameos from actors who are now doing really well but were pretty much un-heard of back then such as a pre-fame version of Tenacious D!!! I'm actually quite surprised at the low user rating of 3.8 when movies like You don't mess with the Zohan which is possibly the worst film ever made manage to get over 5.0!!!! Bio-dome is a great swith-off your brain type of film which shouldn't be taken seriously at all. So crank out the beers or the bong or both and just zone into the dome! "},{"Title":"A real mess of a comedy","Date":"27 January 2011","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I love film and I love comedy when it is done right. When I watched Bio-Dome, I wasn't expecting a masterpiece. Just a fun film, or a film that was kind of bad but it was a kind of guilty pleasure. Instead, Bio-Dome is excruciatingly awful with little redeeming values.The acting is terrible. Pauly Shore is a real problem with this movie, I never liked his acting style and this movie has done nothing for me to say otherwise. He is annoying to the point that I wanted to reach into the television and put a hand over his mouth. Stephen Baldwin fares no better, all he does is act gormless, clueless and annoying and the shtick dies fast. What's even worse is that the chemistry between the two men is non-existent. Joey Lauren Adams is the sole bright spot.Another major failing is the humour. The humour just ruins Bio-Dome just on its own. It isn't just the diabolical script but also the unfunny jokes and slip-shod, juvenile physical comedy. The pace is often too rushed, the direction is awful and the story is incredibly predictable and made of a series of disconnected sequences.The characters are badly written and very clichéd and one-dimensional, and emotionally I couldn't engage with them on any conceivable level. The film looks cheap as well, and musically the movie is very forgettable.In conclusion, a real mess of a comedy and of a film that fails in every asset. While not the worst movie I've seen, it is certainly one of the most annoying. 1/10 Bethany Cox "}{"Title":"The biggest waste of celluloid ever!","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Let me tell you now, I did not decide to watch this movie myself, someone at school bought it in for our class to watch and I think it was the biggest waste of celluloid ever. It claims to be a comedy film, but it is the only comedy film I have ever seen that relies entirely on jokes about bodily functions. The only reason I decided to watch this film is is because I am a fan of the actor Henry Gibson (who has a supporting role in the film with a character name that just about sums up the level of comedy in this film William Leaky)  "},{"Title":"smells worse than a fart!!!","Date":"7 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I recall seeing this movie in a second run theater. I knew I was in trouble when I realized that the packed theater was populated by junior highschool students. I did leave the movie before it was over when I saw Pauly bitting off a corn of his male room mates foot. Avoid this movie at all cost. A complete waste of my and your time. "},{"Title":"I considered suicide","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Where did these fellows get the money to make this movie?  How people can have their names associated with it?  I found myself shouting obscenities through out as much as I could watch.  It was like all you can eat nightcrawlers.  I want my a letter of apology from who ever allowed the production of Bio-Dome to continue in spite of your better judgment.   "},{"Title":"An insult to my intelligence","Date":"15 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I was required to watch this movie for an environmental communications class. I have never seen such a pathetic movie in my entire life. The characters are weak and nauseous, the plot nonexistent, and the point lacking. Nearly every female and most smart males in the class considered this film (if you can even call it that) a waste of time and an insult to our intelligence. Here is only movie that made me want to pollute the Earth by throwing the DVD out the window! Save your time and skip this one. It did not have the goofy likability of Dumb and Dumber, nor the laughs of comedies like Tommy Boy or Monty Python. It only possessed pure idiocy, which apparently all the actors and actresses in this movie thrived on. "},{"Title":"Bio-Hazardous Waste","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  On viewing it last night, this film immediately usurped the position of my long-standing most despised film of all time, the execrable CALIGULA. BIO-DOME is, beyond any shred of doubt, THE most excruciating comedy I have ever had the misfortune to suffer (yep... it's worse than TOMCATS!).  In fact, anything Malcolm McDowell did with a newlywed couple and a fistful of mashed potatoes in CALIGULA was a thousand times funnier than the collective 'jokes' of BIO-DOME.Movies like this always raise frightening questions. Why is Pauly Shore still paid to appear in movies when the world, by now, should have made him feel unsafe in going outdoors lest a crippling injury befall him? Why is Stephen Baldwin still beating his career to death with inane projects like THE FLINTSTONES IN VIVA ROCK VEGAS after a terrific stint in THE USUAL SUSPECTS? How can a movie be so bad that even a four-second appearance by Tenacious D isn't worth sitting through it?In closing, I share the words of a good friend who watched the film with me. Partway through the laughless mire, he turned to me with genuine concern and asked, Mate, are you all right?  I've never seen you look like that before. "},{"Title":"Holy Mother of God","Date":"12 November 2007","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is an example of writers smoking crack in the back room and being enlightened enough to write a movie. Bio Dome is not the absolute worst movie I have ever seen, and by no means deserves to be on the bottom 100 list, but it's pretty darn close. I have braved worse before, such as some of the other Paul Shore movies out there. If you can sit through Jury Duty, you'll have no problem watching this. Not that I would recommend putting yourself through such an unnecessary hell.Bio Dome was absolutely torturous. It's not meant to be taken seriously, but I'm convinced that you would either have to be retarded, or have recently had a lobotomy to enjoy this movie. Movies that have plots that can be summed up in one sentence usually aren't that great to begin with. Here's the whole synopsis Two stoners go into a bio dome and then come out some time later. Nothing else worthy of mentioning happens, believe me.There have to be better forms of entertainment than this. Go outside and run yourself into exhaustion. I admit, embarrassed enough, that I did sit through this entire movie, and probably lost precious IQ points as a result. I am now mentally retarded. Don't take the route I did kids.2/10 "},{"Title":"yeah, yeah, yeah...","Date":"16 September 2006","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Hopefully, everyone knows how stupid Bio-Dome is. It's the manifestation of everything ridiculous about Pauly Shore's movies; ditto Stephen Baldwin's movies. If the movie has any redeeming quality - any at all - it's that it gave Rose McGowan one of her early roles (she later played Neve Campbell's friend in Scream).But otherwise, I can't see any reason to watch the movie. It is the ultimate waste of time. Anyone would think that it was created by ten monkeys working with ten typewriters for ten days. I will never forgive myself for spending money to watch this hunk o' junk. JUST AVOID IT PEOPLE! Unless you like really dumb movies. "},{"Title":"Worst. Movie. Ever.","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This contrived piece of film is one that is deserving of a death sentence for the studio executive who green lit this project.The acting is poor, considerably so because of the incipient moron Pauly Shore, the script sub-par, and would only appeal to an uncouth savage. Where a condom on your eyes when watching this movie, you might catch a disease. "},{"Title":"Check out the Blue Velvet spoof!!","Date":"17 May 2000","Score":"14 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Admittedly, the scene where Bud & Doyle inhale laughing gas ala Dennis Hopper in Blue Velvet is the funniest spoof I've ever seen in a  movie!! All in all, this was a fun, feel good movie, and yes, Pauly Shore does get VERY annoying at times, but hey, this is all just for fun. Shakespeare it ain't, but if you're in the mood for a fun, feel-good movie to watch on a lazy weekend, check Bio-Dome out! It also delivers wonderful environmental awareness believe it or not. "},{"Title":"annoying characters","Date":"29 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Bud Weisman (Pauly Shore) and Doyle Johnson (Stephen Baldwin) are two idiot best friends. Their environmentalist girlfriends Monique (Joey Lauren Adams) and Jen (Teresa Hill) have had enough of their hijinx. The idiots take a drive and end up at the Bio-Dome where Dr. Noah Faulkner (William Atherton) leading a group of scientists are about to begin an one-year experiment. Doyle needs to pee and the boys sneak in. They get locked in and pushed to join in the experiment.Pauly Shore plays an annoying moron but that's expected. Stephen Baldwin joins him in a kind of Beavis and Butthead duo. They're not particularly funny. They play dumb but not in a lovable way. They're callous and selfish. They're also a little rapey. They're not good characters. The scientists other than Atherton are too bland. The movie's main failure is that I don't find any of this funny. "}{"Title":"if you are playing truth or dare and you want someone to do a dangerous dare, use this movie as a dare by telling them to watch it.","Date":"21 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" -Contains some spoilers- This movie seriously gave me a headache. it's that bad to me and one of the worst i've ever seen. i don't know if the script was written like that because of Pauly Shore or if that's just Pauly Shore. Stephen Baldwin usually seem like a bad actor. i didn't hate his acting in the Flintstones Viva Rock Vegas movie, i just didn't like their story in that movie. As for Bio-Dome, the plot wasn't good. firstly, a bunch of scientists are about to go on a mission where for one year, they lock themselves in this building where they just work on their experiments. Meanwhile, two men (if you want to call them that) are acting like a bunch of weirdos (and not in a good way) play paper, rock, scissors and Pauly Shore wins and acts like an idiot when he wins. to get out of doing something for Earth Day with their really pretty girlfriends, Shore hits Baldwin with a book and makes the girls mad (who see through their excuse).So the girls decide to make them jealous by going off and calling them and telling them they are going to hang out with some guys which of course works (since these two seem to not have brains a lot of the time). they get there and realize that they were tricked, so they go home and (thinking it to be a mall) go into the Bio-Dome as it's being locked. so sure enough, these two are locked in with the scientists for a year. i won't spoil too much more, but basically after they are locked in with the scientists, Shore and Baldwin just act like a bunch of morons while the viewer watches and tries to find out what's funny. honestly, i think i found one funny moment in what's supposed to be (i think) a comedy. i don't recommend anyone to see this movie unless you just like hearing Pauly Shore make really stupid noises (which he does throughout the whole movie). Some will like it, but to me, it's just annoying and it made me feel like my IQ dropped. "},{"Title":"So bad, makes me want to spray CFCs everywhere and dump raw sewage in the sea.","Date":"18 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Imagine two of the most stupid, whiny, obnoxious, so-annoying-you- want-to-gauge-their-tiny-brains-out-with-a-spoon type characters. Imagine if they communicated in NOTHING but 90's 'dude'slang, and dressed like the worst excesses of that decade. Imagine if all they talk about was urination, defecation, drugs, alcohol, and sex. Especially that last one (although, why any lady with a pulse would give them anything other than a kick in the 'nads' is beyond me.) Imagine being stuck with them in a closed-off, secure area for a year, and having to listen to them, smell them, see them.... TALK to them... For all that time...Ladies and gentlemen, I think I've just discovered the scenario where I could commit murder and legitimately not give a sh*t. The best part is... Not a jury in the world would convict me. In fact, there might just be a queue of Christians and Buddhists stretching round the block, just to poke their lifeless corpses with a stick. They really are that hateful.But what with this being a script dragged from out of the Twilight Zone, where being a complete moron is somehow attractive to the opposite sex, these idiots have to TURN DOWN most of the attention they get from the opposite gender. You see, they're babe magnets... But they're also faithful to their girlfriends. Bless. Amongst the ladies spurned are one Kylie Minogue... And you can forget Neighbours and her early pop career, THIS will forever be the nadir of her existence. Even if she got convicted of chicken molesting tomorrow, starring in Bio Dome will NEVER be topped in terms of her personal Hall Of Shame.So anyway, our two 'heroes' (Never have I used the term so loosely) get trapped inside a dome for 365 days with some scientists. Inside, is every hippy's wet dream... A completely self maintained environment with plants, cattle and clean air. Needless to say, it takes the pair of bozos less than a month to mess everything up... They contaminate the water, kill all the wildlife and hold a MASSIVE party which virtually destroys the greenery. Nice job, guys. And we're meant to LIKE these nimrods?Not to worry, though. Because this is a movie WITH A MESSAGE, redemption isn't too long in coming. And, in the most unlikely, far- fetched ways, they use the rubbish left over from their big bash to revive this wannabe Garden Of Eden, and become national heroes in the process. How they figure out how to use all this litter to save the day despite being clueless about all things environmentally, or why they're suddenly lauded for clearing up THEIR OWN MESS is a complete mystery, but those little plot holes aren't the worst problems here by a LONG shot. Oh, no.It's not funny. It will never be funny. Even at the time of it's release, I doubt anyone was laughing. I know I keep banging on about this, but our central duo are HORRIBLE. Their puerile conversations are on the level of a toddler, and their immature behaviour makes a crying baby seem sophisticated. I can't really explain it... You have to see them, to believe them. It's HATE at first sight. You want to physically harm these people... Even though you KNOW they're just actors playing a role (Incidentally, did Pauly Shore and Stephen Baldwin have any idea how irritating they were while playing these wretched parts? Apparently not. It's amazing how blind you can be when you have a moderate pay check dangled in front of you).Their 'change of heart' comes completely out of left field, and is only inserted to provide Greenpeace with a happy ending. Besides, even after their conversation to saving the planet, they're STILL just as grating as ever. As is the pacing, (The first month in the dome takes around an hour in length, the other eleven elapse in less than half of that) the supporting roles, (the girls in the film only exist to fawn all other the two douchebags and try and sleep with them... Yes, even the allegedly 'strong, independent' female scientists), the script, (Who thought THIS awful story was worth making into a movie? Someone must LOVE wasting money) In fact, pretty much everything.It's just a colossal FAIL from top to bottom, a film which should be laughed at and despised until the Earth DOES end.Which will be a lot quicker, if crap like this is the best they've got as propaganda... 1/10 "},{"Title":"One of the best worst movies of all time","Date":"23 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Moronic best friends get themselves locked inside the Bio-Dome, a science experiment, along with a group of environmental scientists for one year. is what is is.A stupid stoner comedy, it does that really well. Thats all it tried to be. Full of dumb fart jokes. and sound effect. something to watch only if not to be taken seriously. Great stoner movie and thats about it. Shore and Baldwin tried but failed The science wasn't really here to support the plot of the movie. The start of the fall of Baldwins career. This movie never goes anywhere and nothing really happens, pretty good soundtrack all in all "},{"Title":"Truly bad movie or enjoyable easy to watch fun?  I'm not Shore.....","Date":"11 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" For those of you growing up in the late 80's / early 90's, you will know that MTV used to show music videos as opposed to naff reality TV shows. You are probably also familiar with the 'star' of Bio-Dome, Pauly Shore. Shore was an MTV VJ during this time and even had his own show such was his popularity, especially in the USA. He became globally known through his character Stoney Brown in the movie California Man (1992) and his career grew from strength to strength. Personally, I was not a fan of Pauly Shore, although I must be fair to him, he is only the 3rd worse Shore on MTV, (#2 Jersey, #1 Geordie).In 1996 he decided that a successful career was not for him and so set about destroying it by making Bio-Dome. Plotwise it involves 2 dropout stoner dudes who accidentally get trapped in a Bio-Dome which is subsequently sealed for 1 year as part of an experiment into sustaining a mini Ecosystem with 'hilarious' consequences. It's easy to compare this movie to Bill and Ted's Excellent adventures. Like Bill and Ted, they are similar ages, both Californian surfer types, dropouts and under achievers. There is, however, one slight difference. Bill and Ted, are characters you grow to care about, even like and you really want them to succeed by the end of the movie. Bud and Doyle, on the other hand, you want to punch in the face repeatedly (And I don't condone violence, but even the Dalai Lama would need anger management after watching these two). Bud (Shore) and Doyle (Stephen Baldwin) really fail to connect with the audience or unfortunately a large mallet.I'm very high brow and enjoy a good fart gag as much as the next professor. But when it's constantly forced down your throat, (metaphorically), over and over again for 90 minutes it really starts to grate. But it did not need to be like that. The opening few minutes has good slapstick, physical comedy and decent gags mixed with toilet humour. The problem is that this formula is then rinsed and repeated, with nothing new to offer for the entire movie.There are a lot of famous names in this film. Kylie Minogue, for example, but neither her nor her bottom could save this movie. She is quoted as saying Bio-Dome is the only film which she regrets. Someone may have to remind her she was also in Street Fighter (1994). There is also a cameo from Jack Black and Kyle Glass who appear as their band Tenacious D, (overall the soundtrack is very good and includes Reverend Horton Heat, Faith No More and The Ramones). Penn and Teller also make a background appearance at the very end, (although they look like they have wandered onto set by accident and desperately want to find their way out again!).I must, however, make a confession. I actually quite liked it. The truth is I did laugh in places, it was so stupid that I did not have to think for 90 minutes and because of that I could wind down, relax and almost, (gulp) enjoy it.So I will conclude with this, Bio-Dome is not a good film in fact it's mind-numbing rubbish. However, one Sunday morning, post 10 pints, several shots and a very large greasy kebab, one of the movie channels will be showing a film dedicated to the memory of the career of Pauly Shore. It'll be Bio-Dome and you will not change the channel, you will secretly enjoy it and forget how crap you feel this morning, (and that embarrassing incident with the traffic cone and that squirrel).Bio-Dome has many flaws but it's one redeeming feature? It's a bloody good hangover film. "},{"Title":"Poo","Date":"26 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Bio-Dome is one of the very few movies I couldn't even finish watching. At least I could not watch in one sitting, I had to split it up into two. I watched it, turned it off because it was awful, then started watching it again and couldn't. About a year later I watched the rest when it was on TV and literally nothing else was on. I always despised Paully Shore because he sucks and just isn't funny at all, but after this movie I really could not stand him at all. The few half decent jokes are either ruined by him or done by someone else. The Baldwin in this also sucks. There is nothing good I can say about this movie and really nothing else bad either, there's just nothing to this movie except the annoying crap. "},{"Title":"This is the worst film I have ever seen","Date":"12 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I wanted to jab my eyes out with a piece of glass. This movie was made by the devil, this is probably a form of torture in some countries. There is so much wrong with this movie it's probably easier to say what is good about this movie. The only thing I liked was that there was a tenacious D cameo. What I really hated was Pauly Shore and Stephen Baldwin. They did absolutely nothing but do some stupid stunts and tell awful jokes for 90 minuets. Who wrote this movie? Every line isn't funny at all. You know you failed when your main characters being left to die in a desert climate is the only part I was happy you failed. The first rule of writing characters is to make us like them, especially if it's a main character. Another thing I hated was the two girlfriends, those two are hot, and they are dating two idiots who any normal person would want in a mental institution. This movie actually proves something, in the film it has a message about the environment, it's good to have a message like that, but the message isn't what makes the movie, it still sucks. This gets a 1/10, no one ever watch this awful movie. "},{"Title":"Made me wanna lobotomize myself in the first few minutes.","Date":"13 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" There's no way to enjoy this film, unless you're brain dead and can't tell it different from anything else or if you were high, even then it probably wouldn't work. This film is anti comedy, so bad and so unfunny it begs the question how it was made, and somewhat a success.Pauley Shore and Stephen Baldwin plays two dimwit best friends who accidentally become test subjects of a Bio Dome project to sustain life for a year. Being forced to stay in the Bio Dome with the other scientists, their goofy antics ultimately ruin everything, including what comedy stands for.A lot of the comedy comes from Pauley and Stephen making goofy faces and noises. There's barely any attempt at a joke here. The best part about the movie is the Tenacious D cameo, that's pretty much it. The rest of the film is just these two dunderheads acting like idiots the whole time. And no, it's not entertainingly bad, because the film is also boring. It's only an hour an a half but it felt like an eternity because the whole film is basically filler, they're just goofing around all day. The point is that they're likablely stupid, but instead they're so painfully stupid I wanted to kill myself. I was so disappointed in the end when it looked like they died but then they didn't. If they had died that would have made up for the rest of the film, but instead they move on, though the film ends after that so oh well.I do not recommend this film to anybody. If you're curious, trust me, it's not worth it. The biggest waste of time I've ever had the displeasure of wasting. The 2nd worst comedy of all time, (the 1st being Meet the Spartans). "},{"Title":"An enduring classic whose positive qualities have echoed through the years","Date":"13 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Is there much point in slagging this film off when no one on the planet liked it at the time and Pauly Shore's career has long been swallowed up by the tides of pop culture? Nope, but here we go anyway.Shore wasted another ninety minutes of his audiences' life back in '96 with this inane, witless and seemingly improvised 'comedy' in which the unfunny squealer and Stephen Baldwin (doesn't get any better, does it?) are trapped in the titular bio-dome for a year with a bunch of scientists, including a miscast Kylie Minogue. God, it was a different time, wasn't it?Basically a laugh vacuum that rips off Bill & Ted and is, in every way possible, a complete waste of time. "},{"Title":"Bud and Doyle's Awful Adventure","Date":"26 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Two twits from Tucson, pompous Pauly Shore (as Bud Macintosh) and brain-dead Stephen Baldwin (as Doyle Johnson), have a fight with their girlfriends and go out for a drive on Earth Day. In the Arizona desert, Mr. Baldwin needs to find a place to urinate. He is unable cork it outside and must use a bathroom. They stop at Bio-Dome thinking it is a new mall, and are trapped inside. This is an environmentally controlled facility, where five scientists are being sealed for a year. The supporting cast, sets, photography and opening credits are okay. More annoying than funny, the co-leads make you wonder how they became movie stars.** Bio-Dome (1/12/96) Jason Bloom ~ Pauly Shore, Stephen Baldwin, William Atherton, Joey Adams "},{"Title":"Very stupid, and not funny.","Date":"21 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Bio-Dome is very bad, and cliché. Actually, one of the most cliché pieces I've ever seen. Let's start at the script. The script is awful, pointing out the most obvious things, Pauly Shore just isn't bright in this film. Personally, this film has to have one of the worst scripts I think they've ever used for a film, honestly.The acting is decent, not good or bad, but decent. Some parts fell victim to bad acting, but I just feel that couldn't really be helped, ya' know? But, I didn't really like the cast, so this film is bad without me caring.The humor is just straight up, not funny. I didn't laugh once throughout, I was just thinking about all the horrible goofs, and gags they put in this film. This film wasn't funny at all. If you're looking for a comedy, this just won't cut it.And finally, the camera work. I guess the camera work is okay. It really could of been less dull, but I guess it'll pass. Overall, this films garbage. I highly recommend you stay away from this film. Bio-Dome gets a 1/10. "}{"Title":"we gotta stop that mother-faulkner","Date":"21 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In summary rent it/download it now if you want a silly comedy with plenty of laughs.I recently watched this movie again after a few years and I still find it hilarious. I don't know what kind of serious plot people are expecting, but it's meant to be taken as seriously as something like Billy Madison.The dialogue is full of great one-liners that you don't always pick up the first couple times watching, because you're too busy laughing at something else.The total randomness and watching these guys constantly dancing around for no reason just cracks me up.It slows down a bit near the end where it turns into the usual Hollywood 'get the bad guy, save the day' stuff. It could used some more creativity during this part, but everything else in the movie makes it worth it.If you're a fan of silly comedies, college humour, and slapstick, then you definitely need to give this movie a go. There's nothing overly offensive either, so it's safe for older kids.I give this movie an 8 out of 10. It may not be an Oscar-winner, but it kept me laughing the whole way through and had a ton of randomness to stop me from predicting the story like you can with so many movies these days. It kept *me* entertained more than many blockbusters, and that's the whole reason I watch movies in the first place. So I happily give Bio-Dome a high score. "},{"Title":"A Movie Im Not Proud to Like","Date":"4 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Stupid is, as stupid does is the theme in this movie. Its a universally hated film that has been panned by every critic around. Common slapstick and farce driven movies tend to be negative targets for critics, but this one is ultimately at the top of its list for the category. Im talking about Bio-Dome. A strangely amusing movie about two stoners dealing with the environment (great combination).Idiot collegians, Bud Macintosh (Pauly Shore) and Doyle Johnson (Stephen Baldwin). Residing in Arizona, the duo are in hot water with their girlfriends, Monique (Joey Lauren Adams) and Jen (Teresa Hill) after a desperate excuse to get out of helping the environment on Earth Day. The duo prove they can by venturing across Arizona in which they become locked inside a Bio-Dome, in which they mistake for a mall.The duo are unable to leave the dome seeing as the workers must remain in their for exactly a year. If contracted with outside air the experiment will be ruined. Naturally, the duo are carefree and decide to screw around in the enclosed case as if it's their prime home. The workers get aggravated, and try to cope with the duo. But they are so irresponsible and unreliable it's and unbelievable frustration.As much as I heard Luke warm to abysmal reviews, I just had to watch it and give my honest opinion about it. I actually tolerated the entire thing. To my knowledge, this was originally set to be the third Bill and Ted film in the franchise. We can call this the scrapped Bill and Ted, or the Bill and Ted spin off. Regardless, it's a fun, rulefree movie, that shouldn't be taken seriously. As well as being just a fun movie, with good ol' stoner humor. Pre-Half Baked.Starring Pauly Shore, Stephen Baldwin, William Atherton, Joey, Lauren Adams, and Kylie Minogue. Directed by Jason Bloom. "},{"Title":"Oh, the buffoonery!","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The imaginative and unusual opening credits are the best part of this film. Otherwise, it's a buffoonish, tasteless comedy that operates on an even lower I.Q level than Dumb and Dumber. Oh, an occasional good line WILL pop up now and then (this is the garden of boredom, and I'm chairman of the bored), but generally the script is stupid (complete with a hypocritical messagey side) and the characters aggressively obnoxious. (*1/2) "},{"Title":"ONE laugh!","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I've seen other Pauly Shore movies, and although they were bad, they were at least watchable. BIO DOME, however, is SO bad, it's surreal. It's sloppily made, *extremely* loud, and Shore and Baldwin's characters are incredibly annoying. Oh yes, that one laugh? - it's actually a throwaway gag (involving a clown) that has nothing to do with the plot or the main characters in any way. "},{"Title":"No other film can cause more viewer pain","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Frankly, I see this and Jury Duty as two harmful weapons. I would like to say that it's the worse movie ever made, but then again, it wasn't popular enough, even to be known as that. So, I'll just have to say that this abominable mess doesn't deserve the luxury of being called a movie. Lucky for me, I told my friend to stop the VCR about 19 minutes into it. "},{"Title":"Bloody awful","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is one of the worst that I've had to endure through.  Pauly Shore's most painful offering to the best of my knowledge, every second irritates and annoys.  This might be an attempt at American humour but it's not funny.  What Kylie Minogue thought she'd get out of it is beyond me but it's a major blemish to her name, one she'd sooner forget.  Pauly Shore and Stephen Baldwin are best friends from childhood.  We are no doubt supposed to laugh at their non-sexual intimacy, toe nibbling and masturbatory viewing ways.  Forsaken by their environmentalist girlfriends, they non-relatedly wind up in a Bio Dome project, the apex of years of planning and research, which they deliberately wind up destroying, first by smashing up butterfly cages, throwing around living fish and eating food reserves, then by throwing a huge party to win back the favour of their girlfriends.  So unbelievable that it's funny?  Nope, sorry but no.  So, finally realise they've done wrong, they try hard in the remaining time of the project to put things right.  This is probably the only part of the film with some entertainment merit value, but that's asking a lot.  If you have nothing else to do, are snowed or rained in, it's freezing cold or boiling hot outside, and there are no household chores, you are close to the circumstances required of watching this movie. "},{"Title":"LOCK HIM IN THERE PLEASE!!!!!!!!!","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Having been convinced (more like forced) to sit through this movie, I can only hope that they find a toxic waste dump, throw Pauly Shore into it and head for the hills.  This is quite possibly the most inane drivel that I have ever had the displeasure of sitting (although I did squirm in my seat, just trying to get away) through.  I swear that I could hear my brain cells dying in agony and could literally feel my IQ dropping as each minute of this film(?) passed by at an excruciatingly slow pace.  If we want to kill the enemies of our country, don't drop conventional bombs on them, drop this movie - the biggest bomb of all time!!!!! "},{"Title":"This film pollutes the earth","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this film with a couple of friends on Dutch commercial television in January 2000. It really sucks. The commercials which interrupted this movie where actually better than the movie itself. It has the singer Kylie Minogue in it. She does not even show her tits (which would have been the climax of this picture). In short it is not funny, even in it´s category (compare e.g. Revenge of the Nerds). This is a highly inferior product, probably made because there is too much money circling around in Hollywood. Avoid! "},{"Title":"I wish I didn't let my sister persuade me to watch this movie","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  She persuaded me that it was a funny, good movie.  I don't think so.  This is one of the stupidest movies I have ever seen. The 2 guys on there Bud & Doyle are so immature & need to get a life.  The plot was ridiculous & poorly done.   "},{"Title":"Worst piece of filmaking I've ever seen","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is the worst movie I've ever seen.  I'm surprised Kylie Minogue took part in this movie.  Shore and Baldwin's characters are people you're not supposed to like until they change, but surprise they're still not any more likable than when they were introduced in this movie.  They are two wackos you can never ever relate to.  If it was possible to give this movie a rating of 0 in the IMDB, that's what I'd give.  In my book it's a 0 of 5 stars. "}{"Title":"The worst movie I've ever seen","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  In my opinion Bio-Dome is the single worst movie I've ever seen.There is not one funny moment in the entire movie and almost every scene was just bad, not to mention the ridiculous plot. Just avoid this horrid thing. "},{"Title":"An absolute mess!","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Being a movie buff I have to honestly say that this is one of the WORST movies I have ever seen. I am sorry I sat through an hour and a half of this fest of stupidity. I'm glad I didn't pay to see it at the theater. I am not a big fan of Pauly Shore and this is the kind of movie I would expect from him, but Stephen Baldwin, c'mon man! This movie just put a permanent scar on your career. What a waste of money making this film. There is absolutely nothing good I can say about this. There are no laughs and I was annoyed after 10 minutes. I try to be fair and give all movies a chance, but oh the agony! Never again will I even think about watching this piece of junk. Anyone who actually enjoyed this movie needs to have their head examined for damage. Avoid at all costs. "},{"Title":"Only one redeeming feature","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie has to be one of the worst ever.  It has bad acting, a poor plot, some abysmal lines, no humourous moments, is badly cast, badly filmed, and if it were a pet would have been put down.  However, there is one redeeming feature which made me give it a 1/10 (apart from not being able to give it a zero) and that is the lovely Kylie.  Anything she's in has something to recommend, 'cos she's a babe, and looks great in the movie.  Can't act her way out of a wert paper bag, but looks great! "},{"Title":"damn!!!this was bad!","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This has to be one of the worst movies I've ever seen in my life. No, seriously, you just can't get much worse than this! This was recommended to me by my friends, so stupid me goes out and spends $4 on it, it wasn't even worth that! I think I might have laughed once, possibly at a noise or something. Pauly Shore is so bad! Stephen Baldwin, should think more carefully about the roles he chooses. Yeah, so basically STAY AWAY! "},{"Title":"Stupid!","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One of the most stupid movies of the decade! You have to see at least a part of it to know how BAD a movie can be.  "},{"Title":"Bio-Dumb","Date":"11 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  No comment. BIO-DOME is recommended for sissies who worship Pauly Shore's teachings of illicit ways. By now, his contract should be expiring. "},{"Title":"Absolutely awful!","Date":"10 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I was a young teenager when this movie was released and back then I watched it with some of my buddies who swore this movie was awesome. I did get a few laughs from the movie, but I wasn't impressed. Fast forward several years to when I was a young adult and I saw this movie on television. I tried watching it again, but even the few laughs I remembered from earlier were gone. This movie just stood out as absolutely lame.This movie was another vehicle for Pauly Shore. Granted, none of his work will ever win a SAG or an Oscar, but this was low even for him. The movie centers around to druggie slackers who end up crashing an environmental experiment known as the Bio Dome. By the time they are discovered, it is too late to cast the buffoons out as the dome has already been sealed, which it will be for the duration of the one year experiment. Shore and Baldwin manage to annoy everyone and sabotage the whole experiment. They do, however, find time to do interesting activities such as pass gas and smell the noxious odors in order to figure out what the person passing gas has eaten.In the end, these two loser manage to right all the wrongs, become celebrities, and get the girls who left them because they were so lame. I do believe this movie was the beginning of the end of the careers of both Shore and Baldwin. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I have ever seen.","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"     Most Pauly Shore movies suck most of the time. This movie is diffrent, it sucks even more. It is the most retarded and annoying movie I have ever seen. I never laughed once. Pauly Shore has to be one of the most annoying person on the planet. The acting sucks. The directing/ camera work is bland, and the storyline is uncreative and boring. I had no fun watching it, it was too stupid. I enjoyed the Son-In-Law more than this, and that tells you how good Bio-Dome is. This movie is surely not worth a rental. Just watch this dumb movie on TV. 4/10 Stars "},{"Title":"We actually watched this in Bio Class.","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ok, so it was at the end of the school year, but we still watched it. So these guys get dumped by their girlfriends, and to prove that they can be responsible or whatever, they sneak into the Bio-Dome. Of course, while they're in there they cause nothing but trouble. What a concept. Why isn't this everyone's favorite? It is so amazingly deep. What can I say about Pauly Shore? Not much except that he's been taking a long break. And Stephen Baldwin? Well, he went on to a glorious career too. C'mon, movies like...and, um...yeah. The scientist chicks were hot. I was p****d they had to make out with those two goons though. Don't waste your time with this one. Forget you even looked this movie up, it is that bad. Hot scientist chicks A+ The rest of this movie F "},{"Title":"Quite possibly one of the stupidest movies","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What was this movie? This question can be answered in one, and only one word Stupid. The plot was completely brainless and none of it made sense. The people in it were absolutely brainless. The comedy was geared at 2 year olds most likely, because I just sat there appalled at the sheer stupidity of this worthless piece of Junk. My advice, burn anything that had to do with this movie. Here is my rating .0000000000000000000000000000001/10 unfortunately the ratings won't allow me to do that. "}{"Title":"The Singular Worst Movie I Have Ever Seen","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie insults intelligence on several different levels. I was made to sit through this ghastly abomination of cinema by curious friends. The story is awful and I can't believe how anyone could find this funny. Avoid like the plague. "},{"Title":"Bio Dome has the ability to make everyone laugh.","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Actually, I have enjoyed Bio Dome since I was younger. It is incredibly dumb humor, but that's half the fun. Sometimes you just want to laugh at stupid things. The movie is brilliant in this capacity. Who doesn't love a farting scene? Want some funny pick-up lines? How about a chase? Maybe likable characters? This movie has it all. Plus, it will make you feel much smarter and will have made you laugh at least once. Anyone who says this movie is not worth watching does not know how to enjoy everything in life. Bio Dome is a funny display of those people in high school that you thought would never amount to anything might actually be as adults. And it's even better because you can laugh freely, without guilt. I highly recommend this movie to anyone in the mood to laugh just for laughing's-sake. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Horrible","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have seen several of Pauly shore's movies, but this is hands-down, flat-out the worst movie he has ever been in.  Encino Man and Jury Duty are like Casablanca compared to this rancid turd of a movie.  It is completely unfunny in any sense of the word.  And it's even too bad to be considered for so bad that it's good recognition.  Stay away, for God's sake, please stay away.  1/10 "},{"Title":"Just 'Cause We're Stuck in a Bubble, Doesn't Mean We Can't Cause Any Trouble.","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS       Meet Bud MacIntosh and Doyle Johnson, two airhead buddies living in Tucson, Arizona. Today, their girlfriends, Monique and Jennifer, were coming over to take them to an Earth Day clean up. Getting an idea, Bud hit Doyle over the head with a book and told the girls Doyle got hurt in an accident, but soon they discover what really happened and left disgusted. They later called Bud and Doyle and told them they were going to a party at Vasquez Lake with two other guys so Bud and Doyle race down to Vasquez Lake, which was now a landfill and saw that there was no party. On the way home, Doyle suddenly had to go to the bathroom so they drive to what they thought was a mall, but it was in fact the Bio-Dome, a man-made environment, or space station on earth. It had a rain forest, desert, farmland, a lagoon, laboratories and living quarters. A group of scientists Dr. Noah Faulkner, Olivia Biggs, T.C. Romulus, Petra Van Kant and Mimi Simkins would be sealing themselves inside the Bio-Dome for a whole year. Bud and Doyle find their way inside and enter the rain forest where Doyle urinates in the spring. The head of the project, Mr. Leaky, was outside and wished them luck as they went inside and the doors closed with Bud and Doyle still inside!       Mr. Leaky demanded they be sent out but Faulkner refused to open the doors and welcomed Bud and Doyle who were trying to pick up on Mimi and Petra. Faulkner then showed Bud and Doyle their living quarters a broom closet. The next day, Faulkner took Bud and Doyle on a tour. They began to wreak havoc on the Bio-Dome. They also took interests in the experiments Romulus, Petra and Mimi were performing. Mr. Leaky had designed Bud and Doyle t-shirts. Bud and Doyle, who liked them, also suggested environmental condoms and anatomically correct Bud and Doyle action figures. Outside, Monique and Jen hear about what happened to Bud and Doyle and decide maybe they turned over a new leaf. Not likely. The two continue to cause trouble by accidentally letting out Romulus' butterflies but they tried catching them again with a giant sheet of fly paper. It worked too good. It caught every flying animal in the dome. That did it. That night, Faulkner locked them in the broom closet and ignored their cries. They found a way out through the ventilation shaft and entered a storeroom with steel drums. Inside the drums were chips and sodas! Bud and Doyle also discover nitrus oxide and begin to get high. When Faulkner found out, he banished them to the desert. After a night of starvation and cold, the two discover a lock and key on a panel. They discover it's a back door! They rush outside to their car which was decorated with parking tickets and a boot. They then learn that Monique and Jen are seeing two other guys so Bud decides they must throw a bigger, badder bash to show the girls they care about the environment, which they don't. And what better place to have it than the Bio-Dome. Soon everybody attends Bud and Doyle's party. The Bio-Dome is soon full of people drinking beer, littering and taking leisurely swims in the lagoon. Faulkner tried to stop them but he was hand cuffed to a tree. Monique and Jen found out and were furious with Bud and Doyle.       When morning came, trash and drunks lay everywhere. Bud and Doyle were actually sorry for what they did when their girlfriends broke up with them. Faulkner had disappeared and Olivia, Romulus, Mimi and Petra felt they should just quit and leave since the Bio-Dome was destroyed but Bud and Doyle wanted to stay and repair the damage. They were serious because Doyle locked the door and swallowed the key. So they set to work restoring plant life to reproduce oxygen. Faulkner had gone insane and started an underground lab where he worked on explosives; Earth Day was nearing and homeostasis was at 98%! Bud and Doyle soon met with Faulker who had them spread coconuts about, but these coconuts were actually explosives! They find out and try to stop Faulkner. Bud grabs the detonator and stops the bombs just in time. Soon the doors open and everybody exits. Bud and Doyle go home with Monique and Jen who forgave them. Faulkner had escaped out the back door. How he got the key, we'll never know.       A pretty good movie. Pauly Shore is Bud, Stephen Baldwin is Doyle, William Atherton is Faulkner, Joey Lauren Adams is Monique, Teresa Hill is Jen and Henry Gibson is Leaky. Why does everybody keep bad-mouthing Pauly Shore? He's a good actor. He and Stephen Baldwin were good together! This movie may encourage some viewers to clean up their sloppy lives and help save the planet. In conclusion, to you Pauly Shore fans or you Save-The-Rain Forest treehuggers or just you people who are looking for something to kill 88 minutes, I recommend Bio-Dome!- "},{"Title":"Turn off your brain and enjoy with nachos","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"16 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Everyone by now is aware of the world in a bubble projects which sprung up in the nineties where they tried to recreate jungles and lakes under a glass roof in the desert right? Well thats the setting for this MTV generation comedy. No film which boasts Pauly Shore and Kylie Minogue as two of the main characters was ever going to be tasteful or deeply philosophical but hey, you don't always have to find meaning in a movie. Sometimes it's okay just to lay back with some junky snax, slurp a bladder busting gallon of soda and enjoy one of the Baldwins being an idiot for an hour and a half. Brilliant film that doesn't linger on the message (something about the environment) and still pleases on the hundred and twentieth view. "},{"Title":"A joke, but not as big a joke as Biosphere 2.","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The only thing good to say about this film is that it poked additional fun at the incredibly farcical Biosphere 2 experiment of 91-93. The acting is idiotic and the story weak but the bozos who were in the real thing probably acted exactly like the two hapless stars in this picture. Only good if your able to see it for free or for under a dollar, no better make that a quarter.  "},{"Title":"Not as bad as you'd think","Date":"26 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Take Pauly Shore and Steven Baldwin as as Bud & Doyle, 2 Stoner College students with Eco-aware girlfriends who they like and like to impress without too much effort.The best goof in this film is that the 2 Eco friendly girls are driving a Toyota MR2 convertible (really bad gas mileage and bad for the environment) to Earth Day and the various Eco parties they go to.The Tenacious D cameo is pretty much a blink and you'll miss it but I think JB & KG stole the scene where Bud & Doyle crawl through the air vents for The Pick Of Destiny (same thing happens in The Rock & Roll Museum).Kylie thinks THIS is her worst movie performance? Has she seen herself in Street Fighter? Or The Delinquents? She looks amazing in this and it's just a bit of harmless fun.The guy playing Noah was Walter Peck in Ghostbusters (the guy who frees all the ghosts) and he's also the idiot reporter in the Die Hard series.Henry Gibson is brilliant as usual and Pauly Shore & Steven Baldwin actually are pretty bearable.The actual Biodome itself is a total misnomer for starters, it's not domed shaped in any way. The fact that there would be a window that could be opened and that the window would still have its key in the lock? Unlikely.The film is a pretty silly & harmless romp, best enjoyed with the brain turned off.Worth a look if you haven't seen it. "},{"Title":"You guys keep hating it, I'll keep enjoying it!","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  You know... it is pretty darn funny to me why people waste their time on here complaining about how bad a movie was!  If you don't like it, great.  Post your 1 rating and move on.  However, people decide to dwell, leaving messages and posts about how completely terrible this movie is.  Noting that the only way to enjoy it is while you are high.  Don't you people have anything better to do.  The only time I ever post on here is to leave praise for a movie.  I figure if a movie is completely terrible, I will post my 1 or 2 rating and move on.  Said movies don't deserve my time.  Bio-Dome has obviously accomplished something if people are still complaining about it nearly a decade later.So you think Pauley Shore is a crappy actor, great.  Does that mean that this movie automatically sucks?  NO.  If you go into this movie not expecting much, you can't help but have a good time! The comedy in this movie is no different from any Sandler, Farley, Spade, or otherwise flick.  This movie is all about having fun!Try watching this on one of those weekend nights with group of buddies when you are in a retarded mood and I challenge you not to enjoy it.  No, I'm not talking about getting high (I have never and will never get high and I still love movies like this and half-baked... sorry guys, there goes you stoner flick stereotype).I love this movie, every time I watch it I see subtle things that stick out that make it even more enjoyable.  Check out that midget towards the end when they are dancing to the Safety Dance. That little guy is straight out of the music video... classic!I gave this movie a 10 for sheer enjoyment.  I can watch it over and over again still love it.  Sorry guys, I'm not just some idiot stoner either... I love Citizen Kane, Kevin Smith Films, Dr. Strangelove, Brazil, and probably whatever other smart or artsy films you want to throw my way.  Sometimes you people have to start liking movies on your own, for your own enjoyment, apart from what society, the AFI, or even this site tells you you should like.  I'll leave you all with a few of my favorite parts in the movie.-Breaststrokers...-I'm a sherman tank!-So... what you're really trying to say is...-Let's get that mother-faulkner!-I don't think he like the way you played with his coconuts...-Is that laughing gas?  No way...-I feel like a duck billed platypus... quaaaack quaaack.-Remember... here at Bio-Dome we strive on balancing homos, within the system.Viva Los Bio-Dome! "},{"Title":"How did this end up on the 100 worst?","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Bio-Dome is not the best movie ever. It may only fall into amuse a certain crowd. However it is actually relatively clever. The director actually went on to make another one of my favorite movies overnight delivery which most agree is actually quite clever. I think because Pauly Shore is in this film people decide to give it a bad rep...but guys...Pauly's paid by the backlash in society on his films. He's even made a movie about the world hating him so can't we just accept this movie as semi-clever? The movie is actually funny. It's funny in this strange way. Pauly Shore has a certain sense of humor, and its a clever and strange thing. It's not genius and its not Adam Sandler but it's on the same level. You just have to watch Bio-Dome with the expectations that its going to be stupid. You can't go into every expecting it to be pure comic brillance. Not everybody is Kevin Smith, but if you hate Pauly Shore and you hate Bio Dome you probably hate Adam Sandler and Kevin Smith. And I mean.... then you surely must hate life, right? Some movies just are what they are. Bio-Dome just is what it is, its a weird little movie thats still funny because its so absurd. The concept of living in a bio-dome for a year? It's just funny. It's a certain brand of comedy that I just don't see enough of anymore and I wish they did make at least one Bio-Dome comedy every year. Bio-Dome doesn't deserve to be on the IMDB 100 worst ever list. It's cheese, it's funny, and it's STILL played on TV because its funny.Maybe it's a movie you can only understand if your in the industry or a TV geek, because you'll get a few chuckles at little references thrown in (I mean come on, their COMMUNITY COLLEGE STUDENTS, isn't that funny in itself?)Honestly... and maybe this is just my opinion, but DUMB AND DUMBER deserves to be on the worse 100 list. Bio-Dome doesn't Dumb And Dumber... just isn't funny. While Bio-Dome was hillarious when I first saw it, and still remains funny to this day. VIVA-LOS-BIO-DOME! "},{"Title":"The Long Awaited End Of The Pauly Shore Craze","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  During the mid-1990's, Pauly Shore was like what Adam Sandler is today. He would release a new slapstick comedy film to a major hype about every six months and just like Sandler, his films always got bombed by critics but raked in big bucks with audiences. However, Bio-Dome was the one film that failed on both counts and totally killed Shore's once busy film career. It's easy to see why in this beyond ridiculous story about two college (that's a stretch) buddies (Shore, Stephen Baldwin) who mistake the title place for a mall and go on a comical destructive rampage. It's just a bunch of slapstick and nothing more. At least, Shore's previous films attempted to be funny.  "}{"Title":"I didn't laugh","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Sure, this movie is intended to be stupid, but I seem to have missed all the so called jokes that were in this movie.  Exactly why do the select few Pauly fans actually find him funny?  Bio-Dome, Jury Duty, In the Army Now, Son In Law, etc.  None of them seem to contain any real comedy.  More like just some quirky guy who giggles a lot doing some totally outrageous goofy stunts.  To me it's as if some kid purposly falls off a skateboard and faceplants into a curb expecting to get some laughs for his effort.  Sorry Pauly, your faceplants aren't making me laugh. "},{"Title":"TOTALLY UNFUNNY","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Okay, so I'm asking for it by voluntarily watching a Pauly Shore movie, I know. But could I have guessed just how awful it would be?! I really watched this for the supporting cast - Rose McGowan, Henry Gibson, Kylie, Patty Hearst, Kevin Smith fave Joey Lauren Adams and Tenacious D(!) How rocking is that? Unfortunately that wasn't enough to salvage this mess. This is the second time I've made the mistake of sitting through Pauly garbage for his costars. The other time was Jury Duty - Charles Napier, Tia Carrere, Richard Edson and Stanley Tucci together! Jury Duty was bad enough, but Bio-Dome is even worse. Shore makes Adam Sandler look like a comic genius, and Stephen Baldwin manages to destroy all the good will he achieved from The Usual Suspects in about, oh, ten minutes. Possibly the most unfunny alleged comedy ever. "},{"Title":"I'm a Sherman tank.......","Date":"8 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Bud and Doyle are two losers who are doing nothing with their lives.Both of their girlfriends are actively involved in saving the environment, but the two friends could care less about saving the Earth.One day, when a group of scientists begin a mission to live inside a Bio-Dome for a year without outside contact, Bud and Doyle mistakingly become part of the project themselves.The two must then learn how to protect the Earth and help the scientists complete their mission....First off, if you're not a fan of Pauly Shore, stop reading and do something else. I like Shore and his movies, they do their job and provide entertainment and are never boring, no matter how moronic they appear to be.This was one reason for me to watch this movie, the second was to see the biggest career nosedive in recent memory. Hello Stephen Baldwin. One minute, your in an Oscar winning movie, next your Playing Garth to Shores Wayne.It's silly stuff, but it's never boring and it's heart is in the right place. Shore seems to be having a whale of a time, which shows he loves his work, just like Sandler.The biggest surprise in this movie is that the guy you think will be a sleaze (Atherton, who clearly is in Ghostbusters and Die Hard 1&2) is quite lenient with the pair for the majority of the movie, which is good, because it has some originality to it.But all in all, it's a dumb movie, offering nothing new into the stoner buddy comedy, but it has some charm to it, and the cast have great chemistry and there is a message to all of this.it's never dull like a lot of comedies, but it's not for everyones taste. If you like a good 'bad' movie, you could do a lot 'worse'. "},{"Title":"Bio_dome- not that bad","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" i actually enjoyed Bio-dome sure the premise and the actors all sucked but it was a funny movie. i didn't love it but i was merely was amused by it. Pauly Shore wasn't the best choice for this movie. it should have been done by a bunch no-named actors so Pauly wouldn't suck even worse than he already did. Same for the Baldwin that was there too. it's a shame they could have been lawyers or doctors. i'd rather have Pauly Shore operate on me than tell me jokes. what else sucked about this movie was the fact that the premise was HORRIBLE. two stoners trapped in a bubble? i could think of something more interesting after i overdose on opium "},{"Title":"it's movie isn't just for teens","Date":"19 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought it was a knee slapper.i loved this movie! Its about these two stoner like best friends who unknowly crash a scientifc expreiment.It shows that some people can always have fun. I also think that this is one of thoses stuiped funny movies that are just so dumb its funny. I think if you want a good laugh and are hangin out with your buddy then this is the movie for you.But if you are one of those people who do not like teen-like movies then you should not watch it. it would only be a waste of time for you.BUD AND DOYLE ROCK!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Only a mindless imbecile could laugh at this","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Or possibly an 8 year old boy.  This was one of the most absurd movies that I have ever.  Now I'm not the kind of guy who hates all slapstick comedies.  I actually love a few of them, such as Jackass, but this movie has to be one of the worst I have ever seen.  I didn't laugh at ONE JOKE!  This coming from someone who enjoys comedies.  Not one laugh.  Don't listen to these people who are praising this movie because they either a) set VERY VERY low standards or b) are mentally challenged.  Pass this one up.  Go watch Brady Bunch in the White House instead. "},{"Title":"What's not to Like","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I've seen this movie many times and every time i find something else to laugh at.  It is histarical.  Some of the subtle comedy throughout is missed and that is why it is important to watch it a few times.  I'm actually going out to rent Blue Velvet tonight to further understand some of the content.I'm happy to admit  I think Pauly Shore is a genius! "},{"Title":"In a biosphere.","Date":"1 May 2008","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" How is a film like this funny . Has humor progressed so far since it was produced . I wonder what sort of lady is Kylie, she reminds me of myself when I was young. We had her photo from a newspaper stuck on our kitchen wall when I went to performance college. I wish there was no mention of cigarettes in making an air filter. There could have been a few more jokes.Unfortunately I do not think the movie was on fire. Anything about a biosphere should be funny as there is really nothing much to do than think about anything that is a distraction from work at certain times .The movie should really succeed here .On the other hand the survival of mankind may depend on the functionality of these friends. "},{"Title":"The only Pauly Shore movie worth watching","Date":"28 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" OK... After seeing this movie get ripped apart in the reviews I had to come to it's defense. It's hilarious! Is it stupid? yup! Is it sophomoric? yup! Is it stoner humor? yup! But those are it's charms... I've seen other Pauly Shore movies and I was bored with them & never found them funny, Bio-Dome is the exception. A lot of my friends as well find this movie funny so it's not just meIf I were to give any reason as to why I find it so funny it would probably be the interaction between Pauly Shore an the Baldwin guy. They are so stupid their funny and I put them in this movie on par with Dumb & Dumber. If this movie doesn't tickle your funny bone then go to the doctor and have the stick removed from your butt. "},{"Title":"The least funny comedy I have ever seen","Date":"13 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's a Pauly Shore comedy - so I'm not asking for high art, but come on! Shouldn't a comedy have humour in it? Okay, the good things about this film... ... ... Well about 10 minutes in, Pauly's girlfriend makes a joke about men that made me chuckle... A couple of the actresses are cute... Actually, credit goes to a couple actors for trying to salvage this film. But nothing can save it. These types of movies rely 99% on the comedy duo. The guys from Dude, Where's My Car were watchable. The guys in Harold and Kumar... were watchable. Shore and Baldwin are unwatchable - and so is this movie. "}{"Title":"Quite Possibly the Worst Movie Ever Made","Date":"2 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  * out of a million *s. Bio-Dome is so bad a movie that I refuse to waste my time by writing any more than a paragraph on it. I just think I had to express my hate to this movie, because it truly is horrible. Pauly Shore deserves those Razzie awards or whatever they are for Worst Actor, because he proves his lack of any trace of acting in this. The movie, which is accompanied every five minutes by a different punk rock song that sucks, is complete trash. You don't need know any more. Avoid it. It's a Bio-Hazard to any person who watches movies. Made me puke. Blech. PAULY SHORE SUCKS! AVOID AT ALL COSTS!  "},{"Title":"Stupid","Date":"11 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is stupid yet funny and I don't know why. I just cannot figure out why Pauly Shore is so funny to me. Well anyways this is worth a rental if you want to see a stupid movie, if you are bored watch it on tv save your money.3/10 (just for some funny scenes) "},{"Title":"what an awesome movie","Date":"10 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the wackiest wildest goofiest coolest few movies I've ever seen.  It's kinda like Bill & Ted, but way more crazy, much louder and totally more colorful and fun.  It's a super fun movie to watch. "},{"Title":"Just have to see this","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have to admit that this movie is one of my guilty pleasures.  Simply hilarious and fun.  If you have a day where you don't what to have to be ceberal about a move and just laugh you butt off i recomned this one. "},{"Title":"Pauly Shore Returns!","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Pauly Shore is back in this funny film Bio-Dome! Out of all the films hes in i would have to say this is my second fav. The movie is quite funny with a good soundtrack and lots of funny jokes. i would tell any fan of P S to see this film. "},{"Title":"Actually is hilarious, no matter what you've read previously","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One of the funniest movies i have ever seen. I recommend it if you are going to watch it with a good friend who enjoys a laugh. If you are not in the right mood then save it because it will only be enjoyed if you are in one of those moods and you just cant stop laughing. Although the second time you see it it isnt quite as funny and continues on this downhill slope the more you watch it. A number of people i know have seen it, not necessarily with me, and have dubbed it the funniest film they have ever seen. Not witty or quick, just pure crude childish stupidity, but thats why we love it, a complete joke.  "},{"Title":"A classic stoner movie!","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This may be old but I'm glad I found it. If you enjoy films about pot-heads and the ridiculous things they say and do then you should love this. Pauly Shore and Stephen Baldwin are perfectly cast as the pair of unlikely eco-warriors and an early cameo by Kylie Minogue is an added bonus. A highly enjoyable mix of my favourite film of all time Mallrats and Dude Where's My Car this is definitely one to watch - if you can find it! "},{"Title":"Boy is Kylie Minogue Good Looking!!","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was a very poor movie, although it had it's good points. But being an Aussie almost ex-teenager, I quite enjoyed looking at the women. And Kylie is so cute. 5ft Nothing and gorgeous!!Although she needs more of an active part. Her talent was really wasted. "},{"Title":"Bio-Dome","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  You either like this movie, or you hate it. If you are in the mood for a movie like this, you really should see it. Don't see it if you aren't, because you wouldn't like it. I did like it, and that guy Jason better come here and call me a sissie in my face, than we'll see who's a f*ck*ng sissie(so you're invited Jason). Just see this movie and decide for yourself people. "},{"Title":"Stop ragging on Pauly","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  How can you say this stuff about Pauly Shore, he's one of the funniest comediens I've ever seen, and his films rock. I can't stand all you people saying you hate his films.. .Brain wave, if you don't like his films, don't watch them. It's that simple. This film is a much see though, and I know I love it, so that's all that matters to me, so P "}{"Title":"Comical Of Course","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  How can you people sit there and say its bad? It's a comedy for crying out loud.  Who cares if its got a lousy plot don't you think its funny, I mean when he initially pee's in the water and the computer starts alarming about bio hazardous crap in there that was funny so I don't know what is wrong with you people but this is a great comical movie.8.5/10 Es ist gut "},{"Title":"It was good!","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  You either Love it or hate it... Personally I thought it was good. "},{"Title":"The Climax of The Pure Pauly Shore (and I'm not referring to something good !)","Date":"24 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's not a movie with a lot of problems. The matters that I hated weren't many.Firstly the 2 leads. It's a basis in Hollywood, rather the world, that you know what's loved about you and utilize it. Pauly Shore became famous due to his special style of talking and joking on MTV. It's not a bad thing till you do it ALL THE TIME. I kept thinking that this time the script's actual material was ignored to have these unceasing awful antics of Shore along with his co-star too. Well, they were loose, totally loose, to do whatever they wanted, and the problem is that what they did want was disastrous. They acted as drunken baboons; that could have been good, but the outcome was nothing but so loud scream of a performance !Believe it or not, despite delivering unfunny imbecility here, I could stand Shore, but Stephen Baldwin OH MY GOD !!?? By selecting him the movie died, and with his acting it has been mutilated ! He was Pauly Shore's ugliest impersonator EVER, doing what I consider as the lowest pathetic comedy, being the real evil of this movie. Why didn't they bring a co-star with a talent or charisma ?!! (It was annoying enough to just look at him !). So with Shore and Baldwin, it was like a half of a smile mixed with a complete grin !!Secondly, some minor flaws in the script, for instance  what are the jobs of the leads? How they got all of that money to make the big party at the bio-dome? Why exactly William Atherton's character (the manager scientist) gone crazy at the end ? And the strange transformation of the 2 leads ?? They suddenly became great humans out of ruination's machines ??!!On the other hand  the Bio-Dome, as a place, looked really fresh and unusual. The basic plot was smart. The pace was fast. The soundtrack, with non-stop rock all the way, succeeded in making the movie a lot faster and lively, managing to fill the gaps of the blank, supposedly droll, moments. And Kylie Minogue was freaking HOT, even her voice was so sexy; did you hear her saying the system of balance Oh God, you're the system babe and the balance!It fits being a study about the bourgeois's dullness. You can feel &#x96; through the movie's lame sketches &#x96; the bored-to-death well-off kids, the out of work spoiled youth, the lazy couch potato's mentality. Sometimes the 2 leads represented a different breed of savages, being the 20th centenary's new cavemen ! Actually, their idiot texts (the language they speak, the moves their bodies do, the games they play,&#x85;etc) seemed taken directly from an authentic brat's diary (most probably Shore himself), which's maybe the highest truthful thing this movie has. However, as a whole, some will laugh or smile, seeing themselves in these eccentric behaviors, and some won't !It follows the footsteps of the stupid 2 buddies' formula. This formula kind of hit the American cinema since the late 1980s, where the 2 comic leads are no singing prince charming and a joke of a sidekick, intelligent and dumb, handsome and bizarre, or in brief  not having the Mickey Mouse and Goofy's kind of structure anymore. With Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure (1989), Bill & Ted's Bogus Journey (1991) they turned into 2 perfectly goofy goofs. Dumb & Dumber (1994) was a peak for the newborn fashion, which encouraged the producers so powerfully to make more money and dumb heroes. So it's not a surprise that much of Bio-Dome was taken from the scrapped third movie in the Bill & Ted trilogy.Now look at the career of Pauly Shore. His first starry role was in (Encino Man &#x96; 1992), it grossed $40.6 million. In the next year (Son in Law &#x96; 1993) groused $36.4 million. Then (In the Army Now &#x96; 1994) did $28.8 million, (Jury Duty &#x96; 1995) did $17 million, and finally (Bio-Dome &#x96; 1996) did $13.4 million. It seems as if Hollywood consumed all of its chances with him, giving 5 movies in 5 years, with fewer profits every time. I think in the first 4 movies there were auxiliary troops or side elements to help the guy out. Unluckily this time he got the most awful one ever; Mr. Stephen Baldlose! Not to mention that he, Shore, nearly wrote all the dialog, or dealt with the already written gags terribly. Otherwise this is the rock bottom of dialog in a cinematic comedy !Bio-Dome isn't totally unwatchable or that bad, it is originally a good movie swept by a storm of redundant stupidity. However it can overcome its little hell of problems to be bearable and amusing for utterly goofy 88 minutes. It's similar to a small bag of potato chips, well, chips with the mustard flavor! Anyway, historically speaking, Adam Sandler and Jim Carry began as downright morons in many movies then moved on. Now Pauly Shore began as the same then stopped. Maybe he's unlucky fellow, or maybe he's simply a moron. Unfortunately this movie assures that he's both ! "},{"Title":"Some comments I have made","Date":"13 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I just saw this film today on TV. Originally I tuned in because Kylie Minogue was in it, but something about the two dudes made me keep watching. Firstly, both were familiar faces. Secondly, both seemed to really be enjoying their parts. It was mindless stuff. But, again, when it doesn't take itself seriously then this can give mindless laughter.And all in all it was a well done mindless comedy - sure, no Adam Sandler effort, but nonetheless could entertain you for 90 minutes if your into that sort of stuff (if you are not, however, I think you will despise the jokes on offer here). Also it may be of extra entertainment value at seeing some stars of the present day as they were 8 years ago. 6/10. "},{"Title":"Don't complain.","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie has Pauly Shore in it.  You all knew what you were in for.  So, quit complaining about the movie.  What did you expect, Shakespeare?  Look, every Pauly Shore movie is about seeing a loser stoner guy irritate intelligent people around him and somehow either cause their downfall or change their mind about him.  I just summed up most of his movies right there.  If you didn't already know that, then remember it from now on. "},{"Title":"Bio Dome Rocks","Date":"18 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  My friends and I love this movie.  We have watched it hundreds of times and can never seem to get tired of it.  I don't like how it was compared to Brady Bunch in the White House.  That movie is so grotesquely bad, that its in its own category, alongside Kickboxing Academy.  If you want a bad movie, check that one out. "},{"Title":"Viva Las Bio Dome","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is one of the best examples of Paulie Shores genius. Teamed with Stephen Baldwin, Paulie makes this funny story of two screw-ups trapped in a science experiment, the best it can be. I've personally seen the movie over 30 times. Its quite enjoyable and very funny. I definitely recommend this movie to anyone who loves Paulie Shores unique humor and even those who don't. Two thumbs up! "},{"Title":"Bio_COMEDY PEOPLE","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Bio-Dome is a stupid comedy about two goof-offs who get trapped in an environmental project.  (Once again casting Pauly Shore as his usually *&@#-up self).  Its funny, it is funny, one his better movies(not saying any of them are that good).  Anyone who looks for more than a few laughs in this movie is an idiot.  The key to liking movies is finding something in each of them that entertains you, they aren't all going to be Schindler's List and move you emotionally.  Think of each movie as a conversation a writer has with the audience.  Do you say earth-shattering things all the time? Neither does this movie.  This movie is the 'you're drunk around the campground saying some things funny but never really making a point' of movies.  Take it for that and it does just fine. "},{"Title":"don't be too hard on it","Date":"20 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Everyone disses Pauly Shore, and let's be honest, it's because he's not a great actor. I first saw Bio Dome when I was a little kid, and it had moved into mythological status among me and my friends. Last night I had the good fortune of seeing it my friend had managed to downloa - uh, I mean he managed to buy it or something - and we sat down and began to enjoy.No, it's not the most intelligent or stimulating movie. No, it's not very witty. No, it's not very 'good'. On the other hand, i don't think the creators every imagined that it would be any of those things. It's a fun romp in the style of which you can expect from Pauly Shore. I think perhaps the best genre that it can be placed in is 'stoner comedy', so if you're a stoner, you'll probably crack up watching it. The creators were trying to make something fun, nothing to be taken seriously, and they pulled it off. We can't judge all movies against the Godfather (#1 of IMDBs 250 best movies list). Try imagine what they were trying to achieve, and you'll see that they did a fantastic job. So, as far as the genre is concerned, it's pretty fantastic, if a bit 'disney'. I suggest that everyone sees it at least once in their lives, if only as a pole against which to measure every other movie you see.I only hope that giving this movie a positive comment won't get me banned from IMDb... "},{"Title":"A 'mind-off beers-out' buddy movie!","Date":"18 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Word of warning - this is not a 'classic' movie. This is not a movie to discuss the hidden sociological meanings of with your English teacher for 5 hours. This is however, a good-time movie.Like I just said, to enjoy this movie best you should watch it with a group of friends and be prepared to quote it until the end of time. This is the type of comedy which appeals to people who find themselves laughing at fart jokes and rude ink stains on bits of paper. But that's not to say it is a bad film. Most of the scenes are full of movement and witty, quick dialogue, not to mention THE best fitting soundtrack. It ranges from The Safety Dance to party-pop-punk to Faith No More, but every second of music fits the video perfectly.There isn't really much else which can be said about this film other than to DEFINITELY check it out if you are into 'brainless' comedies and quoting stupid films with your friends. If you consider yourself 'intellictual' then stay well away as you wont enjoy this. "}{"Title":"KYLIE IS SO HOT!!! diminutive diva, pint sized pop princess","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I only saw this the other day when I was checking to see what the midday movie was. I am a huge Kylie fan so when i saw she was on I decided to check the movie out. (for you Americans out there she is like our version of Maddona, and had a hit over there for a couple of weeks with a Stock Aitken & waterman remix of 'Locomotion' in 1987). I'm not exactly sure why she chose to appear in this film, but i think she was going through a tough stage in her career and figured any P.R was good. That's not to say the film itself is that bad, it's trashy and very hit and miss comedy, but there are some funny moments. Having said that there are also some cringe-worthy moments that lower the standard of the whole film. Seems most people either love or hate this film, and i think i'm one of the few who thinks that it's just alright. I don't really know Pauly Shore that well, I saw him in Encino man and he wasn't to bad, but judging from some of the comments I've read he is not exactly a well liked man! judging from what i've seen i'd have to say a lot of this criticism is very harsh. He certainly has an odd style of humour, but as to whether this is stupid, slapstick comedy or unique humour with some occasional subtlety, i'm not entirely sure.P.S Go Kylie "},{"Title":"Pauly Shore and Steven Baldwin  What were you expecting?","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie follows in the footsteps of many other Pauly Shore movies lovable loser with a big heart tries to prove to the world that he can make a difference, and learns something about himself in the process.  If you walk into this (or any other Pauly Shore movie) expecting much more than that, then you are setting yourself up for disappointment.  This film does exactly what it sets out to do.  It is light entertainment!  It provides a number of chuckles, a couple of big laughs, and leaves you with a silly warm feeling at the end.  There is nothing really heavy here, as a matter of fact it pokes fun at what some people perceive to be a really heavy topic.This movie is just an excuse for silliness, and it succeeds at that just fine.  Worth renting, if you know what to expect. "},{"Title":"Taylor Negron owns","Date":"22 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Bio Dome is film about two bums who get locked inside a science experiment. Pauly Shore and Steve Baldwin do a awesome job in this movie, it has lots of stupid stuff and highjinx you expect from Shore and Co. Taylor Negron did a excellent job as the chick's mom's boyfriend Russell, you should check his other films out even Angels in the Outfield, We're out of depends, I bruised my bladder rollerblading. is a line you will remember from him, I thought this was a entertaining, fun, and ridiculous film its worth a rent if you have some spare time. "},{"Title":"Not meant to be taken seriously, people!","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is not Schindler's List and it's excellent for what it is. It's hilarious. It's entertaining. People that dis this movie for being light forget it's not meant to be a conversation piece for an intellectual salon. I think the humor is quite clever at times. Get a sense of humor!  "},{"Title":"Warning Toxins are being introduced into the rain forest","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"     This movie is the funniest comedy of all time (at least on my list).  I haven't seen this movie for years until yesterday.  I laughed all over again.   The movie is about two junior college buddies, Bud and Doyle, who, on Earth Day no less, become trapped in the Bio-Dome, an environmental experimental thing in the middle of Tusan.  Now they are trapped inside for a year and must adapt to being off their couch for more than 5 seconds. This movie is an instant classic, trust me.BEST LINES   Line 1                           DOYLE                       Bio Dome.  Does that mean it goes                       both ways?                               BUD                       I don't know, but we do.        Line 2                                           BUD                       Excuse me, miss.  Are you tired?                                MIMI                       No, why?                                 BUD                        Because you've been runnin' through my mind all                        day "},{"Title":"Actually, it was a pretty funny movie","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I kind of hate to admit it, but Bio Dome became one of my favorite movies. If you're a serious movie buff, you won't like it. But, if you're into remedial humor, you'll love it as much as I do. Bud and Doyle are kind of a juvenile version of Harry and Lloyd from Dumb and Dumber, if that helps any.The movie isn't to be taken seriously, it's one to watch with your stupid friends and drink some beer. I didn't think that I'd like this movie, as I'm not a huge fan of Pauly Shore or Stephen Baldwin, but I was hooked after the first five minutes. In fact, I've seen it several times now, and it's one of those movies that gets funnier every time I see it.  "},{"Title":"I dig it","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A great movie. Pauly Shore is so under rated it is a shame. I laugh really hard every time I see it, which is probably in the thousands by now. I really love the whole I have a lovely sack of cocoa nuts that I have altered in small way scene. I suggest you rent it right away. Or jump off of a bridge or something really awfaul out of shame for not being open enough to try this movie. "},{"Title":"I don't care what you say, this movie kicks ace!","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Before I saw this movie, my friends told me it was dumb and don't go see it. Since Pauly Shore is the king of comedy, I saw it, and my friends were very wrong, this movie is hilarious! There were some parts that Pauly Shore seemed a little homosexual, like the way he talked and stuff. But it was still hilarious. It's your basic so stupid it's funny comedy about 2 lazy bum-like people, Bud and Doyle, who mistake the Bio-Dome for a mall. and they get locked in there with 5 other scientists for a year. And then the chaos begins. I give Bio-Dome 10 stars!!!  "},{"Title":"My 1st post on IMDb..and the perfect film to comment on...","Date":"18 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'm from the UK, and although I knew who Pauly Shore was and what his particular brand of material was, having not been subjected to the overload, I wasn't worried when I saw his face on the film. It's kinda irrelevant whether his style is good or bad, funny or childish, genius or moronic...It's more that him and Stephen Baldwin are a fantastic double-act. Stephen Baldwin takes on the role of Doyle as if he were playing himself.. (hmmm..) But whatever your opinion of these two actors, there's no denying that no-one could have played Bud and Doyle so well. Two of the most lovable characters in a film in many years. Although I can personally relate *ahem* to the style of the humour this film has, having watched this film numerous times with many different friends, many of which not 100% understanding the stoner humour, I can honestly say that u don't need to fire the bong up before u watch this film..It's just plain old funny. The best description i could give to someone who's not seen it would be Dumb & Dumber with more pot and less intelligence. Not that that's a bad thing. I like to consider myself a relatively intelligent person.. But sometimes it's funny when the dumb guy falls over. -| =) |- The setting is perfect for the film too, Arizona desert, rain forest, research lab, all prime locations for some stoner mayhem. The addition of the saftey dance to this film could have been a worry, but once again, Bud & Doyle triumph because they've actually found a reason to listen to that song. and i's quite fun too. -| o.O |- Well to sum up..this is a brilliant film, but don't expect ANY smart observations or witty repartee. This is dumb and stoned and well worth a look. "},{"Title":"great movie, great soundtrack )","Date":"23 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I was surfing IMDb top lists, and tried to think of my personal top list, and suddenly came to think of Bio Dome.It's been a few years since I last saw this movie, back when it was releashed I saw the movie a dozen times. And I loved it more each time.I can see that people have very different opinions about this movie, which is easy to understand. The kind of humor in this movie requires a special audience .. And I'm just happy to be one of those special people )I'll just leave it with a 10 in the vote rating, put on the soundtrack that have been sitting in the back of my cd collection for way to long. and go and order it on DVD , to see if it's not still as funny as I remember it to be. "}{"Title":"Funniest. Film. Ever.","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Easily in my top ten movies. I don't think I went 10 minutes without laughing in this movie. Pauly Shore, far from being an incipient moron, is in fact a genius, he is so weird yet it's completely hilarious and Stephen Baldwin is unbelievably funny too. I nearly fell off my sofa at the iron man, iron man, does whatever and iron can song.The acting is not exactly Kevin Spacey standard but that's not really the point, it's Biodome, not Schindlers list. The movie is not about the acting talents of Pauly Shore and Stephen Baldwin (although Stephen Baldwin clearly is a composite actor, exemplified in films such as The Usual Suspects, the fact he can play a diverse range of roles is another testament to his competence). Its an easy going, endlessly funny film, perfect for when you wanna watch a movie but don't want some epic Hollywood visual diatribe about mankind or love or some pretentious crap like that.Go see. "},{"Title":"classic and dumb fun","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  bio dome is a stupid movie, yes i know, but the movie has something that makes you want to watch the movie over and over again.  paulie shore is really stupid but yet he is a comedic genius.  kinda like the way the iago bird from aladdin, that voice, its really annoying, but you kinda wanna know what he is going to do... doesnt that sound like the king of pop, michael jackson? ok, i am getting off the subject matter, so the two dudes are bummed out that their girlfriends dont find them interesting anymore, so they go into the dome where scientists are trying to make a perfect utopia, and live there.  that is supposed to prove to the girls that they care about the environment, and are not all about drinking and kissing.  the only catch, they are locked in there for 1 full year.  oh course, being locked with pauley shore would drive intellegent mind insane.  so that part is predictable, but you either laugh or turn off stupid humor. i just happen to laugh and keep watching.  if you cant tolerate pauley, then dont even read the cover. but if you are cool with him, like i am, then it's all good. (A A-) "},{"Title":"You poor, pathetic, uncultured, haters of comedy","Date":"18 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I feel bad for anyone that does not recognize Bio-Dome as the single greatest cinematic achievement in the history of film.  It is truly a classic comedy and will forever be remembered by the wise few who saw it for what it was when it came out Oscar worthy.  Lines like, How am I supposer to hit a double bogey with my caddy Billy with a shower iron?  Your embarasing me in front of my friends, and, If you were yogurt would you be fruit on the bottom or stirred? make Bio-Dome a trly memorabe comedic experience that has for hours at a time entertained my friends and me. Pauly Shore may be obnoxious and not that funny, but with Bio-Dome he has made art.  This piece would have redefined comedy as we know it were it not for the shortsighted critics and concieted hollywood elitists.May you someday grow a sense of humor. "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I don't know why people hate this movie. It's hysterical. I shared people's views of its stupidity but then I watched again and now I am hooked. I bought the DVD and watch it once a week! Its funny with its quick, witty 1 line jokes that you won't pick up the first time. Bud Macintosh (Pauly Shore) is wonderful in this film...I believe its one of his best. Doyle Johnson (Stephen Baldwin) also does great in the film. He in the film acts like a slow minded college student.. and he is. Him and Pauly are a great combo and both played there parts to perfection. All of my friends agree that this film deserves a perfect, flawless 10 out of 10. "}{"Title":"The best!","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I love this movie. i am a HUGE HUGE Stephen Baldwin fan and i dont think him or this movie ever get enough credit..sure Pauley Shores in it but really its not that bad. I love this movie so much i could do all the dialect to it at any time.I really funny especially if you get the inside jokes since ive been watching movie my whole life i have knowledge of other ones which are incorporated in it. I think that if you like Stephen and are looking for some comedy you should watch this movie. "},{"Title":"It's not meant to be taken seriously!","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  All you movie buffs that think your sooo good at reviewing movies are wrong. This movie is great and a classic. It is the perfect spoof and only a but munch would take it serioulsy. BLAH, BLAH   IT IS GOOD "},{"Title":"So weird, so fun!","Date":"23 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This might not be the kind of movie that gets all the prices at award-shows, but it sure is one of the best movies i've seen, and i've seen it quite a couple of times ) The memorable quotes list can include almost half of the lines in the movie. Bud and Doyle are so stupid, yet so smart, and so funny - it gets even more funny every time you watch it, i really recommend it! .. but when will it be available on DVD!? "},{"Title":"A great comedy.  One you can just watch over and over again.","Date":"23 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm sorry.. I know there are a lot of people out there that don't like these types of movies.  But while most people would classify this movie as low brow, I call it uproarious.  It doesn't lag even the slightest, as a lot of low brow movies do.  It's solid, non-stop hilarity.  This is one of 3 or 4 movies (Airheads being another) that I can watch over and over again and never get tired of it.  If what you want is laughs, and just an over-all good time, check this out. "},{"Title":"IF ALL LIFE ON EARTH DEPENDED ON JUST TWO PEOPLE----- LETS HOPE THEY ARE BUD AND DOYLE!","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When I first heard of the real scientific experiment; I understood the value and need for such serious, work and learning. This film shows us how to have success, fun, failure, hard work and more success and fun and help save the ecology all at the same time. And quite safely to I might add.I found many parts of the film very silly, but without those parts, the comedy would have lessened for the tensions where strung very well. By the end of the film I too had come to love our to ecologists for a year. And face it. Anyone who can Whoudinie a back door for a awesome party can't be all bad!Once again I found myself hypnotized by the stunning vision of womanhood that Patricia Hearst casts. Again combining short vignettes, with the utmost ability to move the audience to feel her characters emotions and reactions.  Ever growing and learning to perfection.Another movie I will see again with great enjoyment.D.A.T.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant just brilliant","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Pauly Shore has definitely done it again. This movie stands out to be one of his funniest ever. Stephen Baldwin and him make a hilarious duo. They both handle their roles so great and can easily make you laugh at any moment during the movie. Another great character in the movie that is usually overlooked is the mad scientist type guy played by William Atherton. He actually provides some laughs too. If you want to see a movie with Pauly Shore at his best than go out and rent Bio Dome, or better yet buy it. "},{"Title":"This movie is the bomb!!","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I love this movie! It is so funny (even for Pauly Shore)!  I have to admit, I am not a big fan of Pauly Shore, but I really loved this movie!!  I think the plot itself is hilarious- two morons get locked in a sophisticated bio-dome and reak havoc.  And yet, no one likes it.  Why?  Just because Pauly Shore has a bad rap as a freak who has no talent?  If you actually sat down and watched the movie, I bet a lot of people would end up laughing a lot more than they thought they would.   "},{"Title":"Viva las Bio-Dome","Date":"5 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Bio-dome is the best movie ever made. I have seen this movie for about 30 times and it is still funny. If you like the humor of Paully Shore then you have to see this one. "},{"Title":"Destined to become a classic. Yeah, I wish.","Date":"21 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Bio-Dome has got to be the funniest movie ever made. Shore and Baldwin are awesome in their roles as Bud and Doyle. William Atherton is also good in his role as the evil mad scientist type guy. This movie isn't recommended for those who think teen comedies suck, though. Those of you who like those kind of movies, it will make you stand up at the end and do the tribal.  "},{"Title":"squuuiiirreeellllyyyy","Date":"25 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Only haters and old people review movies. I had to make an account to say that the movie didn't get worse, they just got older and forgot how to laugh at dumb things.Bio-dome is an awesome stoner comedy to watch with your friends as are all of Pauly Shore's movies. Squuuuiiirreeelllyyyyy!!!!So don't listen to all these reviews, you can even tell by how they type how lame of a person they are. It's funny all the haters come on to review movies that weren't made for them. The only reason the movie doesn't have better reviews is because people that enjoy these films are too busy out having fun with life and not writing bad things about everything they didn't enjoy online. "}{"Title":"Destined to become a classic. Yeah, I wish.","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie rocks. It was the funniest movie I've ever seen. It was awesome. Shore and Baldwin are spectacularly funny as Bud and Doyle. William Atherton has his own moments too as the psycho mad scientist type guy. Almost all the girls in this movie were hot. If teenagers ruled the movie industry this would definitely become a classic.  "}]