[{"Title":"Werewolf vs. Lassie???","Date":"10 December 2004","Score":"18 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Despite what you might think after reading my title, I quite liked Bad Moon. It's good for a werewolf movie even though I sometimes had the feeling I was watching an episode of Lassie rather than a movie about a werewolf.A man and his girlfriend, both American scientists on an expedition somewhere in the jungle of India, were attacked by a werewolf. He manages to survive the attack and knows to kill the animal, but his girlfriend has already been ripped to pieces and died a horrible death. Even though he survived the werewolf wounded him badly and now he's a werewolf himself. Despite popular believe, the man doesn't only turn into a werewolf at full moon. He becomes one every night and there is no cure. His only hope is his sister and her son. He hopes that the love of his family will cure him from his disease.As I already said Bad Moon is an enjoyable movie. Especially the morphing technique (when you actually see him turn into a werewolf) is cool to watch. The story may not always be the very original, it still does the trick. The same for the acting. There is nothing spectacular about it, but it is very decent and believable. I give this movie a 6,5/10. "},{"Title":"Highly Underrated Werewolf Film","Date":"19 June 2014","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Bad Moon is a sorely underrated werewolf film that is like hidden treasure for werewolf and horror movie enthusiasts.I watched Bad Moon a few years back and did not expect it to become one of my favorite werewolf films - but it did. Maybe it helped because I like both Michael Paré (Eddie and the Cruisers) and Mariel Hemingway (Star 80) but maybe anyone could have acted out the parts and I would have still enjoyed Bad Moon anyway.If you are looking for modern-day, high dollar movie with tons of CGI effects - then this movie may not be for you. Bad Moon uses old school special effects that I still love to this very day.This is one of those movies I would enjoy watching again on a dark, rainy night with popcorn in hand.9.5/10 "},{"Title":"An enjoyable hour and twenty minutes","Date":"9 December 2004","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I was positively impressed with just how well done the transformation into the werewolf was done. I am very familiar with werewolf movies from the ones done by Lon Chaney Jr. to the present day and this one was pretty effective. The plot was standard, but just how much can one change the werewolf saga? A good man is against his will unfortunately transformed into a murderous creature of the night, and even though he tries his best to control his urges, it is all to no avail, and in the end someone close to him has to end his bloody reign of terror. The acting by the principles was reasonable, and yes the German Shepherd, Thor, did steal the show, but again, so what? I would even enjoy watching it again! "},{"Title":"Thor hammers it out with the big dog.","Date":"22 July 2010","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Just as you shouldn't judge a book by its cover, try not to judge a movie by its pre-credits sequence. I was actually groaning aloud while witnessing the bad acting on display as soon as this movie opened. And things looked like they were about to get a hell of a lot worse with a sub-Showgirls moment of unerotic, sexual writhing. Then a werewolf appeared and some blood was thrown around . . . . and my interest was piqued once again.Moving on from that, Bad Moon introduces the viewer to Janet (Mariel Hemmingway), her son Brett (Mason Gamble aka the boy who was Dennis on screen) and their loyal dog, Thor. Into this small unit comes Janet's brother Ted (Michael Pare), the man involved in the opening unerotic, sexual writhing and werewolf carnage. Thor doesn't really like Ted and it's not too long until everyone, apart from those on screen, knows exactly where the animosity springs from.Director Eric Red is not a bad guy. He's provided those who saw it with the brilliance of Cohen & Tate and he also wrote The Hitcher, a long-time favourite of mine. But here, perhaps because he's adapting from the source novel named Thor by Wayne Smith, he feels a little boxed in and restrained. Seeing the title of the source material on screen certainly prepares the viewer for the focus of the movie as the brave family dog goes about the business of trying to keep loved ones safe. The film plays out like some Joe Dante-infused blend of Cat's Eye, Fluke and Silver Bullet which hinders it initially but then makes for a snappy, and highly enjoyable, second half.Acting aside, as it's frankly not worth mentioning anyway, we can judge this first and foremost as a creature feature. In that respect, does it deliver something worth seeing? I'd have to say that it does. Mixing practical make-up, camera trickery and some nice little tricks and cheats here and there, the main beastie is both handsome (in a beastly way) and ferocious. It may not be up there with the best that this particular subgenre has to offer but it's no pathetic piñata either.So, in summation, the movie overcomes many faults to be something enjoyable and worthy of inclusion in anyone's nostalgic list of movies they inexplicably enjoy. Thanks to the creature design and one solid performance from the canine lead it's a surprisingly sweet-centred horror movie that, strangely enough, perhaps could have used a little less blood on screen to gain some broader appeal (and I never thought I would use THAT sentence in my reviews). "},{"Title":"Decent enough werewolf flick","Date":"20 April 2005","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The problem with werewolf movies is that there's so few good ones. Since the dawn of the millennium, we've had two good ones; Ginger Snaps and Dog Soldiers, and then there's the 80's duo of An American Werewolf in London and The Howling, not to mention the Universal and Hammer takes on the legend...but seriously, the werewolf tale is a classic story and it deserves more good films than just the aforementioned. Bad Moon, while certainly not a bad take on the story, is hardly one to add to the illusive list of good ones; but it's still an enjoyable ride for the werewolf fan. It has all the elements to be a success; decent effects, a change sequence, some interesting characters and even a bit about the legend itself. We follow Uncle Ted; a man that has been bitten by a werewolf and decides to go and stay with his sister and her son, in order to beat the curse with family love. However, one thing he hasn't counted on is the family dog; Thor, who could end up being the family's one last hope of survival.The special effects in a werewolf film are very important as the monster is the centre of the tale, and bad effects can easily bring a whole movie down. This movie is lucky enough not to suffer from bad effects and while the wolf isn't exactly lifelike; it looks good enough and it also appears in the film quite often, which is a nice bonus. The change sequence is a little suspect and has nothing on the change scenes in the werewolf films of the 80's, but it's always good to see in a film of this kind. Aside from the werewolf element, Bad Moon also draws on the idea of a strange uncle invading a film home for it's scares, and the idea works quite well. Another idea that works better than I thought it would is having the main hero be a canine. Dogs are sensitive animals, and the film also draws on the idea of a dog wanting to protect the family home from threats. It's also admirable how they managed to get the dog to certain things for the camera, as I imagine that sort of thing wouldn't be easy. While this film isn't a great example of a take on the werewolf legend, it's entertaining and I reckon that people who like werewolf movies will find lots to like about it. "},{"Title":"Interesting twist on standard werewolf tale","Date":"26 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" You have a good life. Nice home, nice yard. But one day a relative comes to visit, and you know something's not right about him. You come to find out he's a werewolf. The only problem is, you're the only one who knows. And you're a dog.Werewolves are one of those monsters that come and go in films. After a decade which saw the release of many good werewolf films (the 1980s), there just weren't many films about them in the 1990s. Bad Moon is one of the few good ones that were made during this period. Not an outstanding film by any stretch, but a fun film nonetheless. It features an excellent performance by a German Shepherd as the protagonist, Thor. Worth a look if you're a fan of the genre. Probably not very exciting if you're not. "},{"Title":"Dog Bites Werewolf","Date":"25 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" ****SPOILERS**** At the start of the movie Bad Moon Janet,Mariel Hemingway, is harassed by this two-bit shyster Flopsy, Hrothgar Mathews, who's trying to make a quick buck by inciting Janet's and her young son Brett,Mason Gamble, handsome smart and courageous German Shepherd Thor on him in order to sue her for everything that she's got. Thor has Flopsy running for his life with his tail between his legs and threatening to report her and Thor to the local sheriff. Later Janet gets a call from her brother Ted, Michael Pare,who's been away for a while on the Indian sub-continent with his fellow archaeologist and girlfriend Marjorie, Johanna Lebovitz. Janet is more then happy to invite Ted to stay with her not knowing that Ted had picked up a little something in the wilderness of Tibet; a vicious wolf bite when he and Marjorie were attacked in their tent by a wolf-like animal that tore Marjorie to pieces and left Ted barely alive.At the house Thor senses that there's something strange about Ted and Ted knows it. Thor's got the drop on Ted for what he really is. Thor being civil doesn't let on to Janet and Brett who Ted really is in order not to spoil the family get-together but keeps a close eye on Ted to the point where one night he follows him into the woods and sees what he really is, A Werewolf.Ted to his credit does try to prevent himself from going out in the woods at night, when there's a full moon, and killing both people and animals by handcuffing himself to a tree in the forest. This doesn't work all the time with Ted breaking loose and attacking and killing a number of campers and neighbors.One night Flopsy sneaks onto Thor's dog-house with an ax in order to kill him for making a fool out of him by showing him up for what he really is a coward and chiseler. Flopsy instead of finding Thor is found by Ted, in his werewolf mode, and ripped to shreds. Sheriff Jenson, Ken Pogue, who Flopsy reported that he was attacked by Thor earlier in the movie has the local ASPCA take Thor to the dog-pound to be euthanized for the suspected killing of Flopsy. With both Janet and Brett alone and Thor not being around to protect them Ted again turns into a werewolf at moonlight. Janet follows Ted into the woods to see just what he's been doing all those nights that he's been away from the house and, seeing him for what he really is, gets the shock of her life. Ted chasing Janet into the house while Brett, who left earlier, drives with his bike to the pound and saves Thor from being killed by letting him loose. Thor immediately shoots right to the house, almost getting himself killed in the heavy traffic on the country roads, where Janet is being attacked and fighting off the man-turned-beast Ted.Taking on the much bigger and more powerful werewolf Thor's courage and valor more then makes up for Ted's strength and ferocity. With the help of Janet blasting Ted with a full load of lead from her handgun Thor, injured and bleeding, then slams Ted right out of a top floor window killing him. Thor who was on death-row just hours before ended up saving the day, or was it the night, as well as both Janet and Brett lives.Bad Moon is a pretty good dog coming to the rescue film with Thor stealing every scene, as well as bone, that he was in. The one thing that puzzled me about the hero of the movie, Thor, was what happened to him after he was savagely bitten and mauled by the werewolf? shouldn't he have also turned into a werewolf himself like Ted did or are werewolf bites only effective on humans not animals when it comes to making then into beasts! The answer may be that Thor being a dog he can't be effected by any werewolves bites since he's, I know this is very hard to believe, a beast already? "},{"Title":"Dog owners, avoid this flick","Date":"8 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" As a dog owner, I'm disgusted with how the Shepherd's behavior is shown in this movie. Even more so, the dog is super annoying with his scripted human-like intelligence.A dog is never as smart as a human and a dog seeing open shackles laying on the ground and promptly turning tails and running is just laughable stupid.The dog doesn't behave. Not even a bit. Allowing him to jump up the door or other people is a very bad habit and shouldn't be tolerated from the owner.Having to call the Shepherd over and over without him reacting is even worse. A dog refusing to obey is a dominant alpha and not a family pet. Even more so, Thor wasn't protecting his flock, he terrorized it. He did what he wanted (because the dog was the boss) and that's going to end up very dangerous with a real family in real life. When will Hollywood start hiring writers who actually have a pet and know how it has to be trained to be a good family companion, and, even better, when will they stop humanizing animals behavior-wise? I was actually relieved when Thor was taken away. And I would've loved to smack the brat one over his ears. What a snotty, unpleasant kid.The movie itself was boring and mostly frustrating due to the pesky dog and the ill mannered sister. Rummaging around someone else's property, even if it's the brother, is really bad. If that would've happened to me, I would be seriously offended.The werewolf tricks weren't really that good, tbh. And the story was uneventful and lame. "},{"Title":"A Decent Werewolf Film","Date":"6 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie begins in a jungle near Nepal with a photo-journalist named Ted (Michael Pare) and his girlfriend Marjorie (Johanna Marlowe) in the process making love at night in a tent. Suddenly, Marjorie is snatched from the tent and ripped to shreds by a huge werewolf. Although Ted shoots and kills the werewolf, he is injured in the process. A few months later Ted is camping in the Pacific Northwest and calls his sister Janet (Mariel Hemingway) who invites him to stay awhile with her and her son Brett (Mason Gamble). Also living with them is a German Shepard named Thor (Primo) who after a time begins to sense something is not quite right with Ted. Meanwhile, the authorities are on the lookout for a large predatory animal that has killed several outdoorsmen and remains at large. Now rather than reveal any more of this film I will just say that it certainly had its moments. The actors all played their parts well enough and the inclusion of the German Shepard in a film of this type was especially unique. Likewise, Mariel Hemingway certainly didn't hurt the scenery in any way either. In any case, I liked the movie for the most part and I have rated it accordingly. Slightly above average. "},{"Title":"Bad Moon (5/10)","Date":"29 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" There aren't a lot of horror movies, if any, with this children's premise of having an animal be the strong, sympathetic, main lead character. No joke too, the storyline was based around the pooch, the dog having the most screen time, a defiant personality and interaction with all the characters in the movie. Although the movie feels like a kid's movie at points, it's definitely not, having a graphic sex scene and some very gory kill shots. This odd fusion of genres is probably why Bad Moon hit theaters with such moderate success.Bad Moon is also different for its incredibly short run-time of just being over eighty minutes long, it does go by quickly and scenes that are shown are meaningful. The introduction is great, starts to fall apart in the middle but eventually saves itself close to the end. What is absolutely disgusting about the film is the horrible transformation scene that is quite possibly the worst I have ever seen in a werewolf movie, it was really, really bad. Bad Moon is certainly original but by no means a great werewolf film, probably wise to skip it. "}{"Title":"this was only half done","Date":"3 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie is a wonderful example of 90s monster horror. had I seen this movie when it first came out, I would of been scared poop-less(granted I would of only been 8) but seeing it nearly 20 years later its comes in at pretty campy. The Acting Out of the two stars I give for acting. it receives one 1. Convincing. Not award winning.Plot Out of the three stars I give for plot, this earned 2. Believable. Entertaining. But not too original.Special Effects The special effects are pretty good for 1996. No use of CGI gives the movie the feel that I think helps it stand the test of time. Even though I do not believe it meets my standard to get the star in SFX "},{"Title":"Canine vs Lycanthrope.","Date":"29 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Wildlife film-maker Ted (Michael Paré) and his tasty girlfriend Marjorie (Johanna Marlowe) are happily having it off in their jungle tent when they are rudely interrupted by a massive werewolf that proceeds to savage the naked woman with its massive jaws and slash at the poor bloke with its razor-sharp claws. Too late to save his lover, a wounded Ted grabs his shotgun and blows the creature's head off in a welter of gore.Sexy, bloody, and with one hell of an impressive looking monster, writer/director Eric Red's opening scene to Bad Moon is a real corker, which makes it all the more frustrating when the film settles into a more mundane mode, Ted having a hairy time of it coming to terms with being a lycanthrope while putting those he loves most in mortal danger. Thankfully, a couple of cool kills by the gnarly werewolf keep the film ticking along until the fun finalé, in which loyal hound Thor (talented German Shepherd Primo, who puts in the best performance of the film) risks his life to protect Ted's sister Janet (Mariel Hemingway) and her son Brett (Mason Gamble) from being eaten alive by the beast. "},{"Title":"Good Adaptation of an Excellent Novel","Date":"3 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A movie called Bad Moon has to be a werewolf flick, and in fact director Eric Red has crafted a very good one from writer Wayne Smith's book about a Gerhman shepherd and the werewolf who infiltrates his family...er, Pack. Red trims the Pack down to a single Mom (Marielle Hemingway) and her young son (Mason Gamble), but otherwise retains most of the original story. Thor, apparently played by a dog named Primo, is still the hero of the story, though Red (perhaps wisely) doesn't really attempt to duplicate Smith's original feat of telling most of the tale from the dog's point of view. Even so, Thor is central to the plot and Red does a good job of orchestrating the movie's unfolding events so that even if the humans have to carry most of the dramatic weight, Thor's presence and involvement are always underscored. The overall quality of a modern werewolf film depends in large part upon how well the creature comes to life, and in this regard Bad Moon does not disappoint. The werewolf is both frightening and realistic looking, and while it's a bit more wolf-like than the more humanoid creature described in the source novel, it's a terrific piece of FX work. Actor Michael Pare does a good job with the ambiguous role of Uncle Ted, who like most werewolves doesn't really want to be a monster and tries to protect his sister and nephew from himself as long as possible. Naturally, Ted's efforts are for naught, and in the end it all comes down to a fight to the finish between the seemingly invincible werewolf and the loyal Thor. At times Red's script does falter a bit and the film probably never reaches the level of Dog Soldiers or The Wolf Man, but all the same it's a very entertaining creature feature with some great cinematography, a neat monster, and a touching protagonist who is more human than most people I know. There's even a brief clip from the original werewolf film, Werewolf of London. What more do you need? "},{"Title":"One Of The Better Werewolf Movies Out There","Date":"19 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Bad Moon is one of the better werewolf films out there. It seems like good werewolf movies are hard to come by these days (except for a small handful). I enjoyed this film from the opening scene to the very end. And to have a dog cast as the main character is brilliant! The other characters hold their own too, but Thor (the dog) steals the show and ultimately becomes the hero.A photojournalist falls victim to a werewolf's bite, and he in turn, obviously ends up with the curse. Then, when he moves his camper home to his sister's property, Thor can sense the presence of another canine and shows so by the way he reacts to him. Uncle Ted (werewolf) doesn't care much for Thor either, as they both see each other as a threat. As the story continues and the drama unfolds, Uncle Ted can no longer control the beast within and it ends in a bloody fight between man-beast and Thor.Bad Moon is a very entertaining werewolf flick that should not be missed. I would say this is probably in my top 10 werewolf films of all time. Check it out!!! "},{"Title":"good dog!","Date":"28 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The dog is really good; steals the picture.The kid is fairly annoying but not worse than most child actors. Hiring Miss Hemingway for a wolfman picture seems perfectly natural; with that unibrow, she could have played the lead.Michael Pare works constantly, and I always like him, even though he never became a big star.My one complaint By time-honored tradition, we're entitled to a nude scene for the actor playing the wolfman, every time he transforms back into a human. There are two re-transformation scenes in this movie. Michael Pare has no fear of doing nude scenes (cruise his credit list), but we only get one. The first time, he's just shirtless. I call shenanigans on that.The movie is a bi t hard on tennis shoes. The scene where Pare gives the dog some territorial payback is amusing; it almost makes up for the cheesiness of the human-to-werewolf transformation scene. But then, those almost always are cheesy, right? "},{"Title":"Not a bad movie actually...","Date":"20 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Bad Moon, mm&#133; I don't know why the heck they had to change the title to that when the original source was a novel named Thor. I wouldn't totally agree with what other users had to say about the movie but hey, everyone has their own tastes.Now with the movie. It was done exceptionally well, quite entertaining actually. Although it may not have fabulous script and effects of American Werewolf In London, it does have some moments that you would enjoy. Of all the werewolf movies I have seen up until now, I would say this movie has an out standing werewolf the way it looks and sounds was just great, realistic I would say for that time (and still is). I would agree on one thing that another user mentioned that cast was limited, I mean just 3 people and a dog wasn't enough, they should have added more characters. Transformation from man to werewolf wasn't an A+ either, since it depended on CGI, but it was nice enough and at a point funny too. Story was simple enough, I don't think you'll be left with any unanswered questions. Acting was good, least in my view. All in all a nice entertaining movie, so if you need to pass few hours at night this movie wouldn't be too bad.I would give it a 7 / 10, mostly because I like the werewolf in it ;P. "},{"Title":"second-guessing","Date":"10 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" OK, so how many werewolf movies can there be? There's really nothing new here. Man gets bitten, grows fangs and fur whenever there's a full moon - especially since the full moon happens night after night after night. In this case, the lycanthrope is Ted (Michael Pare), who moves in with his sister Janet (Mariel Hemingway), and mysteriously goes jogging every night. Moreover, there's several totally predictable scenes throughout the movie.Truth be told, Bad Moon isn't really harming anything. Werewolf movies are always a good way to pass time, although Wolf elaborated on the idea. It's just that this is nothing that we haven't seen so many times before. And if I recall, this came out right after I saw An American Werewolf in London on TV (you may remember that it used Creedence Clearwater Revival's song Bad Moon Rising). But this doesn't reach the standards set by that movie or by Wolf. "},{"Title":"Thor made the movie.","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I think this film fits somewhere in the top 10 werewolf movies(that I've seen). One thing I really liked was they didn't ruin the werewolf by making it with awful computer graphics(CG). Don't get me wrong, CG is great as long as its good(eg.Lord of the Rings)etc. I also thought the dog Thor made the movie even better. It wouldn't of been the same without Thor. The movie seemed a little on the low budget side, but it didn't matter at all. Where the film takes place, and the storyline of the movie, they didn't need a high budget.If they would of had a higher budget they most likely would of ended up ruining it. Get ready to jump out of seat a few times. All in all it was a good flick. "},{"Title":"Not bad, not bad at all","Date":"4 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" How many good werewolf films were released in the 90's? Not many, Right. Well this was one of the few.The film begins with a very well done opening sequence in which a fornicating couple is attacked by a giant hairy beast. The beasts head us subsequently shot off. The man escapes with a few cuts but the woman was savagely mauled to death. Later on we re-join the man as he has his sister, nephew and their dog over for a visit. The dog is instantly suspicious of the man (whom of course is now a werewolf after surviving an attack by one) but the others don't suspect a thing. After some mangled corpses are found around the mans house (trailer) he decides to move to his sisters and thus begins the heart pounding tale of Dog VS Werewolf! This movie isn't anything special and really isn't that great as a movie in general but it's one of the better werewolf films around and one of the best werewolf films out of the 90's.The performances from Michael Pare and Mariel Hemingway as the werewolf and his sister are both about average but the standout performance in the movie comes from the Dog portraying Thor. Best canine performance in werewolf cinema history by far! And I love the fact that the lead character is a dog.The werewolf itself is totally badass. Its head it quite obviously robotic but it's still a great design. The eyes are downright frightening and it's a hulking, hairy, wolf snouted beast as a werewolf should be.The attack sequences are savage and violent. The opening scene is one of the most brutal werewolf attack put to film. There are also one or two very suspenseful scenes with great atmosphere. The woods are rarely as frightening as in this film.It moves along at a very quick, breezy pace at only 75 minutes which is a very good thing; this movie wouldn't have worked as well if it got bogged down with silly subplots.The film has its share of problems of course. When the dog and werewolf finally do go head to head it just comes off as silly. The kid playing the Michael Pares nephew (also known as Dennis the Menace) is just plain annoying.Overall this is a good light horror film; I highly recommend it to all werewolf fans. You might want to check out the book too; Thor by Wayne Smith. "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"3 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The movie is very entertaining and has the look shared by Thor the dog (Primo) and uncle Ted played by Michael Pare. Good action, very good opening and better ending. The movie itself is the story of a man by day, wolf at night and the consequences that this cause. It is not new, was done before but is entertaining, short and has a scene of sex. The dog is far the best of the film. Good performances delivered Pare, Mariel Hemingway and Mason Gamble (Janet the mother and Brett the son). 7/10.Andres. "}{"Title":"A decent effort, much better than the Howling sequels.","Date":"26 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" For being a mid 90's low budget werewolf movie, BAD MOON is entertaining and that's the best thing about it. The gore is plenty here and that's a plus because most horror films released by the time of BAD MOON weren't that gory. I think this one came months before the SCREAM era began. The Werewolf is mean and impressive, just right for the movie. The acting is bad but it isn't that noticed. The make up and kills are good and deliver expectations for these kind of films.*SPOILERS* Before the opening credits the big bad Werewolf introduces to the audience by performing a well made gruesome kill. Marjorie (a hottie) is slashed, torn, and booted by the villain while having sex. . Her boyfriend shoots and apparently kills the werewolf. Too bad Marjorie died she was good to watch.The wolf terrorizes a family that lives in a cabin by the woods and that's the main premise of the movie. At the end the wolf is beaten by the boy's dog in a brutal battle. Entertaining gory stuff to watch. Recommended only for fans of the genre.5/10 "},{"Title":"Very good werewolf flick","Date":"31 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I have to say that this is probably one of the best werewolf flicks of the nineties maybe even in the top 3 of course when 01' rolled around we got Ginger snaps and then Dog soldiers in 02' but in the nineties there wasn't much werewolf action.Anyways this movie is very good and very underrated. It's strait forward horror it doesn't try to be anything else. It's short only 74 minutes I think and that a good thing because movies like this shouldn't be long. This is a straightforward horror film and its great for what it is. The end when he's changing in the woods was very suspenseful and when the surveyor bites it that was just awesome. Another good thing about this movie is the werewolf itself it's a great looking werewolf even though it's obviously animatronics but still badass and scary looking especially the eyes.One bad thing is the crappy CG transformation it was laughably bad.In conclusion this movie isn't groundbreaking but its fun scary entertaining horror that is well worth a rent.  "},{"Title":"Clarifications, and virtues","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Bad Moon 1996, is NOT a straight to video movie. This flick about a reluctant werewolf actually hit theatres in late 1996 to dismal box office and dismal reviews. I personally enjoy bad moon for several reasons. I enjoy Micheal Pare's performance, although erratic at points, he carries the lead well. The size of the werewolf, too many times in werewolf flicks, the wolves are more like men than animals in stature. But in this movie, there is a perfect blend of human and animal size and movement. And finally, he's a white wolf, i repeat a white wolf. I love this movie for going against the grain and showcasing a white wolf, if the rest of the movie was completely awful, watch it once to see the white wolf. There are also elements of this flick i hate. Mariel Hemingway is stiffer than Gray Davis in this movie, not to mention the dog. Okay don't get me wrong i like dog's, the dogs performance, but to me it's an insult to horror fans and werewolf fans alike that a damn german shepard can kill a full grown werewolf! I hate to say it, but it's just not realistic. That goes way beyond suspension of disbelief.  two and a half stars "},{"Title":"No, seriously...","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  As far as werewolf flicks go, Bad Moon is pretty good.  While the plot is a bit thin, the performances of Hemingway and Pare are admirable.  However, the best performance of the movie has to be Primo (as Thor).  Lassie doesn't have Jack on Primo.  Believable acting from animals is exceptionally rare, but Primo nails his role as family pet and Pare's rival for alpha male status. All in all, Bad Moon is worth a look, especially if your into wolfman movies. "},{"Title":"Awful Moon","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The first half hour of the movie is not that bad, I kinda enjoyed it. After the first hour, the movie turns terrible and boring. The acting is quite good, and that may be the best thing about this terrible werewolf movie. *Spoilers* The ending is as cheesy as possible, I mean how could the dog beat the hell out of the big bad hungry werewolf?! Beyond reason. I guess that the mom shooting at the werewolf would've worked as a better ending. *End of spoilers* Watch BADMOON for  some mindless entertainment, if y watch it do it at midnight or past it when your brain cells are about to get some rest so you'll forget about this one...2/10 -After watching it, immediately boot it to the trash can! "},{"Title":"Okay with what they had","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This strikes me as a solid straight to video effort -- though if anyone had any delusions that it would do well in theatres, I think they were sorely mistaken.  It seems to have been done on a very low budget -- most of the scenes occur in the home of lawyer Mariel Hemingway, or out in the north California woods, with a few in a trailer owned by brother Michael Pare.  What money they had probably went into the animatronic wolf, since they apparently didn't hire a script writer, or maybe they got one for free from a film school.  The plot, such as it is, doesn't have much in the way of traditional tension building; we know exactly who the werewolf is, and why he became that way, from the very beginning.  There are a lot of long meaningful stares between Pare and the family dog, german shepherd Thor, who, being a canine cousin, knows exactly what the wolf is upto.  There are numerous children's movies with dogs as the lead actor (the Benji series comes to mind), but not that many adult oriented ones and there may be a reason -- they're boring when not being cute.Pare, not known for being a very good actor, puts in a pretty good performance here -- he communicates a fairly decent sense of desperation and self loathing.  Mariel Hemingway, on the other hand, sort of seems like she needed a few more takes to get it right and maybe they didn't have the money to keep the set going.  If that's not the case, then she basically just phoned it in, not much there, while the kid is not quite as annoying as other cutesy child actors, his haircut seems weird where the character is mostly bland.  Not a terrible way to waste not quite an hour and a half, maybe on a rainy afternoon, or late at night when nothing else is on, but don't make a trip to the vid store expressly for this -- there are other better horror movies out there.   "},{"Title":"Good Werewolf movie abandoned at doorstep","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*I remember when this movie came out, the only advertising I saw for it was this cool poster in the movie theater lobby. I was walking out of a movie on Thursday night and there was a poster for a werewolf movie coming out tomorrow. I was in shock. Why had I not heard about this movie before? Who was in charge of this marketing disaster? Bad Moon was left to die a horrible death. It had to gamble on how many horror fans caught it's poster before they yanked it. Tragic.So I caught the movie the following week and was ready for some werewolf action. There had been a huge drought of these kinds of films and I needed a heavy drink. Before the movie started a woman wandered into the theater and asked me, What's this movie about?. I stood up and proudly told her, It's a werewolf movie about a werewolf!! She shrugged her shoulders and sat down. So Bad Moon had to hope for patrons getting lost on the way to other movies. More tragedy.The movie began and dang it, I liked it! Now Bad Moon doesn't have what one would call a complicated story. The wayward brother becomes a werewolf and moves in with his sister. That's it. But the werewolf makeup was great and the kills were fantastic. The hot babe who gets it at the beginning was appropriately bloody and, of course, the big climax scene with Thor was great. As werewolf movies go, it was a good one. I wish the powers that be had shown it a little more love in releasing it. It needed it.  "},{"Title":"Not bad, not bad at all","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Honestly, I don't know what some people expect from werewolf movies these days. -They can't be as good as The Howling or An American Werewolf In London all of them, you know. This one at least tries to give us a decent werewolf film, and I think it (largely) succeeds. Some reviewers complain about there being too much CGI in this movie, but as far as I can tell, there is only a tiny bit. When the werewolf is seen full body, hey, that's not CGI it's real hairy make-up !. -Isn't that what we're all screaming we want back in movies ?. Sure it is, and here it is. As werewolf movies go this is a pretty good little movie. Little actually being the keyword there, because if there's a problem with this movie it's the running time. -I mean, 79 minutes, come on !. That's way too short. It doesn't look to me like it was cut down though, I fear they just didn't shoot anymore than what's on screen otherwise the DVD would've included outtakes, I'm sure. I wonder why it's so short, it doesn't make any sense, afterall you want beastly action in a creature feature like this. What this movie needs to be really great, are some more werewolf attack scenes, alas, we get only a couple when just a single one more kill would've done the trick. Oh well, it's still a good werewolf movie and there's even a clip on a TV-screen from Universal's Werewolf Of London (1935) with Henry Hull. The beast itself in Bad Moon is great looking, a bit like the creature in Silver Bullet. All in all a fine flick, we should be happy they even make werewolf movies anymore. I guess it's true what they say; legends never die, no matter how oldfashioned the subject. -Just stay away from CGI; a guy in a suit will do nicely, thank you.  "},{"Title":"NOTHING GREAT...","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I saw this film from the TV some time ago. I didnt wait anything but the film was pretty entertaining. The plot wasnt great (Man chancing in to a Werewolf... Have seen this before...??!!) but the movie had couple of really spooky scenes. Spooky enough to make me keep on watching anyway.But Bad Moon still is nothing else but a normal horror film with little creeps. When I turned out the TV I had already forgotten what the movie was about! There just arent anything... that would amaze you or... something that would make it unforgettable. Everything feels familiar and already seen. Nothing else but entertainment for rainy Saturday evenings. 4/10      "},{"Title":"Dog eat dog world.","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The normally stoic Michael Pare' gives a surprisingly effective performance as uncle Ted. A photo journalist who while on assignment in the orient is bitten by a white werewolf.After months of attempted self cures for his newfound affliction fail he foolishly reasons the purifying effects of family love will help drive his beastial otherhalf into remission. What Teddy boy does not realize is that his wolf side is driving him home. For as all good werewolf fans know the inner beast lives to destroy those it loves best. Arriving home, Ted's wolfish alterego discovers his path of destruction is barred by a surprisingly resourceful and highly protective family pet. A 102 lbs german shepard named Thor. The second half of the 90 minute film is a nifty fang vs fang battle. Will the werewolf enjoy a family feast????? Or will Thor drop the hammer on the wolfish uncle Ted????The effects of the film have gotten grilled by many critics because of the limited use of computerized meshing. But the costume of the beast is pretty convincing. And I defy anyone not to cheer for the valiant Thor as he battles both the human cunning of Ted as well a inhuman strength of the werewolf. "}{"Title":"Good Movie.","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This has to be the best werewolf movie since Silver Bullet.  It starts out with a bad a** beginning, after that the story and action kicks in.  Now the whole movie isn't filled with non stop action but has some pretty intense scenes of violence.  If you want a good werewolf movie rent this.  9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Decent","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Bad Moon is a decent horror movie, but unlike some other people I think using the dog as a main character was stupid. In the end of the movie when the werewolf attacks the family the dog holds him at bay and protects the kid and mom. The dog would be torn to shreds in seconds if it really got into a fight with a werewolf. "},{"Title":"Rates as one of the BEST werewolf pics","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I saw this film at Atlanta's Lenox Mall in 1996 while in that city on business.  I fell in love with it then. . .Thor, the hero, beats Rin-Tin-Tin and Lassie as the most effective and believable movie dog in history.  Never do I find Thor looking off camera to its trainer for direction. . .and my own German Shepherd, who died in June of 96 after a very long life, could have played the role of Thor--he had the same intelligence that all Shepherds have!!Now, as far as the werewolf effects go. . .of course, there's no reason to consider the Universal Wolf Man pics, nor even the Hammer films.  For great werewolf transformations, the best modern flicks are AN AMERICAN WEREWOLF IN LONDON, THE COMPANY OF WOLVES, and THE HOWLING (first film only).  For the look of a werewolf, I have to fall back on those three films again. . .but I add this one to the mix--the werewolf if pretty frightening to me. . .it gives us the image of man-as-wolf, which is the movie tradition, rather than just a wolf.The film overall is well-acted.  The son is very good, and Mariel Hemingway, as others have stated, makes a nice horror film heroine for the 90s.  (I love her first scene, in which she tells flopsy she's a lawyer. . .)  Michael Pare, too, is better in this than in many other films I've seen him in.The blood/gore are minimal and relatively tastefully handled.  This is a rare, overlooked gem, waiting to be discovered by those of us who like intelligent (and not slice-'n'-dice/aka slasher) horror films.And to those of you who find it boring and garbage and trash, etc. . .I'll be looking for you during the next full moon. . .just don't get too close to me if you see my red eyes glaring at you through the mist. ..LOL "},{"Title":"Could have been a lot better.","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  (spoilers)This film had some interesting ideas such as the protective family dog and the brother's search for recovery through his family.The dog was cool and that scene where Thor gets taken away to the pound was *really* sad... then later the film gets cutesy and the dog wasn't put down afterall, the boy rescues it and the dog rescues the family.I liked how the sister wasn't a standard horror film female she was neither screamer or tank-top heroine. She was intelligent and everyday.I felt really let down near the end by the characterisation of the brother. I felt like there was a huge and sudden transition from the anguished cure-searching self-restraining man to the guy who calls his sister a b**ch and doesn't take the effort to cuff himself anymore. In the end, he's not a nice guy anymore - that justifies how it's okay for him to die - that justifies how there can be a big fight scene. I would have thought it would be better drama if he asked him sister to put him down.Other areas where it was terrible was the special effects. When you have special effects that mediocre, the director will usually take the effort to use more shadows and the more is less technique.In some ways, this film reminded me of Alien (eg where there's drooling before the victim gets killed and the sensitive animal). "},{"Title":"A classy horror film for intelligent audiences that delivers the goods.","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A scary, action-packed werewolf picture with refreshing attention to its well-developed characters. The story is a unique twist on the genre, where a German Shepherd dog struggles to protect his family from a relative only he (and the audience) knows is a werewolf. Hemingway gives one of her best performances ever as a loving mother and sister, and is a welcome and sympathetic change from the standard horror movie female victim. Pare is excellent as the bad guy, in a believable and realistic portrayal of a werewolf, a good man schizophrenically becoming a violent danger to the family members he really loves. The dog is a movingly primal and protective force defending his family from an evil only he senses. The special makeup effects are some of the best and most convincing ever seen in a werewolf movie. Typically stylish and dynamic direction from Eric Red. I'm surprised this picture didn't receive much more attention when released. "},{"Title":"Interesting movie","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Personally, I found this flick entertaining. A dog is protective of the familly it lives with & adding the threat of a wearwolf adds spice to that concept. Movies seldom live up to the expectations of a book & therefore shouldnt be judged on one. But Thor lives up to dog traditions & the special effects, if not as extravagant as say; Howling, are still interesting. "},{"Title":"Take it as it is","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  One of the most important things to remember with movies, and horror movies in general, is that the viewer has to take the movie as it is.  In the case of Bad Moon, it is a fairly low budget, not even an hour-and-a-half, New Zealand, werewolf movie that is BASED on a book.  Those things considered, Bad Moon does a damn fine job.  Those who bash this movie (esp. the special effects) obviously have little experience with the werewolf movie, an often poorly represented genre (see Howling New Moon Rising for an example of poor representation).  The realism of the werewolf in Bad Moon rivals that of such big budget disappointments as American Werewolf in Paris, who for all its computer generated effects, can't make the audience believe its werewolves for a second.  To compare a movie to a book, I think, is ridiculous.  In most cases, the director does not want to portray the book.  The book is merely what started the director's ideas going.  When people stop comparing Bad Moon to the book or big budget, super effects movies like Titanic, and take it for what it is, a fun little werewolf movie, they will see that Bad Moon is far ahead of its class.  "},{"Title":"Excellent werewolf movie!","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I can't believe that anyone would go as far as to bad mouth this movie. In a world where good Werewolf movies are far and few between, you would think that this flick would demand more sympathy. Sure it may not follow the book very well, but what movie ever does? The costume/creature effects in this movie are incredible. The amazing thing is that this movie does it with out the benefit of computers. It has the best costume work since the original Howling.The story and plot are easy to follow, and it is filled with action and entertainment to the very end. If you're looking for the book, don't bother, but if your looking for a damn good Werewolf movie give it a shot!  "},{"Title":"ok for a cheesy b grade horror movie!","Date":"23 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie is based on the novelthor. A photojournalist is attacked by a werewolf in tibet/nepal.The photo journalist is played by Micheal Pare. After the attack , he returns home to the U.S.A . Ted(photo journalist ) is now a werewolf. After he goes home , he meets up with his sister. The family dog suspects Ted is not all he appears to be . The special effects are ok ,but could of been better or a little be more advanced. The movie is ok for werewolf fans or fans of the films stars!You can also see Mason Gambledennis the meancerushmore in this as the son of the sister!!It is ok for rental ,I just wish this was out on DVD? also is there a soundtrack to this movie? "},{"Title":"Bad moon , bad film","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is a terrible movie. Eric Red has made some great films in the past (Hitcher,  Body Parts) but this has no redeeming features whatsoever. It is obviously cut down from a long rough cut and it shows. Things happen for no reason and the full moon is ever present even though by the end of the film it should have set days before.  The only good thing about this fiasco is the monster suit itself. not because it's any good but because it's nice to see a real live creature instead of yet another Cgi disaster (Werewolf in Paris please take note.) "}{"Title":"Forget this. . .read the book","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I checked out the book Thor by Wayne Smith several years ago.  The book is the story of a German Shepherd named Thor who lives with a family (he considers them his pack.)  The family is visited at one point by the mother's brother, Uncle Ted.  He happens to be a werewolf.  Thor's attempts to deal with this threat to the safety of the pack are the main plot of the book.  The exceptional thing about the book is that it is told almost exclusively from Thor's point of view.  There are some charming parts of the book where Thor deals with things like how weird people are when they are on the phone and whether or not his frisbee is alive.  It also goes into his fear of being a bad dog (which is completely intolerable for him)  This sounds extremely silly but the author pulls it off beautifully.The makers of Bad Moon failed to capture the viewpoint of the book.  What we are left with is a kind of twisted episode of Lassie or Rin-Tin-Tin where you have a well trained dog performing some tricks that save the imperilled humans. It doesn't work at all and I wonder why the filmmakers even bothered with the story when the whole point of the book was the point of view.Read the book.  It's short, fun and much, much better than the movie. "},{"Title":"A Boy and His Dog... And a Werewolf","Date":"8 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Whenever Bad Moon comes to mind, I always surprised to read it was made in 1996. The early nineties, maybe, the late eighties, more likely, I think. Yet, there is it. Release date 1996. The film feels much older then that, a deliberate throwback to early eighties creature features, when Rick Baker, Rob Bottin, and Stan Winston redefined monster effects. The film was ignored upon release and remains somewhat obscure to this day. Open-minded horror fans who take a chance on it might find a likable, eccentric werewolf thriller.Based on the novel Thor by Wayne Smith, Bad Moon is a story about a boy and his dog&#x85; And a werewolf. Attorney Janet lives with preteen son Brett in a big house on the edge of the Pacific Northwest forest. Seems the only company the family of two has is Thor, their loyal German Shepherd. That is until Janet's brother Ted comes to stay. Unbeknownst to the family, Ted was bitten by a werewolf while in Nepal. Changing every night, he struggles with his animal tendencies, handcuffing himself to a tree when he transforms. Neither Janet nor Brett connect Ted's reappearance to the vicious mauling deaths in the area. Thor, on the other hand, senses something off about the uncle. The dog keeps a close eye on the man and his nightly rituals. It's not much longer until Ted realizes that Thor is on to his secret.Perhaps the reason the film has never been well-received, besides it generic title, is that Bad Moon seems to be a movie with two minds. The films open with a steamy sex scene that ends with a werewolf tearing a woman apart and then having its head blown off. The film then transitions to a little boy playing catch with his dog. The whole film slingshots between those two tones. The gore is fairly explicit, the werewolf crushing a construction worker's head in its jaws, strewing his body parts through a tree. Later, the wolf tears a con man apart with his claws, the blood spraying through the air. When the movie isn't focused on graphic werewolf violence, it's a film about family, including the beloved pet Thor. This schizophrenic tone is most obvious in the final act. While Ted confronts Janet about his lycanthropy, chasing her through the house, Brett sneaks off on his bike, rescuing Thor from the local pound. The hard horror content doesn't always co-exist easily with the Spielbergian family drama.Yet it almost doesn't matter because veteran genre screenwriter turned genre director Eric Red nails the heart of the story. The soul of the film rests behind Thor's vivid eyes and the love his family has for him. If they gave out Oscars to dogs, Primo, the shepherd who plays the part, would have won. I'm only being partially facetious when I say he's the best actor in the film. Any animal lover is bound to have their heart-strings tugged by the scene where Thor is separated from his boy. The last act, where Thor and the werewolf fight, would have been ridiculous if the audience didn't care about Thor as much as the characters do. The movie successfully endears the dog to the viewer, investing Bad Moon with far more emotion then it otherwise would have had.The human cast is a bit more mixed. Mariel Hemingway does very well as the single mom, never reduced to a screaming female. She's strong in the face of a petty con men and remains strong when being chased by a werewolf. Mason Gamble as the young boy is less impressive. It's a good thing that the kid is pushed towards the sideline for most of the film because he's not quite convincing. Michael Pare's performance is a bit harder to read. He conveys a threatening attitude subtly, especially when only a blink frightens Thor into attacking. However, moments of bigger emotions seem unconvincing coming out of Pare's mouth. A brief voice-over narration especially doesn't work, Pare given melodramatic dialogue about the restorative power of love, for goodness' sake.The center piece of any werewolf movie is its werewolf. Bad Moon doesn't feature the most original design, your standard up-right dire wolf. However, the effects are convincing. Some might consider them cheesy but I like the close-ups of the drooling, snarling face. The film's relatively small cast keeps the body count low but gore hounds might still find effects of note here. The dismembered body mentioned earlier is especially gruesome. The only effect in the movie that doesn't work is a nightmare sequence featuring a were-dog. It's a silly moment and luckily one the film doesn't focus on. Werewolf of London is briefly seen and the film outright pays homage too, with its werewolf vulnerable to regular bullets and Nepal-set opening.Red's direction is handsome and makes good use of its lush shooting location. The score balances frights and lovely orchestral nicely. I'm not surprised that Bad Moon bombed in theaters as a post-Scream audience probably didn't have much interest in an eighties-style creature feature. The movie's unlikely to blow anyone's socks off but it's a solid werewolf flick nevertheless. "},{"Title":"More of a family movie with a hint of horror!","Date":"9 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Start of as a really good, nice dog story, I enjoyed the dogs scenes very much, this movie did have some bloody moments in this. The werewolf in this movie, did look a bit scary and did not look too fake, like the Paris movie.The transformation scenes was not great, but I think it was descent. I felt sorry little and I was a little bit teary, when they took the dog away! (I love dogs too much)The acting form the whole cast was really good, The dog who stole the show, as he was fantastic in this movie.I enjoyed it, mostly, thanks to the dog!, 5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Pare as a werewolf?!?! You can't go wrong!!!","Date":"9 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is one of the best werewolf movies around. The always legendary Michael Pare (Eddie and the cruisers, Streets of fire) stars as Ted, a normal man by day...but by night he is a flesh craving werewolf. Ted moves in with his sister (Mariel Hemingway) and her kid, hoping to end the curse with the power of love (a pretty stupid idea). Ted's sister and nephew may be oblivious to his condition, but the family dog, Thor, is not. A deadly game of dog vs. werewolf begins and in the end...only one will live. The werewolf effects are excellent and watching Pare playing a man tormented with a deadly curse is fun to watch. There is some surprising gore and the dog vs. werewolf idea is interesting and fun. The film is just a good old monster movie with some fun twists on the legends. A solid horror film. "},{"Title":"Fun Film","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Many people didn't like this film. I enjoyed it. It kept my interest from beginning to end. The effects were not stand out, but they were good in that they reminded me of American Werewolf in London. It's a great popcorn film. Also where ever they filmed it is absolutely beautiful! Great landscapes. I also liked the idea of the family in danger. So many films nowadays you have a boyfriend and girlfriend story, but here we have a family unit. Also, THOR was great! I love when a dog comes to the rescue or in some ways is the center of the story. The dog reminded me of the one in The Hills Have Eyes same breed (German Shephard). This is one film I have in my DVD library and pop it in every once in a while and catch something different. Just another take on the werewolf genre. "},{"Title":"I enjoyed this one a lot","Date":"14 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" First, while this movie is not the Howling or Dog Soldiers it is a good werewolf flick. The dog, Thor, is almost as good as Jerry Lee in the first K-9 film. The werewolf in this one is really impressive, 1000 times better than the crappy one in American Werewolf in London (I mean that one looked more like a Chow dog with mange than a werewolf! My own 125 lb German Shepard could've eaten AMIL for lunch!). True, this film was made on the cheap, but even so, it was very effective and well done. I like it, especially when the moon is full & I'm the only one awake at midnight watching & my dog is growling at coyotes (God...I HOPE they're only coyotes!) outside prowling around the ranch. "},{"Title":"More entertaining than it should be","Date":"3 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Bad Moon is a rather refreshing take on the werewolf movie.**SPOILERS**On a trip in the Amazon, Ted, (Michael Pare) and his girlfriend Marjorie, (Johanna Lebovitz) are attacked by a ravenous beast, leaving the girl dead and Ted as a werewolf. Back in the US, Ted's sister, Janet, (Mauriel Hemingway) a lawyer, is under pressure to move away or to pay her back taxes. Relishing a chance to get to know her brother, she invites him to stay at her house until he has a chance to get back on his feet. Her son, Brett, (Mason Gamble) and his dog Thor know that something is strange about him, and follows him into the woods and sees him, as a werewolf, ripping a man to shreds. Several more murders follow the next few nights, leaving the police baffled. Gradually beginning to suspect that the dog might be right, Janet and her son decide to let Thor and the werewolf fight for the land they both consider home.The Good News I think this has to be one of the creepiest looking werewolves ever filmed. The design seems like a cross between The Howling and An American Werewolf in London, with the best parts of each one replacing the weakness of the other one. Finally, a werewolf that is both threatening and physically imposing. I like this design better than many other werewolf movies, as it looks wolf-ish, but has a small hint of humanity in it. This is a big part of the film's success, and it does look convincing like a werewolf as well. This is due to the fact that the werewolf is a mechanical creature and not a CGI monster. It is much more realistic because the werewolf is in the shot and is not merely moving about in sync to the recorded footage. How much it allows filmmakers to make their favorite dreams come true, I despise it because of its apparent fake-ness. In a movie like this, we need to know that the monster is real and not fake, which this film does capture by using a real werewolf instead of the CGI werewolf. The gore is also in top quality. Here get several bloody attacks and kills. The first kill, where the girlfriend is killed, is a standout, not only opening with a bang but also we have a very violent thrashing and ripping. Even the final showdown is a bloody feast, with both participants doing major damage on each other, slashing each other and bloodletting all over the bodies. It is quite a finale indeed; gore hounds are not to be disappointed. The attacks are quite brutal and are very messy. It is hard to pick which one is the best, as it looks like time was taken to carefully prepare and plan the attacks. Add a few chilly suspense scenes and it has all the markings of a modern werewolf classic.The Bad News The movie is so short! It isn't even an hour and a half long. It's barely an hour and twenty minutes. It did have the potential to be over the hour and a half mark, but it missed somewhere and shortened the film. Too bad, because it did have the potential to be much longer. A few more killings and some suspense scenes showing the chase to hunt down the werewolf would've been very beneficial to the film, as they would've helped the film not only get longer but would've provided an extra scene or three that would've sold the movie.The Final Verdict While not necessarily breaking new ground, it does have enough entertaining scenes and a cool-looking werewolf to make this at least a rental viewing. Do see an uncensored version, like HBO or Starz, as that version would be better than the cut versions on regular channels. Werewolf fans would be hard pressed to find a modern watchable werewolf film, other than the Ginger Snaps series.Rated R Graphic Violence, Adult Language, violent attacks on animals, Nudity, and a sex scene. "},{"Title":"Good moon, bad movie","Date":"12 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Let me start by saying what was good about this movie.-Beautiful scenery in a wooded area around Janet's house.-Pleasant classical style background music.-Mariel Hemingway looked great. Nice smile, nice hair, nice legs. (For a lawyer she sure did wear short skirts. And she wore shorts to bed.)-Hemingway gave a good performance in a couple of scenes, one in which her lawyer character was being hustled by a con man, and another scene where she and her son were sad, but I won't say why.-The dog who played Thor had quite a range as an actor.-Several beautiful shots of the full moon, but does it last that many days? Does the moon have to be completely full for a man to turn into a werewolf? Because I've been told the moon can look full when it's actually gibbous. -Uncle Ted was deliciously evil briefly a couple of times as he looked at Thor. I won't say what that meant because I hadn't figured it out yet.-A scene where Uncle Ted and Janet's son Brett were watching a werewolf movie on TV.-Also, I'd say Mason Gamble did a pretty good job as Brett.-An action scene near the end was really quite exciting.-There's a little more, but that would involve spoilers.Now, what was bad? Pretty much everything else. They must not have had much of a werewolf budget, although late in the movie the werewolf did appear to move realistically.I'm not a fan of horror movies, but this one seemed to show promise. I was wrong.  "},{"Title":"Wow.  What a WEREWOLF!","Date":"27 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" First off, this is not the best werewolf movie out there. The script (when there is one) was weak and virtually nonexistent. The performances were a little shaky at times, and the finished product left much to be desired.There was no element of suspense; we know from the beginning who the werewolf is, and why. The transformation CGI was horrid and amateurish, and really lamed-up the rest of the production, as did Mariel Hemingway's performance. It was stiff, reluctant, and made her seem as if she had just awakened from a drug-induced sleep. Also, instead of California as commonly believed, this movie was wholly filmed in Anmore, Vancouver, BC, Canada.BUT...It included a cameo clip from Werewolf of London, Universal Studios, has decent performances by Michael Paré as the wolf man, and Mason Gamble as Brett, but the best performance in this production is that of Primo Villanueva III as Thor the faithful guardian.This movie also features an awesome white werewolf. As a finished product, this animatronic werewolf is quite stunning, though obviously a contrived creation. It was a true fright to behold. They should have used mist/fog or something to kind of camouflage the apparent plasticity of the teeth, etc., but all in all the werewolf itself was extremely well made, designed, and executed.The nicest thing about this production is that Brett, Hemingway's son, was as loyal to Thor, as Thor was to the family. Nice touch, even if it was a bit convenient in timing and all.There were no sets with which we could be impressed; the whole movie was basically shot inside what was made to be Hemingway's home, an airstream in which Paré lived and a parking lot where they threw up a make-shift animal shelter enclosure. They obviously spent the largest portion of their meager budget on the werewolf.SPOILERS!!Also. It has been said that there is NO WAY a dog, even a 105# dog, could defeat a werewolf. I would say, watch the movie again. Thor does not defeat the monster. He merely shoves him out the window. What he defeats, is the man...or rather, what's left of the man after his fight with Thor and Hemingway's character, from the night before.The main problem I had with this story is that the werewolf, having been shot by Hemingway's character with normal bullets, would have healed itself rather quickly, both from the gunshot wounds and the mauling received from Thor. That's one of the Werewolf Rules, laid down by countless other generations werewolves regenerate. They cannot die unless silver is involved, and unless they are buried with wolfsbane, they can be resurrected.But I digress...Within sub-genres of horror movies, there are certain basic rules which must be observed in order to hold the fan base of that sub-genre. Mainstream audiences aren't so much the worry, it's the true fan of that genre that you have to watch out for. This movie violates the Monster Laws, and therefore does not stand up as a quality werewolf film. It IS, however, an entertaining effort, and definitely worth a look, if only to see that wonderful werewolf!It rates a 5.2/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Great Werewolf!","Date":"9 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie not only has one of the best beginnings to a film ever(sweet sex scene and gore effects/plus a brutal werewolf overhand), it has one juiced up werewolf! The transformation sequences are a sham, terrible CGI, but the wolf does rock. It's kinda bloody, and the lead actor does a good job. Mariel Hemingway is Mariel Hemingway, and the German Shepard in the film is great! Real nice scenery, though kind of a skimpy set, this movie isn't as bad as people rated it. That is for fart sure! The end is kinda dumb, but if you like werewolves, you'll like this.As far as werewolf movies go B+ "}{"Title":"Greatest werewolf ever...","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  While I agree the plot itself is a little lacking, the werewolf itself is by far the greatest werewolf Ive ever seen.  I'm a huge werewolf movie/book fan and I compare every movies werewolf to this.  I absolutely hated the American Werewolf in Paris werewolf because of the CG, and im a CG artist myself!  This goes to show that some times traditional costumes work best. I've read the book, the movie is based on and while it is far more complex then the movie, the movie itself had more action.  Plus the book was written as though you saw the world through the dog's eyes.  And oh yeah, theres also a father. If you like the movie Read the book by Wayne Smith entitled Thor.  Its a little slow but when it takes off, it doesnt stop.  So to recap, if youre a fan of people getting their faces ripped off and throats ripped out, watch this movie, All werewolf movies should follow its lead. "},{"Title":"Cool Werewolf Movie","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The movie has a simple plot; A mother and son live alone with a pet German Shephard named Thor. Her brother who becomes a werewolf (awesome beginning) is persuaded to come live with her. And from there Thor is very suspicious of brother and keeps an eye on him non stop. Obviously from there sister finds out and its a pretty satisfying conclusion.This movie made me very happy (great night, werewolf movie then my first UFC with Tank losing to Oleg). It was pretty bloody, and it had some suspense. Dont expect a scary movie, but a good werewolf movie, with a huge bad ass werewolf. "},{"Title":"Makes The Howling look like Titanic","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  There really isn't much to say about this movie.  It's sickeningly boring and it doesn't make much sense!  It even makes Howling II look good. And that IS saying a lot.  The mother was an insult to women everywhere as she fluttered through this one like a butterfly.  The boy was so gut-wrenchingly despicable that you almost want to cry.  Twenty minutes into this one, I was asleep.  When I woke up, I was wishing that Stirba and her gang would pop out somewhere.  Once again, this film is garbage! "},{"Title":"underrated","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is basically a b movie even though it was released in theaters, it was barely hyped but I enjoyed it thoroughly. It has a very good story and Mariel does a good job in the movie. The ending has a good animal fight in it and the effects for this low budget movie are surprisingly good, you should check this out it's a good movie I give it a 7 "},{"Title":"Classic Werewolf Flick","Date":"25 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Director and screenplay writer Eric Red who also wrote and directed another classic flick, Cohen and Tate 1988 and also wrote other classic flicks, Near Dark 1987 and The Hitcher 1986 has also created another gem in Bad Moon.Starring Michael Pare who has also been in other classic flicks, Rampage 2009, Direct Contact 2009, Seed 2007 and Home Room 2002.Also starring Mariel Memingway.Also starring Mason Gamble.I enjoyed the attack scenes.If you enjoyed this as much as I did then check out other classic werewolf flicks, Big Bad Wolf 2006, Dog Soldiers 2002, Ginger Snaps 2000, Ginger Snaps Unleashed 2004, Silver Bullet 1985, An American Werewolf in London 1981, Full Eclipse 1993, Wer 2013, Late Phases 2014 and The Wolfman 2010. "},{"Title":"Makes Little Sense","Date":"11 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Reinforcing that tired old horror cliché that equates sex with death, Ted Harrison (Michael Pare) is enjoying a spot of rumpy with a comely lass in his tent in the middle of some jungle when she is rudely uprooted and shredded to pieces by a 7ft werewolf. Why Ted and his inamorata &#x96; or the werewolf, for that matter &#x96; are there in the jungle is never really satisfactorily explained, but that pretty much sums up this movie. Things don't happen for a logical reason, they simply happen to drive the narrative along, regardless of any diversions from rational storytelling they may take. Hence a full moon rises at least three nights in a row, and the stricken Ted seeks to cure his lycanthropy by simply moving in with his sister and nephew.While Ted is being wounded by werewolves, big sister Janet (Mariel Hemingway) is displaying her gutsiness by seeing off a 'flopsy' (Hrothgar Matthews) &#x96; a type of grifter who provokes people's pets into attacking them then sues the owner. Unluckily for flopsy, he makes the mistake of trying his scam on her without realising she is a lawyer. A single-mum lawyer at that, who never seems to work and who never talks with her son (Mason Gamble) about his father, or what became of him. But then nobody in this movie has a history outside of its narrow parameters &#x96; their lives seem to have begun only with their first scene. The family pet upon which the hapless flopsy tries to work his scam, is Thor, a beautiful German Shepherd who probably gives the best performance of the film, and who has everything worked out a couple of reels before his less observant owner..Director Eric Red, whose better works include The Hitcher and Body Parts stated that the film was intended as a metaphor for schizophrenia, which seems a little like stating the obvious. Every werewolf story ever created has been a metaphor for schizophrenia &#x96; in fact, the nature of the story means they can't help be anything else, so, if you're going to toil over familiar ground you need to dig up something a little fresher than the stale offering given here. The cast numbers only a handful, but there is little attempt to create any feeling of claustrophobia or friction amongst them as Janet slowly begins to realise who is responsible for the grisly deaths. And Red fails to create any measure of suspense as Ted begins to lose his struggle with both the beast inside and any consistency of character. Even Lon Chaney's Larry Talbot indulged in more introspection than Uncle Ted. All he seems to do is fret mildly over the safety of the two people in whose garden he has parked his trailer and handcuff himself to a tree to prevent himself from attacking them &#x96; even though he must have a key on his person somewhere to free himself when the transformation is over.The acting is passable, as you would expect from journeymen like Pare and Hemingway, and Primo, the dog who plays Thor, is terrific, but the actors have little meat to their lines and are given little upon which to build believable or sympathetic characters. These are actors playing parts, and you never once forget the fact. But then, it is a horror flick, and the development of character has never been a major facet of the genre. In that respect, in relation to the mountain of trashy horror pics out there in DVDland, Bad Moon stands up pretty well; it's well-made and good-looking, and flashes of Red's talent are (all too) briefly discernible. But, in an age when the old horror icons have been replaced by lunatics in hockey masks or stripy jumpers, that isn't really much of an endorsement. "},{"Title":"WOW!INTENSE!","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is an excellent werewolf flick! A nail biter for sure. Werewolf looks great and packs an intense punch that will leave you wanting more! Michael Pare is very good. This is one of his better films. Acting is solid and the direction is right on. A winning hit for wolfman fans! I highly recommend this to people who love scary, wolfy type movies. I hit this baby with a 10 spot!! Check it out!! "},{"Title":"Bad Zoom","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" As another reviewer said, Bad Moon is high concept Lassie meets a werewolf. Lassie is a German shepherd named Thor, which is also the name of the novel by Wayne Smith that provided the launching pad for the film, and the werewolf is Uncle Ted, a researcher of some stripe at the beginning of the film who becomes afflicted while in a remote location when a werewolf first grabs his girlfriend, Jason-style, from their tent while Ted's bonking her. Soon after, Ted is living back in the Pacific Northwest, in an old Airstream parked next to a lake (he's suddenly like white trash with a good view). He waits a couple months to contact his sister and Thor's owner, Janet (Mariel Hemingway), who lives a few hours away. Understandably, Janet is concerned and talks Ted into moving his trailer to her back yard instead. He does, and the rest, which is the bulk of the film, you could probably write yourself as long as you've seen a handful of horror films.Coming from Eric Red, a writer and director who showed amazing promise with films such as 1986's The Hitcher (which he only wrote) and 1991's Body Parts (which he helmed and wrote), Bad Moon is an equally amazing disappointment.Even though there are a couple nice landscape shots in the beginning, and there is some fabulous gratuitous nudity, I knew we were in trouble shortly after the beginning, when the first werewolf attack occurs. Red directs his cinematographer to shoot the attack way too close (a problem that curiously plagues the entire film), and he shoots it too dark, often with a blur cam. The close ups quickly become annoying. Half of the shots in the film feel like someone asking you to read something that they're holding an inch from your eyes. Maybe Red is incredibly nearsighted? One later scene, a kind of staredown between Uncle Ted and Thor that goes on way too long, is hilariously cut so that we get progressive, successive close-ups of the two until we zero in on a few hairs on Thor's face and a mole on Ted's nose. Maybe Red was trying to frighten us by making us go cross-eyed.After the questionable beginning, Bad Moon isn't too bad until we get to the climax. The problem is that there just isn't much that happens. There seems to have been an attempt at keeping the costs down by limiting the size of the cast and number of locations. Most of the film takes place on a smallish set (Janet's home) with only three actors and the dog. The other location is a forest (possibly some of this was on a soundstage, also). Surprisingly, the budget of the film was reported (by Eric Red in a Fangoria interview) to be around 8 million dollars. I can only guess that most of that money went to pay for the animatronic werewolf suit (which is pretty good) and Hemingway (who is even better). Unfortunately, both would have been even more effective if Red would have moved the camera away, just a little bit, for more shots.Most of the middle of the film feels like a way to waste time to get to the end. Red has said that he sees the film as kind of a metaphor for schizophrenia, but Bad Moon isn't any more effective as such than any of the other gazillion werewolf films made in the last 70-something years. So instead, it just feels slow and uneventful.Some attempts are made to extend or change the werewolf mythos, but it's difficult to say why. For the most part the werewolf stuff is very standard and banal. The funniest change is the claim that a werewolf doesn't need a full moon to lycanthropize and turn into a beastie. It's funny because in the end, Red seems to have had second thoughts. Even though Bad Moon takes place over at least a week, there is a full moon every night. It's quite comical after awhile.Once the climax arrives, any brownie points earned earlier in the film are quickly lost. The climax seems to be an exercise in absurdity, but unfortunately, Red didn't intend the film to be a comedy. For the first time in this section, we get to see some transformation effects. Unfortunately, the cgi here looks like those liquid effects that used to come with that free graphics software on new computers--you know that effect where you'd drag your mouse to distort someone's face in a photograph. Red said that there would be no comparison between Bad Moon and An American Werewolf in London (1981), and boy was he right.Also in the climax, we get a human character who can outrun a huge werewolf, even though the human only has maybe a 50 yard head start and they seem to be running at least half a mile, and we get another character who can almost outrun both of them, despite having to travel at least a couple miles.There is copious blood in the final scene, although most of the characters don't seem that hurt in the end, and the final moments of the climax, as well as the dénouement, couldn't be more clichéd. I haven't read the novel source material yet, but I've read about it, and it sounds much more unusual and interesting than this film turned out to be.Even though there are enough positive points with Bad Moon to merit a D (my equivalent to a 6 out of 10) rather than an F, it's sad to see Red make such a misstep. It appears to maybe have killed his career (or at least his spirit for making films). He had a couple projects in the works while Bad Moon was in production, but to date, almost ten years later, he has not written, directed or produced anything else. "},{"Title":"Bad Moon, Good horror","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I have heard alot of bad reviews on this movie and I don't think they are just. I enjoyed this movie very much, and along the lines of werewolf movies I would rate this one as one of the best ever. The actors did a good job, the dog in the movie stole the show and the story couldn't be any better. The only thing I didn't like in the movie was near the end where they try to do some CGI and it turned out very cheesy, otherwise I would have given this movie a 10.   9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Underrated Gem","Date":"27 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Bad Moon (1996) *** (out of 4) I've been wanting to check this film out since it was first released but for some odd reason I'm just now getting around to watching it and I really wish I had watched it sooner. A single mother (Mariel Hemingway) and her young son (Mason Gamble) are happy when her brother (Michael Pare) comes to stay with them. However, the pet German Shepard isn't so thrilled because he knows the brother is a werewolf. I was really surprised to see myself so caught up in the film but it actually works on many levels. For starters, the film is a throwback to the old days and thankfully the running time is under 80-minutes so there's nothing here that drags down the action and story. The performances are all very good with Pare giving the best performance of the humans. The real star of the film is the dog who turns in one of the greatest performances from an animal that I've seen. The CGI werewolf transformation is pretty bad but I really enjoyed everything else. You've got some violent death scenes with a nice amount of gore as well. Director Eric Red previously wrote the screenplays for The Hitcher, Near Dark and Body Parts. "}{"Title":"Overlooked Werewolf Film","Date":"7 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" One man's struggle to contain the curse he hides within... and his last-ditch attempt to free himself with the love of family. But when it looks as if he is losing his battle, and endangering all he holds most dear, the family dog is the last hope for his family's survival... and the end to his Werewolf curse.The movie made many significant changes from the novel, particularly in the make-up of the family, which in the novel consisted of two parents and three children, as well as the dog, who sees the family as his pack, which must be defended at all costs. The dog's perceptions of events are treated in great detail, as is the relationship between him and his human family, and his confusion as to whether the werewolf is a threat to his family that must be eliminated, or a pack member who must be respected. These subtleties mainly did not make it into the film.This film got bad reviews and bombed at the box office. I won't say it's the greatest werewolf film, but it is far from the worst. The opening scene should have garnered it some fans... that's a rather intense gore scene. Now, allegedly a few seconds were cut out. If that's true, I can only imagine how intense that would be. (Director's cut, perhaps?) Worth checking out. If nothing else, it is better than some better-known 1990s werewolf films, like American Werewolf in Paris. "},{"Title":"Worst Movie of All Time","Date":"13 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The opening is OK with Michael Paré's team being attacked by a werewolf. And then Michael Paré heads home to see his sister and her son, and their dog and the movie more or less stops at that point. It gets long and boring with nothing happening for a really long time. Mariel Hemingway is Michael Paré's sister, and she is super single with no prospects, and there isn't anyone else in the movie so there is not even the chance of a sex scene to get us through the boring part. And then when the action eventually picks up, the movie quickly becomes Lassie vs The Werewolf. And who would pay to see that. Some how this movie actually screened in theaters. "},{"Title":"Too Empty But Entertaining","Date":"18 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I remember seeing the trailer of this movie when I was a kid and it seemed very frightening and interesting to see. Never had the chance to see until the day that an cultural event happened in my city and there was one cinema showing horror movies with werewolves and this was one of these films. After a long time in line I watched and at the end I must say that I felt that something was missing and that Bad Moon could be a better movie than it is.Ted (Michael Paré) was bitten by a wolf and now he's a cursed werewolf whose seems to lose control easily. After the visit of his sister Janet (Mariel Hemingway) and her son Brett (Mason Gamble well known for playing Dennis the Menace) into his house and fearing that he may attack some people of the area where he lives (he did that) he moves with them. But there's a surprise for him The family has a dog named Thor (played by Primo) and they don't seem to like each other. The rest of the movie is Ted's transformations into a werewolf and it's attacks; the dog's always barking and the family's always worried with everything that happens.The visual effects are kind of funny; many of the attacks scenes are strangely cut, looks like the director was afraid to make an too much shocking horror movie, it's not much scary as it looks like (the beginning is very scary but the rest runs too slow). The sound effects are interesting but sometimes this is not enough. Why this was an interesting film? Because of the dog. Yes. Thor (the name of the book which this film is based on) is very interesting, and very well played by Primo. The dog is the main reason of why this movie works, the only one who actually knows more about Ted than his family and he's very underrated, always pushed away from everyone. Why this movie didn't worked? Lack of characters and eventually lack of situations. It didn't had anything special, original about it and many times it gets very boring (but the ending is great). Mariel Hemingway's great, Mason Gamble was better as Dennis (in the last minutes he saved the movie to sink to the bottom, don't ask me how he did that), Michael Paré is...well, he's okay. If you want to see something of him go watch Streets of Fire. That's a helluva of a movie. Direction? Good effort but could've be better.Entertaining, not much scary and I give 6 stars. "},{"Title":"What's that boy? There's a Lycanthrop in our backyard?","Date":"9 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I have not read the novel, nor do I particularly intend to. It isn't too difficult to tell that this is basically(that would be completely fine, if it was just, you know, good) a dog movie(right down to the usual near-ending scene of such), with the addition of a werewolf. That likes to play with its food, tends to be utterly incapable of closing its mouth, and the effects of which scream we paid for this animatronic and darn it, we're gonna use it. The framing seems odd. The pacing only gets to be painful when this tries to build suspense(meanwhile, did it ever occur to them to go for an effective reveal on the creature? Or at least attempt to hide how obviously fake it looks?), with it merely being decent apart from that. The characters, motivations and credibility could use more consistency and quality writing. The script jumps straight into all the pitfalls of clichés and predictable developments, and after it makes an effort to change the familiar rules of the lore(presumably to tailor them to what they wanted to do in this), it proceeds to follow them instead of going with what they changed it to. The music isn't always dreadful, but it is considerably grander than the visuals it's put to, once or twice. The acting is adequate, no one really stands out as either strongly positive or negative(and they didn't have a lot to work with). The actor playing the being does have the voice and the appearance to match it. The kid isn't that expressive. This at most barely reaches the running time of a feature-length production. The camera and editing are powerfully uninspired, when at their best. There's some gratuitous sex and violence, and a little language. This can be fun to MST3K, though beyond that, hope for and expect little satisfaction from this mutt of a picture. I recommend this solely to the biggest fans of canine(think Lassie) and/or undead flicks. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Everybody knows there's no such thing as werewolves.","Date":"10 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" ~Spoiler~ Bad Moon is a mid 90's werewolf movie directed by Eric Red I never got around to seeing until recently. I revisited Red's earlier film Body Parts and found it very enjoyable. He's also written some great genre movies, including The Hitcher and Near Dark. So I don't think I was wrong to expect more out of Bad Moon. The film starts off with a bang. And by bang I mean a graphic display of sex and violence with one of the coolest werewolves I've ever seen. Seriously, the practical creature effects in this one rock. It's Stan Winston level stuff in my opinion. However, later in the film there is a transformation sequence that uses that computer morphing technique which drains a lot of the coolness from the film. There's also not enough story here, which I certainly didn't expect from an accomplished writer like Red. The main story is about a guy who is struggling with lycanthropy who believes his salvation lies within the love of his family. Where in the hell did he get that idea? It's downright goofy. And the family dog, Thor, is the main protagonist. No joke. The acting is also questionable. Michael Pare plays the wolfman, and I usually like him (before he hooked up with Uwe Boll). The Eddie and the Cruiser movies are guilty pleasures around my house but I had a hard time believing him in this role. On the other hand, I've never liked Mariel Hemingway, who plays Pare's sister with some very odd incestuous overtones. And don't get me started on the Dennis the Menace kid. I have to say the dog is the best actor in the film. I would recommend seeing this once just for that amazing werewolf. Red has been apart of better films in the past, and lets hope he has a few more left in him better than this one. "},{"Title":"When will we get a GREAT werewolf movie?","Date":"14 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" First off, this movie is BAD. If you're attempting to work through the entire horror section of your local Blockbuster, feel free to give this one a pass. Even if you're a big fan of werewolf movies (as I am), there are better ones to be had, such as American Werewolf in Paris, or even Cursed with Christina Ricci.On to the movie! For starters, the acting in this is horrible - I didn't care a whit for anyone in it, and was puzzling throughout the whole thing why it took them so long to suspect the brother. He acted odd as soon as he reached their house to stay, and by the time they were sitting down to dinner after Thor (the German Sheperd) was taken away, he was acting like a serial killer, only minus the charisma. The lines the kid had were trite and pathetic, and perhaps it was just me, but I found the mother's eyebrows to be quite distracting - they were abnormally dark for the hair color, and screamed Bad dye job! Bleach me please!. One would think that was a small thing, but watch and see - the camera seems to focus on them throughout the movie, and it was truly distracting. To sum up the acting, perhaps it was the screen writer's fault, but one could pretty much predict what they were going to say a mile off, and I was pretty much hoping for a 'rocks fall, everyone dies' ending by say, the middle of the movie. Best actor was the dog who played Thor, hands down.Scare factor for this movie? 2/10. I tend to jump during scary movies, and though I felt a small bit of unease throughout the thing, there was no point where I even flinched. It's just Oh, there's the werewolf again, whoopee. And when I say 'unease', don't think the feeling of overwhelming malice in awesome Japanese horror movies, it was a very tiny fraction of that. Personally, there were a small handful of scenes where body parts/gore were seen, and there was a stupid and pointless sex scene in the first 10 minutes (And wow, you get to see a NIPPLE, dude! Booobs!) - thus, I fail to see why this wasn't given a PG-13 rating. If a kid over 10 or 11 sees this, they're not going to be scarred for life, trust.F/X? Well, definitely not as bad as The Howling, but not really anything to write home about, either. The initial werewolf we see in the Amazon looks HORRIBLE. I'd expect to see something like that in a b-movie 70's flick. I will give a bit more credit to the transformation scene much later in the movie, (where the sister discovers her brother is the werewolf) which at least made me stop and examine it, and finally give a nod of faint approval. Definitely not the most realistic thing I've ever seen, but there was a part close to the end of it where his head is all misshapen that made me raise my eyebrows in surprise.I also had to add a more personal bit about the emotional impact of this movie, or the lack thereof. I felt bad for none of the people who were killed - there was a logger doing a survey that got whacked before we found anything about him (after ignoring the alarming sounds of a large predator nearby, Darwin at work here), and a pointless fraud who provoked Thor in an attempt to sue the family who was killed later off-screen. Apparently there were 5 or 6 hikers/logging people who were also killed when the brother was out at the lake in his Airstream. The most horrible point in the movie was where Thor was being taken away by animal control, I really felt for his attempts to get back to his family and protect him from the Bad Person among them. Everybody acts in a manner that screams Stop doing stupid things!, and wow, am I tired of seeing that in horror movies!I found out this movie was (loosely) based on a book, so perhaps that explains why it's so bad. Apparently, most of the family was cut out (2 kids, a cat, and a father, the latter of which I was wondering the story behind throughout the movie), and the book was from the viewpoint of Thor. Sounds like this is another one where you should read the book, and skip the movie - I know I'll be hunting down the book, myself, though it may be a small chore, since it appears to be out of print. I read a short summary for it, and it positively screams to me that all the interesting bits were hacked out for no particular reason. "},{"Title":"Bad Moon","Date":"15 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" One thing I can say about this trim, tightly paced flick..in it's short running time, it certainly doesn't overstay it's welcome. If you blink, you'll be witnessing the closing credits.Michael Paré stars as Ted, a man attacked by a werewolf as he's making love to a woman in a tent as they are on a safari. The female companion is being viciously torn apart by the creature until Ted blows it's head clean off with a shot gun. Becoming a predatory monster himself, Ted heads home to a forest region nearby where his lawyer sister Janet(Mariel Hemingway)and her son Brett(Mason Gamble)live. The only one protecting Janet and Brett from possible harm is their 100 pound guardian St. Bernard Thor. Thor knows pretty much right away something's off about Ted, but when it finds a victim torn to pieces and scattered up a massive tree the watchdog kicks in. When ten victims of what appears to be a giant grizzly bear are discovered with police searching all over for clues, Ted finds it difficult to hide within the forest anymore and takes up on Janet's offer to park his camper near her home. Thor will make Ted's life even harder when it finds him, in werewolf form, hand-cuffed to a tree one night. Thor's fear for his family will provide motivation for parking outside Ted's camper before he steps out to partake in night jogging. Ted will have to rid himself of Thor and an opportunity arises when an annoying flopsy(con artist who tried to fake a dog attack provoking Thor early in the film)sneaks around Janet's house to kill the dog for botching up his chances at a law-suit, while also seeking revenge on the lawyer for spoiling his con-artist plans. The werewolf will destroy him and Thor becomes a possible suspect. Then Ted, seeing the opportunity to finally send Thor away for good, provokes the dog to tear into his arm. As Thor is sent off to the pound, Ted is found by Janet on the verge of hand-cuffing himself one night putting her life in peril. As the wolf emerges Janet may not be able to survive..unless Brett, who escaped out his window to rescue Thor from the pound, can bring his guardian dog home to help Janet. Thor immediately comes to her rescue sending off the battle between dog and werewolf we expected.The werewolf is mostly filmed up close with the nasty attacks happening within quick edits showing the torn flesh and bodies being thrown around quickly. The morphing finale is rather less impressive compared to today's CGI oriented transformations, but on it's own staring down victims, it's quite a monstrous beast. There are some great make-up work in the film showing torn flesh wounds, particularly on Ted. The plot, about a dog's protective love for his family against a predator who is all too familiar worked for me even if I had to look past the silly idea that a canine could outlast such a ferocious monster. "},{"Title":"Read the book instead","Date":"22 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Eric Red wrote The Hitcher and Near Dark so, given the excellence of Wayne Smith's highly original source novel Thor, there was some reason for optimism about Bad Moon. It also boasted a splendidly scary theatrical preview. What we actually get suggests Red should stay away from adapting novels. In Thor Smith tells the story primarily from the eponymous dog's perspective. Although the author himself disagrees, I don't think this would have been impossible to do on the screen and given the wonderful way Smith used it to create a sense of dimly understood dread in the book, it was well worth a try. Red either didn't have the nerve or couldn't sell the idea to the suits and so we lose all the queasy references to Thor's mounting and uncommunicable anxiety about the bad thing lurking inside Uncle Ted. Ted (Pare) returns from a trip abroad minus his girlfriend and increasingly reclusive and withdrawn. His sister (Hemmingway, for some reason converted to a single mother in the film) wants to help him. She lets Ted move in to a trailer behind her house but he continues to act strangely and Hemmingway's dog, Thor, starts to develop a very uneasy relationship with him. Here's a sentence I never thought I'd write; Michael Pare is excellent in this movie. He's very good at being subtly evil and canine. His problem is the script doesn't know if Ted's a tormented victim or raging psychopath so ultimately the character makes no sense. Mason Gamble is perfectly fine as Hemmingway's brave young son and as for Mariel herself, well, she has nice legs. No other character rises above the level of plot device. The werewolf looks good here. The integration of CGI and animatronic/man-in-suit shots is more than competent and, to Red's credit, he actually has someone do the unheard-of and run away from it when it's transforming instead of just standing there. I think I might have applauded when I saw that. On the other side of the ledger is a truly gratuitous early scene where a naked woman is dragged out of a tent and ripped apart. It's a cheap and sleazy moment that belongs (for want of a better word) only in straight-to-video junk. It's particularly bad when compared to a similar but vastly more tasteful scene (at basically the exact same point in the film) in Dog Soldiers. The ending of Bad Moon is essentially ludicrous even without the weird afterthought of a dream sequence. It all feels very rushed, which isn't that surprising as the whole film only runs eighty minutes. The novel itself is only two hundred and thirty two pages but it's a much better use of your time. "},{"Title":"Werewolves get NO respect...","Date":"16 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" *Bad Moon SPOILERS* Ted (Michael Parè) is going to be our lycanthrope for today, a young man who has this 'curse' upon him, and tries to do as less trouble as he can, but his nephew (Mason Gamble)'s dog has other ideas, and begins to attack poor Ted, and Ted's sister (Mariel Hemingway) doesn't understand a thing, because she's as dumb as a rock...Am I going to believe that a mere dog can kill a werewolf? No sirreee! The main characters were so annoying, and Parè was the best of the bunch, so I was rooting for Ted (the werewolf) to make it.It can be read as the drama of a misunderstood werewolf, or as a failed attempt at a horror movie. And for a werewolf movie, the transformation scene is so-so.Bad Moon 4/10 as a horror, 2/10 as a werewolf movie, 8/10 as a Drama. "},{"Title":"What is it with Pare and moons?","Date":"1 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Michael Pare is an adventurer who is attacked by a werewolf, to which he then uses a shotgun to blow it's head off (After a sex scene no less.) to which he is bitten and starts transforming at night however to escape this curse he decides to go to his sister's (Mariel Hemmingway) house where he hopes his curse will stop however this is not the case and only the family dog knows the truth about Pare. Michael Pare was in 1989's Moon 44 and now in Bad Moon to which might explain he may want to avoid titles with Moon in them. That being said Bad Moon was far better than expected. The acting is universally strong from the cast (Although under populated) and that is what makes this clichéd horror flick watchable. The werewolf effects aren't very convincing (Although the gore is) but it is mainly the strong performances from Hemmingway and Pare as well as the short running time which make this rise above the usual Werewolf movie. Also does anyone notice that they're aren't many great werewolf movies? * * out of 4-(Fair) "}{"Title":"It's about man's best friend. (german shepherd)","Date":"1 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The good thing is that it lasts only 80 minutes. That's the longest run for a script like this. A man, while having a sexual intercourse with his girlfriend, gets bitten by a werewolf, and his gf gets torn to shreds (yes, you've guessed it, she was in mid-orgasm when the beast attacked). He becomes a werewolf. The rules in this movie are such, that he turns into a werewolf every single night, no matter what moon phase it is. And also, silver bullets and garlic are not the only things that can kill him, as he insightfully explains it to his nephew a good shotgun blast to the head will get him too. He moves to his sisters (and nephews) house, away from his trailer home in the mountains, because he has murdered 5 hikers already (as a werewolf), and believes that only family love can save him from his destiny. He is dead wrong, and soon, as a man also turns into a psycho, killing all the duality of wolf and man, usually found in these movies, which is just too bad, as it could have been a lot better that way. The real hero of this film is not this man, he is the antagonist. Nor is it his sister, not her son. Actually, the protagonist is a German shepherd. Yes, that's right, throughout the movie, a German shepherd, owned by the little kid, is protective of him and his mother, against his uncle. He is the only one that can suspect that the uncle is not all he seems, and he is also the one who kills the werewolf at the end, and lives to tell, even in the closing shot, we see his angelic face down on his paws. So, this movie is actually about the devotion of dogs to men. And that saves it from being a total disaster. In conclusion, watch it, if you get a chance, it's watchable.  "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A low-budget werewolf movie with few sets and not much plot, but a great-looking werewolf and some decent gore. The acting on everyone's part is OK, especially if you accept this as a made-for-cable TV or straight-to-video flick. It is clearly not a theatrical release. It is not quite as entertaining as SILVER BULLET or AWIL, but certainly better than the atrocious AWIP. "},{"Title":"ok, but could have been much better......","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This was not a great movie. It had lots of bad acting and a weak script, but good effects. There was lots of gore, but only seemed to be there to give fans of gross-out movie fans something to stop them from turning off this bore. Catch it on late-night TV, or skip it. Not terrible, but not good. "},{"Title":"Dog knows best.","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This isn't the best modern werewolf flick around (that could be the original Howling), but it's also far from the worst. There are no surprises in the script and the werewolf suit looks pretty fake (the bloody scenes are convincing, though), but the steady direction keeps this one entertaining. Eric Red may be telling an old story, but he's telling it with patience and taste. Plus, the dog's acting is amazing!    (**1/2) "},{"Title":"* *1/2 out of 4.","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Man (Michael Pare) is bitten by a werewolf. He returns to stay with his sister (Mariel Hemmingway), but as her tries to control his wolf urges, he finds himself losing the battle and killing people. The family dog Thor knows what Pare really is and it is up to the dog to save the family. Decent special effects, a good turn by Pare, and some excitement and scares make this an entertaining outing. However, the ending is abuprt.Rated R; Sexual Situations, Nudity, Graphic Violence, and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Possibly one of the worst werewolf movies ever","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I hope that Primo, the German Shepherd who played Thor, fired his agent after this role.  It's amazing how they can take such a great novel and make such a bad movie out of it.  Not only was the dog the best actor, he had the best lines and best stunt double.  If you like dogs, people, or just plain good movies, do not waste your time on this stinker.  Even the beautiful scenery and Primo's best efforts can't save this one. "},{"Title":"What A Joke.","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie is one of the worst movies I've seen.  You want a werewolf movie, watch An American Werewolf in London.  This one looked so, so fake.  Why does the dog always have his month open??? If you like watching a movie with a guy with hair, watch this. "},{"Title":"One of the Worst Movies in the History of Bad Movies","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This, by far, is one of the worst movies I have ever seen.  I actually persuaded my date that it would be better than the current movies that were playing (i.e. Sleepers, First Wives Club, etc.).  I mean, come on. Hemingway and Pare.  That is a pretty good cast.  During the movie, I kept telling my date that it would get better and that the plot would soon develop.  How wrong I was.  This was one of the crappiest movies ever made.I never knew that is possible for the moon to stay full for extended days on end.  Save your money.  Don't even dignify this movie by renting it.  "},{"Title":"The best werewolf flick of the 90s!","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" If the summer of 2006 will be remembered for anything, it will be the Snakes on a Plane phenomenon. A horrible idea for a film with bad directing, even worse acting, and some of the worst special effects of all time, it nonetheless became a cult classic the day that it opened. If only BAD MOON had the wide release that Snakes on a Plane had, genre fans wouldn't have even given the latter a shot. BAD MOON is the quintessential 90s movie. Attach a prolific and powerful producer (James G. Robinson), take a popular novel, have it adapted by one of the hottest screenwriters of the era (Eric Red), put in some semi-big name at the time (Mariel Hemingway, Michael Pare, Mason Gamble), and fill it with bloody violence. For its decade, it was perfect. It should have been a hit. What happened? Distributor Warner Bros. got cold feet and dumped the picture in only 900 theaters, giving it limited advertising and no chance of survival. Although I love the movie, I have to side with Warner Bros. on this one. This is the type of genre fare that is incredibly difficult to market. It didn't fit in to a teen horror market, it's hard to see too many adults getting excited over it, and it's definitely not for kids. The only audience left is the horror crowd, though at time, horror was dwindling at the box office. SCREAM had yet to come out and make horror a huge fad again. Alas, BAD MOON became a lost gem, something that aired on cable over and over again yet never found the audience it deserved. Had BAD MOON been made today, it would have had a much better shot at having success. With its cool yet fake werewolf costume, ample gore, and similarities to Snakes on a Plane, it would surely make a profit in 2006. As it stands, it remains my favorite werewolf flick of the 90s, though there isn't much competition for that title. The opening sequence alone is worth the purchase, probably the most memorable scene in any horror pic ever, next to HALLOWEEN. Highly recommended. It's perfect B-Movie fun. Kudos to Eric Red for handling both writing and directing duties so well. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Mariel Hemingway Helped this FILM!","Date":"4 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Always admired Mariel Hemingway and her sister in films and also the great struggle she has with depression in her every day life. Mariel Hemingway,(Janet),Lipstick,'76, plays the mother of a young boy and their dog who is the real protector of the family from the evils that seem to go on every time the Moon is full! Michael Pare(Uncle Ted),Fate,'03, is the brother to Janet and decides to bring his trailer closer to her home and avoid some horrible things that are effecting his life. Mariel Hemingway gave a great performance along with Michael Pare and made this film very interesting especially for a Halloween Night. Bad Moon is exactly what it sounds like, a Bad Horror film!  "}{"Title":"The werewolf vs the German Shepard","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I loooooooooove werewolves !! And it's been a while since we've had one that was worth mentioning. That's why I was really enthusiastic back in 1996, when I heard Bad Moon was released. Director Eric Red used to scare the hell out of me ( and everybody else, I suppose ...) with his thriller The Hitcher. Also, Body Parts was highly enjoyable. So, that was what I expected from Bad Moon...no masterpiece of cinema, but a creepy and a fun movie. And I think I can't really complain much about the result. In general, the ancient traditions of werewolf-stories are respected and that's important to me. The wolf itself is very impressive !!! Gigantic and creepy like it's supposed to be! But the transformation from man into wolf left a lot to the imagination. Eric Red and his crew should have watched An American Werewolf in London a couple of times more for that particular issue. That film is 15 years older, but the transformation looks a lot more real. Mariel Hemingway may owe a lot of her success to her famous last name, but she CAN act ! In fact, she does great here and so does Dennis the Menace...sorry, I can't remember the boy's real name. But, all the actors can try as hard as they want, the show is obviously stolen by the excellent performance of the dog. An impressive German Shepard named Thor! Of course, it must be a great dog if he's named after an ancient God of the Vikings! Bad Moon doesn't get the same recommendation as movies like The Wolf Man, Silver Bullet or the above mentioned American Werewolf in London, but it still is a nice little flick for fans of big, hairy creatures. "},{"Title":"One good Werewolf movie!","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Minor SpoilersThis is one of My favorite Werewolf films. I remember in 1996 seeing a trailer of Bad Moon on TV one night before Halloween and it was the only trailer I saw too and it seemed like it came and left as soon as it arrived( I really like the story of the film and the cast.Mariel Hemingway looked good and played her part good Dennis the Menaces` Mason Gamble was good too but Michael Paré was great and especially when he turned into the werewolf. The beginning of it has a sex scene that I don't care for simply because I think sex scenes ruins a good movie but it is OK in this film because of what happens during it! The werewolf suit and effects are top notch and is arguably the greatest looking werewolf in a movie!There is some gore but its not the goriest .All werewolf fans check this one out as I don't think you'll be disappointed!  "},{"Title":"An ok horror movie, only because the main star is adog!","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The premise of a horror movie starring a dog is great, but the movie isn't. Still, its watchable and enjoyable most of the time.The special effects are crappy compared to the great stuff around, but the trained dog actor is extremely cute and talented. He should get a little Dogscar (I know, it's lame, but dogs should also get prizes for acting!!!).The drama in the movie is also nice, even though it seems to be going nowhere sometimes.  "},{"Title":"..On the rise","Date":"6 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" ...as Creedence Clearwater Revival would sing.The subject is as old as the hill and I'm sure that 99% of the users have seen at least ten other movies about werewolves ,provided that they are horror and fantasy movies buffs ,of course.This one hits rock bottom.the only originality is that the hero was bitten (why by the way?) in the jungle,while making love with his girl friend who was less lucky and got eaten by the beast.He chooses his sister's wife as a convalescent(?) home ;this woman (Mariel Hemingway is a limited actress,to put it mildly) has a boy (of course very clever) and a dog that gives the best performance of the movie he looks very intense when he gazes upon Ted's trailer.The rest of the movie is so trite,so hackneyed and so déjà vu  it's extraordinary people should produce such drivel.One may think that the crook ,at the beginning of the story,will play an important part in the plot he won't. "},{"Title":"Instead of Bad Moon it should have been called Bad Movie!","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  It was the worst movie I have ever seen in the movie theater.  I was going to a lot of movies when this movie came out and I noticed in the paper a listing for Bad Moon.  So I decided since I had aready seen every other movie playing in the theater to give it a try.  It was opening day of the movie and I notice that only three other people in the theater had come to see it.  This was a bad sign right off.  After two hours of sitting through this debacle out of morbid curiosity, I came away from this movie with only one good point; The dog's acting wasn't that bad.  So as the day passed so did Bad Moon, right out of the theater.  It only played one day and left town.  To this day I have never met another person who has ever seen or even heard of this movie. "},{"Title":"Watchable,but pretty boring.","Date":"11 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Some days ago I tracked this one on Polish TV-I wasn't completely disappointed,but it bored me.Just another werewolf film with a lot of CGI-effects.There are some good scenes in this picture,which is well-made and has some pretty cool photography too.Only a little bit of gore,so gore-hounds will certainly be disappointed.Not as bad as An American Werewolf in Paris,but nothing really ground-breaking.5 out of 10. "}]