[{"Title":"Basquiat - an inspiration.","Date":"18 March 2004","Score":"33 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed the movie 'Basquiat'. It is a subtle portrayal of a complex character, beautifully acted by Jeffrey Wright. It would have been easy for the film-makers to go over board with this movie. Basquiat sure did have the character to allow that. And the fact they didn't feel the need to do that, is why I like this movie so much. It'd been easy to concentrate more on the drug taking, on his immense paranoia, and on his lively lifestyle that went beyond Andy Warhol and Madonna. And doing that would have probably got the movie more hype, attention and plaudits. Instead the makers of this movie just give glimpses of his life and merely suggest a whole lot more, and this works well. It's a movie that goes along more at a stroll than a run, and grows in stature and depth as it does so.But, the 'problem' if you can call it that, with 'Basquiat' is that you need to know this man's art, and this man's character to really enjoy and appreciate this movie. And that's why I think it maybe doesn't get the sympathetic reviews or attention it deserves. If you didn't know about this man's life before seeing the movie, then I don't know what you could take from the film.  And if you watch it without knowing about him and his art, then I can imagine it wouldn't really hit the mark.What makes this movie beautiful in it's subtlety is that it does great justice to the wonderful talent and nature of Jean Michel Basquiat. And if you love his art, then do watch this movie, it's well worth it.9/10  "},{"Title":"Inscrutable, yet interesting study....","Date":"4 June 2006","Score":"25 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" of Jean Michel Basquiat and the art world of the 80's. Granted, the film is a bit abstruse, and some viewers have complained about the music tracks (actually Basquiat's own music from his band); but it does serve to show the disaffected life of an artist, who seemed to gain fame, money, and fair-weather friends, despite himself.Jeffrey Wright is very understated, but believable as Basquiat. Apparently he and his father were estranged, until he became famous. Then everyone wanted something from him. Not just another story of fame and its vices, however; because the film does NOT show his life as glamorous, indeed once he has made it we still see him dining at Lutece, people critiquing, being unaccepting of him as a person. Perhaps in real life this was one of the sources of his insecurities, and reason for his drug addiction. Certainly, if one believes even half of what is written about the NY art world- it cannot have been a forgiving place.That aside, the film also has some interesting cameos, David Bowie as Warhol is excellent, Dennis Hopper as the Zurich art dealer, Bruno Bischofsburger is very believable. An amusing cameo with Christopher Walken as a James Lipton character; a pretentious interviewer. The only annoying performance was Parker Posey, as gallery owner Mary Boone, who perhaps portrayed this person too close to the mark.Keeping in mind that Basquiat was under age 30 when he died, this story is credible. An artist who rose too fast, was used and discarded- apparently in real life Basquiat had a tendency to be generous, and gave away many of his paintings. There is one scene where he is beaten up so two street people can take steal a SAMO inscription on a piece of metal.The visuals are also noteworthy, while an earlier review critiqued the surfboarding sequence, I find that a preferable segue to Basquiat's need to escape; apparently he owned a good deal of property in Hawai'i and spent time there as well.The scenes with Claire Forlani are also effective, Basquiat's some-time girlfriend, we see her as a waitress, then a junkie, then a cleaned-up version, going to Columbia. The NY street sequences are realistic, It is not glamorous (though the accompanying jazz music is). It shows the schizophrenic nature of NY; Lutece, a homeless person sleeping outside, a man selling stuffed animals on the street, and Bruno Bischofsberger(Hopper) who mistakes Basquiat for a homeless person, trying to clean the windows on his Mercedes. Very realistic.I highly recommend this film; it does not glamorize the story, and while it may not be completely accurate, it rings true, and portrays a life many artists may wish for, until they get it. 9/10 "},{"Title":"I think this film is great","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"30 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I thought this film captured the feel of SoHo and the downtown art scene in 1980's NYC.  (I lived in NYC from 1986 until 2001.)  I really like the untethered, free-spirited, and dangerous elements of Basquiat's character.  The movie doesn't fit into the film school model of a perfectly constructed piece, but I find that appealling; the film is artful and enjoyable.  I watch it whenever it shows up on one of the film channels unedited and uninterrupted.  Hope you enjoy it as well. "},{"Title":"Fascinating look at New York art world","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"19 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I'm a sucker for movies set in New York City, which is one reason I decided to see this, that and the supporting cast.  I don't know much about Basquiat, his life or work, so I don't know how accurate the movie is, nor do I know much about art, but this film drew me in.  I know the film was made by a friend and compatriot of Basquiat, Julian Schnabel, and if there's a weakness, it's that sometimes we feel this is an inside job. Nevertheless, we do go inside the art world, get to know about graffiti, and we get to understand what makes Basquiat tick.  I also thought Jeffrey Wright was good in the title role.  The supporting cast were all first-rate as well.  "},{"Title":"This movie is impressionist art on film.  Julian Schnabel proves to be as talented behind the lens as he is on canvas.","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  If you love art, this movie is definitely for you.  If character development and good writing are important elements in your movie selections, definitely add this one to your list of must sees. However, if you typically only prefer major blockbuster hits, you may want to forego it.Intricately performed and written, this film is art-house & independent at it's very finest.  David Bowie is perfection as Jean Michel Basquiat's friend and mentor, Andy Warhol. Michael Wincott sheds his usual grovel-voiced tough guy persona to play Basquiat's first flamboyantly feminine art dealer. Jeffrey Wright's brilliant performance as the complex Basquiat received a nomination for Best Debut Performance, and Benecio Del Toro won Best Supporting Male Performance at the 1997 Independent Spirit Awards. Even the minor characters (Gary Oldman, Christopher Walken, Dennis Hopper, Parker Posey, Willem Dafoe) add colorful performances to Julian Schnabel's first canvas on film. --J.B.  "},{"Title":"everyone with a brain should see this movie","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I cannot believe that Basquiat isn't high in the top 250; it is easily the best movie I have ever seen.  No matter whether or not you like/liked Basquiat's art, this movie is amazing.  In fact, you'll probably enjoy the movie more if you don't like his art.  Basquiat was a crackhead who chose to live on the street.  None of his art demonstrated amazing artistic technique, yet with the help of some exorbitantly rich, twisted and influential people in the art world, he rose from the gutter and gained international stardom.  Whether he deserved his fame, wealth and glory is addressed throughout the film, but the movie is more about how his self-destructive tendencies managed to get the better of him and lead him to an early death.  The movie is very depressing, but also inspiring.  The acting is fantastic overall, although Dennis Hopper was awful as Bruno and I wish that Courtney Love were not cast as Big Pink.  The film itself is even a work of art.  Don't see it if you're only into mystery, horror, suspense, or action films, but if you like art or are at all intellectual, see it see it see it see it see it!  "},{"Title":"Genius or exploitation?","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Basquiat is a film with an agenda. Far from being a neutral stage upon which the life and emotion of the artist is played out for us to observe, this film wants to make a point about the art world, casting Basquiat as Oliver Twist. If you are looking to find out what drives an artist you are not going to find it here - unless the answer is money. The filmmakers did not go very far into the head of their subject - either that or he was a very shallow and vapid person. I did not get the feeling from this film that Basquiat was a true artist; rather, he came off as an opportunist who figured out how to capture the mechanics of bad abstract impressionism and pass himself off as one. Then a lucky break, combined with silly art collectors who have way too much money and not enough of their own thought processes, multiplied by a guilt ridden population of white people flush with 1980's cash, combine to equal the phenomenon of Basquiat.I am not saying that this is (or is not) the truth. In the world of art there are no truths anyway. What I am saying is that this is not a neutral biography. It may pay to do a little bit of research into Basquiat before watching the film. As for myself, I admit to watching it only because I was bored and nothing else was on. I knew vaguely the story, and who Basquiat was, but had no opinions of and no real knowledge about him. Since I am not the type of person who forms his opinions on any subject based on information from only one source, I did some research into Basquiat after the film before coming to any sort of conclusions. What those conclusions were are irrelevant as far as this review is concerned - but what does concern me are the many people who undoubtedly had their opinion about Basquiat fed to them by this film and who now consider themselves educated on the subject.As far as the film itself, it is not bad. Not great, but not bad. It had a certain feeling to it. But it is hard to get beyond its portrayal of the subject, as he is the reason for the film. As noted, Basquiat comes off as an empty headed and shallow individual without a lot of talent or original thought who likes to use drugs and drink a lot. The film's Basquiat seemed not to care much about art, that it was an afterthought to him. He was shown as a dabbler - dabbling in music too but not doing much or giving it much effort. Perhaps that is the truth, I don't know, because overall the film is more a study of art and what constitutes it and gives it value than a biography of an artist - and postulates that today's art is more about the name than the actual piece. The same thing that is given away for free by a homeless man who lives in a box can be worth six figures if the right people decide that it should. I also felt that he filmmakers relied on cliché' a bit too much for my liking. The scene that sticks out in my mind is the one where Basquiat was on a schoolyard basketball court with his buddy, who was trying to get him to play. Basquiat was totally inept at the game and had no desire to play whatsoever. The filmmakers were obviously trying to demonstrate either one or both of two things - that Basquiat was so much of a cerebral artist that he was incapable of physical sport, or that Basquiat was a black man who could not play basketball. Whatever the case, the scene was painful to watch. It was ham-fisted imagery at its worst. A well done scene with some good conversation and emotion could have sent the same message intended in the schoolyard - actually could have done it better because as blockheaded as the schoolyard scene was, it still did not send a clear and defined message.The acting in Basquiat was for the most part serviceable, with David Bowie turning in the most inspired performance as Andy Warhol. Bowie brought a subtle warmth and humanity to a person who is often portrayed as a cold cartoon character. Although Warhol was clearly intended to be an exploiter in the film, Bowie managed to show him as a person who felt that Basquiat was a true friend and not just a paycheck. This is an Andy Warhol who cared about people, and who could have his feelings hurt just like anyone else. This is not the stereotypical movie Warhol, playing with people like the proverbial chess pieces. This Warhol genuinely admired the work of his protégés. And David Bowie would know, wouldn't he? He was there. I got the feeling that Bowie took the part to make a statement about Warhol - as if he was annoyed by younger filmmakers using the stereotypical Warhol image in an exploitative way. I felt that he was subversively reading the lines between the lines. Good for him.This film is more a commentary on the art world, on racism, and on exploitation than it is a biography. I would say that it is better to look at it this way, for as a biography it is biased and somewhat mean-spirited. Remember the first line of this review? It seemed to me that the filmmakers were saying that Basquiat was bereft of talent and inspiration - that he was a bum and a drug abuser who got lucky. Perhaps he was, but I'd prefer to make up my own mind. So it would pay to know a bit about the subject before watching - this Basquiat is a light dessert, not the main course. "},{"Title":"Great Films","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"16 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Once in a while a movie is perfectly acted; this is one of them. David Bowie does the best Andy Warhol ever captured on film. The film in itself is a work of art, as much as Basquiat was himself. I'm unaware of how factual the film is, but I'm guessing it's not too false. It's a near perfect film and that's why I give it a solid nine.   "},{"Title":"Like the artist himself, this movie had style","Date":"9 September 2003","Score":"20 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I enjoy Basquiat's artwork. When I look at it, It doesn't look like it took a great amount of talent. His work tended to look very simple, really basic ideas. However, the creativity is overwhelming. He was a minimalist, that came up with simplistic masterpieces. Yeah, it was not real hard to do, but few have ever had such creative ideas. This film reminds me so much of the artist himself. It has a ton of style, it is fun to watch, somewhat uneventful, and like the artist, it is destined to be remembered, because style never dies. Heavyweight talent is everywhere, with actors such as Dennis Hopper, Benecio Del Torro, Geofrey Wright, David Bowie, Willam DeFoe, etc. I don't think either the film or the artist were that special, so why can't I forget either? "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"24 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Basquiat is one of the most beautiful and spiritual yet honest and unpretentious movies I have ever come across...   I have watched it many times and it has never failed to move me and give me a surge of both melancholy and creativity! "}{"Title":"brilliant, hysterical, all time classic","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" first of all this movie is not hardly a realistic bio of Basquiat. it is Julien Schnabel using Basquiat's basic story in caricature to make a vividly colorful music video dramedy about fame and art. (even the art in this movie presented as Basquiat's was Schnabel's, not Basquiat's.) taken as this, I think the movie succeeds on every level. of COURSE there is a pretentious mention of VanGogh in the opening narrative--everything in this movie is exaggerated--that's the point! the colors are lurid, the soundtrack is well meaning and occasionally innovative, and the cast is incredible. still my all time favorite Benicio Del Toro role. Bowie here remains the best ignorant art screen Warhol ever, and his sidekick Dennis Hopper is perfectly toady. arguably in this context Jeff Wright was a better Basquiat than Basquiat himself. Gary Oldman is also very memorable. Maybe Dafoe wasn't fully employed but it was a glorified cameo, and other cameos by Vince Gallo, Christopher Walken, Courtney Love and the like were perfect spices.this is not a serious movie people. it's a very tasteful loving joke by some of the folks who knew Basquiat. it's not high art like Basquiat himself, but then Downtown 81 isn't altogether as amusingly crafted as this is. It's all round fun in nearly the vein of Royal Tannenbaums (except halfway true) "},{"Title":"A beautiful and artistic tribute to a good friend.","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This is among the best movies I've ever seen. Is it accurate? Does it tell the whole story? Isn't it giving a slanted perspective on Basquiat's life? Who cares? Watch Biography on A&E or something for an historical account of his life if that's what you're looking for. This movie is a beautifully filmed tribute to an artist by an artist. There is a scene in the film where we watch old 8mm clips of Basquiat's friend Andy Warhol. I get the feeling Julian Schnabel wished there was a big collection of 8mm home movies with which to make a tribute out of, but lacking that did the next best thing and made a movie. I felt like the whole movie was a film version of friends getting together and saying remember that time he.... The film does tend to jump around a bit, and not everything is explained fully. Think back on someone close to you who died. Think of how you remember that person. Not as a complete biography, but a collection of memories. Times that make you laugh, times that make you cry, times you wish others had experienced so they can know fully what the loss means to you. This movie captures that feeling and draws you into this close group of friends. It lets you share those times from the inside. Each person is represented by at least one clip. Each person has at least one memory to share. Basquait drifts around the film in a dreamy disconnected way. These scenes are only memories. The character does not grow or change because we remember our friends the way they were when they died. We freeze them and wrap them in a protective blanket that repels all fault we may have placed on them in life. I have never watched a film that captures these feelings so well. This film made me feel like I was invited to Basquiat's wake and allowed to share in the memories. "},{"Title":"Shame on the critic...","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"15 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Why is it whenever a work comes out about an artist of a modern slant, there arrives the masses claiming their dogs might paint better...and how about the simple complaint that they didn't show us what was going on in his mind...Hogwash.  Art will always be in the eye of the beholder, and unless you hear it from the horse's mouth, nobody knows what is going on in the head of anyone else.  Take a look at Julian Schnabel's most recent work Before Night Falls, and subject it to the same analysis.  The only reason we might know more about Reinaldo Arenas is because he wrote it down...the motives are not always as clear as we might hope to believe we have grasp of...How about Jackson Pollack?  How many of us know that the Wizard of Oz, an apparently simple, innocent childhood fable, was actually a political statement of the author (and this is from the horse's mouth)?Take the film for what it is and don't spend your time looking for the boom mic to peek into shots or read Basquiat's mind and you might find it enjoyable.  For the art critics out there, let us not pretend to understand the process unless you are somewhat of an artist yourself, okay.  Because you cannot understand the motive does not change the fact it may exist on some other plane than we perceive.  Okay, off of my soap box!  "},{"Title":"Just to note","Date":"24 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I am putting my comment on this movie just to emphasize childish level of the voters and visitors of this site. One great film like this deserves much more than attention of semi-infantile audience that is running around IMDb site. I can agree that the movie is a matter of taste, but its value encapsulated in the grade shouldn't spoil that. For example, I might don't appreciate Van Gogh's paintings but I can't say that his work deserves low grade. Great cast, great movie - everything is real art. Compares to the greatest art films I have ever seen this movie does not deserve the best grade, but compares to shallow art value and narrow oriented stories of the pre-school characters that are cherished with greatest ardour around here - this movie is a masterpiece. Jeffrey Wright is so convincing that after you see the film it stays with you for a pretty long time ... "},{"Title":"An incomplete life, an incomplete film","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This film biography of the artist Jean-Michel Basquiat left me wanting to have a better understanding of him as a person and as an artist. The movie takes us from Basquiat's being a graffiti artist sleeping in a cardboard box to being a major superstar cavorting with Andy Wharhol in such a halting way that I never felt I got to know the person or his art. You might think that in covering a decade of a person's life in less than two hours director Julian Schnabel could only skate on the surface and leave us with the superficial story we get here, but Schnabel himself proves that a more complete and satisfying film portrait can be accomplished by having given us a treatment of the entire life of the Cuban writer and poet Reinaldo Arenas in his magnificent Before Night Falls. The contrast between these two movies illustrates the problems I have with Basquiat. For example, we are told that Basquiat came from a middle-class family, so why did he wind up sleeping in a cardboard box in a New York City park? We are given a few hints about his relationship with his mother, who winds up in a mental institution, but not enough information to form any solid ideas about it. His father appears in one scene at an art opening, but we are left with no idea about the relationship between Basquiat and his father. So, whereas we come away from Before Night Falls with a firm grasp on Arenas' young life, we are left with knowing almost nothing about the early Basquiat. Basquiat's personality remained opaque to me. I got very little feel for his work habits and almost no feel for his art. I knew little about his art going into this movie and was disappointed that we did not get to see enough of his work to have an opinion about it. After all, that is what he was famous for. Don't most artists say that in order to know them you should know their art? If that is true, Basquiat does not give us much of a chance to know the person. However, if Schnabel agrees with the statement made by a person in the movie that only about twelve people in the world understand art, then maybe he felt it would be pointless for us to see much of Basquiat's paintings. But Schnabel didn't seem to feel that way about his own work though, since much of the art we do see is Schnabel's.Scenes that could clarify only confuse. Take for example the scene where Basquiat is being interviewed by a Larry King type reporter. Basquiat not only confounds the reporter, but us as well. Was he being arrogant or rude or inarticulate or embarrassed or shy or conflicted or what? He must have signed off on giving the interview, so why behave like he did?What accounts for Basuait's decline and ultimate death by heroin overdose? In one scene between Basquiat and Andy Warhol Basquiat claims to be clean and there is an indication that his work has been on the decline at that point. Is the implication that drug use fueled Basquiat's work? This is not pursued. It *is* shown that Warhol's death was a tremendous blow to him.The movie has a great cast, with some cameo appearances being throw-aways. Willem Dafoe appears as an electrician with the soppy advice to Basquiat, You'll get there, you'll get there. For a moment I thought I was seeing a Disney movie. And Christopher Walken is pretty much wasted in his role as an interviewer. But there is some great work by Jeffrey Wright as Basquait, by Benicio Del Toro as Basquiat's early friend as well as by Dennis Hopper as an art dealer. David Bowie steals ever scene he is in as Andy Warhol - he alone makes this movie worth seeing.One area where Basquiat feels authentic is in its depiction of the New York art scene. The complex interactions among art dealers, gallery owners, artists, critics, patrons, and hangers-on gives us an insider's view. Clearly Schnabel knows what he is talking about here.The music is all over the map from the Rolling Stones' Waiting on a Friend to Henyrk Górecki's third symphony.As in Before Night Falls, Schnabel promotes the idea of art as the manifestation of an artist's pursuit of freedom. In a scene near the end of Basquiat we see the artist standing up in a jeep and delighting as it speeds along. We get the idea that Basquiat's life was a pursuit of personal freedom that was blunted in his confronting the real world. "},{"Title":"the artist as a success, a sometimes but not always usual bio-pic","Date":"2 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Jean Michel Basquiat was a really intriguing creature. He was an artist in the truest proletariat sense of the word. Meaning that he could never be bourgeois, even as he was brought in to that world, dominated by the 15-minutes-of-fame man himself, Andy Warhol. By the way Julian Schnabel's loving if not too adulatory portrait of Basquiat shows, he was a guy trapped a bit inside of his own mind artistically, but at the same time really responsive to the world around him, commenting on it, sometimes at random, other times with the skill of an artist who just turns the world on a dime without even seeming to try. His art may not appeal to everyone, but it's hard to deny what it is, which is material made to provoke some kind of reaction; only someone like a disconnected bourgeois, like Warhol's lover/manager Bruno (played by Dennis Hopper in this film) would be detached from Basquiat's art.But there poses another question that Schnabel poses to the audience (perhaps a little bluntly, but effective all the same) how does one who is not apart of one world assimilate in another? Basquiat wasn't always the nicest person or easiest to get along with, but he had that quality like Jim Morrison, where he could be turned on to someone so much and so brightly that it was hard to look away, quirks and seething anger (and drug addiction) and all. Schnabel also does not give the audience any firm reason about how or why Jean Michel turned out like this as a kid (we hear at one point from an interviewer he was raised middle class and chose to live in a cardboard box), and it's not always necessary really. He is who he is at the start- a quirky, amused and experimental artist and musician- and then from there his fame is what makes him more (or less) fascinating to us.Basquiat takes the proverbial 'bio-pic' route with some of the expectation one has. For example, Schnabel emphasizes his romantic ties to a waitress and artist, Gina (Forlani), and makes the professional part of his storyline concurrent to that, no more or less important than that strand. But this is not a deterrent to see the usual up-and-down love story between a flawed artist and his love. Perhaps more conventional is seeing the person in the story hooked on drugs, but it was a fact in Basquiat's life and it's dealt with tastefully, or at least realistically.And to counter some of the expectations one has with a 'rise-to-fame' story of an artist, Schnabel makes it very much a film in its time and place it's late 70's, early 80's, in New York City, where grit and decay seems to counter (or attract) the glitz and glamor, also in its own kind of decay (Warhol was more of a leech by then anyway, in a great scene having someone else drink beer and pee on a canvas since he won't drink beer to do it himself). Sometimes it's just bizarre in a delightful way, like how Basquiat looks up at the sky and sees surfing, and other times it's a fine array of the period in terms of music, or just New York City kind of music in general (Miles Davis to Johnny Rotten to early 80's hip hop to the Rolling Stones).At the center of Schnabel's portrait of an artist as a quasi-question mark, is Jeffrey Wright. He's always 'on' in a scene, even when it looks like Jean Michel is somewhere else, or just not responding to another person in the room (just watch the way Wright, as Basquiat, defuses a very angry Gina after he's painted over her paintings when she wakes up). It's a curious thing, too, to see him contrasted with David Bowie, who almost seems to have gone method in portraying the pop-culture icon as a bit of a quiet creep. It's the kind of performance, by Wright, that says 'watch out for me, I have some good things to offer', and it was a real breakthrough role, leading to the kind of varied work of his career in work ranging from Syriana to Cadillac Records. But as Basquiat, he finds one of his richest real-life characters, an artist of the streets. 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Basquiat  is a timeless classic that is beautifully mastered.","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Jeffrey Wright is the protagonist and hero of this biographical movie Basquiat.The story of a artist that lives forever in a time of hypocrisy and self loathing ,Jean Michel Basquiat, a firecracker that will keep you waiting for the fuse to erupt goes out to soon. His career changes for the worst and so does he in this biography of an American artist,titled, Basquiat.He has a unique style of his own that will be noticed and challenged by critic's and his peers. This Hatian and Peurto Rican man will live through you even if you hate him or love him you will never forget, Basquiat. The movie also details the 1980's Soho and East Village Scene in New York. You will see in this movie many downtown fixtures of the 80's including the king of Pop Culture, Andy Warhole(David Bowie) and you will also see Benecio Del Torro as Basquiat's neighborhood friend before he becomes rich and famous. "},{"Title":"THIS FILM IS A JULIAN SCHNABEL PAINTING WE WANT MORE....","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  It is hard to explain in english for me but I like to try. Basquiat was a great talent artist born of a Portorican mother and Haitian father. Jean Michel has a lightning career that marks years eighty. He signs of the name of Samo the first graffitis of the New York subway . The meeting of Andy Warhol is determinante for his career. From 1984 he works with Warhol and Francesco Clémente. His work move away from the graffiti but continue to represent the culture of the street, making ironically reference  to quotes of medias and to the advertisement. Its works now identify to his originshis  grotesques figures and his faces to the African sculpture air make reference to the jazz and Voodoo that compose the uncoordinated image of an entity urban ethnic in quest of his origins. Back to the movie. Julian Schnabel delivers  here an  accomplished work of art that tried to surround, not only the art of Basquiat, but the intellectual gait of the generation post Jackson Pollock. Jeffrey Wright is remarkable, he would be worthy of an oscar. Benicio Del Toro also. Gary Oldman. Bowie, Walken, Hopper, Da Foe, all understood, all played with exactness. Just the  picture of Basquiat and Benny Dalmau (Del Toro) looking at the avant-garde video  is worth the price of entrance. The picture of the Warhol video on the beach is in bounty.... "},{"Title":"Rene 511","Date":"11 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Jean Michel Basquiat went from being a homeless drug addict to the finest thing since sliced bread in the art world, particularly New York. After being discovered, he receives the help he needs to make it from his guide and mentor Andy Warhol, among other artists. Based on a true story, Basquiat's rise to fame is blindingly fast and so is his fall.I would like to say that first off, I know nothing about art or the art world, so I can't really comment on the realism or factual basis for this film. The acting in Basquiat is truly to be admired. Not only does it have an excellent cast but the characters they portray are fun and convincing...and that goes for everyone. David Bowie as Andy Warhol is truly magnificent, and supposedly the most realistic depiction of him to date. Jeffrey Wright displays his talents by showing us a drug addict who is close to the edge, but also extremely talented and eccentric at the same time. And of course Gary Oldman is a god, but here his part is fairly small considering what he's capable of and his character is much more mild than usual. I like him when he's skinning babies or going on murderous rampages. Even though his part isn't the most memorable in the world, he still does an excellent job as usual. Oh yeah, one more thing, Courtney Love needs to die. Her appearance in movies mystifies me more than Keanu Reeves'. We should sick Gary Oldman on her. Send me a PM if you know how to contact him.I guess some would call Basquiat an artsy-fartsy film as it is filled with music and video images that speak metaphorically to the viewer and appear quite frequently throughout the film. One good example in particular of these metaphorical videos/images occurs right before the credits start to roll and is probably the most controversial of all of them in the film. People are either going to think it's really lame and unnecessary, or it's going to really make the movie for them...not much room in between. For me, I really liked it but I can also see how some people wouldn't. The music and images help to give a surrealistic feel to the movie, after all, what happened to Basquiat was quite surreal at times. A sad film about the life of a great artist, filled with excellent actors and a lot of imagery and symbolism. I suspect if I were an art student or someone who knew a little more about Basquiat and his life, my opinion might be a little more discerning. But just from a movie standpoint, it's pretty damn good. Not for everyone, but for those who will enjoy it, they'll enjoy it quite well. "},{"Title":"Are you a writer or a white writer?","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I was able to appreciate this movie. I'm sure that it's probably not the most accurate portrayal of JMB that we can get but it's still a pretty compelling look. I think director Julian Schnabel was able to capture the essence of the '80s art world pretty well, even though I question his directorial skills somewhat. There are some really good performances here, one of my favorites being Benicio Del Toro as JMB's best friend, Benny. I thought Jeffrey Wright was really good as JMB and I think this guy is definitely gonna go places in the near future. The cameos are pretty interesting, with Dennis Hopper, Willem Dafoe, Parker Posey, Gary Oldman and Christopher Walken putting in a couple of minutes worth each. It must be noted that David Bowie gives a haunting performance as Andy Warhol. It's pretty creepy actually. The selection of music for the movie was taken from JMB's actual record collection and it's great stuff. It's not a perfect movie but it's moving, at the least. An interesting, if at times skewed, look at the '80s art scene and one of it's icons. RATING ***1/2 out of *****. "}{"Title":"Terrible direction","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the worst movies I have ever sat thru, start to finish. While the acting is not a problem, the direction and editing are terrible. I will concede that I have little use for Basquiat as an artist, but I also have no use for Jackson Pollack as an artist and the recent movie on his life was very good.  The problem was not the subject, it was the presentation.This film on Basquiat's life not only fails to leave you caring about Basquiat, but with about 20 minutes to go in the movie it honestly had me wishing someone would spring out from nowhere and murder Basquiat in some act of random violence which would at least end the film.Jump-cuts being used for no apparent effect, b-rolling of audio tracks of conversations that would have been happening only minutes prior to the time of the visual image on the screen, when NOTHING is happening in the visual image that advances the story.  This technique works great as a means of compressing time, showing a visual image to tell one part of a story, while simultaneously presenting audio from another time and place and allowing the viewer to absorb both in half the time.  But here it was used for NO purpose.In a later scene, in one of Basquiat's non-fatal heroin overdoses, we are shown what his girlfriend sees when she finds him with his heart temporarily stopped and we are to realize as she did that it was a drug overdose. Well, this is fine when you are watching on DVD and can go back to take a second look at the shot, but when the tight shot of the syringe is simply not tight at all and when the thing is shown amid clutter and for only a second and a half, (I timed it) the director and editor fail to allow us the opportunity to see what they are trying to show us.The movie has recurrent visual images of surfers and watersports that might have some great significance to Basquiat's life, but which the director fails to even begin to convey.  They might as well be random images on the screen.The movie, in a nutshell, stinks, and to see reviews here praising it make me wonder what planet the authors are from.This was the first directorial effort of Julian Schnabel, and it is amazing anyone else trusted him with their money or careers to direct another on in 2000.  That 2000 film, Before Night Falls, was his only other directing effort. "},{"Title":"A waste of an outstanding cast.","Date":"25 February 2001","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Basquiat tells the story of a NYC street tagger's rise to moderate success and a brief career as a legitimate artist. This unfortunate flick loses on all levels with a litany of cinematic faux pas too long to list here. Perhaps the main fault is central character is given no depth. Rather the camera spends huge portions of time showing the laconic Basquiat doing mundane nothings of things. Also the creative force behind the film clutters the work with capricious nonsense such as surfers in the sky, incongruous music and sound, and other junk. If this film is for anyone it would be the artsy/fartsy crowd..with the empahsis on fartsy. "},{"Title":"Interesting Film about the Art World","Date":"28 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" If you are a New York art world fanatic, you would probably enjoy this film, but if you care nothing about art or artists, forget it. It's more about Basquiat's drug and personality problems than anything else. He's so bombed out all the time, it's hard to understand how he accomplished as much work as he did. I'm sure Basquiat had a much richer and fuller life than you get from this film. This film won't make you like Basquiat as a person. He didn't come off as a sympathetic character. In almost every scene, he is strung out on drugs to the point, he's barely functioning. It gets to be a little much after awhile. The film did nothing to help me understand his art or help me to appreciate it more, or Warhol's art, who is an accessory to Baquiat in this film. The film is more about Basquiat's social life or lack thereof. I kept thinking throughout the film Grow up already. The best thing about the film is that it shows how empty success can be. Basquiat chased success as am artist, but when he found it, he didn't find happiness just more emptiness. David Bowie is good as Warhol. "},{"Title":"A cute romance featuring a young black boy","Date":"23 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Who was Basquiat? Looking at this movie, I do not know.What did Basquiat do? Drugs, paintings and chased white girls. Or at least this is what this movie is showing.How were Basquiat's drawings? Ugly, but cool and everybody wanted them. None of the pictures shown look like Basquiat's work, but who cares.Was there racism in the big city back in the 1980s? Sure. In the first ten minutes or so you can see how the young black man is having fun in a what looks like a whites only club, everybody is cool, but the taxis don't stop at his sign twice in a row till his white girl intervenes. That is about all.Nothing about his background. A magical mushroom pushing on the sidewalk. Art school? Nah! Influences? A lot of white men, some gay. An hour into the movie I felt more sorry for the white gay men than for the lucky brown skinned guy helped by so many not-racist people. "},{"Title":"Splintered success story with a romantic/tragic edge...","Date":"17 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Julian Schnabel both wrote (with a great deal of assistance) and directed this dreamy-eyed bio-pic on American artist, Jean‑Michel Basquiat (1960-1988). Born of Haitian and Puerto Rican descent, Basquiat was a homeless graffiti artist in 1979 New York city when his rock band, Test Patten and a handful of TV appearances garnered him local attention, though this timeline of events doesn't make its way into the film. Schnabel is too anxious to move onto the elite crowds in SoHo who gather at galleries to admire Basquiat's work (they are seen mostly as phonies) and to Basquiat's trepidatious friendship with Andy Warhol (played with amusing unease by David Bowie). Schnabel knew the real-life Basquiat, he must have understood the man, his demons and his dreams and his enormous talents, but this is a filmmaker who abhors details. He'd rather show us Basquiat sleeping comfortably inside a cardboard box--only leaving once it starts to rain--rather than explain why he doesn't just move in with the coke-snorting artist he spends most of his spare time with. There are no details between the set-ups because the plot (and the characters) have been spun out of adulation and fantasy. There is no use, for example, studying the 1980s milieu and picking out the anachronisms; the movie doesn't exist on a real plane. This is Alex Cox/Sid and Nancy territory--well-produced, perhaps, and with the hippest cast of its year, but coke-weary and dewy. Jeffrey Wright was just about the finest acting arrival in cinema in 1996, and he doesn't disappoint in the title role. Schnabel is the one who lets us down by not investing the character with more soul, more genuine personality and more substance. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Revealing the secrets of the universe comes with a price","Date":"20 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Basquiat is a must see for for anyone interested in the arts. The tale of the tortured creative genius has been told many times, but this story really pulls you into the experience. The rise of the artist appears to be the surface story and will be the only story for many viewers. Try to feel the story instead of watching and you might glimpse the mystery. When an artist, a true creator, engages in the creative process it permits the passage of the unknown through the artist's self. Becoming a doorway is fine, but some messages that pass through are more taxing than others. This can be witnessed from afar in the lives of artists such as Kurt Cobain, Jim Morrison, Van Gogh, Hunter S. Thompson, and the list goes on. The more revolutionary the reveal, the more the artist feels the burden. It is similar to giving birth to an idea or to energy and it is exhausting when done properly. If it is painless, then you birthed a small and unhealthy baby. Basquiat changed what we consider to be art. It took a toll. "},{"Title":"good but not great","Date":"2 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" While the acting in this film is spectacular, and the camera-work is worth the watch alone, the film still somehow comes up short for me. There were gaps in the story line that went unfilled; discontinuity that was distracting. Metaphors felt clunky and amateurish. Yet the film affected me, disturbed me. Such a waste was Basquiat's life (some would argue not so; but any life taken by drugs has been wasted in my opinion) that the images stuck with me for days. In this the director is successful. While I understand this wasn't a biography, I can't help but feel there were cards left un played here. As a piece of art this film stands up better than it does as a biography. But the distinction isn't clearly made by the director it's offered up chronologically and has many of the other expected hallmarks of a biographical piece. In that sense it's confusing. If you choose to watch this film- and I do recommend it- you should with that in mind. Learn about Basquiat's life independently, then watch it without this preconception. "},{"Title":"The Strange World of Art","Date":"10 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Basquiat tells the story of the meteoric rise of youthful artist Jean-Michel Basquiat. Starting out as a street artist, living in Thompkins Square Park in a cardboard box, Jean-Michel is discovered by Andy Warhol's art world and becomes a star. But success has a high price, and Basquiat pays with friendship and love.I can't pretend to understand art. So I can't say I understand what makes one artist valuable or famous and another one nothing. Basquiat is one of those mysteries. What made his art special? I do not know. But his life was interesting, and the way this film challenges race is important. I have wondered why we distinguish black things, but not white things...And Andy Warhol. Wow. I don't know a lot about him, but if he was anything like what David Bowie portrayed, he must have been quite strange to be around. No doubt Bowie and Warhol met, so the portrayal is probably correct. "},{"Title":"One of the Beautiful Things","Date":"28 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" One of the beautiful things about art is it's subjective, all of it. It's interesting what gets popular and what doesn't. I've worked at many museums throughout my life and I've seen one Basquiat exhibit come through. I'll be quite frank, I didn't like it. I thought his art was ridiculous. But then more of my artists friends would explain to me the genius of Basquiat and over the years I've really come to appreciate this man's work. That's the wonderful thing about life, as we all change, our tastes for art and pop culture change. It's a beautiful thing really. Basquiat's work is genius. That's my own subjective opinion now at this point in my life, no influences by artist friends or movies or anything, just my own opinion. So this film for me was like a kid being in a candy store. Jeffrey Wright was magnificent in this role. He is such a fantastic actor words can't even express. In my opinion, Wright's performance as Basquiat would have to be somewhere in my top 20 best performances of all time. It was absolutely amazing. Also, David Bowie was nothing to sneeze at either as Warhol. Bowie was excellent as well. I forgot how beautiful Claire Forlani used to be too and still is. Every artist should see this movie, to appreciate the universal aspect of the world we live in, to appreciate the subjectivity of art, of Basquiat. "},{"Title":"dislike Basquiat but fascinating art world","Date":"7 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" It's 1979 New York. Jean Michel Basquiat (Jeffrey Wright) is an unconventional artist who lives in the park. He likes waitress Gina Cardinale (Claire Forlani). He crashes with his friend Benny Dalmau (Benicio Del Toro). He assists an electrician (Willem Dafoe) at a gallery run by Albert Milo (Gary Oldman) and Mary Boone (Parker Posey). He sees Bruno Bischofberger (Dennis Hopper) and Andy Warhol (David Bowie) having lunch and sells some of his art to Warhol. Rene Ricard (Michael Wincott) takes an interesting in his art and starts showing him around. Annina Nosei (Elina Löwensohn) gives him the space to start painting. He goes with Big Pink (Courtney Love) who drives away Gina. He is interviewed by a guy (Christopher Walken).The way Jeffrey Wright portrays Basquiat is kind of annoying. He seems to have Asperger at times while at other times, he's simply an a-hole. He's definitely a hallucinating druggie. I'm not sure how accurate the character is but it's not a flattering portrayal. Although he's not an overtly bad guy, I simply don't care about him. It is however a very fascinating view of his meteoric rise in the art world. It's a great slice of New York life. It's odd to see these many great actors in cameos. It may be better to have lesser known actors in these lesser roles. It becomes more of a distraction especially when those actors don't come back. For me, the most interesting part is when Walken's character asks questions to Basquiat that makes him squirm. One more thing, I don't like the way that some of the edits fade out to black like it's fading out to a TV commercial break. That's also a bit distracting. "}{"Title":"This is what cinema is all about,Art.....!!!","Date":"18 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" An exceptional tour in the true story of BAsquiat a homeless young artist who's passion for painting will bring him for zero to hero...and zero again but no more spoilers!a great cast of actors a true easy going movie with lot of excitement,mistakes,love story and dramatic scenes!i could easily stand in the heavenly presence of Clair forlani in the movie,her appearance is just ethereal among so many great actors in this film!if you ve seen a lot of movies and don't know what to watch in the winter nigh alone....or not,this is a film to keep you a warm company.I ll give it 9/10 just because i really enjoyed it and after all this is what cinema is all about(besides great special effect p)!....Ask me for any movie review in https//www.facebook.com/dimitris.prod.7 "},{"Title":"It's complicated","Date":"10 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This is a biopic that tries to visually capture the essence of Basquiat, and to suggest at his emotional state at the time without jumping to any obvious or clichéd conclusions. It's a good film, not a great one, and definitely makes a case for Basquiat as a hard-working and talented artist who had to deal with a fair amount of racism in the NY art world, all of which are true. And the acting is by and large excellent.The problems come from the screenplay. Schnabel is very good visual director, but not a disciplined enough writer, so the film has no narrative drive for long stretches, and some scenes just fade to black without being narratively tied to the next one. Schnabel succeeds in showing why Basquiat would, at various points, be depressed--his mother's illness, Andy Warhol's death--but other characters pop in and out without explanation or much of a narrative arc, and the film doesn't end with any kind of resolution. (I'd guess that the filmmakers rightfully wanted to concentrate on Basquiat's art, not his death from drug use, but they should have crafted *some* kind of ending.)If you want to see a decent biography about a hardworking artist, you could do worse. If you want to see a fantastic Schnabel film, see Before Night Falls instead. "},{"Title":"Beautiful!  One of my fav movies of all time","Date":"23 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Jeffery Wright became Basquiat! He should have won the Oscar for this. If only it was made after Halle Berry's Monsters Ball. Brilliant casting, some of the best Soundtracks ever. I love this movie for so many reasons. It is artistic as the people it portraits. It also manages to put the viewer in the shoes of the characters. Although I don't do drugs I totally got lost as if I was high together in the room with Basquiat when he painted the tires. Every artist knows, that mentally you go to an other place while painting. Somehow each time I see this movie it manages to transfers me into Basquiats strange world. I know its horrible to be an addict, but this flick somehow showed the beauty of it.. I don't know, maybe you have to be an artist, a bit avanguart, in love with new york and music to totally appreciate this # "},{"Title":"Great art.","Date":"25 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Very graffiti oriented folk art from a tarnished angel of an artist. Basquisat himself was typical in that he was insecure and started drugs to enhance his art and hide behind. Much as Pollock did as a major alcoholic. Whether you like either of their styles is not as important as trying to understand the flawed genius. They had tortured lives and they were driven by inner demons. why these two are more famous after death is typical. I like both artists. They had different things to say. I am not usually an abstract fan but these two stand out as does Kandinsky, Klee, Miro, and some others. Of course the master Picasso. also see Pollock because ed Harris was very good. These films stand up to the test of time. Jeffrey Wright is a great actor. really has don some great work. An early benicio Del Toro is interesting too. These are in my home collection. The soundtrack from Basquiat. John Cale singing Leonard Cohen is wonderful on home surround systems. "},{"Title":"Beautiful movie...","Date":"1 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" One of the few movies on my four star list. I loved this movie. It really shows the true human spirit, it can be stunningly beautiful or devastatingly ugly. About an artist growing up in the big city with a few of his friends (benecio del toro, courtney love) , his rise to fame, and how he delt with it. Courtney love and Benecio del Toro both have minor parts but effective and alluring ones. I especially liked Benecios character. A dj'in heroin junkie who plays a mean game of basketball and offers quite a lot more once you get into the movie..RIP Basquiat, you will live on forever in my heart and your artwork. This movie has an absolutely AMAZING soundtrack to boot, that goes quite well with the style of shooting. "},{"Title":"One Artist's Tragedy","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  BASQUIAT is the portrait of an artist who went from homelessness to fame to tragedy in the 1980's Manhattan art scene.  It's worth watching, mostly for David Bowie's portrayal of Andy Warhol.  I never got a sense of why Basquiat's art was so great, I guess it must have been in the eye of the beholder.  Still, the film is compelling to watch, it moves well all the way to its tragic conclusion, but it's not that memorable. "},{"Title":"good attempt","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Julian Schnabel who has shown himself to be an exceptional artist didn't surprise me with the fact that he has it in him to be an exceptional director.  I don't think this will be his best film, (I have seen his latest yet), but there are moments of beauty and genius here, although I believe the story is more about Schnabel than his intended subject. "},{"Title":"Captures the NY art scene of the early 80's","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I found this film to be especially compelling because it really managed to capture the New York art scene of the early 1980's.  At that time New York was still pretty grungey from the near financial collapse of the late 1970's, but there was a tremendous amount of energy that was beginning to gather itself together.  This would culminate mid-decade in the whole East Village neo-bohemian scene that, in popular culture, brought us Madonna, among other things (remember Desperately Seeking Susan?).  Jean Michel Basquiat and Keith Harring both came to prominence in the early 80's.  Both became known from their graffiti (graffiti was everywhere and the city wasn't bothering to clean it up) which in the minds of the art world made them seem raw and authentic.  Julian Schnabel recreates this period with the knowing eye of an insider, making the film well worth seeing.   "},{"Title":"Its so much fun, even if its nothing like the real thing","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Ok, so we know JS is a pompous bitch.....and we know that JMB was much smarter, sensitive and witty than portrayed.  But the beauty in this film is not about how well he told the 'true story.Forget who it's supposed to be about .  Watch it with no preconceptions about who JMB is and it's a fun ride. Bowie as Andy = genius Benicio = always genius "},{"Title":"Innocence, Characters, and Bas-What?","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  The artistic temperament is often discussed.  Is it an excuse for brattishness or a genuine expression of inner feeling? Basquiat is a non-judgmental film. Sure Jean-Michel may sell a painting he had originally promised for a friend but when he is cornered into making that decision, he is so innocent, sweet and awkward, like a child being forced to decide which parent he loves best, that you can't stay angry at him for long.  This innocence of character can be seen as charming for the voyeur but must have been particularly frustrating and heart breaking for those who were actually involved in Basquait's life, especially long suffering girlfriend, Gina.  As I said, this film doesn't judge Basquiat, it just attempts to let him breathe in what was the stifling vulgarity of the eighties.  I hate the eighties and I like films like this to remind me that they weren't all bad. This film isn't a mover, if you like action, sex and violence, don't bother. But the performances are so compelling that you are already watching the end credits before you realise that the film is over. Jeffrey Wright is excellent as the naive painter, giggling like a schoolgirl in a stoned reverie.  He just wants to paint dammit!  Even a white table in a cafe is a canvass that must be worked on.  Painting is all he needs until the heavy breathing of the art world turn up to grab him and fight over him. This is someone who can't say no, being manipulated by people who won't take no for an answer. Surprisingly, his relationship with Andy Warhol is shown to be a touching, gentle one, the reverse of what was reported at the time and subsequently. Warhol is portrayed as genuinely caring and nurturing Jean-Michel and encouraging him not to take it at all seriously. To the rest- Gary Oldman, playing a nice guy?- never!  Yes it's true and it is a welcome change to see him not do the dirty on someone.  Dennis Hopper is introduced in a funny scene with he and Warhol acting like spoilt bickering children in front of a bemused Basquiat.  William Defoe is the Carpenter/Painter who befriends Jean-Michel and Christopher Walken does his Cameo King role as an embarrassed, ineffectual reporter. Of course he's good- when isn't he? Benicio Del Toro as Basquiat's best friend who delivers a prophetic speech on the perils of fame, is excellent as ever, being exactly the sort of friend you need to see when you have spent the night sleeping in a doorway in a drug-induced stupor. However, the one thing that concerns me most is that I have seen this film quite a few times now but I still can't pronounce his name properly.  "}{"Title":"No oscar nod for Benicio?","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This movie has not enough substance for me.  They haven't given us a reason to want to know about Basquiat.  The visual settings outside seem very 90's, and never throught the picture do I feel like I'm watching the early 80's.What I liked was the fact that Oldman plays a decent guy for once and does it well.  Dennis Hopper is a very convincing Bruno Bishop, the character is slow, even coy possibly which is a departure from the usual Hopper character.It's a good movie to learn a bit about Andy Warhol and that's about it. "},{"Title":"Free Mind","Date":"5 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  It's wonderful to see the free mind of an artist. The gift he has to see art everywhere, the way the world expands in his eyes and brings great inspiration that's only for him to understand. And then to see this child of beauty being confronted with the cruel and shallow world of the art elite and everything that's comes with such a meeting...it's depressing. People don't appreciate the beauty, only the what they're expected to like the curse of all times - not being able to see beyond the majority of opinions.David Bowie is absolutely brilliant as Andy Warhol, and Jeffrey Wright is taking on the role as Basquiat with sparkling eyes!This movie gives joy and beauty, but also reminds us of the shallowness of most people and the decay of the world. "},{"Title":"A passionate postcard","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This movie is beautiful. It's cinematography is crisp and clear, its script is potent and the acting is nothing short of phenomenal. I got the feeling watching the entire film how much Julian Schnabel must have truly cared for Jean. Even though the Albert Milo character is a little sympathetic considering what his purpose was, it's still a loving gesture. The movie is like a passionately-scrawled postcard from Julian to Jean, a warm word of appreciation and remembrance. "},{"Title":"Dramatic, Cunning, and Powerful","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I'm a huge art lover, and this movie is great for art lovers!  Jeffery Wright gives a powerful and stunning performance as the late artist, Jean-Michel Basquiat, who died in 1988 of a heroin overdose.  I was really impressed by Jeffery's acting in this movie, and how you were able to look into Jean-Michel Basquiat's vivid imagination which I think is the most important thing an artist (of any kind) must have since art has a lot to do with symbolism and what the artist sees behind his/her work.  This movie also features a really great cast  David Bowie, Dennis Hopper, Parker Posey, Courtney Love, Gary Oldman, Claire Forlani, just to name a few. This is a really stunning movie, and even if you don't like art, you still just might like this movie!  I was truly pleased with it! "},{"Title":"No Hollywood glamour, but an intense portrait of an artist and his life.","Date":"10 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This film was very good I thought, for many reasons there was no 'let us make this film so flashy' that you often see Hollywood doing, especially in portraying real life figures, but very good intense acting, really bringing Basquiat's inner-conflicts to the screen.  It takes a while to realize that his manner is not slow or stupid, but a kind of quiet intelligence. There is also the long list of great actors appearing throughout the film, even if in brief moments William Dafoe, Dennis Hopper, David Bowie (great as Warhol), Gary Oldman, Courtney Love (surprisingly convincing in a small part as a happy street gal). If you like movies that get right to it, then rent Basquiat tonight, I gave it a solid 9 out of 10, check it out.  "},{"Title":"truly beautiful","Date":"4 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This film is one of the most beautifully told stories I have ever encountered. It is magical to experience.The story is at once compelling (for it's truth) and tragic (from it's heart). The cast is superb; Bowie's Warhol is dead on, and Jeffrey Wright plays Basquiat to near perfection. The story is pretty much true to fact, with a few artistic liberties taken here or there for the film's sake. If you have any sort aesthetic taste, then you'll be able to appreciate this film for the work of beauty that it is. Otherwise, I suggest you go rent Problem Child 3 and not bother the rest of us with inane comments like, I didn't like it cuz I think Andrew Warhol was a jerk.Schnabel's decision to hide his own presence in Basquiat's world is pleasingly effective. Some viewers may catch a glimpse at the works of Milo and realize who Gary Oldman was *really* playing. Clever, that, I thought. Keeps the attention on Basquiat's story instead of on the director/writer/supporting character. I've got my theories as to who Courtney Love was supposed to be, too, but, well, I don't want to taint anyone else's viewing experience more than I should.I can't believe there isn't a DVD of this film. For SHAME, Miramax pictures! Fie on thee! "},{"Title":"Take a walk on the high side","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  To most, the world of Jean Michel Basquiat, or of director Julian Schnabel (for that matter), is a fantastic, distant place. This movie does absolutely nothing to bring that world closer, but it does give us a wonderful look at the world of art, and a painful but personal view of lower Manhattan.The superb cast is led by Jeffrey Wright and we get one of our first looks at the luminous Claire Forlani. Many will talk of David Bowie's brilliant portrayal of Andy Warhol (it is brilliant), but I stack the performances of Dennis Hopper, Michael Wincott, and  Gary Oldman right there with him.Basquiat led a tragic existence and suffered an untimely but hardly unforeseen death.  He is portrayed as a pure artist in the sense that he seems oblivious to anything one might deem conformist or responsible. Whether or not this is truly biographical, or artistic license we do not know, but why would be bothered by historical inaccuracies?It's all a fantasy world anyway.  "},{"Title":"Good conversation is hard to find in this town.","Date":"23 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Art can be seen differently by each eye that glances upon it. Some will see it as innovative creative pieces of the mind, while others will simply see squiggles and markings on any plain surface. That is how I felt with Basquiat. Throughout the entire story of his humble beginnings as a graffiti artist living on the streets until finally reaching the pinnacle of his existence (thanks to his friend Andy Warhol). I watched his story, I listened to his words, and endured this film, but I just couldn't see his artwork. Being a fan of Warhol's work (is that too clichéd to say?), I was eager to fully immerse myself in this film and see yet another soul touched by the aura of this infamous artist. Sadly, this eagerness flopped when I was ravished with poor editing and horrendous direction. Thankfully there was the brilliant Jeffery Wright to make up for the errors caused by director Julian Schnabel. Wright, courageous enough to play Basquiat, stands as the center of this film while everyone else just seems to falter around him. Yes, there were some big names that attempted to connect with some of their lost youth memories, but they could not hold a candle to Wright's portrayal of a homeless genius. Benicio Del Toro, Claire Forlani, David Bowie (as laughable Andy Warhol), Dennis Hopper, Gary Oldman, and Christopher Walken are just a few of the big names that accompany Wright through this journey. What depresses me is that these are some of my favorite actors, yet they were struggling through this film. Overall, this was a decent film. Not the highlight of the art world bio-pics, but definitely worth watching once for a glimpse of classic Hollywood in Wright's eyes. I promise this, he will win an Oscar before I get too old that I cannot watch films any longer. This is my prediction.Grade *** out of *****  "},{"Title":"BASQUIAT (DIDIER BECU)","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Basquiat was a somewhat unknown painter whose career collapsed once the day Andy Warhol, his protegee, died. The movie gives a great idea how modern New York-artist must have felt and lived in a decadent city in where art is only appreciated by those who drink champagne with caviar. Son of accountant, Basquiat lives on the street in some cardboxhouse and it's through this life that his fantasy let him paint the most bizarre things. Whether it's art or not is not the question you have to ask, but it's a superb movie with some immortal performances (David Bowie plays an excellent Warhol) with a great soundtrack (Cale, Pogues, Sex Pistols)and some shocking (well kind of) like Warhol making art with pee, or the decadence in where Basquiat decides to buy a whole pot of caviar. See and try to live this movie. "},{"Title":"I Love This Movie!","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Originally, the only reason I saw this movie is because Michael Wincott is in it, but this is a really beautiful movie.  I really don't think anyone else could've played Basquiat because Jeffrey Wright is just awesome in this role.  Also, this movie gave Michael Wincott the chance to show everyone that he can play another type of role besides the villain.  So, I definatly think Michael Wincott did a great portrayal of Rene Ricard.  Plus, he's really gorgeous in this movie, as usual.  David Bowie is fantastic as Andy Warhol, at first glance you can't recognize him with the wig on.  So, all in all, it's a really awesome movie!  10/10 "}{"Title":"Spaced-out Drama","Date":"13 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Just becuase the talent graffiti painter Basquiat was turned on drugs, and drifting through life, doesn't mean Julian Schnabel's direction and Lech Majewski's script need be also.  What a limp, unpertinent style and feel this production has.  On the other hand, there's David Bowie doing a most impressive Andy Warhol, Dennis Hopper convincing as Warhol's colleague, and Jeffrey Wright nicely responding to the director's instructions. As a added bonus, the fine Gary Oldman gives us yet another of his amazing characterizations as a fellow artist.  If only Schnabel and Majewski put some life into their work, this would have been a pointed biopic. As is, it's a case of a whole in desperate search of its parts.  "},{"Title":"the pretentious make a movie about themselves","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"19 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  The art world in NYC is the least movie-worthy crowd in the world. There are so many pretentions that you couldn't grind your way down to real character with a jackhammer. Yet, it was inevitable that one of them would try--and get backing for it (and also show their own paintings). What a trite exercise in narcissism this movie is. They liken Basquiat to Van Gogh in the opening narration and never follow up on the assertion. Why? Because they can't. His work was the beginning of cultural diversity and the end of a (published) critical eye. But that doesn't even address the failure of the movie--the characters are lifeless; the story is typically uninteresting and the direction adequate. I agree with the person who commented that this was a wasted cast.  "},{"Title":"Limelight Burns","Date":"29 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Basquiat is about the way the fame corrupts the mind or maybe his mind was corrupted right from the start, anyway his brains looked pretty cooked from the very beginning. Basquiat was a product of the hype and not of his talents, he was utilized by the vultures feeding off the art and turned into the merchandise by them. The film starts to the Fairytale of New York &#x96; a song by Pogues It was Christmas Eve in the drunk tank, babe, and I dreamed of you... I can see a better time when all our dreams come true &#x96; the future is always sweet but when it becomes the present it turns into a crap You're bum, you're punk, you're an old slut on junk lying there almost dead on the drip in this bed. David Bowie in the role of Andy Warhol is a smasher and the multitude of cameos by the other big stars makes this picture seem like a starry night. This movie also boasts a superb soundtrack. "},{"Title":"Definitely must see","Date":"2 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Every once in a while you watch a movie that means something to you. This is one. Totally compelling flick that let's you see a glimpse of another's soul. Jeffery Wright is so believable that I would guess he sometimes to this day slips back into character. While most viewers will have no way to judge the accuracy to the real Basquiat, the realism is none the less magical. Watch this movie and for about 90 minutes you will be transported directly into a creative period of American art & life history. There is nothing in this movie that appears out of place and it realistically captures life in NYT. Performances by all the supporting actors are great and Bowie's performance is amazing. "},{"Title":"emotion and beauty","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the best movies i have ever seen. One thing bothers me  the stupidity, the blindness, the ignorance, and insensitivity of the few who attacked it with rage. I think this movie is full of true beauty, real understanding of deep human emotions, and true understanding of art, in general. Brilliant, intelligent, touching, superb movie. A masterpiece. "},{"Title":"i left the theatre to walk about the village in tears..","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  i went to manhattan to see this movie.. and left the theatre to walk about the village in tears. i was an undergraduate art major at the time.. which helps to give background knowledge when viewing this film. nevertheless, basquiat is a true view into the life and times of a great artist. furthermore, the film depicts exactly what the scene was like, and gives insight into a lifestyle not everyone may accept or understand. perfectly. on so many different levels, with so much talent, this film will always stay with me... "},{"Title":"Artsy Fartsy, but Fun","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I found this film to be rather interesting (a major compliment coming from a fan of gangster and Sci-Fi films).  From the point of view of a college student with 3 art history courses under my belt, it was fascinating.  David Bowie's performance as Andy Warhol alone is worth seeing the movie for, and Christopher Walken should really do TV interviews.  He is always entertaining.  I highly recommend this one. "},{"Title":"Taste This","Date":"10 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This one is like a Christmas dinner except your pants won't feel two sizes too small afterwards. Jeffrey Wright is a succulent piece of delectable meat, Gary Oldman is my mashed potatoes, Benicio Del Toro adds his curious level of reason like only your best seasoned vegetable can and my Michael Wincott&#133;he is so delicious, he is easily that forbidden piece of dessert at the end of the table that you swear you won't eat a minute before you are literally gorging yourself on it. The cast is simply pure gold.It is so good and enchanting with a 1980's charm that is simply non-existent in other films. It is the art, music and meaning of that decade at its purest. Effortless, yet clever the dialogue gives you the sincere rise and fall of all artists. "},{"Title":"a decent look at the life of an artist, good inspiring film","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This story of a young artist Jean-Michael Basquait(Wright), a young artist who rises to fame after being discovered by Andy Warhol (Bowie). The film has a great cast, which makes up for its slow start, however it does manage to pick up pace with good performances and a good choice of music (both original and unoriginal score). I did not like Claire Forlani that much in this movie in her role as Gina Cardinale, I liked her more in an earlier film called The Last Time I Committed Suicide, here she was a bit annoying and didn't give a good performance. Benicio Del Toro, Willem Dafoe, Gary Oldman, Christopher Walken and Dennis Hopper are all great in supporting roles, and Jeffrey Wright shows his acting abilities with a solid performance as Basquait. There is one particular scene between Wright and Walken, which was great, Walken's only scene here is great though, both have good chemistry. The film is boring at times, but if you give it time it pays off, not the best direction or screenplay, but it is indeed enjoyable due to great performances and a wonderful story. 8/10 #247 on my list of all time favorite films. "},{"Title":"A troubled soul","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Georgia O'Keefe, the doyenne of American art once said I don't know what art is, but I know what is art when I see it.Julian Schnabel, a New York based painter, turned film director, decided to make Jean Michel Basquiat the subject of his first time at the helm in the new role. The result is a film that shows us a young artist in search of an identity when he was breaking as a painter.Jean Michel Basquiat was a success story, as far as his art was concerned. He clearly became a big force in the New York art scene. We watch him as he goes from a struggling young man to the success he became, and ultimately killed him. Some people can cope with fame and wealth, but others, like Jean Michel couldn't. History is full of cases like this one troubled young man who died too soon.As far as Basquiat's art, well, that's in the eye of whoever is seeing it. Some will say it was trash, while others, like it seems to be the case with the director, tells us otherwise. Some of his pieces are overwhelming in their intensity.The only reason for watching this film is Jeffrey Wright, an actor's actor. Mr. Wright is seen almost sleepwalking through the film. He seems to be on a permanent fog, as he didn't relate too well to all the hangers-on of that world. David Bowie as Andy Warhol made a tremendous impression. Benicio del Toro is only seen briefly. The rest of the cast do whatever they can under the unsure direction of Mr. Schnabel. "}{"Title":"Trash","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The best thing in this piece is Jeffrey Wright. The music in many scenes were horrible and there is no clear portrait of Basquiat. And the assertion of Andy Warhol as his one true friend who understood him, and the tragic mourning of Warhol's death.....excuse me while I barf.This is not Basquiat's story. This is a pretentious filmmaker who pretends to understand the inner world this particular artist lived in. The fact that Basquiat's family gave no blessing to this project and didn't allow his work to be seen in the film speaks volumes. People who know nothing of Basquiat, and watch this film to learn who he is will never know. It doesn't inspire you to rush out and check out who the man was.Sometimes being artsy and overly stylistic takes away from what could be a great story. But many times you have no idea what time in Basquait's life we're in. There is no emotion except the cliché of the tortured black junkie artist who dies at the end while others get rich off of his legacy. A great disappointment. "},{"Title":"A decent bio-pic, but tedious, and ultimately it is hard to connect with title character!","Date":"11 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" It has been a long time since I've seen 'Basquiat', but from what I remember, it was quite a tedious yet intriguing film about the art scene in New York concerning Jean Michel Basquiat. Jeffrey Wright gives an interesting performance as the lead character. Where he is seemingly ambivalent, intriguing yet totally distant, and therefore doesn't really engage with the audience. Wright's Basquiat encapsulates the enigma of the artist, which I guess was director Julian Schnabel's intention! 'Basquait' is full of many famous actors giving extended cameos, including Gary Oldman, Dennis Hopper, Claire Forlani, Courtney Love, Benicio Del Toro, Willem Dafoe and Parker Posey. However, it is the pop star in David Bowie as Andy Warhol who gives a great performance. Then again, he is given the best character to play, but Bowie does really well. The cinematography is good, and the story is interesting enough and gives the viewer insight into the art scene of that period, but it's hard to connect with Jean Michel Basquait. I think 'Pollock' was a much better film on an artist. Basquait still remains a mystery, even after watching the movie. Definitely worth checking out, but like I said, tedious but intriguing.*** out of *****! "},{"Title":"Like, high art, dude!","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I didn't know who Basquiat was when I saw this. At first, I thought the film was a take off on the New York art scene and the main character a joke a la Peter Sellers in Being There. However, as the film went on, I realized I was wrong, which made this reverential piece a bit of a hilarious experience, considering the adulation that Basquiat's childish doodling elicits from everyone around him. This film may unintentionally shed some light into some of the reasons for our popular culture's increasingly sad state of affairs. Kudos to David Bowie for his right-on-the-mark portrayal of Andy Warhol, just about the only bright spot in this wrong-headed film. "},{"Title":"A solid bio about one of many overrated artists of our idiotic times.","Date":"3 January 2007","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" A decent bio about one of pop-art's worthless icons. That whole bogus New York artiste scene of the 60s (and onwards) has no value whatsoever. Nevertheless, the movie is quite easy-going and pleasant, and profits also from a large cast of great names (Wincott, Del Toro, Bowie, Posey, Walken, Dafoe, Oldman). There is also no denying that it's interesting to watch the lives within that ridiculous NY scene. Basquiat is shown as a near-tortured artist, though the constant money-for-nothing cash-inflow probably bothered him less. Wright plays him like a semi-retard, which is not an exaggeration &#150; you just have to see Basquiat's retarded pictures with his dumb thoughts scribbled in lettering resembling a 7 year-old mongoloid's hand-writing, and you'll understand. Perhaps they tried to make him seem aloof and mysterious but it came out wrong (i.e. right). Even his walk appears to be suspiciously weird - Basquiat really did talk it like he walk it. Yet this guy lived quite recently so all the nuances of his behaviour should be well-recorded, so maybe he was really this screwed up. There should be a movie made just like this one, entirely about Warhol - that would be fun. If you want to read an extensive satire about modern art (mainly Picasso) contact me by e-mail. "},{"Title":"An Empty Canvas","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The pain of creating, the pain of creating, the pain, the pain, the pain of creating! How many times have I read the biographies of artists who came into this world and in a brief lifespan revolutionized the art world but went ignored by their contemporaries? You would think that someone who comes from the art world -- like I do -- would appreciate this film and stand in (snobbish) applause after seeing the all-too-brief life of Jean-Michel Basquiat, an artist who created thoughtful meditations on graffiti art which burnt a sieve throughout the New York art scene of the 80s, but I can't. Despite Jeffrey Wright's performance as the title character and David Bowie's spot-on vapidness as Andy Warhol (another artist whom I fail to see his significance), there's no profound connection with the audience. I can't seem to relate to the self-involved superficiality that Julian Schnabel brings to the screen, and much less so when he self-promotes his own art while telling the story of another who isn't alive to stand up for himself in defense. Also, some scenes of people acting outrageously seem made just to shock -- for example, when Rene Ricard rips into Basquiat's dinner party because he's accepted an offer which does not include Ricard in any way. What on Earth is a party guest doing dancing from table to table and singing in a falsetto? Snobbery of the worst kind. If I had seen this film when it came out and while I was active in the art scene I would have blindly accepted it as the Next Major Vanguard Film About An Artist, but seeing it for the first time as a much older person, I can't see it, I don't get it, because creativity is not that profound and painful and doesn't warrant that much existentialism. "},{"Title":"Yipes. About as cohesive as an Arrowroot left in a mug of Pepsi overnight.","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Uck.What was this movie trying to say?I could glean very little theme to it, other than just reveling in being an aimless mosey through JMB's rise to fame.The characters personalities were so shallowly explored that the sorrowful moments, accompanied by overused blurring montages and jaunty music, failed to evoke any emotion whatsoever.And the director consistently resorted to lame cliches. -Look! Basquiat is walking down the street in a drug-induced daze, and golly! he catches a glimpse of a small child skipping past who resembles him as a child! -Wow. Deep!The only interesting part was Bowie's wispy portrayal of Warhol, but even he couldn't breathe life into this limp cinematic attempt.I want my hour and forty-six minutes back! "},{"Title":"Weak subject ...... weak film ..................","Date":"16 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I cannot believe this was supported by so many good actors, considering the subject was so boorish. Glorifying drug use as contributing to art sounds pretty boring and it is. The artists represented are so pretentious, they would not appeal as even casual acquaintances to most people. So why should anyone looking for entertainment be anything but disappointed with Basquait? This film probably should have been locally released in New York to the art house clientèle and then dumped. They say art is in the eye of the beholder, well if this movie is art then it should hang on a wall, and not subject an audience to it's glorified nonsense. - MERK "},{"Title":"For The Artistically Inclined","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Great film. A Classic amongst true story genre. Basquiat was and is the classic and archetypal artist. The movie portrays Basquiat as the artist as it is still known To-day. It is no wonder great actors such as Hopper, del Torro, Oldman & Bowie appears. In this ever changing world, tommorrows artist may be from the rich and the priveledged class. But Basquiat to-day remains as is Joplin, Hendrix and the likes. My generation. Movie to be greatly appreciated by artists and those who understand. "},{"Title":"superb","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  One of the best movies i've ever seen  poetic, touching, unpretentious... A real precious aproach on the art-phenomenon in general. An act of culture, not of entertainment.  "},{"Title":"falls way short","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  this guy lived a fascinating life and the movie was just a bunch of glimpses into it, and not a look at how it got to be that way and why.  for chrissakes, it takes a total of 5 words before he sleeps with the girl who becomes his girlfriend, without any explanation as to how this happened.  shame on the film makers for such injustice.  makes me wonder what world they're living in  "}{"Title":"So what?","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Saw this film at a preview screening back in 1996. The director was there to tell us how great it was. There was some nice photography, but the way the story was told, I found nothing compelling about the character.  I guess we're supposed to care because, you know, they made a movie. By the end of the film I thought So what?   "},{"Title":"Empty movie full of empty people","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  There was a lot that was great about the eighties, but if this movie is even close to being true--the art world in New York wasn't one of them.  Basquiat, with his art looking like it was taken fresh from a nursery school fingerpainting class, takes the art world by storm.  Looking like he's in a desperate need of a nap, Wright sleepwalks through the role.  But at least he's not a contemptible human being--all the other people in this thing, laud dreadful artistic concoctions til they're blue in the face, all with incredible inanity.  The whole mess of a movie unintentionally acts as a vicious condemnation of the faux art that has passed for profound works of talent that's been trowelled out by self-styled artists for the past several decades.  At least Picasso could really paint before he did his thing. The manufactured tortured artist creatures that abound here may be the point of the movie--these foolish people saw Basquiat and realized he wasn't making believe--he really was tortured.  Hey, anybody living in a box on the streets of New York couldn't be having much fun.  And he was into painting.  Who cares that his stuff looks like the floor of a chicken coop?  He's a real tortured artist--get him a show room! Never has such an intended wet kiss been more of a sock in the face to the subject--and he gets off easy.  At least Basquiat is just pathetic, the rest of this crowd is disgusting.  Except for Andy Warhol--didn't even recognize Bowie at first--he's even more pathetic.  As he watches Basquiat ruin his rather mundane pop art rendering of an Amoco sign, he says I just don't know what's good any more.  Pathos unbound. If you want artist movies, watch Lust for Life, or if you can find it, Gaugin with David Carradine.  At least those were entertaining and about real artists.   "},{"Title":"Good, but disappointing","Date":"20 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Basquiat was an energetic Haitian-American painter who became a superstar in the art world while still in his 20's.The film captures his essential decency, and it limns a picture of the way his grip on himself deteriorated as his fame and success grew. It stops short of any analysis of exactly why this happened, and it even falls short of portraying its conclusion, resorting instead to the old cliche of putting the ending on the final frame in words. Like the old Dragnet gimmick, in a moment, the results of that trialIf you want to see it, it is because you are interested in the razor sharp characterizations of the New York art world and its denizens. You may also enjoy the score, which is a litany of the most despairing and hopeless music of the epoch. In this intellectual world, optimism and joyfulness are the ultimate sins, the signs that you just don't belong.The movie has plenty of plusses, and you have to love Bowie as Warhol, but it just doesn't seem to know where to go. As you watch the final credits, you'll probably feel the mood it wants you to feel, because it has manipulated you effectively, but you won't know why, because ultimately the movie is just sizzle and no steak ... perhaps like the people it portrays... and perhaps that is the point. "},{"Title":"Badly told.","Date":"22 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I couldn't finish it the first time but stuck it out the second time. Wright played it pretty bad but I figure it's a hard role to play. I don't like this movie. I really liked Benicio Del Toro especially how he talks (funny) but didn't like anything else. Story was badly told. "},{"Title":"Another Hollywood Attempt To Make A Loser Look Like A Winner","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"11 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" In a nutshell an interesting cast but a lousy movie. Make that a horrible movie. Real-life artist Jean Michel Baquiat died at the age of 27 from a heroin overdose, and he's pictured as the hero even though he's barely a step above being a sleazy street person in mentality, morals and beliefs. In other words, he's the kind of guy Hollywood loves.Basquiat (played by Jeffrey Wright) is surrounded by like-minded people in the art world in other words, a lot of weird people, most of them pretty disgusting. It's the kind of film an agnostic and basically ignorant 18-year-old kid would like sick.Having said all that, I like Basquiat's art. I've always found it fascinating, which is why I looked at the movie in the first place. I also like a lot of actors and actresses in here. It's just too bad the film wasn't nearly as good as the art and the actors. Another reviewer here, Synchonic, said it best Empty movie full of empty people. I totally agree with that. "},{"Title":"Its alright","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This movie is watchable enough and has some great performances.David Bowie surprised me as an actor, Benicio Del Toro had a small but memorable part and Michael Wincott was hilarious in a role very different to what he normally plays. However it does get a little boring after a while as there isn't much going on to keep you watching. The movie basically follows around graffiti artist, Jean Michel Basquiat in his quest for recognition. It will make fans of Michael Wincott though! I'd give it 5/10.  "},{"Title":"Only if you are really really bored.","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I am an artist by trade and thought I might enjoy this movie.  Well I was wrong.  Basquait was an artist who goes from grafitti to the most talked about artist in New York in a matter of moments.  Andy Worhol goes nuts over his work, most of the work is mere scribbling of words.  One scene has Basquiat, who never cleans himself up, painting lines on his girlfriends dress.  She wakes up and sees this and rightfully gets angry.  Basquait replys in his airheaded sounding voice, look I made it pretty.  This movie was a disappointment all the way around.  Showing him looking at the sky imagining waves was supposed to make us think he was always thinking art.  Bad script, mediocre acting.  Andy Worhol was the artist who was big in the disco era for painting cambells soup cans.  If you think he was overrated wait till you see Basquait.  "},{"Title":"What is art?","Date":"27 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Andy Warhol (David Bowie) may have created some interesting art during his lifetime, but it turns out that he and his cohorts ripped off Jean-Michel Basquiat (Jeffrey Wright). This Haitian-American was living in a box when they helped him get famous. By helped, I of course mean that they only did it for their own personal benefit. These people were leeches.If this is the art world, I don't sure as hell don't want to get famous. Much of Andy Warhol's work posed the question What is art? Apparently, much of the answer lies in what Warhol didn't create. He appeared in a photo with Basquiat, but he did not respect the man. And Basquiat shows that. The next time that you see any work of art, just remember what possibly went in to making it. "}]