[{"Title":"Some bad decisions ruin what would have been an excellent adaptation","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"55 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love the story of Jane Eyre so much, to insult anything that has to do with this beloved character is not easy to say. But I must say how disappointed I was with this adaptation. William Hurt was a poor Rochester indeed. He had a very wooden and unemotional presence throughout the film. His scenes with the Jane Eyre character had no fire or emotion at all. He seemed very detached and aloof. If William Hurt was younger he would have played a better St. John. However, I must say Charlotte Gainsborough was a pretty good Jane Eyre. She looked the part and added very charming persona to the character. But she even, at times seemed cool and unattatched to me too. The worst element to this film was casting Elle McPherson as the role of Blanche. Why? Blanche Ingram was beautiful, true, but she was beautiful in the Victorian sense of the word, not a 90's waif snatched from a Parisian runway. Sheesh. The best element to this film, however was the sequences of young Jane and Helen at Lowood. Anna Paquin was amazing as she embodied the young Jane to near perfection. These early, well done scenes where the best in the entire movie but I regret to say they lead me down the primrose path to disappointment.  "},{"Title":"This movie lacked the wonderfully romantic repartee between the two main characters which made the original novel so great.","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"48 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  What made the idea of seeing this movie so attractive was the hope that it would live up to Charlotte Bronte's brilliance of the original classic story.  I was deeply disappointed to find that this movie, which seemed to be either written or filmed in great haste, had not the qualities that made the original novel so powerful.  Much of the witty back and forth between the main characters, Jane Eyre and Mr. Rochester, seemed to be either missing from the screenplay or left on the cutting room floor.  Also missing was Jane Eyre's charismatic sense of self, which enabled her to suffer through her turmoil and triumph over all.  The original Jane Eyre was a hero.  The woman in this movie did not seem to have much to triumph over, including one of the greatest parts of the story when Jane runs away from Thornfield and Mr. Rochester.  Her struggle to find food and shelter, her shame at having to beg for bread, the threat of freezing to death in the cold, all to get away from a man she loved were, in my opinion, poignant parts of the story that were simply left out of this movie.  The title character seemed dry and uninspired.  The story was unappealing and for those who did not read the book, I cannot imagine that this story would be the least bit interesting.  The screenplay and Direction did little if any credit to the classic story. "},{"Title":"WHERE'S ALAN RICKMAN WHEN YOU NEED HIM ?","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"38 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Everything about this adaptation is quite good except for the terrible miscasting of Mr Method Acting himself, William Hurt.  There is little chemistry between he & Charlotte G.  How I cried out to see Alan Rickman, who would give an OUTSTANDING performance as Rochester!  Anna Paquin is wonderful as little Jane, and Amanda Root from Persuasion gives us a warm Miss Temple at Lowood.  Also good jobs by Geraldine Chaplin & Billie Whitelaw in small roles.  This is worth renting out but not purchasing...  "},{"Title":"Powerful & Immersive--Bronte would be pleased","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"39 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've seen this particular film adaptation of Jane Eyre four times, and I'm still not tired of it.  As a faithful fan of the book Jane Eyre, I could not be more pleased with the cast and their faithfulness to Bronte's characters. There will never be another Mr. Rochester for me now that I've seen William Hurt craft his subtleties around this firey and complex man.  Charlotte Gainsbourg in the difficult title role satisfies completely.  They make an odd pairing for such a profound love story, but I BELIEVE THEM.  I watch feeling as if it could only be Them telling the story, and that is perhaps why I keep coming back to the movie.  I can't recommend this film enough. "},{"Title":"Great story, great actors, mismatched.","Date":"19 October 2004","Score":"29 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I've seen 3 versions of this movie after having read Charlotte Bronte's book. The first was with Orson Wells as Mr. Rochester, the second with Ciaran Hinds, followed by William Hurt's version. Hurt's Rochester is the only one who didn't bring tears to my eyes. He is a wonderful actor, but it's as if this part was not suited to him. Mr. Rochester is a man of passion, pain, and jealousy; none of which were reflected in this story. The story is great, the actors are great, but story and actors are mismatched in this film. Another disservice is the failure of the movie to maintain the integrity of the book. Jane leaves Thornefield twice; once on the death of her aunt, and once again when left at the alter. In Bronte's book, Jane's travels and subsequent proposal of marriage after being left at the alter are somewhat cumbersome, but necessary to support her final return to Rochester, being willing to be with him under any terms. Unfortunately, these adventures are apparently difficult to incorporate into a film. Charlotte Gainsbourg's performance is the only one I've seen, and I'm anxious to follow her career. She seems to have the ability to well play suppressed emotion. "},{"Title":"Zeffirelli's personal interpretation of Bronte's novel! Really moving!","Date":"13 October 2004","Score":"33 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Bronte's novel JANE EYRE has been brought to screen several times so far. This adaptation filmed by Franco Zeffirelli seems to me the most individual one. The director does not copy the book but entails his personal feelings and evaluations to the strange fate of Jane Eyre throughout the movie.The film is made wonderfully the cast, the music, the entire convention - It supplies the viewer with the right picture of the Victorian England. I particularly liked the scenes shot at Haddon Hall with William Hurt. He shines in his role! GREAT ACTOR! He memorably stresses Rochester's goodness combined with his boredom and fear of love, caused by his tragic life experience.The sense of suspicion is also felt throughout. Jane (Charlotte Gainsbourg) comes to Mr Rochester's castle and hears strange laughter. It is much later when it occurs that it was Rochester's insane wife (Maria Schneider).The way love is showed is very Zeffirellian. He loves to show delicate love that is raising in time. There is a feeling on both sides, but it is Rochester who tries to show it first, especially because he considers Jane an angel of happiness that appeared in his tragic life. Jane is more shy but her way of dealing with Rochester changes, too.The Zeffirelian way of showing love is also expressed when applied to friendship. Consider how Franco Zeffirelli shows the friendship between Helen Burns (Leanne Rowe) and Jane Eyre (Anna Paquin). One of the most touching moments of the movie is when Helen Burns dies and tells Jane that God cares for us. She was the girl that could notice everyone, even the orphan who was let down and terribly ignored by pious and pure victorian teachers. Faith, open eyes connected with love and open heart is what Zeffirelli loved to show in most of his films.The music is one of the best from the films I have seen so far. It's very moody but supplies the viewer with wonderful, sometimes even mystical experience. For long after seeing the film for the first time, the music, somehow unconsciously, rang in my ears. Really worth attention!Maybe some people will treat my opinion with some irony but I must say that Zeffirelli's JANE EYRE can be watched many times and each time one can discover something new, something valuable, teaching, and moving. TOUCHED INTO TEARS! That's what I feel whenever I watch this incredible film. "},{"Title":"Excellent, until the last 20 minutes.","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"26 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched this film shortly after re-reading the novel.  I was positively intoxicated by it the music, the acting, the actors, the plot.  For the first time ever, I was enjoying Jane Eyre.  Then, suddenly, the movie was ending.  The last 10 chapters of the book had been condensed into about 20 minutes.  That would be no big deal, except that they are the most important 10 chapters of the entire novel.  Otherwise, the ending makes no sense. This is exactly what happened and it ruined an otherwise excellent movie. My advice watch the movie until the last 20 minutes.  Then read the book. "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"25 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't like using the word awful to describe any work of the cinema for which a great deal of time, effort, talent and money is spent in its creation but Zefferelli's attempt to adapt Charlotte Brontë's novel 'Jane Eyre' is a total waste of time.The script is lacking in finesse and power, everything explained to the viewer in no uncertain terms, leaving little to the imagination. The lead actors are woefully miscast, clearly hired for their star names, and the musical score drippy and dull. Charlotte Gainsbourg and William Hurt have absolutely no chemistry with one another at all. She is like a wet noodle, worse even than Joan Fontaine, who at least was capable of some modicum of emotional involvement in what should be a story of frustrated passion. And William Hurt acts the entire film on one tone and that tone is flat and devoid of energy. Of course the limp and vapid script does not aid any of these otherwise fine actors in their efforts to bring any whiff of life to this flick.Joan Plowright's Mrs Fairfax is like some Disney creation who keeps popping up to sweeten scenes in which she would have been best left out. There is no mystery surrounding the story of Rochester's first wife. The role of the would-be second wife, played like a Barbie Doll by Elle MacPhearson, is an empty cipher.Fiona Shaw, a very great actress, is completely wasted as Jane's Aunt, Mrs Reed. She would have been better-cast as Mrs Fairfax. Only Amanda Root, as Jane's beloved school teacher, evokes any authentic sympathy or believability. I saw this version of 'Jane Eyre' after viewing Robert Young's for British television, made in 1997, starring Ciaran Hinds, Samantha Morgan and Gemma Jones. There is no comparison. Young's vital, romantic and deeply moving version is like an exploding nova compared to Zefferelli's wet squib.I will be interested now to see the 1970 version with Timothy Dalton, about which I've read some very good things on this web-site. I am amazed at how many people liked Zefferelli's Yorkshire picture book. About all I can say good about this film is that the house is beautiful and the cinematography vividly colored, beyond that it is a complete dud. "},{"Title":"Did the screenwriter read the book?","Date":"8 October 2005","Score":"27 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" What was Franco Zeffirelli thinking? Was Hollywood responsible for this travesty, or can I take comfort in the idea that someone who didn't speak English as a first language just completely missed the point of Charlotte Bronte's classic? I don't think I can improve on a comment I read below, so I'll just paraphrase it Jane Eyre is a great great book, the screenwriter should read it sometime. It's true that this movie's two leads were sadly miscast. But pity the actors, because the screenwriter left out all of the best scenes. The dialog that makes you understand the Jane and Rochester have a meeting of minds and a shared sense of fun...deleted from the script. The marriage proposal, the fortune teller...gone. The allusions, half joking, half sincerely felt, to Jane as a fairy sprite from olde England come to rescue Rochester in his despair...eliminated.It is unfortunate that Zeffirelli felt the need to completely rewrite the end of the novel and Jane's interactions with the Rivers family. But it is unforgivable that he has surgically removed the love from one of the best love stories ever written.Do yourself a favor and go find the 1983 (?) mini series with Timothy Dalton. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having read the novel before seeing this film, I was enormously disappointed by the wooden acting and the arrogance of the producers in their blatant disregard of the plot.  I feel this film in no way reflects the brilliance of Bronte's work, and rather gave the impression of a shallow love story. In the condensing of the film to a short 2hours, the film lost many of the key features which make the book comprehendable and progressional, thus resulting in a somewhat jumpy plot with little grounding.  There is no build up to the romance between Rochester and Jane Eyre, so this appears rather abrupt and unfounded since the two characters have such infrequent interaction you cannot help but imagine their 'love' is superficial. This is such an injustice to Bronte's novel;you are given no impression of Jane's quirky cheek and boldness which attracts Rochester to her, and his arrogance which attracts Jane to him.Despite to poor scripting, I think that a few of the characters were portrayed very astutely, namely Mrs Fairfax and Grace Poole, however overall the production was poor.  Given a better scripting, perhaps the film would have been more successful.  See Jane Eyre (1970) with Zelah Clarke and Timothy Dalton for an outstanding production.  "}{"Title":"how could they...","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you have read the book , do not watch this movie! It will ruin your perception of it forever.There is no chemistry whatsoever and William Hurt (though I am a big fan!)is in no way credible as an Englishman . All sorts of important features of the book are left out in this movie. Even very special interactions between Jane and Rochester!! Entire characters are deleted , and it gets worse. Jane struggle after leaving Thornfield is gone. No mention of her finding her relatives , no , they pop up earlier in a most incredulous place , where they certainly shouldn't be. They even made up things of their own and put it in! As if this story needed  improvement.ConclusionI have no idea what they wanted to achieve making this movie. I have found it to be very disappointing and it may very well have distorted my pleasure in reading  a most excellent book , for ever!! "},{"Title":"I agree with the previous reviewer....","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This version is pretty insipid, I'm afraid. Jane Eyre is one of my favorite books and has been since childhood, but William Hurt's weary, throwaway acting style is completely unsuitable to the bold passion of Edward Rochester and poor Charlotte Gainsbrough looks like a bored, petulant teenager whose dental braces hurt! I also can't believe that they eliminated Edward's great marriage proposal scene from the end of the book, one of the most moving moments in literature. I do appreciate that they finally used such a young, plain woman to play Jane, a character who is supposed to be a worldly 18, but if you want to see a version that closer approximates the personalities and passions of the novel, please see the 70's version with George C. Scott and Susannah York. York was too old, tall and pretty to play Jane, but no one has touched Rochester's character the way that Scott did. "},{"Title":"Can you say, God awful?","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ugh. I love this book. It is a classic, and it deserves to be one. It is a wonderful story of a girl who makes it through a very difficult life, is betrayed by people and circumstances, and still manages to be strong and trust and love people. The main character, Jane, is smart and witty and honest and honorable and outspoken for her position and not unhappy with that. She knows her position, is aware that it is low, but recognizes that it does not lower her as a human being. Rochester is a Byronic hero (yes, I learned that in a lit class) and despite his faults and broodiness and, at times, distance, he is totally captivating.The movie has none of these qualities, and it is an insult to give it the same name as the book. Jane is not true to character, and she is way too submissive. Rochester just isn't interesting. All of the funny, deep, cute, make-the-character lines are missing. I haven't seen any other versions of this story, but I sure hope they're better than this one. Bronte should be rolling in her grave at this awful rendition of her gorgeous story. "},{"Title":"From a great book comes a chopped piece of slop","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jane Eyre_ is one of the greatest novels in the English language and this screenwriter should of read it. I hate it when writers use Spark notes for what a novel is all about. This movie is unbearable to watch if you have read the book.The whole 'red room' is so down played that I wonder why they even bother to put it in. In the book the 'red room' is foreshadowing for the WHOLE story and the rest of Jane's life. Helen  Burns is treated so badly in the movie I'm sure she was happy to die and leave early. In the book she is one of the most compelling characters and she was not the red head. The whole Christian theme is missing from her life and the rest of the movie.Do yourself a favor and miss this movie and read the story as Charlotte Bronte masterfully told it. "},{"Title":"One of the worst","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I read the novel 'Jane Eyre' for the first time back in 1986. It was round that time that I saw the BBC-version with Timothy Dalton and Zelah Clarke. It was an excellent version and very much like the book. Years later, I laid eyes on this version and was horrified. William Hurt is totally miscast as Mr Rochester. Mr Rochester is a passionate character, where as William Hurt portrays him as a block of ice. The same goes for Charlotte Gainsborough. It was like watching two zombies together. This is story about love and passion, but I couldn't see it in this version. No, back to the BBC-version. A wonderful time is guaranteed. "},{"Title":"short, yet accurate","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"16 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw the movie before I read the book. Usually this means that you prefer one of them, but in this case I like them both as they are. When a novel is filmed, the result will be a kind of summary and hopefully the people that have written the film version have stayed close to the original. This is not always the case. Walt Disney versions of Peter Pan for example, have very little to do with J.M. Barry's original.Jane Eyre is a very serene, rather melancholical book with beautiful strong characters. The movie has the same quiet atmosphere and the casting of the actors is superbe. The only pity is that the movie is rather short. So see the movie and read the book! "},{"Title":"The worst adaptation, in my opinion","Date":"1 March 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Since I have commented on every version of Jane Eyre, these last sorry laurels for worst adaptation go to this version. The screenplay is not good, condensing or altogether dispensing with what I feel are vital portions of the story. One commenter remarked that it was Zefferelli's vision taking precedence over the book. Is that a good thing? I feel not - if one is going to adapt a literary classic, one should make SOME attempt to hew closely to THAT classic. The biggest weakness in this version, sadly, is Hurt himself. Jane Eyres live or die according to their Rochesters, and this one is NOT worthy of the source material. I generally like Hurt, but he could not be more wrong for this role. It requires a non-Method heroic hamminess of which he is simply not capable. As a result, Hurt's Rochester is weak, nice, and definitely not dangerous in any way. He's simply a needy guy. One nice point - Charlotte Gainsborough makes a superb Jane. Her plain looks and subdued manner with sparks of the free spirit underneath do the role justice. I enjoy watching all versions of this work, but this one is by far the worst all-around. "},{"Title":"Rush on","Date":"26 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I agree with one of the other comment writers about good story & good actors but mismatched, and I would also say rushed. It has been about 24years since I read the book as it was in school. But I felt that you would need to know the story of Jane Eyre when watching this one as bits are left out & therefore it doesn't fully make sense. For example Jane & Mr Rochester have hardly spoken & suddenly he is proposing marriage!!! The actors don't have time to let the audience know how their character feels about each thing happening in the story.The actors are good but aren't given enough time to do this story justice. I'm sorry to say it but I didn't really enjoy this version.The 1970 version with Susanna York & George C Scott would be the Jane Eyre movie of my preference BUT you should check out the 1983 BBC mini series version with Zelah Clarke & Timothy Dalton in the 2 main roles. I love it so much I watch it regularly.There is an abridged version which goes for 225mins or the full version for 330mins. "},{"Title":"They completely changed the plot!!!","Date":"15 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was so bad that I could hardly finish watching it. It is true that Charlotte Bronte's Jane Eyre has a complex and almost unbelievable storyline, but several main parts of the plot were changed in this movie, and the change was not for the better! It seemed to me that the purpose of the changes was to condense the plot so that it would fit in a 2-hour movie. This movie was a MAJOR disappointment. The only redeeming portion was the part about the child Jane. Even in this part, changes were made in the plot. And the actors that played Rochester and the adult Jane were simply unsuitable for the parts. They were completely passionless and there was no chemistry between them. An awful adaptation. "},{"Title":"Slow, tedious, no character development","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love the book, Jane Eyre and have seen many versions of it.  All have their strong points and their faults.  However, this was one of the worst I have seen.  I didn't care about Jane or Mr. Rochester.  Charlotte Gainsbourg (Jane) was almost tolerable and certainly looked the plain part, but she had no emotion in any of her lines. I couldn't imagine what Mr. Rochester saw in her.  That brings us to Mr. Rochester.  William Hurt had even less emotion than Jane, if that were possible.  How two such insipid people could fall in love is a mystery, but it certainly didn't hold my attention. Perhaps the director (Zeffrelli) fell asleep during the production.The Timothy Dalton (too handsome for Mr. Rochester!) version is far more faithful to the book, but Ciaran Hinds plays the perfect Mr. Rochester in the 1997 A/E version (which is NOT all that true to the book).Trying to find something positive about this movie Geraldine Chaplain was perfect in her role. "}{"Title":"Disappointing!","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  As a Jane Eyre fan I was excited when this movie came out.  At last, I thought, someone will make this book into a movie following the story actually written by the author. Wrong!!!  If the casting director was intending to cast a Jane who was plain  he certainly succeeded. However, surely he could have found one who could also act.  Where was the tension between Jane and Rochester? Where was the spooky suspense of the novel when the laughter floated into the night seemingly from nowhere? Where was the sparkle of the child who flirted and danced like her mother?  Finally, why was the plot changed at the end?  One wonders whether the screenwriters had actually read the book.  What a disappointment "},{"Title":"A big disappointment.","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I must admit, when I heard that Franco Zefferili was doing an adaptation of my fave book ever, I was very excited.  After all, this was the man who brought us Romeo&Juliet!  Therefore, I expected nothing but excellence.  How wrong I was!  This was a terrible adaptation!  Why, you ask?  Several reasons. #1 Really BAD writing.  Charlotte Bronte would have been abhorred at what they've done!  The writer took out all the most important scenes between Jane and Rochester, leaving audiences very little understanding of the passionate love that they have for each other.   #2  Not enough time.  The whole movie was RUSHED!  They didn't take the time to show audiences this beautiful story.  The ending was especially rushed.  They took 20 minutes to wrap everything up and that completely back fired. #3  Bad casting.  All of the actors in this movie are very very talented.  However, Charlotte Gainesburg and William Hurt are wrongly casted.  Appearance wise, they are right as Jane and Rochester but the chemistry was just not there and chemistry is very important.  I felt both were very stiff in delivering their lines, especially in their scenes together.  Where is the sizzle, the passion?  In order to convey a successful story of Jane Eyre, you must first have passion between the two leads.  This is not just merely any love story, this is a love story between two very passionate people.  This is also a story about sexual attraction, so how can the movie lack passion. However, with all the bad there are some good.  The scenery and mood was very well done.  Zefferili got the dreary and Bronte feel of the Victorian Era perfectly.  Anna Paquin, who portrays the younger Jane is excellent, as always and Joan Plowright is as amazing as ever, playing Mrs.Fairfax. Bottom line is if you want to see a true adaptation of Jane Eyre and a really good one, rent the 1983 BBC version with Timothy Dalton and Zelah Clark.  At least with this one, you wouldn't have to say to yourself, Hey this isn't how it's suppose to be!  Better yet, if you can find the 1973 version, then watch that one, it is the best of all the Jane Eyres out there. 5/10  "},{"Title":"A glimpse of the novel","Date":"15 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This 1996 movie was the first adaptation of Jane Eyre that I ever watched and when I did so I was appalled by it. So much of the novel had been left out and I considered William Hurt to be terribly miscast as Rochester. Since then I have watched all the other noteworthy adaptations of the novel, the three short versions of '44, '70 and '97 and the three mini series of '73, '83 and 2006, and I have noticed that there are worse adaptations and worse Rochesters.This is without doubt the most exquisite Jane Eyre adaptation as far as cinematography is concerned. Director Franco Zerifferelli revels in beautiful long shots of snow falling from a winter sky, of lonely Rochester standing on a rock, and of Jane looking out of the window - but he is less good at telling a story and bringing characters to life. In addition, his script merely scratches the surface of the novel by leaving out many important scenes. As a consequence the film does not show the depth and complexity of the relationship between Jane and Rochester, and sadly it does also not include the humorous side of their intercourse. There are a number of short conversations between Rochester and Jane, each of them beautifully staged, but the couple of sentences they exchange do not suffice to show the audience that they are drawn to each other. We know that they are supposed to fall in love, but we never see it actually happen. The scene in which Rochester wants to find out Jane's reaction to his dilemma by putting his case in hypothetical form before her after the wounded Mason has left the house is completely missing, and the farewell scene, the most important scene - the climax - of the novel is reduced to four sentences. Zerifferelli does not make the mistake other scriptwriters have made in substituting their own poor writing for Brontë's superb lines, neither are crucial scenes completely changed and rewritten, but he makes the less offensive but in the end similarly great mistake of simply leaving many important scenes out. What remains is just a glimpse of the novel, which does no justice to Charlotte Brontë's masterpiece.The cast is a mixed bag While Fiona Shaw is an excellent Mrs Reed, Anna Paquin's young Jane is more an ill-mannered, pout Lolita than a lonely little girl, longing for love. The ever-reliable Joan Plowright makes a very likable, but far too shrewd Mrs Fairfaix, and one cannot help feeling that Billie Whitelaw is supposed to play the village witch instead of plain-looking, hard-working Grace Poole. Charlotte Gainsbourgh as the grown-up heroine, however, is physically a perfect choice for playing Jane Eyre. Looking every bit like 18, thin and frail, with irregular, strong features, she comes closest to my inner vision of Jane than any other actress in that role. And during the first 15 minutes of her screen time I was enchanted by her performance. Gainsbourgh manages well to let the audience guess at the inner fire and the strong will which are hidden behind the stoic mask. But unfortunately the script never allows her to expand the more passionate and lively side of Jane's character any further. As a result of leaving out so many scenes and shortening so much of the dialogues, Gainsbourgh's portrayal of Jane must necessarily remain incomplete and therefore ultimately unsatisfactory. This is a pity, as with a better script Charlotte Gainsbourgh might have been as good a Jane as Zelah Clarke in the '83 version.But while it is still obvious that Gainsbourgh is trying to play Jane, there is no trace whatsoever of Rochester in the character that William Hurt portrays. Hurt, who has proved himself to be a fine actor in many good movies, must have been aware that he was physically and type-wise so miscast that he did not even attempt at playing the Rochester of the novel. His Rochester, besides being blond and blue-eyed, is a soft-spoken, well-mannered nobleman, shy and quiet, slightly queer and eccentric, but basically good-natured and mild. He is so far from being irascible, moody and grim that lines referring to these traits of his character sound absolutely ridiculous. Additionally, during many moments of the movie, Hurt's facial expression leaves one wondering if he is fighting against acute attacks of the sleeping sickness. Particularly in the proposal scene he grimaces like a patient rallying from a general anaesthetic and is hardly able to keep his eyes open. If you compare his Rochester to the strong-willed and charming protagonist of the novel, simply bursting with energy and temperament, it is no wonder that many viewers are disappointed in Hurt's performance. Still, he offends me less than the Rochesters in the '70, '97 and 2006 versions and I would in general rank this Jane Eyre higher than these three other ones. Hurt obviously had the wits to recognise that he could not be the Rochester of the novel and therefore did not try to do so, whereas George C. Scott, Ciaràn Hinds and Toby Stephens thought they could, but failed miserably, and I'd rather watch a character other than Rochester than a Rochester who is badly played. And I'd rather watch a Jane Eyre movie which leaves out many lines of the novel but does not invent new ones than a version which uses modernised dialogues which sound as if they could be uttered by a today's couple in a Starbucks café. Of course this Jane Eyre is a failure, but at least it is an inoffensive one, which is more than one can say of the '97 and 2006 adaptations. I would therefore not desist anyone from watching this adaptation You will not find Jane Eyre, but at least you will find a beautifully made movie. "},{"Title":"Loved Haddon Hall","Date":"25 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The best thing about the movie was that the producer used Haddon Hall as Thornfield. Haddon Hall once belonged to my ancestors.William Hurt was , in my opinion, a little wooden in his portrayal of Mr. Rochester . Maybe it was because his horse fell on him in his first scene, and he didn't quite recuperate. His character left nothing to like and how Jane fell in love with that type of person is beyond me.The actresses that played young Helen and Jane were excellent. Full of warmth and compassion, and you really feel their friendship for each other. I surely hope children back in the Victorian era weren't all treated that badly.If you haven't seen the movie, I would recommend it. I would also like to see the Timothy Dalton movie that some of the reviewers said was better. "},{"Title":"Deviates too much from the book","Date":"21 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It is probably just me who annoyed, but having read the book and loving it, this movie came as much of a disappointment. It seems to be that the passion (or love, whatever you would like to call it) between Jane and Mr Rochester is much more subtle in the book, whereas in the movie, it is pretty obvious that she is attracted to him and that he will ask her to marry him. Also, with all the changes they made to the ending, it just doesn't seem quite right, as if it has lost that touch of magic that made the book so special. However, this movie is not all bad, and yes- it does have its good points. I really enjoyed the subtle implications of darkness and mystery within the house- Mr Mason and the role he played and what his actions caused.I just wish that they didn't change too much of the plot, that's all. "},{"Title":"A new version of the Charlotte Brontë's novel","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is not a sin to say that the book is 100 times much better than this version, but to be frankly, the film lacks the intensity given by the book. The work of camera, photography, color, etc. are excellent, but acting is far to be what Charlotte Brontë gave in her novel. One must admit that young Jane was much better than the adult one while William Hurt disappointed a lot playing the role of Rochester, very cold and nearly without any temperament. I did not see former versions of this novel, but at least this one could have been much better. So the recommendation is as follows Read the book first then go to see this film, without any doubt you will have the same opinon I got.      "},{"Title":"A powerful, romantic sucker-punch","Date":"22 June 2006","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is my absolute favourite version of one of my absolute favourite books. I can't say that any of the others have done it justice.This version captures the romantic core of Bronte's novel, and I think all of the cast did a fine job.Though this may be contrary to the opinions of some other, rather grumpy reviewers, I absolutely adore William Hurt as Mr. Rochester. Remembering that this WAS the Victorian age, I found his Mr. Rochester appropriately raw and gruff.And to those who try to say that he and Charlotte Gainsbourg have no chemistry, I beg to differ. There's a raw but restrained emotion to their interactions in the film (very accurate to the time period), and I found the evening scene between them to be just as romantically thrilling as it was in the novel.All in all, this is a movie I will be purchasing. "},{"Title":"My absolute favourite movie!","Date":"6 May 2000","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Zeffirelli´s version of Jane Eyre is the most touching movie,I´ve ever seen.....Hurt is BRILLIANT AS USUAL and just PERFECT as Mr.Rochester!....his facial expression is superb......I don´t care what the critics say. This film is,and will always be,my favourite! -))) "},{"Title":"William Hurt should have won an Oscar for his performance in Jane Eyre","Date":"13 April 2005","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I think that too many people overlook the great acting done by William Hurt in Jane Eyre. I had seen several of his earlier films, and thought that he was an overly dramatic actor; however, the role of Mr. Rochester was a perfect fit for him. He did such a great job of showing both the undesirable and tender sides of his character! He did so with such finesse that he helped to make the girl who played Jane seem to be better suited to the role than she was.(That garden scene when he proposes is done so well and seemed so real-it takes a terrific actor to really pull that off as well as he did.) And he looked so handsome, too. I also liked the ending-he seemed so believably sad until Jane rescues him. I'm not sure about the adaptation aspect or not-I was too entranced by William Hurt's performance. "},{"Title":"Bravo to Hurt","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have seen quite a few adaptations of Jane Eyre, but I have never seen one that I loved this much.  There are a few things that I would not have changed about the book, but one must realize that Film does not read the same way as a book.  I think that William Hurt's portrayal of Rochester was astonishing.  Some have called it a wooden portrayal.  I think that is exactly the way that Rochester SHOULD be.  He is a man hurt by so many disappointments through life that he is afraid to love and to feel.  In the scene with Adele when she says that Jane may never come back and Rochester hesitates to comfort her, I think that Hurt's acting choices showed great insight to the character.  Bravo, I say!! "}{"Title":"Lackluster","Date":"25 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is really just not very good. The story was largely rushed and truncated- especially the ending. I know things have to be cut to fit it into such a short time frame (less than two hours) but I feel it was just handled clumsily. The first two thirds of the movie were just mediocre, nothing to write home about, but the last part was just a mess. The acting was nothing special either. Those who were good were wasted in their too-small roles. Those who were featured more were not very good. The two words that appear most in my notes are flat and emotionless. It was an all around disappointment, devoid of all of the passion and fire of the book.Fiona Shaw was very good, but was entirely wasted as Mrs. Reed, in her very limited screen time. Gateshead was way too rushed. Anna Paquin is very good as Jane, but the character is even more feisty than in the book. Even though she was near 25, Charlotte Gainsbourg did look the right age for Jane and they did a pretty good job making her look plain. She was way too tall though (with an very long neck) and although she had everything to make a good Jane, she was pretty dull actually. She was even more reserved and quiet than the book Jane, which, given how passionate her younger self was in this, was especially jarring.If I thought Gainsbourg's Jane was lackluster, that was nothing compared to William Hurt's Rochester. My original feelings on him were block of wood and my opinion remains unchanged upon the latest viewing. My above mentioned flat and emotionless apply to him more than anyone or anything else in this film. Not only did he and Jane not have any chemistry (I'm unsure how they even fell in love in this, since they have so few scenes together), he just didn't seem to care at all. He was so dull! The proposal scene was so passionless, and even their kissing looked staged (i.e. their lips did not really touch). He did not show Rochester's brooding/angry side or the humorous side. He just played a block of wood. "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"20 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Awful, awful, awful. The characters are completely lacking in subtlety and have been adapted to a bland romantic hero and heroine with no depth or empathy. Rochester flipped between gloomy and forbidding and loving and pampering like nobody's business but did not actually have a personality. They completely mangled the plot, which would be okay if I thought that the core theme of the book was intact, but no. they have turned Jane Eyre from the story of one person who is determined to be herself and who will not succumb to love at the price of her principles, into a boring romance. If you want to see a good adaptation of this amazing novel, watch the 2006 TV adaptation. "},{"Title":"A haunting movie","Date":"18 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A haunting movie. Charlotte does a stunning job of playing Jane Eyre. William Hurt is perfectly cast.The story is a sad one, of bitterness, and a down trod human spirit, and the meanness of humanity.Jane brings brightness to the lives of others, even in the face of treachery from others. As a child, she overcomes the ill-intent of others by her shear strength of will and determination.The movie has great suspense, even when you know the story, you are still pulling for a happy ending.I see the movie has a relatively low rating, but its not a movie for today. Its a 19th century rendering of life at that time. A great movie, I highly recommend to those with patience. "},{"Title":"A Moody, Evocative JANE EYRE","Date":"29 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Oddly enough the Charlotte Brontë's classic novel 'Jane Eyre' has had more cinematic transitions than almost any of the old novels. The story is powerful but with the frequency of film adaptations, even the story grows tired, unless someone breathes new life into the interpretation. In this case that breath comes from director Franco Zeffirelli who has engaged Hugh Whitemore to open the story as a screenplay. The results give a different emphasis to the story and one that for this viewer works well.In this particular incarnation the rags to riches heroine Jane Eyre is played with subtlety by the beautiful Charlotte Gainsbourg (with Anna Paquin as the younger version) and Rochester the master of the manor is a William Hurt, playing his character more for life and flesh than the usual darkly sinister keeper of secrets. What results from the combination of cast and crew is a film that is far more a romance than a vapid mystery the fire between Jane and Rochester is palpable and is given more space and time than the other versions which elect to dwell on the mad 'wife' upstairs finally destroyed in the fire that brings Rochester down to Jane's initial stance on the social scale.The cinematography by David Watkin captures the period beautifully as does the musical score by Claudio Capponi and Alessio Vlad. As with all period pieces the cast of supporting characters paint the various aspects of the novel and here such luminous actors as Joan Plowright, Geraldine Chaplin, Joséphine Serre, Maria Schneider, Elle Macpherson, and John Wood among many others offer fully realized portraits of the class distinctions that ruled the era. This is a fine film version of the Brontë novel and one well worth watching repeatedly. Grady Harp "},{"Title":"A must see movie","Date":"3 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This one is my favorite. Why? Most importantly, this is the only Jane Eyre film with a plain Jane. Her unattractiveness is absolutely fundamental to the story.Secondly, the age difference between Rochester and Jane is fully realized in this film. In the beginning it is very good, the interpretation of Jane's traumatizing experience in the red room was very well portrayed. I believe that the actors were casted very well. Jane, Mr. Rochester, Mrs. Reed, St. John, all looked VERY similar to what I imagined them as. (The only thing that bothered me about Jane Eyre was her teeth. She seemed to have an overbite of some kind and one would think that she has braces or desperately needs them.) The actors, Jane and Mr. Rochester, made the best out of the script they were given. They were very well paired. I do have several complaints though, I know that one can not transfer a book to film perfectly, but they should follow the story line.The meeting between Mr. Rochester and Jane when they confess there love is to short and lacks the passionate speech and playfulness that the book has. When Jane is leaving Thornfield catches on fire, this happened later. Also in the film Grace Poole dies, this contradicts the book. Also they don't really explain how she hears his voice and how he heard her calling back- this makes the book seem less Gothic. Also in the end Mr. Rochester only regained partial sight in one eye, not all his sight as in the movie. Besides the details the movie is reasonable.The settings are good and has puts on the emphasis on the beauty of nature. The meticulously accurate settings and beautiful-but-gloomy cinematography establish the atmosphere. Even the daytime scenes are drab and colorless, and many of the shots are so dark that it's difficult to see the characters' expressions. There's no doubt that one of the reasons Jane Eyre is sometimes cheerless is because the shadows are often more important than the light. At least in the end, there is a moment of joyful catharsis. With one exception, the acting is excellent. Charlotte Gainsbourg brings Jane to life, and, on those occasions when the script fumbles because it's painting the narrative in too-broad strokes, she holds our attention and captures our sympathy. Unfortunately, Gainsbourg's opposite, William Hurt, lacks presence. His is a passionless portrayal of a tragic figure. The venerable Joan Plowright plays Mrs. Fairfax with grandmotherly goodwill. Josephine Serre, Amanda Root, and Anna Paquin are all solid in smaller roles. Although the superiority of this film can be measured by the plainness of it's leading characters, I must conclude by saying that it is beautifully shot and includes a gorgeous soundtrack. "},{"Title":"do we really need another version?","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The first time I saw this Zeffirelli version of the famous Bronte classic, I wasn't particularly impressed with either Charlotte Gainsbourg's feisty interpretation of Jane, or with William Hurt's over-sensitive version of Rochester.  This Jane is the one with dark and brooding tendencies (played as a child by Anna Paquin, this side of her comes across well); while Rochester is damaged by his past but not quite right in the characterisation, less a gothic hero than a damp squib.A second viewing put both in a more favourable light, but the problem is that 'Jane Eyre' has many other, much better, adaptations out there and this version adds very little.  In the cast we have Billie Whitelaw as a creepy Grace Poole, the reliable Joan Plowright as Mrs Fairfax, Samuel West as the colourless St John Rivers, and Maria 'Last Tango' Schneider as the imprisoned lunatic, Bertha.  One or two scenes stay in the memory - Josephine Serre as the very French Adele; Jane's sketching; the wedding sequences; Jane and Rochester's first meeting (but this scene has been done much better before) - but as a whole it is pretty throwaway and forgettable. "},{"Title":"Dispassionate and Disappointing","Date":"18 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had thought before viewing that this might be one of the most difficult novels to adapt to screen.  In the novel the whole story is told by Jane, a quiet and unassuming governess who rarely has the opportunity to give full voice to her most inward thoughts, at least to other characters.  But she confides in us, the readers.  Unlike most who meet her, the audience learns that Jane is highly passionate and needs passion from others in her life.This adaptation, unfortunately, makes no effort to overcome the inherent weakness of film to bring inner life to the screen.  Jane is portrayed as sullen and reticent.  Her few opportunities to engage in witty dialog are bungled either by the screenplay or the actors.  The direction and editing seem hellbent on getting all the important scenes shoehorned into two hours.  What's left is, ironically, one of the most dispassionate films I've ever seen.  This is all surface and no heart--the complete opposite of the Jane we'd like to get to know. "},{"Title":"Read the book","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I won't say that this is the worst book to movie adaptation, but it certainly wasn't the best. I know there are some of you out there who would rather watch a movie than read a book, but nine times out of ten the book is always better. With books you don't have a certain time limit to get in all the details the way movies do. I felt like the movie didn't have very good transitions, and the movie seemed to be moving too fast. It makes me so sad that the movie didn't focus more on the relationship between Jane and Mr. Rochester. In the movie you don't really get to see how their relationship develops and grows into love. I thought that they left out a lot of essential events to the plot that would explain the plot better and make the movie a little more interesting. The characters in the book seemed a lot richer and were full of personality and life than the ones in the movie. I don't know if the actors and actresses actually read the book but if they had then maybe they would've portrayed things differently. I love watching movies, but I'm always weary of seeing the movie version because it's just not the same. Take my advice, read Jane Eyre by Charlotte Bronte and I think you'll be pleasantly surprised. "},{"Title":"Zefferelli is no Ang Lee","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jane Eyre has always been a favorite book of mine.  I've read it several times.  Even though the book is virtually memorized, it is difficult to identify this film as an adaptation of the book.  The only similarity between book and movie is the title.  It falls flat because it was badly written, miscast, badly acted and misdirected.  Charlotte Gainsbourg's performance(or lack thereof) in the title role was wooden, sullen, and devoid of emotion.  Ms. Gainsbourg created the only Jane on record for whom the audience felt no sympathy.  Additionally, there was no chemistry whatsoever with William Hurt.  She shouldn't feel too badly however; he is the perhaps the worst Rochester I've ever seen.  Who ever heard of a feckless Rochester?  Zefferelli?  He doesn't get the genre and probably should avoid classics in the future.  Ang Lee and Emma Thompson's Sense and Sensibility, Persuasion, or any of the other numerous Jane Eyre(s) are better done and capture their adaptations beautifully. Timothy Dalton and George C. Scott were great as their respective Rochesters.  "},{"Title":"Wow","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had never had the chance to read Jane Eyre, but after seeing this movie I want to. The performances of William Hurt and Charlotte Gainsbourg were absolutely magnificent. Most actors struggle with a piece of this magnitude but they did very well with it. "}{"Title":"Jane Eyre's Reunion with Mr Rochester","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When Jane tells St John Rivers that she could vow to marry him if she were convinced this was God's will, she hears in the quietness of the house the voice of Mr Rochester crying her name. The next day she sets out for Thornfield and finds the house a blackened ruin. Returning to the inn she is told the story of the fire and asks to be driven at once to Ferndean...This episode reveals Jane's loyalty and love for her master. She is capable of making up her mind quickly, for as soon as she hears the story of the fire she sets out for Ferndean. Her sound common sense is shown through Zefirelli's brilliance when she goes in quietly with the candles and the glass of water. Although Zefirelli makes it clear to the viewer throughout the plot that Jane is a very balanced person with a brain as good as any man's, she has her full share of a woman's intuitive understanding of the male mind, seeing at once that a little jealousy is just what is needed to arouse Rochester from his dejection.As he realizes, she is a practical person. She will not cry over his maimed arm and sightless eye, and makes light of her own sufferings earlier when she left him. Rochester calls her a changeling, and there seems to be something magic in the strength of her love. An awesome production , not to be missed ! "},{"Title":"What the heck have they done to this BEAUTIFULLY written novel","Date":"1 May 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have enjoyed 3 other versions of Jane Eyre, starring, Orson Wells & Joan Fontaine, Timothy Dalton & Zelah Clarke and finally Ciaran Hinds & Samantha Morton, so when I decided to sit and watch this version of Jane Eyre, I was hoping that I would be left thinking, YES, they got the two leading roles right again. How wrong could I of been. I felt completely let down. William Hurt & Charlotte Gainsborough, should never of been cast for these parts. Neither played them well. To play Rochester & Jane, the actors chosen, needs to bring that certain something to the roles, (I can't say what, because I am not sure myself), but if you have ever read Jane Eyre, and thoroughly enjoyed it as I have, then you will know what I mean. Most of the other casting was OK, but I really felt the whole film was a complete washout. If you love the novel Jane Eyre, please stay away from this version. "},{"Title":"Comments from a Jane Eyre reader","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Many, many years ago I stayed home from school, and I, not sick enough to remain in bed, turned on the television set while my mother and my aunt talked in the kitchen.  Sitting on the floor, I was mesmerized by the Joan Fontaine/Orson Welles version of Jane Eyre (which I now know is an awful version though well-cast).  Since that morning I have grown to love all things Bronte.  My daughter is named Jane, I have several copies of the book Jane Eyre, I own abridged and unabridged audio versions, and I possess the different videos of my beloved Jane Eyre.  On our cemetery monument are the words MY SECOND SELF.  (Wuthering Heights is my next favorite novel.) William Hurt is a great actor, but he can never be Edward Fairfax Rochester. Timothy Dalton is the best for this role.  The low-key dolt cast as Jane in this 1996 adaptation is horrid, and I just cannot force myself to watch my copy of the film.  Her physiognomy prevents my doing so.  Reader, this film is awful. "},{"Title":"further proof that Hollywood can't tell a story!","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Of all the versions of Jane Eyre that I have seen this one is the absolute worst!  Every time I see a British classic told from Hollywood they can't stay true to the story.  This story is a Classic for a reason.  Before the days of movies the story had to be told in a book.  If you want it to remain a classic keep to the plot as the author wrote it.  I can't remember all the things I disliked about this movie because it left me with such a horrible feeling that I have never watched it again. Give me Timothy Dalton and Zelah Clarke and a whole box of Kleenex on a rainy afternoon. "},{"Title":"So Far, the Weakest Adaptation of the Classic Romance","Date":"14 May 2011","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The orphan girl Jane Eyre (Anna Paquin) is sent by her aunt Mrs. Reed to Lowood Institution, a charity school for orphans directed by the religious and harsh Mr. Henry Brocklehurst (John Wood). Jane has a tough childhood without love in the boarding school, where she loses her best friend Helen Burns. When Jane (Charlotte Gainsbourg) reaches adulthood, she is hired by Mrs. Fairfax (Joan Plowright) as the governess of Adele, a young French girl that is raised by master of Thornfield Edward Rochester (William Hurt), and leaves Lowood. Jane moves to the manor and sooner she feels an unrequited love by her master. Sooner Edward falls in love for Jane, but he is haunted by a gloomy secret from his past. Jane Eyre by Franco Zeffirelli is so far, the weakest adaptation of the classic romance by Charlotte Brontë. I have watched the 1943 and 1970 versions and it is inevitable the comparison between these three films. The 1943 version by Robert Stevenson is unbeatable, and the atmosphere in black and white of the film is impressive and fits to the Gothic fiction of the novel. Further, the powerful performance of Orson Welles is incomparable in the role of Edward Rochester. Despite the great cast in Zeffirelli's version, with names like Charlotte Gainsbourg, Geraldine Chaplin, Joan Plowright, Fiona Shaw and Anna Paquin, the performance of William Hurt is very disappointing in the role of Edward Rochester. My vote is five.Title (Brazil) Jane Eyre "},{"Title":"Jane Eyre","Date":"11 February 2005","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Jane Eyre is wonderful, it is worth seeing and owning. Charlotte Gainsbourg and Willam Hurt are great together, buy it, it will hold you all through. The picture is well made and passionate it has made me a life long fan of Charlotte Gainsbourg. I had compassion for the children , the young girl and the young woman Jane Erye.The movie makes you understand that not everyone has a happy childhood, not everyone has a life protected and are loved and full of beauty. This story is as meaningful today as yesteryear you will love the casting, the acting is wondeerful. If you have any romance in your heart this is the picture to see you will remember it for a long time. I was sad to see it end "},{"Title":"One of the more disappointing adaptations","Date":"13 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Franco Zeffereli film of Jane Eyre starts out well enough the blind cruelty of Gatewood and harshness of Lowood are beautifully shot and true to the spirit of the book. Anna Paquin is a believably precocious and strong-willed young Jane. As the adult Jane, on the surface, Charlotte Gainsbourg certainly looks the picture lantern-jawed, skinny as a beanpole and clearly not a day over 19. But we hardly get time to evaluate her acting ability before the film is ruined by the arrival of a miscast Rochester. William Hurt is too blond, too old and too sensitive; whispering his lines and mooning over the bland Jane. Worse, the chemistry between the leads is nonexistent. The intense intellectual connection between poor but self-possessed Jane and the brooding Rochester is the cornerstone of the book's appeal. The script is a fairly faithful adaptation of Bronte's work, but it's almost painful to watch the two actors say her words while pretending they are in love. Watch only for the cinematography & sets, or if you are a die-hard Jane Eyre fan. For those that haven't read the book, this is a poor introduction. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"4 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" With style, charm, and humor to spare, this film was among the top echelon of movies from 1996. The characters in this film have a lot of depth, and that makes all the difference. In the end, the audience gets a casserole of film elements and little of the satisfaction that comes from watching these types of movies. This is a story about a place most people might not be able to conceive. It is a powerful film, but I doubt I will ever want to watch it again. Many scenes do not feel believable, but great performances help to enhance this amazing story. All the characters struggle against a system that has perpetuated falsehoods -- many falsehoods. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Courage and resiliency","Date":"1 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The much put upon Jane Eyre gets yet another adaption to the big screen with Charlotte Gainsbourg in the title role and William Hurt as the brooding Lord Rochester. As the story goes each becomes the other's savior at different points of the tale.I've always felt that the reason for Jane Eyre's enduring popularity is that it's a tale of both resilience and courage for women in an age when if woman did not have man's protection she was adrift and in trouble. Women were little more than chattel during the Victorian times that Jane Eyre was written.Anna Paquin plays Jane as a child and Jane is one unloved child sent to live with relations who barely tolerate her. She's sent to board with a school run by John Wood playing school master Mr. Brocklehurst, a man with issues. She's treated cruelly and has to watch a young friend die from neglect. But it hardens her character though she wonders if love will come her way.When the grownup Jane Eyre now played by Gainsbourg leaves the school where she has become a teacher she gets a job with Lord Rochester's estate as a governess. The master of the house is rarely there and Gainsbourg is well established by the time William Hurt returns from one of his many trips abroad.Gainsbourg's responsibilities is to Lord Rochester's daughter Adele and she becomes mother and father to the child. The story of the mother is part of the reason for William Hurt's frequent absences. Something in Gainsbourg touches a sentimental and romantic part of Hurt's character. There's still a lot of problems to be resolved. In the end the relative economic positions have been reversed, but these two people need each other more than ever.Charlotte Bronte's novel has certainly got an enduring popularity, this is one of several adaptions to the big screen and small. Gainsbourg compares well with Joan Fontaine probably the most well known portrayer of Jane Eyre. William Hurt is good as Rochester, so good that you hardly notice his distinct American speech pattern. Then again Fontaine's Rochester was Orson Welles another American.Jane Eyre I've always felt was a feminist role model, a woman who makes her way in the world successfully when women were not legal and social equals. It's the reason the story will have an enduring popularity and this version can stand proudly besides previous adaptions. "},{"Title":"sketch","Date":"30 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" its virtue - the inspired choice of Zeffirelli for Anne Paquin and Charlotte Gainsbourg as Jane Eyre sides.the bad part- forced end. beautiful, as many films by the same director, it seems be a sketch who not has the courage to explore a part of novel possibilities. so, it seems be a part of adaptation, a review for a masterpiece ad usum delphini. a sweet version for a bitter novel, it is almost credible love story but not at whale. and the regret has as source , first,the remarkable cast, than, the music and the details. it seems be a run , a puzzle with improvised pieces and a fairy tale end who can destroy all the book spirit. more than a film. it is a promise. or just a title in a long filmography. "}{"Title":"Profoundly imagined love.....","Date":"16 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A quick scan on IMDb.com turns up more than two dozen screen versions of Bronte's classic Jane Eyre. This version, with a subdued William Hurt as Mr. Rochester, and a startling, demure Charlotte Gainsbourg as Jane Eyre, is among those that are worth watching a second time. If you're reading this, you may think you know the story, and how it ends. Let's agree on this from our modern vantage point, if we discovered a previously unknown Charlotte Bronte novel, I don't think it would be difficult to guess the general storyline and character development. Not to say that this makes Bronte uninteresting or unexceptional&#x97;I think you can best appreciate and enjoy Bronte if you know what you're getting into, if you can bring an openness to deeply personal, individual human drama to the reading. Any movie version is an abbreviation. I think this one brings Bronte's protagonists to life in a steadily stronger crescendo of the tragic and fortuitous experiences of two lives that are, at first, on grimly divergent paths, and, finally, reach a happy convergence that literally strikes the sparks of love in the ashes of Thornfield Hall. For me, the romance of Jane Eyre is, of course, the storybook love of Edward, master of Thornfield, and Jane, the governess, but the love story ebbs and flows, and, for me, there is a concurrent theme that is equally satisfying. I am drawn to the stark reality of the separate lives of Mr. Rochester and Jane Eyre, and their gritty willingness to endure that reality, even as they yearn and yearn for the improbably better lives that they can profoundly imagine. Right up to very end, they don't know how it's going to turn out. Read more on my blogs Barley Literate and History Bottom Lines "},{"Title":"Shortens the Book's long ending...only a minor problem.","Date":"23 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The book JANE EYRE is long. I've watched at least three versions of JANE EYRE (including the Orson Welles version...still think he's the best Rochester yet). Thus, expect that most movies will shorten the rather long ending. I do like where they touch on the cousins and hint at the passage of time before...she goes back. But expect that, except in a series, the cousins segment gets removed or vastly truncated. It's simply too long...and I think gets the reader way too caught up in Jane's new life.So most Jane Eyre movies will drastically shorten that segment. It's not totally needed. This film is a fairly good interpretation of Jane Eyre. Guess, tho, I see Rochester as more dark...and brooding than William Hurt. "},{"Title":"Zeffirelli meets Bronte","Date":"17 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Franco Zeffirelli brings his Italian flair to a British tale, with French and American actors playing the leads, supported by a mainly British cast (along with Aussies and Kiwis). It works well in a most charming and emotionally satisfying film. Zeffirelli subdues his Italian over-the top expression of emotion; except for the music which brims with feeling and almost tells the story by itself (Capponi and Vlad). The costumes, cinematography, and story line are subdued but effective. It's a Gothic tale, so the shadows are as important as the light. Rochester is worldly wise and tough as an India rubber ball. He sees austere Jane as having a strange unearthly beauty. He quizzes her about her talent (strange paintings) and asks if that head upon her shoulder has more of the same kind of furniture within ? Jane must subdue her emotions because she is his hired servant.The film is criticized for the seemingly lack of passion between Rochester and Jane, which smolders before it blazes. Also, criticized is an abrupt conclusion, as Zeffirelli quickly fans through the last pages of the novel; and uses his considerable filmatic stagecraft to give a stunning almost dialogue free conclusion. His last visual shot frames the couple in a happy pastoral scene. "},{"Title":"A good telling of the Jane Eyre story","Date":"28 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It is early in the 1800s England, young Jane is orphaned and raised in the household of her aunt-in-law, who favors her own three children and mistreats Jane. Until Jane is about 11 or 12, when she is sent to a boarding school. The aunt makes it clear that she doesn't want Jane to return to her home during holidays.Anna Paquin is the young Jane Eyre and, even though her performance lasts only about the first 20 minutes of the film, it is arguably the most critical one here. She established Jane as a straightforward, truthful person that is willing to buck convention and become a woman of independent thought and independent means.The movie follows the familiar arc of the Jane Eyre story, with Charlotte Gainsbourg as the young adult Jane Eyre , taking the job as governess. Gainsbourg is not really a homely person, but her makeup, wardrobe, and hair style made her look very homely, quite a contrast to the pretty women that the master sometimes brought home.The other key character is William Hurt as Rochester, the master of the estate. He uses a passable English accent and is fine. But the movie works because of Jane Eyre, it is her story.I saw this version just two months after the most current version with Mia Wasikowska as Jane Eyre and Michael Fassbender as Rochester. While both of them are very good, I believe I preferred this 1996 version a bit more, for the way the various scenes were presented, and because Gainsbourg I feel is a more effective young adult Jane Eyre. "},{"Title":"This Version was PAINFUL to Watch","Date":"17 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have loved the A&E version of Jane Eyre since I was a child. The story always spoke to me. I very recently finally read the book and was even more blown away and in awe. It is brilliant, fiction at it's finest! After finishing the book I re-watched the A&E version, the newest version with Mia Wasikowska, and the BBC version. All of which are quite brilliant! I was going through netflix and saw this. I got excited that there was a version I had yet to see and I watched it. It didn't take me long to realize it was ridiculous. The plot strays from the book far too much. The writing of the script was terrible. The acting was terrible. Both Jane and Edward are very passionate people. Jane is rather subdued, but still, when reading the novel and in the other film adaptions, you can catch glimpses of her true character. Both of them in this film were like wooden dolls. So lacking in feeling or conviction. And St. John was shoved in here like an afterthought. His part was nothing like how it was supposed to be and his proposal was mind numbingly, hilariously out of character! I laughed through a great deal of this film. And I don't even feel bad saying that. "},{"Title":"Jane Eyre - short and sweet","Date":"14 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Director Franco ZeffirelliStarsWilliam Hurt, Charlotte GainsbourgThis version of Jane Eyre benefits from the artistic sense of director Franco Zeffirelli, but it shows the financial restraints limiting the production. It is an abridged version in which many critical events are either summarily shown or are omitted. However, It is fairly well organized and well acted.Jane Eyre is a great love story of a couple who meet and feel an immediate attraction for each other. However this attraction evokes conflict in each. This conflict is resolved by suppressing (concealing) their love for one another. Jane's suppression is passive, but Rochester's initial suppression is to treat Jane somewhat coldly, as a master to his servant.However, subtle indications are shown in their relationship where mutual love is hinted - Jane shows jealousy of Rochester's female friend and devoted service to his wishes, while Rochester shows his captivation with Jane's independent and intelligent opinions, her devotion to her moral principles, and her lack of greed and selfishness.However the love grows but remains concealed, again because each is in conflict over loving the other. Jane is in conflict because she realizes she is just a plain Jane - a mere servant (although born into a good family), and below the social status of Rochester who would be a prize catch for any lady of high social standing. Rochester is in conflict, not because of Jane's servant status, which is irrelevant to him, but because of his concealed secret that he must never reveal. So each falls deeper in love while fighting hard to mask any display of their love for one another.Simmering conflicts eventually boil over in seeking resolution. This occurs as the turning point in their relationship.The climatic end is the movie's resolution.Some versions handle some of the above key elements better than other versions, but most are lacking to some degree in portraying most of these elements. Hurt's Rochester is well performed as is Gainsbourg's adult Jane, as are supporting performances. The scene depicting the turning point is well done in this version, but other critical events are perfunctory, summarily done, or are omitted.The film is organized but too choppy, as scenes switch quickly instead of being well developed.I have seen all film versions since 1973 as well as the 1943 version.I think that although all versions are very good, many are lacking in some respects. I like the longer versions best as they are more complete.This one is well worth seeing. Please see my reviews of five other versions of Jane Eyre. "},{"Title":"oddly watered down","Date":"20 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's curious to see an adaptation that takes away bits of drama and suspense from a novel, instead of adding them. There rather tends to be extra explosions, screams, prolonged farewells and running around mindlessly. Not here. I never expected to see a Jane Eyre without the horrible vision of Bertha in Jane's room and the torn veil, but for some reason this is one of the scenes left out, and it is very telling. The laughter echoing in the corridors is bound to make you uneasy, not scared. The Gothic element is simply missing. And when Jane leaves, she rides a carriage to St John and Mary, whom she's already met, and has no need to wander around the moors without food, dignity or even a name. Nothing dangerous, incredible or hand-of-God-like in all of it.Still this is not a bad film to watch. I liked Charlotte Gainsbourg as Jane, although I too would have liked to see her eventually show more wit and warmth of character, both in the old and the new sense of the word. I still had the feeling it was there, she was a Jane Eyre, she simply didn't have time. Like St John didn't have time to propose or Blanche Ingram to stage the charades, the fortune teller to appear or the triangle of Helen, Miss Taylor and Jane to be played out. Great material for a film, sadly not there. And Rochester... you had to know him to fill in the gaps.But, I have to say, it was weird to see Anna Paquin and Fiona Shaw in the beginning, as Jane and Aunt Reed, hating each other as much as they did as Sookie Stackhouse and Marnie the necromancer! For that I almost added a star. "},{"Title":"Not awful","Date":"17 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" How odd that, within a couple of days of watching the 2011 version at the cinema, this 1996 version is run on one of the satellite channels.My first thought is that it is a good deal less dark and more colourful than the most recent version, although that is of relatively little importance.Charlotte Gainsbourg, an actress of relatively little import in England, does a good job as Jane she looks right and conducts herself with dignity, independence, and controlled passion. I liked William Hurt's Rochester better than many have I could detect gentleness beneath the anger.As for the adaptation, much of it seemed very hurried in particular, from the aborted wedding onwards, events were telescoped together very uncomfortably (Jane would have seen the fire if she had looked back, for instance).So, while not disastrous, there have been better adaptations. "},{"Title":"they messed up my favorite scene!! just completely skimmed over it!","Date":"3 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" My favorite part of all the Jane Eyre adaptations is the fight before Rochester proposes, the I have lived a full life here! I have not been trampled on! Do you think that I'm a machine, that I can bear it? Do you think that because I am poor, plain and little that I have no heart? I have as much heart as you and as much soul, and if God had gifted me with more beauty I would make it as hard for you to leave me as it is now for me to leave you! That whole passionate scene, where she finally breaks is my favorite part, and they shortened it to the point that it was near nonexistent!!!there is no passion in her voice at all! and then his response, and the kiss! it is so dull and unimpassioned it makes me want to scream! How could you butcher such a wonderful story and scene! "},{"Title":"worst version ever.","Date":"25 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I am a fan of the story and book, and while i know that movies from books are never the same, this movie makes so many fundamental changes to the story, that it ruins the experience. passage of time changes, characters change and the whole story is never truly told. it seems the writers were told they could only make a 90 minute film, and decided to slash the story to pieces without care. As with all verisons, they never get her time at school right, and then unlike others, you never believe the chemistry between Jane and Rochester. Anna Paquin is quite charming as a Young Jane, but the adult Jane does not live up to the younger. there are much better versions out there. don't waste your time with this one. "}{"Title":"Surprisingly refreshing if also flawed","Date":"20 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I didn't have high expectation for yet another adaptation of this novel. But this one really reaches me in a surprising way when every other screen version of Jane Eyre I've seen try to connect the audience to the characters by casting way-too-attractive actors. Admittedly, it's pretty enjoyable to watch two beautiful people fall in love in a fairy tale way. But I couldn't believe for one moment that they're real human beings under those harsh circumstances.Too often Jane Eyre has been portrayed as inexplicably attractive and Mr. Rochester charismatically mysterious. It's refreshing to see an actually plain Jane and a deeply flawed Mr. Rochester. They're not attractive people in general. They're just attractive to each other in their own way. Their bonding doesn't come from their physical presences but from the pain, the unfair fate, and the harsh past they've both endured and survived. On this note, I think this version is by far the most authentic adaptation I've seen.The only complain I have also comes from the major characters - their lack of chemistry in later scenes. It would be more believable if the two actors had shown more genuine emotions for each other. The script, though adequately written, also failed to give them enough space to embody their change of mind states towards the end.Nonetheless, it's a must-see for any classic literature fans. You'll be pleasantly surprised by their different approach to casting and acting, if nothing else. "},{"Title":"Not a good version","Date":"18 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Being a Jane Eyre fan and a bit of a purist as well, this wasn't for me. It is a shame that no one seems to be able to produce a really good film version of this complex story, but this one failed in many ways. The best versions of Jane Eyre are all BBC mini-series Michael Jayston- Sorcha Cusack, Timothy Dalton-Zelah Clarke (the best of the lot) and Toby Stephens-Ruth Wilson. These each had enough running time to do justice to the story, which has many aspects, and all these aspects are needed to explain Jane's character and her relationship with Rochester. The outstanding dialogue of the novel also needs to be included to greater or lesser extent, and all the BBC versions achieve this. This version seemed to leave out the most important exchanges and change all the dialogue - possibly this was Zefirelli's interpretation of the story, but it was frustrating. This version is very European in appearance, even though set in Yorkshire. I didn't warm to Charlotte Gainsbourg unfortunately, and although I am usually a William Hurt fan, he wasn't right for this part. I agree with the person who suggested Alan Rickman - that would be worth seeing, although he is too old now. Rochester needs to look fierce and not very good looking - also needs to be about 37 years old, to Jane's 19. I won't attempt to spell out all the gaps in the plot, or the way that events that were far apart in the novel occurred next to each other in the film. For a viewer who has never seen another version nor read the book, this might be acceptable as a starter, but I would recommend going straight to Timothy Dalton's wonderful portrayal of one of the most charismatic figures in English literature. "},{"Title":"Zeffirelli's adaptation of Jane Eyre; a little disappointing","Date":"5 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I am an avid Bronte fan, so perhaps I expect a little too much from films which attempt to portray this wonderful novel, but I'm afraid I found it a little disappointing. While I realise that the length of a film creates the need to condense a novel, in this case it has truly damaged the nature of the work.Jane is clearly portrayed in the novel as a passionate girl and Rochester as a brooding, yet passionate man. However, within this adaptation this passion is sadly lacking. I'm afraid that the monotonic way in which the characters interact leaches so much of the life out of the work that the result is an empty, hollow shadow of the novel.The story line, too, has been altered, in some cases beyond recognition. No Typhus occurs at Lowood, Miss Temple is just an ordinary teacher, Jayne has her hair cut off, Mrs Fairfax appears to know all about the lunatic and can't decide if to tell Jane, Jane and Rochester's failed wedding, her flight and the fire at Thornfield all bizarrely take place on the same afternoon, Bertha essentially murders Grace Poole and for some reason which I cannot fathom St John Rivers and his sister live in the parish of Mrs Reed of Gateshead, indeed Jane arrives at their doorstep! After only one month in bed she leaves with her fortune from her Uncle intact! No relationship is ever mentioned and they are certainly not described as cousins. St John does not every mention a desire to be a missionary and not once does he seem interested in Jane.Despite this, as a work in its own right, there are some good performances; Anna Paquin is wonderful as a young Jane, full of life and passion and Joséphine Serre is charming as little Adele.Personally, however, I believe that there are other adaptations that more accurately portray the feeling of Charlotte Bronte's work and I would steer all viewers in their direction. "},{"Title":"Why such negative comments?","Date":"25 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't understand all these negative comments. This is obviously a Franco Zefferelli film with all of his famous and highly sensitive and artistic touches. Every scene is a masterpiece of not only directing but of color and placing. John Hurt gives a masterful performance, one of his best. He playing Rochester went a long way towards me taking the DVD out of the Tucson public library in the first place and so glad I did. Otherwise it could have just been another BBC adaptation. His mastery of the British accent is incredible. The scene with the horse falling on top of him must have had a double but looked so realistic Zefferelli must have had a hand in it. In the 'special' documentary included, you get a different shot of this scene, with camera and prop men in background. Charlotte Gainsbourg is so rightly cast in this. I must have seen at least 3 versions of this Charlotte Bronte book, starting with the MGM one with Joan Fontaine and Orson Welles, but this one tops them all. "},{"Title":"I think they ran out of time.","Date":"24 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The first half of this version was the best I've seen (and I think I've seen every version of Jane Eyre ever made). The development of Jane's childhood and character were exceptional. Then, it was as though someone said Uh oh, this is running too long, and hacked the rest of the story to shreds. The major scenes, when included at all, are glossed over, combined, and put out of order in such a way that they completely change the storyline. There was so little transition or even scene development that it would be difficult for anyone not familiar with the story even to follow. The big disappointment was that the beginning opened so much hope, and then the end dashed it. "},{"Title":"It had the potentials to become the best Jane Eyre movie but it is not...","Date":"17 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Franco Zeffirelli's 1996 version of Jane Eyre had all the workings of becoming the best adaptation of the fabulous novel. Zeffirelli is known for gorgeously lavish films based of the celebrated classics such as Falstaff (1964), La bohème (1965), The Taming of the Shrew (1967), Romeo and Juliet (1968), his most famous and beloved film, one of the best screen romances that made me feel incredibly close to its young doomed lovers, and many more.Zeffirelli's Jane Eyre is the most visually beautiful color adaptation of four I have seen. The color palette for the scenes outside Thornfield Hall is delicate and romantic and creates the right atmosphere for the blooming romance of Mr. Edward Rochester, the Master of the estate and his young employee, pale, thin, almost un-earthy but determined and strong-willed Jane Eyre. Charlotte Gainsbourg, a talented subtle and intelligent actress whom I like in every movie I've seen her made a great Jane. Gainsbourg was surrounded by great supporting cast - Anna Paquin (young Jane), Geraldine Chaplin, Fiona Shaw, and Joan Plowright. Plowright gave the best supporting performance in all Jane Eyre movies as Mrs. Fairfax, a housekeeper of Thornfield Hall and she is one of the reasons to see this movie. Plowright's Mrs. Fairfax is kind, warm woman with sense of humor, intelligence, and understanding of human's nature. She cares about Jane and wishes her happiness but she does not believe that people like Mr. Rochester marry their governesses.Yes, Zeffirelli's film has a lot to admire but sadly there are some major flaws that spoil the film's charm and decreased it to the level of just an average period peace. One of them is miscast of William Hurt. His Rochester reminds more Richard Mason as Charlotte Bronte described him &#150; passionless and blank-eyed. As good as Gainsbourg was, there was no chemistry between her and Hurt. Hurt neither looked nor played right for the part. He was a big disappointment. Another serious problem is the script. Too many important parts were cut out or strangely mixed together, and several scenes in the end of the movie simply did not make much sense. This is a shame &#150; like I've mentioned, the movie had great potentials but did not realize them all. "},{"Title":"A decent adaptation","Date":"8 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Jane Eyre is one of those books that once I pick it up I cannot put it down until I have read it cover to cover. That being said, I really enjoy this film. It may not be the best version, but it certainly does it's best to stay true to the original story. Charlotte Gainesburg looks and portrays a very convincing Jane Eyre, while William Hurt does a good job as a brooding, moody, passionate Rochester. The supporting cast did a very good job enriching this story, making for all the complexities within the world in which this movie lives. I was impressed with the particularly interesting job done with the character of Bertha Mason, which I think is a very difficult role to make much sense of. Especially in this day and age where so much more is understood about mental health, it is hard to pull off the confinement of Bertha without making it look either like either she was just an outright monster or like cruel and unusual punishment of a person driven to madness. You can really understand why Rochester even cared that she was treated well at all, in spite of his anger about the situation.This is a very difficult book to adapt into a movie. I was disappointed (as I have always been in every adaptation I have seen) in the lack of accuracy of what progressed when Jane had left Thornfield, from the not very dramatic goodbye she gives to Mr Rochester to the struggles she had on her own in the cold cruel world to the quiet and happy but unsatisfying life she lived with the Rivers family. I was surprised at how much they skimmed over and watered down the relationship between Jane and St. John Rivers. There is also maybe a little less of Jane's younger life than I would prefer. It would have been interesting to see a little more of the relationship Jane had with her cousins, both as a child and as an adult (although I must say that Anna Paquin did a wonderful job as an intimidating yet sensitive young Jane). But again, to have all of this portrayed as it was in the book may make the movie suffer in terms of pacing.In spite of any omissions and inaccuracies the movie is very beautiful, and the story is pulled off with all the mystery and suspense and drama without making it look like scene out of a cheesy soap-opera. If you're a purist you may grumble a bit, but for those who have never read Jane Eyre this is a very interesting and, for the most part, a fairly accurate representation of what Charlotte Brontë had written. I have enjoyed watching this movie many times. "},{"Title":"Acceptable version of a classic, very watchable but nothing special","Date":"28 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Jane Eyre (Anna Paquin), an orphan, has been living with her aunt by marriage, Mrs. Reed (Fiona Shaw) and her three insufferable cousins. With her uncle also deceased, Jane is constantly ridiculed by everyone in the Reed household. However, because Jane has a strong will and often defends herself admirably, the aunt decides to get rid of the dreadful child one day and sends her to an austere religious boarding school run by a Mr. Brocklehurst. Initially horrified by the scant meals and frequent mistreatment of the students, Jane nevertheless applies herself to her studies and becomes a suitable governess. Upon reaching the age of 18, Jane (Charlotte Gainesbourg) secures a job as a teacher to a young girl named Adelle at a mansion in the English countryside. The housekeeper, Mrs. Fairfax (Joan Plowright) welcomes her with open arms and so does the little lady. The master of the home, Mr. Rochester (William Hurt) does not appear until some weeks later, however, as he travels quite frequently. Yet, upon meeting the rather plain Jane, he is struck by her wit and her lively mind. They form what looks like a budding friendship. However, the large house has some quarters which Jane is never allowed to enter, where a mysterious lady named Grace abides. One night, it appears someone in the mansion sets Mr. Rochester's bedroom on fire, with Jane coming to his rescue. Although it obvious that this incident draws the couple even closer, something in Mr. Rochester's past intrudes on any happiness. Will they declare their love for each other? For those who loved the book, and most ladies everywhere DO, this is an acceptable film version of the classic story. True, Hurt does not really fit the physical description of Mr. Rochester (do catch the Orson Welles version) but he is such a capable actor that he really does a fine job as the man with a big secret. Gainesbourgh, too, does a nice turn as Jane and her non-glamorous looks are just what Charlotte Bronte dictated. Then, too, Paquin is marvelous as the young Jane, with Plowright, Geraldine Chaplin, Shaw, and others adding greatly to the film's presentation. Scenery is lovely, natch, while the costumes and sets have the authentic look of an earlier age. In short, if you love romance, mystery, period pieces, and non-objectionable film making, here is the film for one of those quiet nights at home, teacup in hand. "},{"Title":"Love it?!","Date":"2 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" My movie review is on Jane Eyre (1996). Which was directed by Franco Zeffirelli. First of all, I like the settings of this movie. The buildings are huge and old; the fields are beautiful and the clothes are delicate. The color and sound is fine. I don't like the actress of Jane Eyre very much. She is a little bit listless. She makes me feel she didn't get enough sleep. The movie is too short; especially the part of Jane's parting from Mr. Rochester. I think that part is an important part because Jane was in great pain and sad during that time. She loved Mr. Rochester so much but she had to love, she didn't want to break the low. The movie should show Jane's trouble. However, it is still a beautiful, lovely movie and I enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"Because of Amanda","Date":"9 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well,I remember i saw the film version of jane eyre with ciaran hinds,some time ago...it was wonderful! now i am buying every film I get about Amanda Root and although she has no major role in it ( but for sure important for jane ),she makes your heart jump! I was honestly surprised to see william hurt as rochester!he did a good job i think and also ms gainsbourg! joan plowright is simply delicious!!! and i find it very funny that many well known actors are doing a film ,despite their smal role,just to work with franco zeffirelli!! enjoy! "}{"Title":"Caught on TV by happy accident","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A very charming adaption of the classic book. Beautifully shot (if you're familiar with Franco Zeffirelli's Romeo & Juliet, you'll have a good idea of the look of this film. Simple, dark in places, whimsical and beautiful in others. Look out for a great shot of the house framed by the fantastic colours of the autumnal woodland of the surrounding area. That is Zeffirelli at his best.) William Hurt is simply perfect as Mr Rochester, (and actually extremely sexy in a slightly strange way..) Both Anna Paquin and Charlotte Gainsbourg turn in great performances as the young and slightly older Jane respectively. The film overall is quite heartwrenching (actually more so than I remember the book being) and very elegant in style. The cinematography is very complimentary to the tale. The only complaint I might have is how quickly it ends. It seemed to wrap up quite suddenly in the space of about 5 minutes at the end. What happened there? Budget run out? (Either that or the editor wanted to get home early..)Overall though, a very good film. Kudos to Franco Zeffirelli and William Hurt particularly. "},{"Title":"Must see again and again!","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is a breath of fresh air. I have watched it over and over and will watch it again. The girl who plays Jane Eyre is wonderful. She is exactly who William Hurt needed by his side. Wonderful story and even better adaptation. I haven't seen the older versions yet, I hope they are as good. "},{"Title":"Not the Jane Eyre you know and love...","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  As someone who loves the book, I rented this movie last night to compare it to the story and to the BBC version with Timothy Dalton (which is about as close as you can get without actually reading the book.)  And, although the William Hurt version is lovely, the director took way too many liberties for the sake of artistic license.  If you've read the book you'll find yourself saying it isn't supposed to happen that way again and again.  I started counting how many differences there were and I came up with about 20.  I would suggest renting the BBC version first (4 hours but totally worth it) and then renting this one to get a different spin on the story.  (Or save yourself $3 and forget about this one and watch the BBC one again!)  After you see the BBC version you'll realize that nobody, but NOBODY can portray Mr. Rochester better than Timothy Dalton. In short, I've seen about 4 different versions of Jane Eyre searching for the best one and, folks, this isn't it.  "},{"Title":"a refreshing adaptation","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  As a fan of Charlotte Bronte's novel of the same title, I was at first leary of yet another soupy melodramatic interpretation of _Jane Eyre_.  I was pleasantly surprised to see a version closer to what I imagine the author intended. Jane is indeed plain, and through her plainness shows her beauty. The only thing overdone in the movie is perhaps the soundtrack, which at sometimes is a bit excessive in trying to create drama.A must see, overall! "},{"Title":"Not the book -- but very good movie.","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Having read the book for my Literature class, I felt I needed something to give me a good picture as to what in the heck the author was talking about! Some of the stuff in the book was so hard to follow, I knew I was going to have to watch the movie.Trust me, it is not the book. Although the beginning does follow very close to the storyline, going to Lowood and all. But, once we get to Thornfield Hall, things start to change. Instead of delivering a letter to town on (I believe) a close to winter evening, Jane is instead taking a walk on a foggy, autumn (It looked like autumn) day when she meets Mr. Rochester. And, we never got to see Mr. Rochester dress up as a gypsy, which was a really cool part in the book. Then, Jane leaves Mr. Rochester in the middle of the day, and he chases after her. But in the book, she leaves at night, while Mr. Rochester is asleep.Mr. St. John Rivers' character was downplayed into the parson of her aunt's old place. They downplayed a lot of that storyline in the movie. Then, at the end, Mr. Rochester is at the burnt-down Thornfield Hall instead of at his other place.Overall, I thought that the acting was very good. Everything else was okay. I already knew what was going to happen at the end, so it's not like I cried or anything. Though, if you haven't seen it, I guess it could be a tear-jerker, but whatever. Just see it, and you'll know what I mean. "},{"Title":"Very disappointing. It wrecks a wonderful classic.","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I absolutely loved the novel but I was so disappointed to watch this film. It missed out so important points of the story and distorted the plot. My two favorite moments in the book are when Mr Rochester argues with Adele about spending time with Jane and then when he sits outside Jane's room after she finds out about Bertha and these moments are cut out of the film. Charlotte Gainsbourg looks the part but she fails portrays Jane very well at all, I didn't believe she was in love and William Hurt isn't angry or temperamental enough in his portrayal of Rochester. I was very angry that the amount of pages Charlotte Bronte dedicated to telling about Jane's life with St John Rivers and Mary and Diana was not brought into consideration at all. "},{"Title":"How could they ruin this wonderful story??","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Jane Eyre is my absolute favorite book, so I looked forward to seeing this movie the minute I heard it was coming out. I was disappointed to hear that William Hurt would be playing Rochester. I loved Mr. Hurt's work in Broadcast News, The Accidental Tourist, and just about everything else I've seen him in, but he just doesn't fit the character at all. The Mr. Rochester of the book is dark, brooding, not handsome, and above all, British. I guess we can all be grateful that he didn't try to affect an accent, but he was just wrong for the part. There was absolutely no chemistry between Ms. Gainsbourg and Mr. Hurt. I even rented this movie again to see if it was any better the second viewing, but no, it was still a horrible adaptation.Amanda Root was marvelous as Miss Temple, but she was unable to save this movie. I am amazed that someone such as Mr. Zeferelli could ruin such a good story.Those who want to see a good representation of the book should rent the 1983 version with Timothy Dalton and Zelah Clarke (it's now on DVD!). It was made on a shoestring budget, but it follows the story and the performances were true to the book. "},{"Title":"The version to watch","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The 1944 film was bad, the 1983 BBC version is good but long, and here everything is right.  Hurt and Gainsbourg are the right ages, and most of the important elements of the novel are hit upon very entertainingly.  The big budget shows, jand I did not feel the climax was hurried like other critics seem to think.  I give this a 9, Zeffirelli is a god of the camera and script. "},{"Title":"Terrific film","Date":"9 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I hadn't read the novel or seen any of the other film adaptations before I saw this one. I was very impressed. All the subtle emotions were portrayed wonderfully by the minimalist style of the actress who played the titular character. I don't think I've seen any of her other work. William Hurt, as the tormented 'bachelor,' was superb as one would expect of an actor of his calibre. The child actors were very convincing as well. The rest of the cast was excellent too, especially Elle MacPherson in a small role. The story was very moving and engaging and said much about redemption through perseverance. A Christian ethic could be felt throughout. Highly recommended, 8/10.  "},{"Title":"The beauty of subtle emotions shouldn't be underestimated!","Date":"24 October 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film was a true beauty. Many people here seem to give this film a low rating because they think the book was better (or even because it was different). I think the book shouldn't influence the opinion about the film, because book and film are completely different media. For me this was easy because I haven't read the book ).People commented that Jane wasn't as lively as in the book, but in the film this fitted perfectly! Her unhappy childhood made her a truly remarkable, intelligent, yet very sad young woman. She has very intense emotions (mostly sadness and melancholy) but you see it mostly in her eyes, not in her behaviour or in her words. The film doesn't become a fluffy lovestory where the characters speak freely about their emotions, but instead a psychological drama with deep and subtle emotions.The acting was brilliant and I felt every character come to life on the screen. Furthermore the setting with the the castles, the landscape, and the England mist gave this beautiful film something that no book can offer. "}{"Title":"Exquisitely photographed, but rather rushed and dull","Date":"14 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" For starters I adore the book. It is so beautiful with wonderful characters and a great passionate story. This version isn't absolutely awful, but I would be lying if it is the best version, because it isn't.Starting with the redeeming qualities, it is exquisite to watch. The scenery is breathtaking, the cinematography is exquisite and the costumes are beautiful. The score is also excellent, and I liked the scenes in the orphanage. In terms of casting, Anna Paquin is an excellent young Jane, while Charlotte Gainsbourg is quite spirited and fiery. Fiona Shaw, Joan Plowright and Geraldine Chaplin also acquit themselves very well in their respective roles.However, I did feel that the passion of the book was lost here. Why do I think this? Well, firstly there are scenes that do feel very glossed over, while the final twenty minutes are very condensed and rushed. Then the relationship between Jane and Rochester came across as rather passionless and a little dull I think too. The script is lacking too, and Zeffirelli's direction does have its flat spots, and I don't think it helped that the film is too short. While the cast was in general good, I do agree there were some disappointments. Billie Whitelaw's Grace Poole lacks that extra touch of subtlety, while Elle MacPherson was somewhat unlikeable as Blanche, doesn't help her character is like that here. But I do have to concur that the biggest disappointment was William Hurt. Yes his interpretation was more subdued compared to the more boisterious(and more passionate) portrayal given by George C.Scott, but in the process he comes across as wooden and dull.Overall, disappointing. It is ideal for beginners of the book, but for fans it is not so. In fact I couldn't help thinking it would have been better as a mini-series. 5/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"the Italian version is more complete","Date":"13 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" William Hurt is my preferred Rochester, even with blue eyes and red hair. I saw many DVD of his and he was always wonderful. I cannot understand who wrote his biography. I have the Italian version of Jane Eyre and I have also the Spanish-English one. The Italian version is a little longer and there are some scenes missing in the Spanish-English one. Jane running away from Thornfield arrives again to her aunt's town. There she faints and Mary (Saint John River's sister) take her to River's home. During Jane's illness, a lawyer reaches the house with the new of her heredity from Madeira uncle. There is a nice scene with Jane examining the portrait of her uncle and her father and reading the letter her father sent him to announce her birth. After she has refused St John River's proposal, she looks out of the windows and hears Rochester's voice. I'm not able to send the missing clip to you tube. I'm too old for it!!! Sorry for any mistake! "},{"Title":"Good, until Mr. Rochester fell into the picture","Date":"28 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When I first put this disc into my DVD player, I was hopeful. I had just watched a portion of the Dalton (1983) version which had dated cinematography issues, and this looked like an improvement. And for the first half hour, at least, it was. I was happy. The scenery was beautiful, the actors were well cast. The movie was going swimmingly. Then the thing they called my Edward fell off his horse (in an amusing, though unintended way) I took one look at him, and became so horrified that I took the disc out. (and perhaps threw something at the TV) Seriously, that guy looked like the village drunk. Yes, Rochester is supposed to be unattractive and older, but he is not downright repulsive. ICH! He does not carry the look of 'native pith and genuine power' characteristic of Edward (unlike Toby Stephens, who, although looking nothing like Edward from the novel, plays his character well.) and is horribly miscast. Without a well cast Edward, the story is devastated. Not to mention that the perfection of Jane Eyre cannot be contained in a 2 hr. movie. I recommend that you skip this version, and watch the Masterpiece Theater version instead for a Rochester that actually 'feels' like the character. Or the 1983 Dalton version for a Rochester that says much more of the dialogue from the book. (though not acting like him, IMO) Or better yet, read the book. It is far superior to any adaption. "},{"Title":"A film I love and revisit again and again!","Date":"16 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is simply beautiful, the story line so engages me that neither phones nor doorbells distract me! The script is terse, emotions are not wasted. Jane radiates light and intensity of character. The music of a beautiful language, the voice of Emily Bronte's Jane Eyre is captured here in a visual and acoustic painting of a film; each and every brush stroke of the Director is masterful. I hope other people get as much pleasure viewing this film. Willim Hurt's portrayal of Rochester is of a man unhappy with his lot, a man of few words and serious by nature. Hurt's performance engages us while by contrast Charlot Gainsborough's Jane carries us forward to a most romantic and even believable dramatic and tender climax. "},{"Title":"Joan Plowright is the best!","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I read the book and afterwards I saw this film and yes it was a good film and equal to the book. Zefferilli did his best, because it isn't always so easy to make a film based on a book. This is the best version of Jane Eyre.The widow of Laurence Olivier, Mrs. Plowright was very kind in her role of Mrs. Fairfax. She has made several Zefferilli films like Tea with Mussolini & the upcoming Callas Forever. Also Charlotte Gainsbourg  did a great job, she gives the most realistic of Jane. Only one disappointment, Elle MacPherson, she may be a great model and is very beautiful, she didn't act well in this film. Her part was not good, maybe we can see it was awful. But she did better in The Edge...A very good film with very good moments, sometimes it is boring but that isn't an excuse to say that the film is bad.Rating 8/10 "},{"Title":"Horrid","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The three stars I did give this move were for Charolette Gainsbourg's performance, which was really good. It absolutely killed me that the gypsy scene was left out, as well as Jane's dream about her veil being destroyed. I thought those to be two of the most important points in the film which would have allowed viewers to really see Mr. Rochester's raw feelings for Jane. Without them its nearly impossible to understand how much he cares for her. Other modifications in the movie are understandable to an extent, but those were particular problems for me.  "},{"Title":"A good if not great film.","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Gainsbourg has the right look as the grown-up Jane Eyre, and for the most part, I liked her performance if a bit stiff. Hurt was okay but I do think they could have cast it better.  Anna Paquin and Joan Plowright were, as always, marvellous. Scenery and music a plus (although in places the music volume was a bit too intrusive). I grew up watching (over and over again) Joan Fontaine as Jane Eyre, and after reading the book, I felt that Fontaine, even though they played down her look, was far too lovely to play the part. I thought Orson Welles was perfect in the role.BTW, the young Miss Eyre was played by Peggy Ann Garner in the 1944 version (good but I think Anna Paquin was equally as good if not better), not Liz Taylor. Miss Taylor played Helen Burns in the 1944 version.I have not seen the Timothy Dalton version, but will be renting it soon as I love all the stories by the Brontes.Anyway, I'd give this telling of Jane Eyre a 7. "},{"Title":"I loved this movie!!!!","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really loved this adaptation of Jane Eyre. I think that if you are into romantic period movies, you have to see it.For those critics of this movie, may I remind you that Siskel and Ebert gave this movie two thumbs up. This movie did leave out certain scenes from the book but William Hurt gave a excellent performance as Mr. Rochester. He brought an air of melancholy and kindness to the role which I have longed to see in Rochester. Joan Plowright, Charlotte Gainsbourgh, Amanda Root and Anna Paquin likewise gave superb performances. "},{"Title":"This is a good movie.","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is quite a romantic movie.  Unless you like period piece romance movies I would not suggest this one though.  Quite good performances by all the actors.  Most by the woman who plays the grown up Jane Eyre.   She is very convincing!! "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"14 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When My wife and I saw the credits to Franco Zeffirelli and Hugh Whitemore, we were eager with anticipation. Zeffirelli has given us some incredible version of some of the Shakespeare plays and Whitemore created one of my favorite films, Stevie. We were a bit nervous about the prospect of watching William Hurt play Rochester but, having enjoyed his Children of a Lesser God and Broadcast News, we were hopeful.Oh, well. There are actors who can deliver wonderfully expressive, understated performances - Amanda Burton and Colin Firth come to mind - and others who are simply wooden, as William Hurt is in this film.The early scenes were well done and promised much. John Wood, Geraldine Chaplin, and Amanda Root were marvelous at the Lowood Three, although Anna Paquin was disappointing as the young Jane. We never believed we were watching a real person but, rather, a young actor in over her head and/or poorly directed.Charlotte Gainsbourg is simply marvelous at the adult Jane. She is eminently believable as someone able to survive her childhood thru strength of personality and character. Joan Plowright is great fun to watch, as always, as Mrs Fairfax, a performance that calls to mind her equally wonderful job in Enchanted April. As other reviewers have noted, there were many fine performances by the supporting cast, excepting only Elle MacPherson. Gawd. Billie Whitelaw and Josephine Serre were particularly good.The final scenes did not live up to the promise of earlier parts of the movie. Hurt's performance was a major problem, but so to was some obvious haste in getting thru the story in under two hours. It can be done, as evidenced by the George C. Scott/Susannah York version. "}{"Title":"Woof!","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yeah, you know, Jane Eyre is supposed to be PLAIN, but not an unfeeling stone statue.  Had she been perchance a little more enthused, this movie might not have been so painful to watch.  I really liked the book, and I understand how important it was for her to be portrayed as plain, but this woman took it to a new extreme.  I gave this movie a 3, because, hey, at least it was better than Picnic at Hanging Rock. "},{"Title":"Bronte fans, watch this movie!","Date":"10 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This wonderfully cast romantic drama was as exciting and heart-wrenching as the original Bronte novel. If you loved the book, watch this version of the movie. The French actress, Charlotte Gainsbourg--cast as Jane, is absolutely perfect, & her younger self is played by the amazingly talented Anna Paquin (in one of her earliest roles). Cinematography in the film is amazing, as is the direction, by Franco Zeffirelli. Hugh Whitemore's screenplay captures much of the symbolism that those familiar with the novel will appreciate. Many of the performances by the younger cast are also remarkable, such as Leanne Rowe's emotional portrayal of Jane's childhood friend Helen. "},{"Title":"Why bother?","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ... remaking a movie that has already been done so well as the Welles/Fontaine version of 1944? What was the point? This time around, they managed to drain it of all passion. The characters speak their lines with scarcely more emotion than zombies. What a dreary movie. "},{"Title":"Awful, bloody awful!","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I hated this movie. Hated it. First, this is not a story about a young girl who falls for an older man with a dark past. Jane Eyre is a story about a woman who perseveres through adversity, who wants only to make the choice that is right and noble even if it denies her what she wants. But I'm sure to appeal to the masses they went the route of the tragic love story and nothing else. Unfortunately, they didn't even portray that well!! None of the true heartache was represented, major events and major characters were omitted and/or combined and tossed in haphazardly and most disappointing was the casting of Jane. Jane should be plain but beautiful through her character. Charlotte Gainsbourg was distractingly unattractive with an underbite so severe that instead of gazing into Mr. Rochester's eyes with demurity and passion, she stared at him with her mouth hanging open to which you half expected to see drool fall off of her lips! The character of Bertha was also a major disappointment and by the time she was introduced I had already begun to wonder if the director of this film had even read the book! My advice is do not waste your time on this version. The best thing about it is the casting of William Hurt as Mr. Rochester and Elle McPherson as Blanche Ingram. Everything else was useless. "},{"Title":"Not ideal, but so sweet and warm!","Date":"10 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" So many people criticize this later version of the film that it makes me sad. Me and my wife love this screen adaptation so much, we like Anna Paquin and we do enjoy the wonderful feeling of this film - it gives you peace, gentleness and calmness. The fact is that the shorter version does omit some moments but this is not fatal. All that must be in the novel is present here as well - smart and vivid young Jane, her dear sick friend Burns (the scenes with dying Burns are the most heart aching in the film), excellently depicted Miss Fairfax, very sad and acidic Mr. Rochester, and on top of all that, the twisted and unstable relations between him and mature Miss Eyre. And what a pleasure to watch sweet child Adelle with all her youthful energy and joy! Another huge plus is Elle MacPherson as Miss Blanche - she is so cold, so haughty and so arrogant that it is impossible to imagine another one on her place. No, the film is very good, it never tires us, and this is another exquisite pleasure to see all that magic nature there and feel a bit of an Englishperson... "},{"Title":"Does not hold up.","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Really, I was quite eager to see this adaptation. I'm very fond of the book. And I was very impressed when I saw the b&w 1944 version with the incomparable Orson Welles as Mr. Rochester. Sadly, this version does not hold up to either the book or the 1944 film. This version is poorly paced, shakily adapted, and manages to fail to hit both the tension of the mystery of Thornfield, and the joy of the ending. In fact, the last 15 minutes or so of this version was so poor, I was embarrassed to be subjecting my partner to this he'd learned to love Austen, yet this would surely sour him on Bronte. Zeffirelli must have phoned in his direction. Neither Hurt nor Gainsborough were engaging. I spent much of the film trying to remember where I knew Joan Plowright from (her hilarious role in I Love You To Death) instead of feeling involved in the tale unfolding. Save yourself the disappointment and rent the 1944 version. "},{"Title":"William Hurt Is Perfect As Rochester","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Since I saw this film I have gone on a mad foray into Brontedom and come up with incredible facts.  Charlotte Bronte, for example did lose not one but two sisters to the rigid upbringing encountered at Lowood School.  While still at home, she did, in fact look down from her window onto a graveyard of Gothic design.  I ate this film up like ice cream...as will any person whose childhood was dominated by those less charitable, and perhaps by anyone who has a slightly otherworldly sensibility.  And as for William Hurt, he couldn't have been better cast.  His off-kilter sense of humor is perfect for the attractive and inscrutable Mr. Rochester.  Ms. Gainsbourg is also well chosen.  Her innate sense of dignity and her fierce intelligence carry her easily through this difficult role.   "},{"Title":"An adaptation of Charlotte Bronte's novel","Date":"23 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When I first saw this movie I was deeply disappointed. Where is Mr. Rochester's raven black hair?And his large dark glittering eyes, his passion? I thought the whole thing was terrible. But after seeing another adaptation of this novel, the one with Orson Welles in the role of Rochester, my opinion changed drastically.This 96 version is for now the best one I've seen, so I cannot complain. Though I don't know where they found the actors (they are completely different as they are described in the book), it is still worth seeing. Until I see the 83 miniseries, I'll stick with this movie. But I still hope I'll find something better.Good luck! "},{"Title":"I have seen 3 adaptations of the story","Date":"25 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Jane Eyre 1996 is the last of the 3 I have seen and I wondered at times if it was the same story. The characters and choice of leading characters Jane though Excellent acting not quite as I expected and Mr Rochester rather too mundane and good looking to convince me that he possessed the character traits of Mr Rochester that made the character what he is all about. No passion, no fury and no jealousy just a man reading lines from a page. He was hollow. The version of Jane Eyre with Ciaran Hinds and Samantha Morton far outshines the 1996 version by miles. They brought the nuances of the book and the characters to life. Granted you cannot put all the details of any book into a movie of it but that was the best to date. The 1996 version was a shadow in comparison. Thankyou, I am a Jane Eyre fan and my opinion. "},{"Title":"Enthralling.......","Date":"22 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I was home alone, not feeling too well, when I came across this movie on the IFC Channel (Independent Film Channel). It grabbed a hold of me and would not let me go. I had seen it years before and all I could remember was he was getting married, but was already married to someone else, and the someone else set the house on fire.....I've been searching ever since. Thank God for IFC. I was supposed to be doing my schoolwork (I'm a homeschooled High School Sophomore), taking a shower, getting ready to go to church that night, but I couldn't leave this movie. William Hurt was amazing. I've never been a big fan of his but him as Edward Rochester was fabulous. I had never seen Charlotte Gainsbourg before, but she completely embodied the role of Jane. Joan Plowright is one of my favorite actresses and I adored her in this role. I was shocked to no end from seeing Gereldine Chaplin as the mean teacher at the beginning. I love Gereldine Chaplin! I am a writer, soon-to-be published, and this movie gave me enough inspiration to start a novel. Now I need to read the book.Jane Eyre, 5 Stars. 2 thumbs up! "}{"Title":"A fine, uncompromising retelling of a classic gothic romance.","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jane Eyre (1996) does a good job of telling Bronte's oft told tale. The film's two central characters avoid the usual inclinations toward schmaltz and melodrama which romantic films often use to capitalize on the market potential of the mindless masses. Instead, Eyre is rigid and unemotional while Rochester is anything but urbane and most of the romance is understood as opposed to demonstrated. Those who appreciate such fidelity to the period will likely appreciate this version of Jane Eyre. The film is well shot, costumed, cast, scripted, and acted thought it does lurch through time periodically. Not a chick flick but an earnest retelling of a wonderful old gothic tale. "},{"Title":"Pitifully uninspired","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  After more or less acceptable versions of Hamlet and Othello, as well as various incursions into the operistic world of Verdi and Bizet, not to mention of course a Romeo and Juliet of about 30 years ago, it was to be hoped that a Zefirelli version of Jane Eyre could well offer an interesting film. However, the truth is that William Hurt was totally miscast and never got anywhere near being Rochester, and as for Charlotte Gainsborough's attempt at being Jane Eyre, it might have been better if she had taken a holiday. No chemistry. Even the music from a plagiaristic Italian did nothing to help anybody or anything. The only good point was some of the photographic scenes of Yorkshire countryside, which was about the only genuine thing in the whole film. As for sudden change of horse in the middle of one scene - quite possibly the animal in question just could not stand the thought of being humilliated - as well as other tremendous gaffs and spoofs, and the total misconception of the novel itself, I can only suggest that you forget it and try the BBC version of around the mid eighties. The result is a film which is pathetic at best. Lamentable. "},{"Title":"The best film version of Jane Eyre, but still only so-so.","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is not bad, but it is not good either. The one thing that saves this film is the excellent performance by Charlotte Gainsbourg as the adult Jane. Gainsbourg is totally convincing and 'feels' right for the role. Some of the other acting is of a  much lower quality, I was particularly disappointed by Anna Paquin, who after giving such a great performance in The Piano is disappointing as the Young Jane. Elle Macpherson is predictably awful, but her part is so small that it doesn't spoil the film much.In adapting quite a long book for the screen, I suppose something has to give, and as in all adaptations of Jane Eyre, the St. John Rivers section is botched. Despite these criticisms, I did enjoy the film and probably would have done more if I hadn't read the book. "},{"Title":"Yes, she's a plain Jane, FINALLY!","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've heard several critics put this movie down for casting the lead with an excessively plain actress.  These people have evidently never read the book! That's one of the main points!  I could never really buy Susannah York as Jane Eyre, because she's so beautiful.  And Liz Taylor as the youngun? C'mon, give me a break-- was any kid ever more beautiful than she?  Not that Anna Paquin is ugly, mind you, but they hide her subtle beauty well in this version.  As a previous commenter says, by casting a plain person as Jane, Zeferelli has made it possible for the inner beauty to shine through. Bronte would have approved, I feel certain.  And Hurt is great too, as usual. "},{"Title":"Enclosing Houses","Date":"3 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The book is a strange construction. Its all about yearning in impossible circumstances. Rochester and Jane, with barrier after barrier faced.To set things up, there's a long introduction to Jane's character. With modern methods, this bit would probably be unnecessary. Bronte gets away with it by adding in some small side stories and holding the promise of something meaty to come. Its an interesting problem, considering how to wrestle this unwieldy structure into a film that works for a modern viewer. Usually, a filmmaker is constrained by such legacies; he or she has to put every event, every word or enthusiasts of the story who believe themselves to be enthusiasts of the book complain.Zefferelli might be the most interesting adapter because he actually thinks about films and has made some amazing ones both successes and amazing failures. What we have here is some balance. Lots of stuff is jettisoned. Its hard to see (with one exception) what should have been tossed and kept in a different balance. Zefferelli believes that the place has drama, that establishing and dramatizing the place first will provide situational context for the relatively small people that rattle around in it. Its an interesting world, that, and one that rewards because Zefferelli is at root an optimist. So the sets and particularly the exteriors he shows are glorious, even here where he often uses muted colors.You might even like this if you come at the world that way. Its as if the world is so obviously and visually full of structured and deliberate promise that in time it must suffuse even the most vexing structural problem between humans. Its why Zefferelli (a gay agnostic) can make a compelling Jesus movie.But for me there is only one value in this Bronte, and that's in the cutting dialogue between the two almost-lovers. Each superintelligent, each deliberating, and emoting words before the thought &#151; the strategy is complete and thus revealing their inner selves more deeply than if they had encountered a lesser soul.That dialogue is all cut here, a victim of embodying the space.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements. "},{"Title":"A wonderful adaption that could have been even better","Date":"26 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The acting, the costumes, and the scenery are great in this adaption of Jane Eyre.  Charlotte Gainsbourg does a wonderful job as Jane Eyre, a principled and passionate young heroine.  I also enjoyed William Hurt's interpretation of Rochester, although it would have been nice if he had had more lines from the book to say in the movie.  It is the same with Charlotte Gainsbourg as Jane.  The only other things that could have been better was the depth of the screenplay such as the romantic intensity between Rochester and Jane, the length (I wish they had put more parts of the book in this film) and the acting of Anna Paquin as the young Jane.  Although she has some nice moments, she really needed to put much more feeling into certain scenes such as the part where she tells her Aunt Reed off.  All in all this is a wonderful adaption of a timeless masterpiece in literature.  I give it 4 1/2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"great movie...but don't let it stop you from reading the book","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  well, i really enjoyed this movie.  So much so that I had to pause the movie (i'm watching it for the second time in a row right now) to comment on it.i loved the book Jane Eyre.  it truly is a masterpiece, but everyone knows that.  It's really very hard to improve on great books like that, and so I think that movies shouldn't try.  Luckily, this movie didn't change much, but some things were changed alittle.  Joan Plowright,  who played Mrs. fairfax, did an excellent job, as did fiona shaw at mrs. reed.  But I must say I simply loved Charlotte Gainsbourg as jane Eyre.  I thought she was absolutely perfect, and much better than the woman who played opposite orson wells in an earlier verison (see?  she was so boring I can't even remember her name!)  Charlotte Gainsbourg was great.  I also thought William Hurt did a wonderful job also, even though the whole time we were watching my mother was saying that no one can beat orson wells.  well, that may be true, mom, but I'm thinking that every man that plays Mr. Rochester interprets his own character, and orson wells seemed to be much too full of himself when he was playing the part.  William Hurt did very well, and I would have fallen in love with him myself.All in all this is a great movie.  I would like to take the great cinematography and amazing actors, particularly the stars, and put it in a different version, one with a better screenplay.  yet, as far as jane Eyre goes, this is truly a great film, true to the book, and amazing cast. You'll love it.  And if you don't...well, read the book! "},{"Title":"Prefer this from the rest","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Saw this 1996 version three times... I liked it that much. It's just what I imagined it to be when I first read the book when I was 18. Contrary to some reviews of the movie I've read, I thought the casting was excellent. Charlotte Gainsbourg has a very nice speaking voice -- she does not lisp. And.. William Hurt as Rochester reminds me of my English literature teacher when I was 18 -- temperament and all. Sigh!!.. And Joan Plowright is excellent.. some younger actresses should learn from her.   "},{"Title":"Dear God! Why this casting?!","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Because the story is so amazingly beautiful,I didn't have the heart to give it a bad rating but, as another person here has already said, William Hurt should not have been casted as Mr. Rochester. Alan Rickman would have truly done a lovely job. He is very good at being a consistently cheesed of character, while still bringing a tad bit of dry humor to his roles. (Although I'm not so sure he wasn't offered it and turned it down. He does that often with good stories, unfortunately.) Anyway, the story is brilliant, so if you are deciding on which version of 'Jane Eyre' to watch, this is it, however, I would recommend that you read the book. "},{"Title":"Read the book!!","Date":"11 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I finished to read the Brontë's book (in English) some days ago and as I've been so fascinated I decided to watch the latest movie version (unfortunately in Italian as I couldn't find it in original language), full of positive expectations according to the critics I went through. However I was a bit disappointed&#133; I'm aware a film cannot represent the whole book, or it would last six hours at least (!), but I was puzzled to see how much of the book has been cut out and, above all, that the film was so full of inconsistencies. What I sometimes felt is as if some scenes were glued on each other without a logic, everything went on too quickly&#133;SPOILERSome things were completely invented, such as the location of the characters of St John and Mary Rivers, who've been found living in Gateshead in the movie (rather than in their own house in Moor House, plus the other sister Diana has been completely omitted, together with the fact that they were actually Jane's cousins); Jane, who gives half her inheritance to Lowood School rather than dividing it in equal parts with her cousins; Jane finding Rochester in Thornfield with Mrs Fairfax at the end, rather than in Ferndean with the servants John and Mary; the fire at Thornfield doesn't take place the day Jane leaves, but two months after; Rochester stays completely blind for two years and than re-gains his sight in one eye partially; Adèle will not go and live with them, but stays at school&#133; these changing may have been Zeffirelli's choice, but of course not what I expected from the film. I think Zeffirelli hadn't given enough space to some scenes, especially the ones when Rochester proposes to Jane; when she runs away from Thornfield, (in the film she does it suddenly, without a few words spoken between the two of them); the news of the inheritance from her uncle and the proposal from St John to marry him and to leave with him&#133; he should have given them more pathos, more space to the feelings of the characters, especially Jane. END OF SPOILERAll the actors were, however, really good, even the ones who had short parts, like little Jane, I only found Mr Rochester's character a bit too rough and cold, than I felt it was in the book. The settings absolutely gave the idea of the Victorian Age. The film was certainly good, and I found it very moving, but not at all as much as the book which I think is a real 'stream of emotions', incomparable to what you see in the film!! "}{"Title":"My new favorite movie.","Date":"14 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I first saw Jane Eyre tonight on TCM or some channel like that. I'm normally not one for romance, I'm more along the lines of The Patriot or Master and Commander, but this is now one of my favorite movies! It reminds me of Vanity Fair, or rather Vanity Fair reminds me of Jane Eyre, but it is a really well done film! The music is wonderful, which seems familiar...I think they use the same music in Vanity Fair. Jane Eyre is a mixture of romance, drama, and mystery at the same time. I think the entire cast was brilliant and they played their parts well. And the scenery was really beautiful, too! It was a really wonderful film and I can't wait to see it again! "},{"Title":"The Best of the Jane Eyre films.","Date":"6 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have viewed this film several times over the years, and recently again, today, on DVD. I regard it as the best of the Jane Eyre films. It is a wonderful adaptation with superb acting. I loved Charlotte Gainsbourg as Jane, she did a terrific job and I cannot imagine anyone else in the part after seeing her portrayed by Ms. Gainsbourg. William Hurt, while not my favorite actor, did very well as Rochester, and anything with Joan Plowright takes part in is always worth watching. I do feel that the decision to cast Elle Macpherson as Blanch Ingram was somewhat misguided, but still, I believe this to be a wonderful film for the entire family, and it will renew your interest in the Bronte sisters, especially if you view the 'special features'. I highly recommend this film to anyone who loved the novel.  "},{"Title":"It's not Hurt's fault","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Was this, I wondered, at last a worthy film version of the great classic?  I always liked William Hurt, loved his hysterical cameo in I Love You To Death, surely he would bring something remarkable to this film?Well, all started well - wonderful lighting, filming, mood and character with great acting from children and grown ups alike.  I was really into this version, it was so moody and dramatic.  Then William Hurt appeared. Got to say, never since the most clumsy B-movie western action shots of the 50s have I seen anything so inept as his first scene - but it's not Hurt's fault.  Instead of his horse being startled by Jane and throwing him, it passes her by quite happily, proceeds down the road a quarter mile and then inexplicably rides into a rock as Hurt slips unconvincingly off.  Unbelievable.  How could Zefferelli think he could get away with that?Clearly, Hurt has neither the brooding magnetism or that quality of being about to explode which is necessary for Rochester.  Oh for the George C Scott version.  Zefferelli obviously realised this problem as he shoots much of Hurt with his back-to-camera or his face in dark shadow.  Frankly, William Hurt is just too nice for this role.The film rambles on, but never recovers from the appearance of Hurt.  The mad wife is weakest of all, she wouldn't frighten a nervous case who'd run out of valium.Shame "},{"Title":"Faithful interpretation of the book with excellent period feel.","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Very well-done translation of one of literature's most popular romantic novels. Steeped in period feel that appears mostly authentic. Well-above average. "},{"Title":"Good, but too short","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked the actresses who played Jane Eyre.  The older one was suited to the part--just about the right age and not overly pretty.  In some of the other adaptations I've seen the woman who plays Jane is at least in her twenties, sometimes 30s, and she was supposed to be only 19 or 20 in the book. However, some other things are not quite true to the book.  The characters and scenes would be able to be more developed in a longer movie, but it's still a very enjoyable movie.  It's easy to get into and has nice costumes, etc.  The ending didn't seem as happy or long as I had hoped, but it was still good. "},{"Title":"A classic soap well rendered.","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The story, a thin melodrama, continues to please due to this one big surprise (just watch, I won't tell you). And there are these nice landscapes, nasty characters, indifferences masking passion, all surrounding honest, naive, and pure Jane. I haven't noticed thinking good acting, so it must have been good. Enjoy... "},{"Title":"great movie BUT severely hindered by the casting decisions","Date":"19 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I love the book Jane Eyre and have seen just about every film version--some I have seen several times, in fact. When it comes to the pacing, sets and script, this film is about equal to any other version. However, there is a fundamental flaw in the casting of the two central characters. Anna Paquin as Jane appears way too young for the role and her character seems a bit too sterile and cold (not that Jane is supposed to be Ms. Excitement) and it's even harder to believe that Rochester would fall for her. Rochester, played by William Hurt, is adequate for the part, though perhaps a bit too handsome for the role--the Rochester in the book was worldly but a bit darker and more brooding as a character. The Orson Welles, and especially George C. Scott versions of Rochester seemed a little more accurate. This is not to say I disliked Hurt and he has done several WONDERFUL little films over the years.So, my final verdict is that this is an acceptable version of a great book. You won't dislike the movie but it does nothing to make you prefer this over previous incarnations. "}]