[{"Title":"An truely honest portrayal","Date":"22 February 2004","Score":"34 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This is the best film I've seen, not only about the shooting of Andy Warhol by Valerie Solanis, but about the whole factory scene full stop.The film doesn't try to get a message across, it paints a picture of what actually happened. It shows that Valerie Solanis, although intelligent and mistreated, was above all a psychopath and it shows that probably Andy Warhol and definitely the rest of the factory did not really care about Valerie or for that matter, feminism at all.This film does sort of come off for some reason as being pro-feminism, which is a good thing, but it doesn't try to hide the wrong doings of Valerie Solanis.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Intelligent Treatment Of True-Life Attempt On Warhol's Life","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Lili Taylor is astonishingly good as the bright but highly-disturbed woman who tried to kill the celebrated non-artist.  We see the story told in dislocated flashback as the would-be assassin Valerie Solanis is arrested and interviewed after the shooting.  Home movie footage is poignantly interleaved with Valerie's matter-of-fact admissions.Having been abused as a child, and sexually promiscuous before puberty, Solanis developed a strong antipathy towards men during her student years at the University of Maryland.  She financed her degree course by means of prostitution.  The film shows her living rough in New York City between 1966 and 1968, begging, soliciting for sex and performing radical street theatre.She is drawn into the twilight world of Warhol's 'court' of phoneys and hangers-on, a disturbed New York wise-ass who demands recognition but who will never be taken seriously by these Beautiful People.Jared Harris plays Warhol beautifully as the inarticulate, vacuous fraud at the head of a sham 'movement'.  Significantly, Warhol does not get involved in whatever's going on.  A Warhol film is being shot in The Factory, but we learn that Andy won't be around today.  A drug-besotted 'happening' takes place under the Warhol aegis, but Andy stays on the margins, even of the sex - his purpose is to hit on the wealthy voyeurs who turn up at his parties.As Warhol the cynical manipulator grows in media credibility, Solanis is reduced to peddling squalid sex and copies of her manifesto around Greenwich Village.  It is clear that she has been 'dropped' by the court of Queen Drella.  She becomes increasingly embittered, feeling that Warhol is exploiting her writings, and her behaviour deteriorates into violence and incoherence.  When she shows up in the same old rags at the newly-gentrified Factory, we grasp what she can't - that the gulf between her and these parasites with savvy is unbridgeable.Solanis beds a fellow weirdo, and acquires a gun from him. We see their drug-induced disorientation in a sequence of crash-edits, a knowing reference to the pop style of sixties film-making.This is a very shrewd and very watchable film.  It damns Warhol, but is none the worse for that.  "},{"Title":"I Shot Andy Warhol","Date":"25 March 2005","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I Shot Andy Warhol, is based on the true life story of Valerie Solanas, who was a female radical in the 60's and was a lesbian and very against men. She wrote a play and came to New York, with a friend of hers who is a drag queen named Candy Darling to meet Andy Warhol. Valerie, gives Andy Warhol's company (called the factor) her play and soon she comes back and talks to Andy about it and Andy gets her to star in a couple of movies that he directs. Soon, Valerie gets a place and meets a publisher who inspires her to write a novel about her revolution and he plans to publish it. But soon Valerie starts to get paranoid and thinks that Andy Warhol, has to much impact on her life and thinks that he and the book publisher are setting her up so she plans to make herself famous by shooting him. Andy Warhol survived the shooting but died several years later due to complications and Valerie, was sent to a mental hospital and was homeless for quite awhile until she died of pneumonia. Her book SCUM Manifesto, is now published all over the world. Winner of the award for Best Art Direction at The Gijon International Film Festival, The Golden Space Needle Award for Best Actress (Lili Taylor, who plays Valerie Solanas) at The Seattle International Film Festival, The Best Actress Award at The Stockholm Film Festival and the special recognition for Lili Taylor at The Sundance Film Festival. I Shot Andy Warhol, has good direction, a good script, good performances from everybody involved, good original music, good cinematography and good production design. I Shot Andy Warhol, is a fascinating character study and a very interesting film. It shows the many different stages in a time of Valerie's life and it is compelling and played very well by Lili Taylor and all of the other actors. Also being a fan of Andy Warhol, I found the scenes with his factory and underground lifestyles with his films and art to be really interesting as well. This film shows a lot of different lifestyles and gives these characters interesting personalities and gives them good character development. The film is also a good looking film and looks like it probably would have back then. A very entertaining and fascinating look at an interesting person who you might not know of and of someone you do know of. "},{"Title":"The Woman's Version of Peeping Tom","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  If Peeping Tom was directed by a woman, then it would probably resemble Mary Harron's wonderful I Shot Andy Warhol.  Like Peeping Tom, I Shot Andy Warhol is about how misunderstandings between the sexes can lead to violence.  What was so great about I Shot Andy Warhol is how it takes a woman who most people would consider a psychopath and it humanizes her.  We see what drives Valerie Solanas to commit her insane act of shooting Andy Warhol, and we come to understand why she did what she ended up doing.  In other words, I Shot Andy Warhol successfully gets into the head of insanity.  After watching this film, I thought of a poem from Emily Dickinson Much madness is divinest sense. . . to a discerning eye.  Much sense, the starkest madness.  Ascent, and you are sane.  Demure, you're straightaway dangerous, and put into chains.  Now, let's see what Mary Harron does with another story about a psychopath, American Psycho. . . "},{"Title":"The Valerie Solanis Story.","Date":"22 August 2005","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I Shot Andy Warhol (1996) was an interesting movie that I saw on satellite t.v. a few years ago. The movie was about the lesbian neo-feminist and founder of S.C.U.M. Valerie Solanis (Lili Taylor). She's an aspiring writer who's trying to fit in the mid sixties lifestyle of New York City. Valerie lives with her sometimes lover (Martha Plimpton) and co-worker. The two turn tricks, roll certain customers and hang out with a transvestite named Candy Darling (Stephen Dorff). One day Candy suggests to Valerie that she meet with Andy Warhol (Jared Harris). The rest is history. Michael Imperioli co-stars as a very catty Ondine, Tahnee Welch guest stars as Viva and Donovan Leitch appears as Gerald Malanga.If you want to see how Warhol's Factory and it's atmosphere then this is the movie you want to see. Jared Harris was perfect as Andy Warhol and Lili Taylor made Valerie Solanis into a tragic person who's life was filled with madness and heartbreak. I was also impressed with Stephen Dorff, I never knew how great of an actor he has become. This movie is perfect and ideal for those who always wanted to know what happened to Warhol during the late sixties and how his life and attitudes were changed forever.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Worth it just for Lily Taylor's performance","Date":"17 June 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" If you like indie counterculture flicks, this might be right up your alley. It is the story of Valerie Solanas, a radical feminist lesbian in the 60's who writes her revolutionary manifesto that attempts to rid the world of the male species. For someone who is supposedly very intelligent and who studied psychology, she is obviously unable to see this as being completely insane, not to mention impossible. Her hatred for men is text book, sexually abused as a child, forced into prostitution to support herself, that would lead any woman to lesbianism.So, here we have this man hating butch dike played to perfection by Lily Taylor, although since I have never seen Solanas (and I'm sure either had Taylor) I'm not sure if it was true to her, or just Taylor's own wild imaginings of what this woman must have been like. It's similar to Johnny Depp as Hunter S. Thompson, a great performance, but actually quite off the mark as an impersonation of Thompson. But since nobody knows anything about Solanas, Taylor is free to run wild, and run wild she does, as most of commented, completely carrying this film with her intensity and ferocity. If it wasn't for her, this movie would have been a complete bore, since whenever she is not in a scene, I nearly fell asleep, Harron has all these really slow panning shots in red filter that don't show anything of interest. I was kind of intrigued by Solanas philosophy, as bizarre as it was. Much of it was true, sex can be a very solitary experience, especially the kind of sex Solanas has had (rape and prostitution). Men can be governed by their insecurities based on sexual performance and desires (see most political/religious leaders). However what of the female insecurities and desires? THere are plenty and they are just as ugly as the male's. I often wonder if the world would be better off if women ruled it, because I have my own views on what is really driving our consumption based society which is killing the planet. It's the woman as much as the man, perhaps even more so. Women have an insatiable need to consume, hence turning shopping into a hobby, which no man has ever done.Anyway, check this movie out simply for Taylor, she is brilliant and unrestrainted and her tough talking New York chick impersonation will mezmerize you. "},{"Title":"Looks and sounds amazing, but the narrative lags...","Date":"5 April 2006","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Lili Taylor plays Valerie Solanas, an educated loose cannon, guerrilla female activist and self-described 'bull dyke', who was taken into custody in June 1968 after shooting and wounding Andy Warhol at his New York City office/hangout The Factory. Good-looking movie investigates a hazy chapter in history, yet leaves some unanswered questions in its wake (I wasn't aware that apparently an assistant was also shot, though the film makes no attempt to explain what happened to him). However, this small-budgeted film captures a decadently apathetic, coolly indifferent time and place quite vividly, as good as any post-'60s movie has yet managed. Taylor is appropriately forceful and ungainly in her role, which is more complex than one might think, and yet hers is the least interesting or intriguing character on display. Stephen Dorff does a pretty terrific job as transvestite Candy Darling, Tahnee Welch is unrecognizable as Warhol's most famous starlet Viva, and Jared Harris is flawless as Warhol (he nails it). Terrific art direction and composition, but the film lags a bit in the narrative department, with Solanas meeting an anti-bourgeois activist which doesn't come to much and has a facetious, puzzling relationship with publisher Maurice Girodias which seems half-baked. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Better than I thought it would be","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Lili Taylor, as I think I've said here before, is one of my favorite actresses, but I have to admit I was hesitant about seeing this film, especially when a friend told me he found it overrated.  I have a hard time with people who type people in general terms, and this movie seemed, at first, to say All men are scum.  And the opening 15-30 minutes seem to indicate this is just going to be a rant.  However, you do gradually get to empathize with all the people involved, and you do get an idea of how things were at that time.  Taylor and Jared Harris were fine as Valerie Solanas and Andy Warhol, respectively, but the real surprise for me was Stephen Dorff as Candy Darling.  I've never thought much of Dorff, but he really shone through here, refusing to stereotype Candy or inject too much pathos.  "},{"Title":"Three Good Performances Lost","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Stephen Dorff and Lili Taylor and Jared Harris are all great in this film, particularly Dorff. But the film's biggest weakness is that everyone in the movie is so weird you don't really care what happens to them. Only Dorff manages to invest his character with enough humanity and vulnerability that you are actually interested to learn of his ultimate fate. I was kind of surprised to learn that Solanis is held up as some kind of proto-feminist lesbian guru when it is obvious she's only twisted and insane.Imagine if the situation were reversed and Solanis was a man calling for the cutting up of all women and denouncing women as an inferior race. Such a viewpoint would be considered monstrous! Solanis is a crank and a fool, so it's impossible to take her character's world view any more seriously than the guy down by the subway station who mumbles to people who aren't there.The entire Factory scene is rightly exposed as the pretentious, ridiculous collection of sub-mediocre talent it was. So the viewer isn't surprised when Solanis shoots Warhol, as he couldn't say no to anyone around him and surrounded himself with so many weirdos it was inevitable.Would this film have been lauded had it been a biopic of Mark David Chapman? I don't see much difference between Solanis and Chapman frankly...both complete, colossal failures in life who managed to gain notierity through murder or attempted murder.In summary, this was a well-executed take on a rather idiotic topic. I'd rather see the director use her talents to make a movie about people who deserve the effort. Not worthless no-talents like Warhol and Solanis. "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"16 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Lily Taylor was astonishingly good as Valerie in I Shot Andy Warhol. She's a versatile and entertaining actress who certainly does not get enough credit.  Stephen Dorf as a transvestite...  who knew?  But he was also incredibly good.  The entire cast does a fantastic job.  It's a thoroughly enjoyable fictionalized chronicle of the emergence of the SCUM Manifesto and the events leading up to the shooting of Andy Warhol, by Taylor's character a paranoid schizophrenic, man-hating, lesbian.  What could be more entertaining than that? "}{"Title":"thought provoking","Date":"8 October 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Lili Taylor gives a savagely kinetic performance in this representation of a disturbed individual who may just also have been a genius despite, or because of, her treatment at the hands of various men throughout her life.Judging biopics in terms of historical accuracy is for the most part a futile exercise. There is no 'truth', only interpretation, but if you want to get closer to the facts you really should be in the library, not the movie theatre. The story of Valerie Solanas is especially vexing in this case, because were this a work of complete fiction, the script would never have been made. The 'so what?' factor is superseded by the fact that this actually happened, and the legacy of Solanas still divides contemporary feminists.As cinema, the film succeeds through the charisma exuded in Taylor's performance. Her descent into madness is sudden, vicious and uncompromising. The depiction of the shooting, the moment the film has been leading up to, shows a human being divorced absolutely from her conscience. The groovy scene around Warhol's the Factory is both decadent and, viewed from the 21st century, slightly twee. The pastiche of Sixties nostalgia is less foregrounded than Solanas's brutal victimhood. The film begins with a reading of her psychiatric evaluation, where a litany of unpunished crimes inflicted upon this woman by various men is laid out. The female director sets her stall out straight away - what you are hearing now leads through a direct line of cause and effect to the monstrous act you will see committed by Solanas later.If the film has a major flaw, it is the title. Audiences could be mistaken for thinking it is about a documentarian of Warhol's life and work. Solanas and her SCUM manifesto, for better or worse, have made their mark, and perhaps 'Solanas' would have been a more fitting (if less marketable) title. Did it take the shooting for that to be the case? A polemical moment in recent history relayed straightforwardly, this is competent, entertaining, edifying cinema. "},{"Title":"My favorite movie","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I had seen this film before, but I never actually got to write down what I thought about it. I think this is, or is one of my favorite movies. The directing by Mary Harron was so magnificent and brilliant that I cannot put it into words. As the title explains, the film tells the story of Andy Warhol, and the girl who shot him. I, being a major fan of Warhols, absolutely loved this movie. Not just b/c it had to do with Warhol, but the directing, acting, cinematography, writing, music, and editing were some of the best that I've seen. Harris' performance as Warhol was very memorable. He should have won an award for his performance, this whole movie should have won awards. Dorff's performance as Candy was at his best. No one could have played it better. Taylor was as good an actress as Dorff as Valerie. I have to mention once again that the directing by Harron was extraordinary. Wonderful. This is a movie I recommend to everybody.  "},{"Title":"One woman show","Date":"7 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" On 1968, Valerie Solanas (Lili Taylor) shots Andy Warhol (Jared Harris) and turns herself in to the police. Her reason lies in her anti-male Society for Cutting Up Men (SCUM) manifesto. She was molested as a child. She attended University of Maryland from 1954 to 58 where she developed her theory of the superiority of women. She prostituted herself and became a lesbian. Homeless in 1966 NYC, Valerie and friend Stevie (Martha Plimpton) meet transvestite Candy (Stephen Dorff). Candy is invited to Warhol's Factory. Valerie tags along hoping to get Warhol produce her play. Valerie meets avant-garde publisher Maurice Girodias while doing her aggressive panhandling.Lili Taylor is absolutely amazing. However Valerie's aggressively grating character makes it difficult to fully embrace this movie. There is no real tension. The ending is already shown. It's basically an one-woman show. It goes a long way but for me, it doesn't go far enough for greatness. It's one note played over and over again. "},{"Title":"So 1990s","Date":"22 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Based on the true story of Valerie Solanas who was a 60s radical preaching hatred toward men in her Scum manifesto. She wrote a screenplay for a film that she wanted Andy Warhol to produce, but he continued to ignore her. So she shot him. This is Valerie's story.Dr. Dana Heller, professor of English at the Old Dominion University, argues that the film stages the conflict between Solanas and Warhol as less the result of gender politics &#x96; particularly because Solanas intended no connection between her writing and the shooting &#x96; than of the decline of print culture as represented by Solanas and the rise of new non-writing media as embodied by Warhol and the Pop art movement. In the screenplay, Harron and Minahan describe Solanas as banging at an ancient typewriter and the film frequently shows her typing, for which she is mocked by Warhol and other Factory regulars. Solanas' writing is set against the new technologies of reproduction championed by Warhol.The Andy Warhol in this film is nothing compared to the one played by David Bowie in Basquiat. The voice and mannerisms are good, but Bowie just nails it. The film in general is excellent, though, and Lili Taylor was the perfect person for the role. What is she up to these days? It seems like she had a good run in the 1990s, playing off of John Cusack, and then disappeared. "},{"Title":"Lili Taylor at her best","Date":"11 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I know the difference between acting a part and BECOMING a part. Lili Taylor has so thoroughly transformed herself into Valerie Solanis that I forgot she was Lili Taylor! I studied Ms. Solanis a bit after seeing this film and watched her on YouTube. Lili must've studied her too because she nailed this character. Its a true story as well, an observance of a damaged woman with a severe personality disorder. I read in Andy Warhol's biography that he was so repressed that he attracted unstable, outwardly angry people like this to himself all the time. This film is both amusing and fascinating, a true character study. "},{"Title":"Manifest Valerie.","Date":"14 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Good to see Lili Taylor again, she is one of my favorite actresses, even if I've not seen much with her in it lately (it is really time to go see 'The Addiction' and 'Factotum' again, and then some). I've never seen anything with the real Valerie Solanas in it (nor did I know anything about her until I recently saw Zbynek Brynych's 'Die Weibchen', based on the S.C.U.M. Manifesto), but Taylor does a fine performance, as does pretty much everyone else in the cast.I found this to be an interesting film; Solanas is an intriguing person whose personality was uncontrollable, not in the least by herself. It would be easy to discard her as crazy - too easy. She fit right in with the crowd at the time, but her mental issues got the better of her. Had her Manifesto been published straight away and appreciated for the absurd piece of feminist work it has come to be, maybe things could have taken a different turn for her - though I wouldn't dare to feel certain about that, seeing as much of the publicity (probably) came with her attempting to kill Warhol ánd her mental problems may have been too severe anyway...Back to the film, for a minute I really liked it, being a fairly straight-forward telling of Solanas' life, mostly focusing on (about) a few years up until she shot Warhol. The party scene was a bit too long for my taste though and at times her rans felt a little repetitive, but on the other hand, I didn't catch all of it, either. The characters of Stevie, Candy Darling and Warhol are also quite memorable.A big 7 out of 10, and perhaps I'll try this one again sometime, to really take in all the info and rantings. "},{"Title":"Her Fifteen Minutes Of Fame","Date":"11 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" If you shoot someone whom others consider important I suppose some filmmaker will want to make a movie about you. I can think of no other reason why anyone would want to make a film about Valerie Solanas (Lili Taylor), the spunky, chain-smoking, foul-mouthed, self-centered, lesbian feminist who, in the summer of 1968, shot Andy Warhol (Jared Harris). Warhol was a New York City painter/artist ... or something ... and guru of all things avant-garde, who attracted the chic and the trendy to his New York City Factory, the center of counterculture pop art.In the film Solanas, who harbors an enormous grudge against men, comes across initially as assertive and resourceful. She makes a living hustling the streets Pardon me sir, you got 15 cents? Pardon me sir ... On the rooftop of a high-rise she types her S.C.U.M. manifesto, outlining her complaints against the male species.But whereas Solanas is passionate about her cause, Warhol is a study in emotional detachment and indifference. He, and those in his orbit, sees Solanas more as a hanger-on. At one point, Solanas shows Warhol her typed manifesto. Warhol flips through it and responds in a deadpan manner Did you type this yourself? I'm so impressed. You should come type for us. Marvelous.The film's best element is the acting. Lili Taylor is terrific. She really gets into the Solanas persona. Jared Harris also gives a splendid performance. The film's tone teeters between seriousness and tongue-in-cheek humor. Costumes, prod design, music, and lighting are all credible.For modern day feminists, I Shot Andy Warhol probably is required viewing. For others, the film offers a cinematic study into the mindset of a quirky, sincere, but ultimately self-deceptive and delusional young woman who got her fifteen minutes of fame by carrying her political cause a little too far. "},{"Title":"Excellent recreation on film","Date":"24 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Although 'I shot Andy Warhol' might not be everyone's cup of tea, it is a nice, slick film that grabs the viewers' attention right from the start. It is however Lily Taylor's performance that makes the movie. She commands every scene and displays her brilliance as an actress whether she comes off as angry, confused, ignorant or naive. The film flows very well except for the party scene which drags on slightly. The only negative piece to it is that the watchers never learns the fates of all those involved in this crazy time. Otherwise, 'Andy Warhol' is an intriguing drop into the world of one woman's insanity and it's resulting effects. "},{"Title":"Great Movie; but who or what is 'Genius'?","Date":"9 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The movie without doubt was great, but why do they call Andy Warhol a genius, did he invent something or discover something outstanding? I ask this because in our society or the Art world, someone will take simple dog feces from the street, freshly 'produced' and create a design on canvas with it and this person will be labeled for life, a genius! This kind of thing makes me wonder, for I can see people use regular paint that is used on canvas paintings and paint their faces and body with it. How many will also take freshly produced dog feces and paint their faces and body with it?!As for the movie, I only have one question, how is it that this girl walks over to Andy Warhol, fires one shot misses or just wounds Andy, and the other two that were there just do nothing! I mean this is a girl they know, petite and according to the movie, she just stood rigid with the gun pointed to Andy. Then when she fires a shot closer to Andy and he falls, she slowly walks to him, points the gun to his chest and shoots. You think there was no time for two guys to rush her and pin her petite body down and wrestle the gun away? After all, Andy was revered as a genius? What other opinions are there on this? Or did the director of the movie take some liberties to show the frame of her mind when she shot Andy Warhol? "},{"Title":"Indie Period Piece That Strikes Gold","Date":"28 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" An independent gem of a movie that proves once again that give a good actor some well-written dialogue and the support to take a few risks and you can make gold. Lili Taylor, working under the careful stewardship of Mary Hanlon, works hard to give a pitch perfect performance as the brilliant and deeply troubled Solanas. Her intelligence and humor and always evident, but for all her strutting arrogance, she conveys an uncertainty and vulnerability that foreshadows what is ultimately a painful and tragic descent into violence and paranoia.The evocation of the late 60's New York underground, and Warhol's Factory in particular, is brilliant, even more so when you consider the low budget and that Andy Warhol's Estate refused to allow any of the artists work to actually be duplicated for the movie. The pill-popping, light-show gazing, pretentiousness, promiscuity and vacuousness of the scene have not been this well portrayed since Midnight Cowboy.The supporting cast, without exception, are brilliant, inhabiting their characters completely with just a few lines, and the soundtrack perfectly sets the tone and period. While the narrative lags in spots and could have benefited with a little tightening in the editing room, I Shot Andy Warhol is still a wonderful testament to the ambitious possibilities of low-budget, independent film-making. "}{"Title":"Fascinating","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Grittily rendered tale of one oppressed visionary's descent into madness. Absolutely stunning performances by Taylor, Plimpton and Dorff.The art scene is masterfully presented - its decadence only overshadowed by its ultimate emptiness. "},{"Title":"6.5  come on it was riveting","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  when i watched this little gem i couldnt help but think of all the school shootings,  of all the alienated teens that used their adolescent harmones in such a way.  what makes this even more compelling is the fact that the shooter this time is a woman, although maybe its more commonplace now.the acting was so suburb for a directorial debut,  i cant believe her only other movie was american pycho. lili taylor was so great in Household Saints, although the script makes her go a little over the top at the end in this film. "},{"Title":"50/50on the line between art and SCUM","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  ok. i think this movie was intially pretty good. it told of how valerie solanas came to write the SCUM Manifesto and why she shot Andy Warhol, hence the name of the film. The acting was great. I'd have to say that my favorite role for Stephen Dorff would be as Candy Darling in this film. And Jared Harris did a wonderful on being Andy Warhol, however boring it was to watch Andy Warhol on screen. but andy was boring anyway..moving on. Lili Taylor really did bring Valerie to frightening life. Especially in the frequent readings of her SCUM Manifesto through out the movie. I've read the SCUM Manifesto and partially understood it. When i heard Lili read its parts, i think she made it more understandable. But i still feel that something is missing in this movie. Though it was good, it was quite easy to get up, go make a sandwich, give the dog a bath and come back, not feeling as though you missed anything. If and when you came back you see that Valerie was still a hardcore feminist with a weird circle of friends, trying to have her voice heard by turning tricks on a street corner. thats really all this movie is about. valerie's fast journey over the speed bump called fame, then her crash into the tree called insanity. "},{"Title":"Better and Worse...","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  A movie that takes on topics as prone to controversy as the art of Andy Warhol and radical feminism is almost sure to garner itself with with passionate fans and spiteful critics alike. Because it portrays its subject matter with such skill, one's opinion on the film likely says something about one's ideas on those matters, and setting aside these opinions will probably yield a much more moderate take on the film. At least it does for me.Now as a presentation of the events that led to Warhol's shooting, this film was brilliant. Its portrayal of Solanas's  and Warhol's motivations and ideas is done with compassion and clarity; I particularly enjoyed its characterization of Warhol, which, in my opinion, was quite complimentary, contrary to some other opinions expressed on this board. He approaches things with an endearingly childlike innocence, a willingness to accept anything as beautiful... Well, some people might not find that complimentary... Nonetheless, it is his hangers on who come across as cruel and unpleasant. And of course, Lili Taylor plays the idiosyncratic Solanas marvelously.Unfortunately, the focus on the context of the events causes the film to suffer as a narrative. Many of the mood generating scenes, while providing considerable insight into the characters, seem directionless and unsure. This would not be a problem had they been more visually or emotionally compelling, but as it is, they are only occasionally composed as anything other than simple, plot-furthering shots. The result is that the film seems digressive and unfocused, and this digression mars what could have been a fascinating film.In the end, though, this is certainly a film worth watching, if you're willing to pay attention, especially when one of its more striking images comes to the surface. "},{"Title":"Culturally Significant but only Marginally Entertaining","Date":"17 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The story of Valerie Solanas who as the title indicates was responsible for shooting pop artist Andy Warhol. Solanas was a highly intelligent radical feminist but was she also obviously deeply disturbed. The film also functions secondarily as a portrayal of the fringe culture that was attracted to Andy Warhol and his well known open studio The Factory.The film is for the most part a study of a deranged mind and a portrait of self destruction as Valerie spirals out of control. We are informed that Valerie may have been psychologically damaged by abuse from her childhood but that's not dealt with in the scope of the film. Due to the films focus it is difficult to sympathize with Valerie and there is little opportunity to get to know any of the other characters very well, as a result I didn't really connect with the film.As to the positives, Lilli Taylor gives a very compelling performance that while not very appealing or attractive as a human being is a very effective portrayal. The rest of the cast is by and large good though I found some of the performances or perhaps the characters very typically indie as they strove to standout sometimes at the expensive of character development.I also found that the score did not always seem appropriate to the material, it starts off somewhat symphonic and other times it just seemed jarring.Valerie Solanas's opus per se was the Scum Manifesto which spelled out her vision of an all-female society brought about by violent revolution. "},{"Title":"Savagely poetic","Date":"16 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" After seeing a fascinating documentary on Andy Warhol, it has become clear that Marry Harron's I Shot Andy Warhol is a great film. The film is ultimately a criticism of Andy Warhol's (played masterfully by Jared Harris) cold, chic art world where the only things that matter are money and fame. Valerie Solanas (Lili Taylor) wants to build a relationship (a business relationship and, more subtly, a personal relationship) with Andy. When Andy and his factory cohorts break all ties with her, she refuses to let the blood-sucking Andy get the best of her and shoots him. In a savagely poetic twist, she spoons becomes famous. The film is certainly flawed. First of all, while I like the way Harris is seen mainly in medium and long shots, giving him Warhol's lack of attainability, the Harron had to give her film that awful docudrama style (I suppose this is better than filming in that hyped-up, over-the-top style that young filmmakers like David Fincher are into). Secondly, when Harron tries to do something stylistically interesting, she fails. Thirdly, the film needs a better editor; there are many scenes (most involving Candy Darling) that take away from the narrative flow. It seems like nowadays most greatness and sloppiness often come in the same package; the best thing to do is to accept the mixed bag, especially with a film this sharp, smart, and touching. Why ignore greatness when it comes with sloppiness? "},{"Title":"You only get one shot at fame","Date":"12 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I Shot Andy WarholBefore I saw this film, I never knew Lili could be so, loud. Normally, on shows and in other movies she?s very soft spoken in most of the scenes. She portrays a Lesbian writer, Valerie Solanas, who is a man hater. She decides to write a manifesto, and create S.C.U.M., or society for cutting up men. She worked her way through collage by prostitution, and got a degree in psychology. Then she is often homeless, sleeping on ruffs, with her typewriter, and paper bag of things. She even comes up with weird ways of earning money, ten cents any dirty word, six bucks for an hour worth of conversation, and even some chest stepping, odd but true. This is how she meets Maurice Gerodeious. He's major porn publisher who wants her to write him two novels. She declines at first but later goes to dinner, all dolled up, and signs the contract. Then the next day she read the whole contract and sees that she got screwed...(... a rate of six percent for the first 20,000 copies, a rate of six percent for the first 20,000 copies, he wants to own scum....).So she tries to sell the manifesto, telling people it will change their life; she also charges 50 cents for girls, and 1.00 for men. Valerie has also written a play called up your a** about some experiences she has had with the male species. Andy wont produce it, and it gets tossed out, but she specifically told them that she only had one other copy, that she needed that one back. she spends the remainder of the movie trying to get the script back, and develops the obsession. She now believes that Andy and the publisher are trying to steal scum and own it, alone. In order to do what ever she really wants to do, she gets dolled up, again, and goes to the new factory. Here she shoots Warhol and his assistant before running out of bullets, then she tries to shoot the other assistant so she pulls the trigger anyway, only to make noise that it makes, and she goes out the elevator. Valerie walks down the street and sees a police officer, she goes up and tells him the police are looking for her and gives him the gun. I shot Andy Warhol, yeah, I had to he had too much control over my life., as she hands over her gun, out of the paper bag. See a couple of days ago she got the bag and putts all her belongings in it. See I?ve been carrying all my belonging in the bag for a few days now, including the ice pick, which I'd forgotten. is what she says when she is asked why she needs the ice pick. Lili masters this role, as usual, and SHOULD have walked away with that Oscar, she deserved it. Do you know how hard it is to believe you self in to a role the way she does? She has that unknown quality, the thing Judy Garland had, that magic, that nobody can copy. Not in a thousand years. Great movie, you should see it, but its not the greatest for children, they refer to a lot of sexual references, and intercourse.  "},{"Title":"First class study of Obsession and Art.","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I was thoroughly disappointed by Mary Harron's cowardly take on 'American Psycho', particularly because this, her directorial debut, was such an uncompromised and original vision. Lili Taylor gives the performance of her career as the deranged Valerie Solanas, writer, activist, visionary, and would be assassin. 'I Shot Andy Warhol' is first class all the way. The script (by Harron and future writer/director of the savage satire 'Series 7 The Contenders') isn't dumbed down and presents a complex portrait of a complex individual. The attention to period detail is strong, aided by the astute choice of music (Lovin' Spoonful, Blue Cheer, Love, MC5,etc. and Yo La Tengo as a surrogate V.U.), and the acting is uniformly good. Jared Harris ('Nadja', 'Happiness') does a fine Warhol. Steven Dorff shows he is more than just a pretty boy ala Ethan Hawke with a brave turn as transvestite Candy Darling. And the rest of the cast is filled with familiar art house faces - Hal Hartley regular Bill Sage, future Soprano Michael Imperioli, former child star turned character actor Martha Plimpton, 'Pi's Mark Margolis, 'True Romance's Anna Levine, and 'Welcome to the Dollhouse's Eric Mabius, to name a few. 'I Shot Andy Warhol' is to date the best movie made about The Factory scene, and is a stylish, witty, bleak and thought provoking study of Obsession and Art. I hope Mary Harron makes another movie as good as this in the future. "},{"Title":"In a word, terrible.","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Lili Taylor delivered a great performance, but that doesn't save this film. Here's whyIt isn't interesting. It's the millionth formula of a nobody who wants to be a somebody. This time it's the true story of the mentally disabled woman who shot pop artist Andy Warhol. What makes this an important enough topic to make a movie about? What makes Valerie Solanas somone you want to know?I'm sick of seeing movies about the effects of child abuse. The point is not that it's grim, but that it's an overused element in an attempt to make a sympathetic character. I don't even know the true story behind Solanas, but if people say Taylor made a brilliant portrayal than this is not a person I ever wanted to know. The cinematography was pretensiously amateurish, and when the film didn't do a long, uncut shot of people talking then there was gratuitous lesbian bondage or violent prostitution sex scenes. In an attempt to achieve the art house film category, this picture failed miserably.The film is disturbing and bleak, only the viewer doesn't convey the emotions expressed by the characters. No engrossing character study here. "},{"Title":"Chelsea grrl","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Sloe-eyed, slowly reciting her texts in a Damon Runyon wiseacre drawl, hunched forward to suss out what must always be a raw deal--Lili Taylor plays Valerie Solanas as a chimpanzee shrewdly eying a shifty banana salesman. Chimpish, she walks in a loping hunch; the just-arrested Valerie's take when a tabloid hack asks, Valerie! Do you have a boyfriend?--well, it's priceless. Solanas, an impassioned political rhetorician and aspiring playwright, shot Warhol because he had too much control over my life--an oft-quoted sign of Valerie's nuttiness that the movie demonstrates was a statement of fact. As it follows Valerie from panhandling to prostitution, to hunching over a manual typewriter with a Henry Miller squint, I SHOT ANDY WARHOL seems to want to have it every which way. Sometimes Valerie is a prophet, seeing the toxins of gender relations more clearly than the world can bear; at other times, she's a nutso pacing back and forth in Warhol's Factory like a dog in a cartoon waiting for the wife to deliver pups. The writer-director Mary Harron seems to want to ape the hands-off, non-explicit mode of Paul Schrader's script for RAGING BULL, but the difference is that Jake LaMotta was a boxer. Valerie was an ideologue. Trying to be evenhanded still produces side-taking, even if by default. But the movie has funny, well-observed moments the climax being a cut from Valerie and her cronies performing her demented play UP YOUR ASS at the counter of an automat, to Warhol and his cronies reading the same inflammatory dialogue on a couch at the Factory. The winning button on the scene Andy digs Valerie's gagwriting.  "}{"Title":"You got to go through a lot of sex to be ready for anti-sex.","Date":"7 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" When I first found this film I wasn't sure whom it was about. I recognized the name from the title, but I was pretty sure that it wasn't all going to be about Andy Warhol. I was perplexed and ready for yet another adventure down the path of our nation's undiscovered history. When I first started watching this movie I knew nothing about Valerie Solanas. She is not in the history books labeled next to Andy Warhol, or is she one that oozes sympathy. Solanas is a trash talking, independent thinker that somehow found herself next to one of the most modern men of our century, Andy Warhol.Lili Taylor helms this unbridled beast Solanas like no actress I have seen before. I honestly felt as if Taylor had transformed herself into this brutal feminist. After the first ten minutes, I didn't even recognize Taylor because she had successfully transformed herself into this insane (?) character who carried this film on her shoulders. Taylor plays this woman who, for reasons unknown, constantly seeks Warhol's attention and approval. When Andy refuses to devote his entire attention to her, her mental stability begins to fail. In hopes to bring her back into the spotlight, and hopefully demonstrate to the world her manifesto, she does what the title of this film suggests. Sadly, this has the opposite effect and she is forced to live with the act that she committed instead of the words that she has written.Taylor was phenomenal in this role. She stole the scene from everyone and was never afraid to take Solanas to the next level. Thankfully, she has some help from some amazing back-up stars to only help boost her performance. Jared Harris is superb as Andy (one of the best reincarnations of him) and Stephen Dorff blazes onto the scene as Candy Darling. Oscars should have been handed out for their parts in this film, but unfortunately this was yet another film the Academy ignored.Outside of the acting, director Mary Harron does a fabulous job of setting the scene and building the image of this era. Warhol was a genius, and because of his fame and notoriety he somehow attracted some of the most interesting people in the world. This is one of those stories of a woman that wanted to attach herself to this great man, yet somehow couldn't. Harron directs these actors to show this with perfection. Her brash cinematography and direction seem to blend perfectly in this boiling pot of history. Her mix of documentary and biography genres works well in this film. She commands attention behind the camera, and her actors react with positive responses. This was a gritty story not for everyone's tastes. It was a very true story that is more than just Andy Warhol, but also develops themes of feminism and women's rights. Was Solanas crazy? I don't think so, I just think she was ahead of her time and not afraid to be herself.Grade ***** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Warhol-haters, take heed","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Although this film is overlong and often dull, it's still an intriguing look into a feminist gone way over the edge, who directs her wrath upon one of the most polarized artists of the century (you either love Warhol or you despise him, it seems).  Anyone who truly detested Warhol may enjoy just seeing him get shot... I mean, if you're sadistic.  People who are neutral towards his greatness (like me) or unfamiliar with his work may lose interest in this film; only Lili Taylor's hard-edged performance keeps the somewhat muddled story above water.  And since I've never met anyone who worships the ground Warhol walked on, I can't say as to what those people might think of this film...in its favor, the script is objective towards both Valerie Solanas and Andy. At any rate, I Shot Andy Warhol is worth checking out if you stumble upon it on IFC one night. "},{"Title":"Fairly interesting story about a deranged moron.","Date":"7 February 2007","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I Shot Andy Warhol... And what a loss it would have been, too, to the world of TRUE ART if she had succeeded in murdering him. A giant. A genius. Or maybe just a hyped-up talentless little autistic freak. The movie title could also be misinterpreted to be about one of Andy's many gay lovers. I Shot My Load Right Into Andy Warhol's Apathetic Face.As for Valerie S., this woman clearly could not have had a high level of intelligence, while the opposite has been suggested here, rather groundlessly. And as far as being a genius, as some people consider her to be, she was just as much a genius as Warhol. (Look, Warhol seems to have been a nice guy, but everything he did was pure b******t-orama.) That she was molested by her father I do not accept as a fact, as this excuse has been so over-used in the recent decades to the extent that it has lost all believability - which just serves to harm the real victims.The funniest moment in the film (or rather, the only funny moment) was at the very end in the epilogue; here I am informed that Valerie's manifesto is today considered a feminist classic! Funny that, but I was banking on the fact that it must today be considered as funny (or sad) as any other extreme left-wing or right-wing piece of writing, and is hence dismissed even by ardent feminists as irrelevant ravings of a pathetic lunatic. But, as it turns out, I have once again underestimated the tinniness of a modern feminist's brain. Valerie's manifesto seems to be merely a laughable and hateful series of emotionally-induced hallucinations of one woman's twisted view of the world, based solely on her hatred of men. (And if you see how ugly this dog really looked, you'd partly understand why.) It seems to have been enough for her to learn about the chromosome difference between men and women to start arriving to bizarrely idiotic conclusions. A really intelligent person presents their case with logic and facts, not with silly generalizations and theories that have as much of a scientific basis as the infamous babblings of Hitler's and Stalin's medical and biology scientists, with their ideology-driven b******t research. A highly intelligent person in her place - insane or not - would first ask themselves why they hate men so much. She simply hated them, without analyzing herself. How do I know that? Well, she seems to treat everything else with superficiality; judging from this film - and there are plenty of quotes from her junk writings to form a relatively clear picture of her. Her only way of approaching any idea or concept was to disregard all facts, but instead go full steam ahead with emotion, and emotional thinking is the most essential ingredient in arriving to irrational and absurd conclusions.Ironically, with her unceasing emotionalism and lack of logic she was in fact only giving more support to all the male chauvinists of this world who consider women to be emotional and illogical, while she was trying to prove the opposite - that it is men who are inferior. But whether it's men or women, one thing is for sure the most inferior species of people on this planet are fanatics, radicals and other morons who view the world in black and white terms. And I am not talking about politicians who oversimplify to achieve their goals without actually believing in the ideologies they are selling themselves - I am talking about the real believers, the low-life losers like Valerie S.; pitiful and bitter sods whose intensity of their beliefs should never be mistaken for genius.Perhaps the chauvinists are right; it does seem that women have a surplus of illogicality and emotionalist thinking; after all, it's no coincidence that the late 20th century feminist movement is one that exceeds in stupidity more then any other contemporary movement I can think of - except maybe the Green movement and PETA. But, the again, they are also run by women; there you have it.Anyway... The film is interesting mainly due to Taylor's convincing performance, and the dialog is interesting enough.If you're interested in reading my extensive satire on modern/abstract art, Picasso, contact me by e-mail. "},{"Title":"An Effective True Crime Story","Date":"29 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The number of people who misunderstand the goals of feminism is astonishing. To the kiddos who live by the word of conservatives and close-minded nefarios, the term is synonymous with man-hating, or, a case of female empowerment too supposedly vicious and oppressive for its own good. All feminists want is for the female race to have the same basic rights as men, which is fair, not terrifying. (Another case exemplifying why putting labels on issues can be a dangerous thing.) The meninists of our time, unfortunately, have feminists mixed up with combative revolutionaries akin to, I don't know, Valerie Solanas. Who is Valerie Solanas, you ask? Valerie Jean Solanas (born 1936, died 1988), Wikipedia reads, was an American radical feminist writer best known for the SCUM Manifesto and as the would-be murderer of pop artist Andy Warhol. Solanas despised men, not as people but as society's weak links she figured that men, with their Y chromosomes, were genetic accidents, and that women were meant to rule the world. Not like Beyoncé currently preaches, though Solanas' goal was to completely exterminate the sex, thus ending the possibilities of future generations and setting the female example in stone.If her logic sounds crazy to you, then you, of course, are of sound mind. But don't let her fanatical blueprints undermine your interest in her. Anything written about Solanas, understandably, makes her sound like a lunatic on the move &#x97; that's why 1996's I Shot Andy Warhol is such an impactful film. Sure, she still seems like a lunatic on the move. But unexpected is how fascinating of a woman she is, a staggering example of a highly intelligent force of nature who was so struck down during their formative years that using a high IQ for something rational in adulthood seems too mad of a thought. I Shot Andy Warhol is so much more than a true crime story set to the screen; it's more comparable to a brilliant character study that just so happens to be based on true events. Harron is invested in Solanas but is also attentive toward the people that surround her. We are understanding of Solanas' view of herself and the view from the judgmental eyes of The Factory and beyond &#x97; Harron is so subtly thorough that there are times we forget we aren't actually watching a Candy Darling biopic or a Factory documentary. Every character, compelling or not, is damaged in some way, making the film much more resonant. Solanas' entrance only adds wood to the personal fires of the people she continually harasses; explosive results should have been expected originally.More remarkable is the acting. When it comes to biographical tales, often tiresome is the idea that more attention is given to the fact that hey, _______ _______ is playing ______ ______!, when, in actuality, real figures should have as much depth, if not more, than your average movie character. Astonishing is the way I Shot Andy Warhol makes the situation feel as though it is happening before our very eyes. Solanas is not glorified nor portrayed as a crazy person left to expire in the throes of infamy. Instead, she is a misunderstood genius so unrelentingly cast aside by society that Warhol's emotional standoffishness causes an already unstable person to completely snap. Taylor embodies Solanas so convincingly that the increasing madness of her character does instill fear in us.Supporting players Dorff and Harris also make a huge impression Dorff is terrific as Candy Darling. Never leaning toward caricature-ish body movements or stereotyped predictabilities, he touches deep as a transsexual who made it (kind of) in a time where most were stamped on by culture. Harris turns Warhol into the eccentric we never knew he was, as an artist so hypnotized by the looks, feelings, and auras of others that he never really knew how to be himself. He's polite to Solanas, never turning her down like he should, but is it because he's nice or because she acts as a distraction to his unhealthy habit of consuming himself with the other?I Shot Andy Warhol is gigantically effective; it tells a story coercive even to the most casual of a viewer while also authentically investing in the neuroses of the real figures it brings to the celluloid. "},{"Title":"here's what happens when people take to the underworld","Date":"20 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I had never heard of Valerie Solanas before seeing I Shot Andy Warhol, but the movie does a very good job telling the story. We see Valerie as a misunderstood - but strong-willed - person disenchanted with the world around her. Lili Taylor does a really good job showing what sort of person Solanas was. The movie doesn't try to deify Solanas in any way, it shows what kind of world she came from, and that she tried to make a new life for herself. Above all, one gets a sense of how weird (and mildly depraved) it must have been in Andy Warhol's world. I recommend the film.Also starring Jared Harris. Director Mary Harron later directed American Psycho. "},{"Title":"A footnote in pop history depicted by a footnote in film history","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  While Lili Taylor's performance is delightfully deranged and the  depiction of the time is flawless, this film lacks any profound  philosophical or visual punch.  Twenty years from now, this film will be largely forgotten, except by the hardcore Taylor fans.  It's her legacy, which should be great, which will give long-term life to this film.  The film itself, while a fine effort, says little to give it long term legs.  "},{"Title":"Good Movie, Bad Subject","Date":"27 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This is a great movie which took me to a lot of exotic destinations such as 1960ies New York, the Factory family and the emerging transgender scene. The movie also does an excellent job of portraying the fragmented life and difficult personality of Valerie Solanas convincingly.My only problem with this movie is this you don't have to be Andy Warhol's biggest fan to think that the fact that Solanas tried to wipe out three people in cold blood (that she only wounded two wasn't for lack of trying) is an at best insufficient reason for turning the lime light on to her. Making a movie about the Factory scene from Valerie Solanas' perspective is like making a movie about the Beatles as seen through the eyes of Mark Chapman. "},{"Title":"Indeed a Scum's  manifesto","Date":"18 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" A movie about Valerie Solanas, 1960s radical feminist who worked with the pop artist Andy Warhol and - you guessed it - tried to kill him. Sewer-mouthed tomboy who works as a whore and hates men and femininity, she writes SCUM manifesto - no, not her biography, albeit the name is apt, but militant feminist ramblings - and tries to do the murderous deed. (No, it is not really a spoiler, it is mentioned in the title.) Albeit suffering later from paranoia and mental illness, which is always a tragedy, her totally disgusting personality makes her anything but sympathetic. Not that other characters would be more interesting or likable. Blech. "},{"Title":"Based on true-life eventswho cares?","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This movie contained enough little things to shock the prudes in the audience. Add a couple of fine acting performances and you still end up with a disturbing piece of 'pop' culture. Lili Taylor plays Valerie Solanas, a wannabe novelist, that tries to garner fame by shooting Andy Warhol.Taylor does a good job portraying a complicated and highly -disturbed woman. Stephen Dorff excelled as the gender bending Candy Darling. Jared Harris duplicated Warhol and his boring personage.Also in the cast are Martha Plimpton and Donovan Leitch. I watched this because it was on the Bravo Network. I didn't gain anything except being reminded that Warhol died later due to complications recovering from Solanas' assassination attempt. "},{"Title":"A distasteful film about a deranged feminist lesbian.","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I must admit to start that I admired Lili Taylor's performance of Valerie Solanas.  She has an energy that would be a plus in any film and shows in this one how good an actress she is. But this film is peopled with characters I wouldn't care to know, much less care about. And the direction by Mary Harron suffers badly from the camera too often slowly rotating about a room showing meaningless scenes of too many people who weren't introduced; I had a hard time sorting out who was who.  I must confess that I didn't pay too much attention to the counter-culture of the 60's, as I was too busy raising a normal family and earning a normal living, and I also never liked Andy Warhol's art or his films.  (I'd rather watch an Andy Hardy movie.)  So perhaps I am slightly biased square. The film somewhat works just to see the mechanism of delusion that overtakes anyone who attempts to kill a famous personality, but most of this comes in the last half hour of this film, and it wasn't worth the wait. "}{"Title":"Fish or Fowl?","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  One of the reasons it's so difficult to evaluate this movie is that it's hard to tell exactly how much of herself Lili Taylor is putting into the role of Valerie Solanas, the author of S.C.U.M. Manifesto and some kind of play called Up Your ***.  I haven't seen much of Taylor's other work, only `The Haunting,' in which she was overwhelmed by banal lines and overbracketed by too much morphing Victorian woodwork and clanging iron.  Here, her performance is outstanding but the part is again limited by the fact that, when you come right down to it, Valerie Solanas is not a particularly likable person, despite occasional flashes of wit, perhaps uninentional on her part, written into the script.  She's self obsessed, narcissistic, really truly paranoid, all engulfing, uninterested in others except insofar as she can use them, grating in every way, and ultimately she does what so many other persons dissatisfied with what God has given them do she shoots somebody famous.  Her psychiatrist tells us that she was born in Atlantic City and was abused as a child.  Well, enough is enough, when it comes to abuse.  We have only the writers' word for that, by way of Valerie's psychiatrist, by way of Valerie, one presumes, without being able to know the actual source of the allegation, let alone its truth.  If anyone claimed that they had had an encounter with a UFO during childhood, they'd be ridiculed.  But all one has to do is make the claim that he or she was abused, and they get sympathy. Sometimes the claim, no matter how tenuous, can even help keep you from being convicted of a murder you admit you committed, as happened in the case of the Menendez brothers.  Everyone seems to claim they were abused as children, from Marilyn Monroe to Roseanne Barre.  Maybe the time has come to get rid of the left-over Freudianism that argues that such a tragic event has life-long consequences and helps us understand why the abusee's life now resembles a fouled anchor.  Do you know what happens in Samoa when a man or an older boy molests a young girl?  The girl's family come over and beat hell out of the man.  Eventually the bruises heal, the incident slips insensibly into the past and is forgotten by all concerned parties, and life gets on with itself.  Valerie is an abrasive person.  But her grating personality serves a purpose. People notice you when you're a pain in the neck, even if you're homely, disorganized, and not especially intellectually distinguished.  It can give you a nice warm glow to have people pay attention.  And if your ranting demands don't succeed, you can always shoot someone well known.  Then you can go immediately to the police and stake your claim before someone else jumps it.  The film contributes to our understanding of how such a mind works, though the producers and writers may not have intended that, but it doesn't add an iota of sympathy to my feelings about Valerie.  I worked as a research scientist around the fringes of the artistic/drug subculture of New York during the late 1960s and met a lot of people whose company I enjoyed, and whom I respected and admired, even losers. I wouldn't have wanted to be in her presence for five minutes.  She did get one thing right, though.  Males may not be `biological accidents,' as Valerie puts it, but at conception we all do start off as females, and we stay that way unless we get a shot of androgens during our embryonic development.  Those of us who do, become males.  So Genesis is wrong ontogenetically, Eve precedes Adam.  But then, so what?  There are entire species of whiptails lizards in the Southwest whose populations consist entirely of parthenogenic females; now if life were only that simple for humans, but of course it's not, and Valerie got that wrong.  Wrong too are the arguments that Valerie was a proto-feminist.  Betty Friedan was way ahead of her, and before Betty Friedan there was the anthropologist M. F. Ashley-Montague, author of a well-regarded book entitled The Natural Superiority of Women. Ashley-Montague's first name was Montague.  As a man, of course, he doesn't get much play in Friedan, let alone The SCUM Manifesto. "},{"Title":"The horror, the horror...","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  The worst movie I have ever seen.  Ever.  If I were forced to watch this movie again(it would take an eye device ala Alex in A Clockwork Orange) I would probably induce vomiting and pray for death.  I don't even know what the worst part of the movie was.  Acting?  Screenplay?  Cinematography? Eh, it all pretty much stunk! "}]