[{"Title":"Beautiful Cinematography","Date":"29 August 2004","Score":"53 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I got sucked into a movie on the satellite dish the other day, 'Fly Away Home.' It's a story about a young motherless girl (Amy) who rescues some wild goose eggs and basically becomes their mother. The story evolves as the goslings grow into young adult birds ready to fly south. Since they never had parents the geese haven't learned to fly. The girl's dad thinks he can get them to fly by following him in his ultra-light. But they will only follow Amy. So dad teaches her to fly. Soon the geese are flying. Next, dad and Amy hatch a plot to fly south and have the geese follow them. We know this actually happened when 2 scientists did something similar. One of the reasons I was sucked into this wonderful family movie was the photography. It is National Geographic quality. In fact I was so impressed with the cinematography that I had to look up who did it Caleb Deschanel. The setting, a farm in Southern Ontario, allowed him to become intimate with the geese and the natural setting. Another reason I couldn't stop watching the movie was the stunning performance by Anna Paquin, the 16-year old girl who played Amy. I remembered her from the movie, 'Piano.' She played Flora, the daughter of Holly Hunter. I'm sure they picked Paquin to do that part because of her speaking ability. Holly Hunter played the part of Ada, a woman who couldn't talk. She communicated with sign language through her daughter. Paquin was so good in her part that she won the Oscar, quite a feat for an 11-year old.The story, 'Fly Away Home' is touching because she's not the kind of Hollywood-trained child actor you find in most movies. A surprising thing happened as I watched Amy and her geese. I could sense a startling serenity from her as the bond had developed between them. I wondered how she could manage that. She was only a 16-year old actress then but she conveyed a mothering instinct that goes back to the ageless beginnings of life on this planet. When the goslings were following her around, much of the photography was from ground level. Later when they were all flying, the photography was right there in the flying formation. You were seeing the birds, in flight, right next to you. The beauty of motion was unbelievable. I thought, 'How could anyone shoot these creatures?' There is beauty in seeing them fly. There is beauty in seeing them in their habitat. But the overwhelming beauty is in their living. They deserved that life. It made me think of this sad planet and the billions of creatures that have died because of the human race. Here was a story that went against the slaughter. When Amy and her birds arrived at their destination in Chesapeake Bay I had misty eyes.So I'm a soft touch.  "},{"Title":"If you like William Bouguereau, you'll love this movie","Date":"12 January 2005","Score":"49 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I don't have much in the way of feelings so usually stick to science.An engineer by trade I used to subscribe to a tecchie aviation magazine. One issue had this incredible story by some kindly if eccentric Canadian folks who had raised a gaggle of baby geese, and you know the rest. Details of aviation aside, the story warmed my heart. Most Unusual.A year or so later I took my kids to see Flyaway Home expecting a mildly entertaining nature documentary, like Disney's old Prairie Dog Town with an aviation twist.What I saw was a superbly crafted and deeply touching little masterpiece. I was in tears by the end.Metaphors of kindness aside, this film will touch any heart however hardened or scarred .And the kids liked it too. "},{"Title":"Beautifully Delicate","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"40 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Following Toy Story comes Fly Away Home, another string to the increasingly large bow of children's films that adults can also enjoy. The story follows Amy, a 13-year-old New Zealand girl who is forced to live with her estranged father in Canada following a car crash that kills her mother. Amy becomes increasingly withdrawn and upset until she finds a collection of similarly orphaned goslings that she takes care of, nurturing them until they are ready to migrate to the southern United States.The film could easily have fallen into the sappy &#145;family film' category. However, it never lets itself, choosing to concentrate more on characters than moments. Amy's character, played with breathtaking maturity by Anna Paquin, is better developed and more complex than characters in most films aimed at adults. The supporting cast also flesh out their strong characters to make the whole film much more believable.The cinematography is beautiful, the dusky-autumnal scenes are captured in an explosion of reds and yellows and oranges that seem to wash over you time and time again, and the final flight sequence is a wonderful closing to an incredibly refreshing film.  "},{"Title":"If you don't like family films, watch this instead","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"38 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  People always seem to quote this movie as perfect family fair. I hate your typical Hollywood-produced family movie with ingratiatingly saccharine kids and perfect parents-with-a-message. Despite its plucked from the headlines (mostly) true story roots and workmanlike, rather than inspired scripting, this movie manages to transcend that due to a number of factors.Beautiful cinematography of both the geese and southern Ontario. Decent supporting performances. But mostly due to the perfectly cast leads, Jeff Daniels and Anna Paquin, as the estranged father and daughter.Everyone says Daniels is underrated, so I guess that means he isn't. He manages to make the father eccentric without ever falling into caricature.Paquin creates a believable teen character, never straying from truth in favour of evoking our sympathy by being cute. Her naturalistic style of acting sometimes seems out of place with other more studied actors (e.g. the almost unwatchable Hurlyburly) but here she and Daniels and the minimal dialogue of the script work so well. Its about time someone gave her another decent lead role.Finally, the opening credits sequence is a masterclass in storytelling economy, giving us the plot background without words, and setting up the whole downbeat tone of the movie with Mary Chapin Carpenter's haunting version of 10,000 Miles. "},{"Title":"Extraordinarily beautiful!","Date":"6 January 2005","Score":"38 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" This is poetic, emotional, breathtaking film-making blessed with a truly inspiring Mark Isham score. The theme song, 10,000 Miles, is achingly beautiful and is first used with intuitive irony over the film's opening credit sequence.Anna Paquin is the little girl who, with her father, Jeff Daniels, imprints with a flock of young geese and leads them, via homemade aircraft, to a new home thousands of miles away.The flight sequences, which combine real flying with computer-assisted imagery over rivers, pastures and cityscapes, are flawless. They capture the awe and staggering thrill of flight without ever resorting to unnecessary, contrived stuntwork.Daniels, not a regular face on the silver screen these days, is natural and likable as Paquin's eccentric father while Paquin once again demonstrates what a brilliant talent she is.The narrative builds to an exciting conclusion as the film's environmental theme is amplified.Director Ballard, who also made the striking BLACK STALLION and the stark NEVER CRY WOLF, brings acute visual economy to every scene and never allows the film's underlying theme to become preachy.Caleb Deschanel, the film's cinematographer, gives us flawless images that frequently drop the jaw.A major achievement in a minor key. "},{"Title":"A Story of Returning to Joy","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"36 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  The greatest challenge any of us will ever face is how to regain the ability to reach for joy after the loss of a loved one.  Especially, when that loss is abrupt and occurs at an age before one has developed the capacities to manage it. That is the over-arching and powerful theme that Fly Away Home manages to evoke so beautifully.It's difficult to pin-point which of the masterfully developed elements of filmmaking that make this movie such a joy to watch again and again. But, surely, it all comes down to the great story-telling ability of Mr. Carol Ballard. Everything is harnessed to tell the story (a basic element of drama surprisingly ignored these days in Hollywood) of a girl who loses her mother at a critical point in her life, and has to find a way to the rest of her life, while reeling from the trauma and uncertain of how to survive her grief.The discovery of an abandoned nest of Canadian geese eggs is the simple overlaying metaphor that takes us on her journey.  The great difference between this movie and other movies of its type is that Mr. Ballard resists the temptation to explicate the transcendent story of Amy's emotional triumph over her loss and grief.  Simply put, the story is about the geese, but it's really about Amy's recovery and reconnection with her future, with her life,  though there isn't one line of dialogue explaining that to the viewer.  It seeps out of the story through the masterful, chekovian performances of Anna Paquin as Amy and Jeff Daniels as her father.  This theme is supported with such unerring consistency in the music (Mark Isham at his most sublime), the cinematography, editing, lighting, art direction and casting.  All of the casting is just perfect. Especially in the sense that none of the actors ever seem to be pulling anything out of their bag of tricks or doing some bit you've seen them do before.  The quality of the work is such that much of the dialogue in the movie seems spontaneous and almost ad libbed.  The final sequence is a thing of sublime, subtly powerful beauty that is rarely seen in movies these days.  A powerful, wordless climax. Something that happens so effortlessly, because the story that comes before has been told so completely and with such skill.  I cry every time I watch it.Thank you, Carol Ballard, for this beautiful gift of compassion and belief.Note  Did Anna Paquin actually move from little girl to adolescent in the course of making this movie, or is it more of the master magicianry of Carol Ballard and his team?   "},{"Title":"Consistently drives grown men (& women) to tears","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"31 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  A family film .. yes but certainly one that can be watched and watched again without the need for a licensing child. Jeff Daniels is superb as an eccentric father who takes on board his daughter after his estranged wife's death in a car accident. A strong supporting cast (including geese) are driven to support Amy's desire to assist a bunch of orphaned geese to maintain a wild existence. This involves teaching the geese to fly and leading them South by air. This journey for both the daughter coping with grief after the loss of her mother, the father in discovering his daughter once more and the geese in finding a new home for the Winter adds up to .. well tears and more tears.Before you write this film off as fantasy take the time to watch the BBC's Life of Birds final part. There you meet a remarkable farmer from the US who is using a microlite to aid a few of the last remaining Whooping Cranes to re-establish migratory patterns.In the UK the site of skeins of wild geese migrating in Winter form their Summer homes in Iceland and the Arctic circle is one of the last great wildlife dramas left on this small island. The views in Fly away Home of Amy's geese as they move in to join the hundreds of wild geese powering South capture this majesty. This story of a group of people who care about and assist this natural pattern may help reinforce some of the awe that we should all feel when confronted with these epic and annual journeys. "},{"Title":"A great movie","Date":"5 June 2004","Score":"31 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I saw this movie in theaters with my dad. When we left he said, It makes you want to go buy a little airplane, doesn't it? It did. I loved this movie, the music especially. I was saddened to find that they didn't release a soundtrack. While a little folksy, it is nevertheless a funny and heartwarming story about a girl's relationship with her father in a home she is struggling to remember. Amy is trying to cope with her mother's death, then has to move halfway across the world and get used to new family members, her father's workaholic bachelor life, and her father's girlfriend. Just as she is ready to give up, she becomes the mother to fifteen abandoned Canadian geese. Her father and friends put together an elaborate scheme to teach the geese to fly and chaos ensues as Amy and her father lead their flock south for the winter. A touching story of life and love. I recommend it highly.  "},{"Title":"An incredibly sweet story","Date":"12 September 2000","Score":"21 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  WARNING This review may reveal portions of the movie plot.If you want to just lose yourself in a story that is sweet and uplifting, then this is the movie for you. I was surprised at how efficiently this movie drew me in, but then again I'm a big softie at heart. I started watching this movie late one night and didn't want to stop -- so I didn't!The movie concerns a young girl who goes to live with her father after her mother is killed in a car accident. Dad and Mom divorced many years before and live on opposite sides of the world -- Canada and New Zealand -- so she doesn't know Dad very well.Jeff Bridges plays the father in this film and does it incredibly well. He's an artist who is just a little bit quirky, a big believer in following your dreams, and desperately trying to capture the love for his daughter that he regrets having lost in the divorce years before. Anna Paquin as his 13-year old daughter is wonderful -- how do young kids act so well??? -- as she learns to grieve for her mother, find a new life in a new country, and love and trust a father whom she has barely known most of her life.The supporting cast shines as well, in most cases. Most notably is Terry Kinney as Daniels brother and the young girls uncle. He's the kind of uncle everyone wants to have around, although when he falls asleep while babysitting and Paquin's character disappears, he doesn't seem very responsible. He becomes a bit of a scene stealer though as the movie progresses. He has one of the best lines in the film when he tries to convince a U.S. border-patrol agent that he needs dozens of gallons of gas to go camping for his portable generator to run his blender and TV. Nothing like camping in the middle of no where with your VCR, a good movie, and a pina colada.Dana Delany (of TV's China Beach fame) plays Daniels sometimes live-in girlfriend and seems to be the only actor who doesn't really stretch in this part. I don't believe this is Delany's fault, however. This story is primarily about the father-daughter relationship, and Delany's part suffers as a result. Most scenes are supportive and don't really give her a chance to shine.The story is well written with a combination of genuine emotion, without becoming overly sappy. Yes, the film is sweet, but not sickeningly so. When the credits began to roll at the end of this movie, the first thing I thought of way, How could this have gotten a PG rating? I *literally* heard one four-letter word in the entire film, and that is said under the breath so that I wasn't even sure I heard it. There is one reference to sex outside marriage, and a car accident at the beginning of the film. That's it. Parents, you can show this to young children without any real concern. My suggestion Watch the first 5 minutes of the film and if you decide your children can handle the opening sequence of a car crash, then there probably is nothing else in the film that should be a problem (in my opinion!) "},{"Title":"Love it","Date":"9 December 2006","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I love this movie it's a classic.You will love it. It's one of those heart toucher's.Its a great story and you can tell that there's a lot of meaning to it.I guarantee you'll love it!!It is based on a true story,its about a girl who finds 16 goose eggs and begins raising the geese after the eggs hatch.It's a sad and happy story and also a must see motion picture.I have seen this movie at least 50 times and i am willing to watch it another million times!! I personally recommend that you see this movie. If you don't see it i can guarantee you will regret it. So go rent Fly Away Home a great 1996 film for you and your family. Enjoy watching this great film,i know I did!! "}{"Title":"Easygoing in a good way...","Date":"23 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  This movie has something thats missing in a lot of other movies. It has a soul, and a belief in good.Its believable, beautiful and smooth. Its cast shows that they´re as good as any renowned great actor of the day, and the story is quite light...yet its something strangely moving about it.A daughter that looses her mother, which leads her to take care of doomed geese. And even though the cute-scale is quite high, the movie still holds you cause of its fine acting and soulful goodness.This is a great movie for all ages. Its nice shooted, really nice telled, and good acted.Its a given choice for the whole family. 9/10!Ps. The soundtrack is also very nice. Suttle, clean and memorable. "},{"Title":"Believe the praise you see for this movie, it is one for the ages, and a truly extraordinary film","Date":"4 October 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I never expected Fly Away Home to be so good, it is a truly extraordinary, poignant and completely lovable family film. Who cares if it starts off slowly? There is so much to redeem this movie, that the pros completely outweigh the minor con.Fly Away is exquisitely filmed, with breathtaking settings and stunning cinematography. I do think the the film's overall look is its main merit, as well as the truly lovely music score. The script is beautiful, more poignant above all else. And I almost forgot to mention the heartwarming story.I thought also the performances were outstanding. Jeff Daniels is a revelation as the father, in one of his best performances, and Anna Paquin is just superb in the title role. Of course the scene stealers are the adorable baby geese, but Paquin's chemistry with them, so motherly she was, reduced me to tears on several occasions.This movie shouldn't be dismissed as an overly sentimental, bittersweet bit of eye candy. It is to me and my entire family, a truly beautiful, well meaning and poignant film for the entire family to treasure for a very long time. I am 17, and I really can't think of anything else to add other than a 10/10. (one of the easiest perfect scores I have given recently) Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"My Home","Date":"9 November 2003","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I study movies. Usually movies are so mechanical and clumsy that I cannot avoid  watching myself and others watching it. But once in a while, a movie teases me into  itself. You end up committing energy to drive the story.Such films carry a special obligation to respect that commitment by taking it seriously  and not feeding back any irony. Ballard did this for me. Of course you never really know that it has happened until you  are rummaging around the attic of your imagination and discover what it has left. In this  case it happened for me after watching `Winged Migration.' That was an extraordinary  experience, but seriously damaged by the insistence of the French filmmaker to tell  stories.Those stories were eagerly consumed by us viewers, but they ruined the whole project by  removing it from its context. It was more animal circus-ish than acceptable. If you are  going to insert a story, I thought, it needs to be the story of Mother Nature herself. Or  some large slice of her.That's what we have here. Except for a few tiresome mechanics at the beginning and very  end, it relies on just the sorts of emotions and connections we'd like to be fooled into  thinking drive the universe. Naturally, one man's Mother is another's Hallmark treacle.  But in this case, for me and my wife, it worked.Especially remarkable is the prior roles of these women Delany had been the damaged- but-sweet bondage queen on a sex island. Pacquin had been the damaged-but-sweet  victim of adolescent misdiscovery. Here, all that appeal transcends sex.I'll follow Ballard on any outing he plans.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching.  "},{"Title":"A lovely film","Date":"5 October 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I had kind of half meant to watch this movie for ages, and finally did so yesterday.I wish I hadn't waited so long! There are a number of things which make this movie well worth watching.One, it looks great - some fabulous scenery filmed during the always photogenic autumn.Two, that great look includes much scarcely believable aerial photography featuring a flock of geese following a microlight aircraft.Three, at the heart of the movie is a fragile relationship between a father and daughter who scarcely know each other, beautifully portrayed by Jeff Daniels and Anna Paquin.The film is good to look at, and always interesting and emotionally engaging.A small masterpiece. "},{"Title":"A film students review","Date":"19 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" As a film student, I naturally started to fast forward through the opening titles to get to the film. Then I had to rewind.The viewer gets kicked in the privates in the first minute of the titles. Then again two minutes later.A lot of the film is shot in the golden hours just after sunrise and just before sunset, making for some great imagery.The story is pretty adult for a family film. Familiar family issues are not candy-coated in the script.As for being believable, it is based on a true story, and yes, the amazing fridge is from a real design by the inventor at the heart of the true story.The final chapter contains simply superb flying shots worthy of National Geographic.I don't think there was any time wasted on sentimental stuff, just enough to get the point stated, then immediately move on.Worth seeking out the collectors addition for the extras that explain how close to reality the basic concept is - teaching geese to fly home.Good film, well made, great acting, superb photography.Why not a ten? The story was based too much on reality - however amazing. The photography was great, but not ground breaking. "},{"Title":"You quack me up","Date":"18 February 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" This is a review of Fly Away Home and Wind, two films by Carroll Ballard.Loosely speaking, Ballard makes two types of films. Those in which humans tentatively interact with wild animals, and those in which man interacts with nature via technology inspired by the natural world. In the first category Ballard's made fare like The Black Stallion and Duma, in the second he's made films like Wind and Fly Away Home. Arguable one of his best films, Fly Away Home is about a daughter and father who build an ultralight air-plane that mimics the behaviour of, and acts as a surrogate mother for, a flock of geese. Using the plane, the duo guide the birds to a sanctuary several hundred miles away. It's a touching picture, filled with beautiful scenery, gorgeous aerial footage, sensitive direction and some wonderfully understated acting by Jeff Daniels Anna Paquin.Though his financiers force formulaic plots upon him, Ballard dislikes heavy-handed storytelling, and so tends to keep his characters quiet and muted. With his ethereal visuals, use of silence and love for wind/nature, Fly Away Home strongly conjures up the work of Malick and Miyazaki.The film has flaws some of its rear projection is intrusive, some of its conflicts are a bit clichéd, some of its villains are cartoonish, and aside from the opening and closing song, Ballard's musical score isn't strong enough for such a poetic picture. Still, these flaws are minor and don't intrude on the film's better qualities. While Fly Away Home involves an inventor building an air-plane, Wind involves a group of mechanical engineers designing a boat. Sounds boring? Both films are more interested in mood and ambiance than they are plot. In Wind, the design team relocate to a huge hanger at the centre of a vast desert, a world away from the oceans they hope to conquer. We watch as they sculpt away at their boat, Ballard salivating over sleek hulls, tall masts and mighty rudders. Muscles, skeletons, animals, rocks, wind and water are studied and observed, the boat a failure if its body doesn't bend to the will of the waves.Both films deal with men and machines waltzing with nature; our ultralight air-plane is only believable to the geese if they perceive it to be their biological mother, and Ballard's boats fail if they don't slice cleanly through the winds and waves. To resist nature is to compromise the design.Both films were also mildly influential in how they added to our camera vocabulary. Fly Away Home gave us some then new three-dimensional camera sweeps and Wind offered several cinematic baby steps as well, using specially designed camera mounts for both helicopters and boat hulls, masts etc. Fly Away Home is the better of the two films - it's one of the best family films of the 1990s - whilst Wind is plagued by a bad script, though it does also offer excellent mood and ambiance. You sense that Ballard wants to avoid conventional Hollywood scripts as much as possible, but that they're necessary to provide some semblance of either structure or marketability.Fly Away Home &#x96; 8.5/10 Wind &#x96; 8/10 "},{"Title":"One of the best family movies, ever.","Date":"8 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" A great story of recovery from the profound loss of a loved one, using a metaphor in nature of teaching geese how to fly. It skillfully blends tragedy with light touches of humor and fully holds the attention of both children over the age of 10 and adults. The music by Mark Isham is especially noteworthy, particularly his blending of Mary Chapin Carpenters's 10,000 Miles at the beginning and end. Actor Jeff Daniels brings believability to a tricky role as an estranged father adjusting to the reunion with his 13 year-old daughter. Anna Paquin is excellent in a different kind of coming of age role where she adopts an orphaned flock of geese, and in the process learns about the love of her dad. Beautifully photographed and well edited, I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Geese, gadgets, and wonderful acting","Date":"9 June 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" My fiancé checked this movie out at the library. She'd seen it before and wanted me to see it. At the risk of seeming sexist I'm usually apprehensive at the sort of chick flicks she often chooses.This movie, however, was a home run. There were many things about it I loved. The performance by Anna Paquin was fantastic, Jeff Daniels and the rest of the supporting cast did a solid job. The geese (and the cinematography which allowed them to do it) were very emotionally expressive. And the gadgetry (I'm a Rube Goldberg sort of inventor myself) was wonderful.My best testimonial to this film, however, is that whether I choose a movie, or my fiancé does, I normally fall asleep on the couch watching it after the first hour or so. This one kept me interested to the end. "},{"Title":"A Personal and Sentimental Tale","Date":"3 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Fly Away Home is a family oriented, emotionally charged drama in which a young girl's mental recovery from her Mother's death is achieved by a monumental feat. Thrust into her Father Tom's world of inventions and experiments, Amy is lost and uncomfortable in this new environment along with still being vulnerable from her Mother's death, shown in her anxious reactions watching Tom try out his latest invention. Yet it is an aspect of Tom's life that Amy soon finds herself in after discovering Geese eggs, once they hatch Amy is lead down a memorable path of courage and bonding. As Amy begins to raise the Geese as her own Fly Away Home becomes an incredibility touching story where it is hard not to want Amy achieve the goal of getting the Geese to migrate south. Fly Away Home succeeds on an emotional scale in placing the viewer into the predicament Amy faces and the love she feels for the Geese. The cinematography is an additional factor to the heart - tugging vibe, watching the Geese eggs hatch and crawl out of their shells with crystal clear precision as if we are witnessing the birth in person is extraordinary to see and sentimental to feel as they are just as vulnerable as Amy. This sense of vulnerability makes the aerial shots of Amy and Tom leading the Geese to their rightful place in nature later on all the more powerful. It coincides with the soundtrack in relation to Fly Away Home's poignancy, with the use of the song '10, 000 Miles' towards the end of the climatic scene which had been the show piece of the opening credits depicting the death of Amy's Mother increases the atmosphere to the status of a tear jerker, bringing home how much Amy has achieved. However there are some clichés which slightly spoil the experience. Having corporate bosses as antagonists is nothing new and tense moments made to briefly unease the audience most notably when Air Traffic Control are about to send out a war plane on Amy, Tom and the Geese when they are seen as a UFO comes across respectively as platitude and ridiculous. But these are only minor flaws in a film whose good heartedness paves these criticisms over.So if you enjoy story lines with a feel - good vibe and the old fashioned good triumphing over evil, Fly Away Home should be one for you. "},{"Title":"Excellent cinematography, smart script and mature acting.","Date":"10 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Those three are the keys to this film's secrets of success. The excellent acting performances by both Jeff Daniels and Oscar winner Anna Paquin make a very good chemistry between the two also. Paquin's character here was perhaps more complex and challenging than The Piano. The no-nonsense smart script makes the film not restricted to the 'family' film category. The cinematography was nominated for Oscar and one can easily see why. The wildlife scenes can easily be compared to the superior programs we see on National Geographic etc. The end sequence was brilliantly filmed and is a treat to the eyes. In short, Fly Away Home is indeed a refreshing experience. "}{"Title":"life affirming movie.go see","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  heartwarming and life affirming.call me an old softy but this film brought a tear to the eyes of a self confessed cynic.I think due to the fact that it was shot in such a naturalistic style. the performances themselves were low key which i thought suited the film's tone making it akin to a documentary feel.Anna paquin ,fresh from the piano really made the role her own and imbued the film with a freshness that carried the viewer along. "},{"Title":"Wow.. I never thought it could be THAT good.","Date":"8 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Believe it or not, this is a great movie. I had some misconceptions about it before I actually watched it. It's not a chick flick, it's not a sob story, and there are none of those stupid scenes where the geese almost die or have to be given away. I am very happy that a movie finally dared to break those cliches, and come up with an interesting family movie that will actually be watched by the whole family.I give it 10/10.  "},{"Title":"A movie to make your dreams soar","Date":"1 February 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" There is already written a lot about the story of Fly Away Home, so I'm not going to repeat my previous reviewers.I have watched the movie for the first time on German TV in 1998, by chance I zapped into the movie and stayed there, mesmerized, fascinated, enchanted by its magical richness of animal (goose) beauty and lush landscape cinematography. When the film ended, I had a lump of emotion in my throat for several days. Something changed deep inside of me, namely the perception of nature, animals, birds, specifically of wild geese. Something made click inside my mind, and since then I adore geese very deeply. Before the movie, geese were of no special interest to me, oh how ignorant I was! As a matter of fact, my love is so deep and the movie inspires me so much that I want get my own geese.Fly Away home's cinematography and script is performed what I can describe as silent, calm, quiet and serene, but never lengthy; is performed suspense-packed, but never thriller-like. Romantic, but never corny or cliché. Close to life itself and nature, but never overcharged with exaggerated eco-messages. In short, a perfect mixture of all the elements that make a movie worthwhile.The landscape shots are very idyllic (Oscar nomination on this movie for cinematography) and you begin to long and crave for a life on the country-side, away from it all, the boisterous cities and its citizens with their insignificant problems of their everyday lives. When Amy is flying in her ultralight airplane, leading the flock of geese as their surrogate mother, then you can see that the problems on land, down there, are small and trivial. That is where the geese show us how life is meant to be, more simple, more straight-forward, and peaceful. Brilliant.And the film music, the fantastic movie score composed by Mark Isham, transports all the previous mentioned qualities and features in a perfect manner. The introductory song, 10,000 Miles by Mary Chapin Carpenter and co-composed by Mark Isham, is a real tearjerker of the special kind. This song alone summarizes what this movie is all about. Love, friendship, a deep bond among humans and animals, care for nature, peace, freedom and to never give up no matter what. The track expresses Amy's love to her family, and at the same time, the love between Amy and the wild geese. I cannot watch the movie without a package of Kleenex, and I'm male and an adult, a child at heart. I believe everyone has this ability, we just have to show it more often, and this movie can help to release the inner child in all of us.There is no lukewarm love story in Fly Away Home which is a big plus, if at all, it's only presented very subtle and unobtrusive. There have to be more movies like this to prevent a shallow development in our society, but I digress. The main focus of attention is clearly on the geese, who out-act all human actors with feathery ease. Bravo! Please, more movies like this! There are, to my knowledge, only a handful of movies where script, cinematography, directing, music, dialogs and actors come together and are mixed in this perfection.I can only recommend this movie to anyone who still believes in his or her dreams and wants to realize them. This movie supports you there and makes your imaginations soar, literally. As for my part, I'm checking out where I can get geese and how I have to keep them and gain their amazing friendship, deep bond and love. One of the most fascinating movies Hollywood has ever done, Oscar-nominated, and rightly so. Big kudos. Seal of approval Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"A wonderful, beautifull movie","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Fly away home is one of the best family movies ever made. The acting, the writing, the cinematography is breathtaking. Amy has lost her mother in a car crash and is going through a rough time living with the father she has not seen since she was 3 in Canada. Her growth in this movie centers on a flock of geese, Amy and her family plan to fly the geese to NC for the winter. Fly away home is a fun family movie with parts that will bring tears to your eyes. 9 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"good family movie","Date":"18 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Amy Alden (Anna Paquin) survives a car crash where her mother is killed. She leaves New Zealand to live with her father Thomas (Jeff Daniels) in his ramshackle house in Ontario, Canada. She has no memories of her Canadian home and feels isolated. He's an eccentric inventor artist who flies his homemade glider. Susan Barnes (Dana Delany) is his girlfriend. After a land developer tears down some trees, Amy finds an abandoned nest of goose eggs. She raises the chicks but when the time comes, she has to teach them to fly south.This is a fine family movie. Anna Paquin is adorable and so are the chicks. The story is gentle feel good. Jeff Daniels is great as the eccentric dad. There is a real free feeling that comes from watching people run around with these geese. There is a minor drama with a wildlife officer and a main one with a land developer. In the end, the drama isn't too high but it's good for the whole family. "},{"Title":"A Timeless Classic","Date":"4 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Fly Away Home has been a favorite in my family for years. The story is classic, with every element of a film that is sure to last. The movie gives a vivid and often raw presentation of the relationships within a family, particularly between estranged members, and raises interesting questions about what family itself is and what it means. The view is utterly breathtaking as we're taken on a flight through the Canadian skies, following both the physical and emotional journey of Amy and her father. The father-daughter relationship, in any context, is often a touchy subject, and many films have a tendency to overdramatize certain elements of such a relationship. While the drama is certainly here with this one, we see less of the verbal, noisy drama than we do the quiet, awkward, tense, and somewhat snippy sentiments which exist between the two. Anna Paquin is flawless. Jeff Daniels will make you laugh, cry, and applaud. The chemistry between these two actors is beautiful, making this film one of the first and only that I have ever seen that has not made me despise the rebellious daughter figure. If this movie has a flaw, it is only that it is a bit slow by times. Still, for those who, like me, don't mind those sweepingly beautiful images of Canadian landscape, even if nothing much is happening... you'll enjoy the film. "},{"Title":"outstanding","Date":"10 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" This was a great movie about courage, overcoming tragedy, and leadership. After her mother is killed in a car accident, Anna Paquin moves to Canada with her father (Jeff Daniels) after he comes to pick her up. They discover a nestful of baby geese (newly hatched!) whose mother has just died too, and they have to learn how to fly. Unfortunately, they can't learn without example, and she has to be that example. She does so by building model airplanes which she flies. She makes news by showing them the way south.I loved the aerial scenes (which were beautifully shot) and the scene where the daughter was horrified when the guy wanted to clip the chicks' wings. Everybody matures and serves as parent figures in the process. This was a throughly enjoyable movie and great family fare. You will love it-guaranteed.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Wonderful Story of Love and Nature","Date":"27 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Anna Paquin makes this a movie for all ages. She has been described by some reviewers as a sixteen year old when she made this movie, but since she was born in 1982 and the movie was released in 1996 I figure she was probably thirteen when it was produced, and her acting was superb for a child that age. Heck, it was superb for an actress of any age.The story is of a girl named Amy who was separated from her father as a young child when her parents divorced and her mother took her to New Zealand. When her mother is killed in an auto accident her father returns her to his home in Canada where she becomes withdrawn until she rescues a clutch of Canadian Goose eggs that had been abandoned by the mother. She cares for the eggs until they hatch and the goslings imprint her as their mother.The goslings grow to maturity through the summer, and when the time for them to migrate south is approaching it becomes necessary for them to be lead on their trip by Amy and her father who fly two ultra light planes to guide them on their way south.This may be a spoiler As they fly south and are nearing their goal, a wetlands area in one of the Carolinas, the father's ultra light crashes. He is only slightly injured but his plane is destroyed and Amy must carry on alone for the last few miles. The ending is very touching and emotional when she reaches the end of the journey, but even though it brings tears to my eyes each time I watch it, it could have been made more dramatic if the fact that she was now alone in the sky, somewhat anxious and out of touch, had been emphasized by the TV announcers so that the final scene when her plane, and the geese, appeared suddenly over the dunes would be even more dramatic.I highly recommend this movie for both children and adults. The co-star, Jeff Daniels, and supporting actress Dana Delaney, are superb in their roles. Dana Delaney is always magnificent and even in this somewhat minor role she lights up the screen. This is a must see movie. "},{"Title":"Another Animal Classic from Carroll Ballard","Date":"15 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Another great film from a great, if not terribly prolific, director. Whether by coincidence or design Ballard always seems to make films about personal family loss and emotional healing through animals, whether it be horses, ducks, or cheetahs. This remarkable story is based on the real life story of Bill Lishman, chronicled in his book Father Goose One Man, a Gaggle of Geese, and Their Real Life Incredible Journey South. He expanded his Operation Migration to include the endangered whooping and sandhill cranes. Cranes are hatched in captivity and guided to their northern and southern homes using ultralight aircraft. The website for Operation Migration has updates through 2003. I don't know it is still extant. Maybe it is another victim of Homeland Security!! A must-see family (not in the maudlin sense) film! "},{"Title":"A wonder","Date":"21 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Little girl Amy survived a car accident. But her mother was not so lucky. She went to live with her father who was very busy on his job. Although her father tried his best to make her happy, she still could not wipe away sorrow. One day she found some wild goose eggs that appeared near a broken tree. She decided to take artificial incubation for them. As times went by, 16 cute wild gooses were born. These gooses brought huge pleasure to Amy. However they had to learn to fly because they belonged to migratory bird. In fact a bigger problem was waiting for Amy and her father.What the film depicted was really a wonder. The whole flying process was exciting. More happily, Amy constructed a closer relationship with her father.Anna Paquin successfully played a brave little girl. She proved her acting ability again after her impressive performance in academy-award-winning The piano (she won the best supporting actress at 11).An excellent uplifting drama. 9/10 "}{"Title":"flying feathers never felt so fine","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" First off, ignore the PG rating. There's more objectionable stuff in Sunday School. Then gather the kids, yours, your neighbors' and if you're a rug rat wrangler, this one will sooth the savage beasties. Fire up the corn-popper or microwaves, make pizzas and kick back. Yes, it is THAT good. Anna Pacquin shows the stuff that helped cut her cute little acting chops to win her future Oscar. Jeff Daniels is quietly quirky as her ultra-light pilot father and the rest of the cast is unobtrusive if not engaging. But the real grabbers are the ducks, er, geese (and that's a borrowed line) and the way they are lovingly photographed on land, water and in the air. And wait 'till you get a gander at the dad-made honker that takes flight to lead the flock. It's a slow starter but stay with it. Then when the kids are all gone, curl up and watch it with that big baby you like next to you most. "},{"Title":"A Lifesaver","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I loved this film. I've been battling with depression for over a decade, but this film gave me a rare opportunity to see that the world isn't all black. It was nice to be able to cry for a good reason for a change -). "},{"Title":"A good film","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  You have to laugh when you read some the reviews that refer to this as an implausible  story. Hello, it's based on a true story.  There are no chase scenes, no special effects. Just a nice story, told well, and acted  better. Jeff Daniels does another great job. He never phones in his performances. If your looking for a film to get a break from all the action flicks this is a good one. Keep up the good work Jeff!!! "},{"Title":"Fine Family Fare","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  FLY AWAY HOME (1996) ***1/2 Jeff Daniels, Anna Paquin, Dana Delany, Terry Kinney.  Wonderful true life account of a young girl and her estranged father bonding by helping a family of Canadian geese by tending to their needs and eventual flight south for the winter with some truly inventive methods.  Beautiful cinematography by Caleb Daschnel and sure handedly directed by Carroll Ballard. "},{"Title":"Exceptional","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  In these days of excessive violence, here we finally have a movie that is based on a completely different set of values. The cinematography is breathtaking, the music impressive, the acting superb. In addition, the story is firmly based on facts! The Special Edition DVD includes a good documentary that explains the background - you have to watch it to believe it! This film will be a true classic.  "},{"Title":"On a scale of 1 to 10, an 8 3/4","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I thought this movie was very well-acted and well-cast, especially Anna Paquin. She did a real good job, especially when she hit that warden guy with a pot when he tried to clip one of the geese's wings. Jeff Daniels, as usual, was great, also. However, there was one scene that I think they could've done without the scene where Amy's in the shower with the geese and gets blinded by some soapy water or whatever that was, and...well, you know what happens. But other than that, it's a good movie that's acceptable for the whole family. "},{"Title":"Although not exactly factual, a fascinating film about a girl and her geese.","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  What do we have, if we don't preserve nature's wonders? What do you do with a flock of Canadian goose eggs, after the mother has been driven away by subdivision builders? Why, you hatch them, raise them, build an ultralight that looks like a giant goose, and teach them to follow you south to North Carolina. SPOILERS -- Amy (Anna Paquin) is living with her mother in New Zealand, when an auto accident kills mom and forces Amy to go live with her eccentric father (Jeff Daniels) in Canada. A 13-yr-old, she does not adjust well, but her life changes when she finds those abandoned eggs. She hatches them in the barn, with the help of a light, and they imprint on her. She feeds them, sleeps in the bathtub so they can have the bathroom, swim in the toilet, they follow her everywhere.Warden tries to clip their wings, the law, but Amy hits him over the head with a pot, dad chases him away. Geese grow, learn how to fly, dad says they can't stay, need to migrate, hits on the idea that they will follow her in a plane. Being a handyman, sculptor, and inventor, he builds the goose-looking ultralight and teaches her to fly. The geese follow her.They plan a 4-day route, 2 planes, first stop at an airforce base near Niagra Falls, NY, creates a scramble and a little havoc. Second day, their geese follow some wild geese and land in a pond, near where hunters are shooting geese. Next morning, Amy uses her special call to round up all hers, and they take off again. The news media catch on, start to track her route, and anticipate their next landing. Dad has a rudder problem, crashes in a cornfield, Amy has to continue alone, makes it to the construction site as they were ready to destroy it.Although a fictional account, the story is based on real migratory patterns of geese, and the imprinting and following a vehicle is real. The real stars of this film are the geese, from pecking out of their shells, to following Amy all over, to their flight with the ultralight, to their playfulness in the water after they reach their destination. Seeing that wonder of nature, from egg to adult in such a short time, is extremely moving for me.Anna Paquin is so perfect in her role, and seems so natural with the geese. Jeff Daniels' role as her father seems just perfect too. Mary Chapin Carpenter's 10,000 Miles, both at the beginning and at the end, is beautiful and haunting. I rate this film 9 of 10 for both entertainment and for the message it delivers. "},{"Title":"Thank you Jeff and Anna","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Jeff Daniels has never been one of my favorite actors. Before. I have changed my mind after seeing this movie. Anna Paquin`s debut, was playing Ada in the movie The Piano. After that I have followed her career. I think this movie was her second. Jeff Daniels and Anna Paquin creates a film with feelings, wisdom and humor. The movie about the wild birds who have to fly away home, is based on a true story. After seeing this film, you always want to see it again. I have seen the movie 4 times by myself. I`m a teacher, and I have shown the movie for 2 classes. (3 grade, elementary school) Fly Away Home is a perfect film for children from the age of 8-9 and up to 100. I`m 25, and I still love this movie. Not only because of the actors and the True Story plot, but also because of the beautiful music. See it.  "},{"Title":"A Beautiful Journey","Date":"3 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" This film can easily be heralded as one of the best family films of all time, but honestly it is much more than that. This is one of the most beautiful films ever conceived, and could move even the most rigid of people. The film's power lies in the interactions between father(Jeff Daniels) and daughter(Anna Paquin). Their portrayal of these characters is truly heartfelt and magnificent to watch especially with your own children. Easily the best of Jeff Daniels career and maybe even the young Ms. Paquin. The other power is in the gorgeous cinematography. Words cannot describe the beauty of the landscapes captured by Caleb Deschanel.Fly Away Home is not just a family film, it is a work of art that can be enjoyed by anyone with a soul. A definite rarity among films these days. "},{"Title":"Wonderful surprise","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  With all the hype that goes into promoting movies these days, it's nice when a movie sneaks up on you like this one did.  Not being a fan of family films, I saw this mainly because my favorite critic, Anthony Lane of The New Yorker magazine, gave it a rave review, and I was glad I went.  I've seen two of Carroll Ballard's films, THE BLACK STALLION and NEVER CRY WOLF. The latter was somewhat disappointing, but FLY AWAY HOME is as good as THE BLACK STALLION.  This is the rare children's film which doesn't talk down to kids, indulge in stupid humor, or push bloated values on them.  Instead, Ballard takes his cue from the grace of the geese and the unique, natural ability of his lead actress, Anna Paquin.  And, of course, the shots of the geese flying are as magical as the scenes of the horse on the island in BLACK STALLION.  Oh yeah, and the rest of the cast, like Jeff Daniels, Dana Delany, and Terry Kinney are good too. "}{"Title":"Fly Away Home","Date":"22 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Based on a true story, this is a cute and cuddly film for both the kids and the grown-ups. Basically after the death of her mother in New Zealand, 13-year-old Amy Alden (Anna Paquin) goes to Canada to live with her eccentric inventor father Thomas 'Tom' (Jeff Daniels) who she barely knows. Amy is pretty miserable for a while, but after some developers had been tearing down the local forest, she finds a nest of orphaned goose eggs, and she is determined to look after them. When they hatch, they obviously see the first person they see, Amy, as Mother Goose, and with the help of her Dad, they are determined to preserve, parent, and eventually prepare them to migrate. It is when Tom invents a working microlight and small plane that they can really progress with helping them fly, and the most spectacular journey south begins. Also starring Superman - The Animated Series' Dana Delany as Susan Barnes, Terry Kinney as David Alden, Holter Graham as Barry Stickland, Jeremy Ratchford as DNR Officer Glen Seifert, Deborah Verginella as Amy's Mother and Michael J. Reynolds as General. Daniels and young Paquin both give very appealing performances, and the geese are of course the most cute and cuddly, well, feathery and fun, sight to see, a very heartwarming story. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Cinematography. It was number 95 on The 100 Greatest Family Films. Very good! "},{"Title":"Very Pleasant.","Date":"6 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" A very pleasant movie of what will seem to many an idyllic lifestyle, of appeal to all the family.Amy a young teenage love child stays with her father, a whacky inventor /artist and spends the summer living through an intense wildlife experience.Between them adopting a family of homeless geese, having had their habitat demolished by local developers Amy rescues the doomed offspring And with the aid of various crazy inventions returning the geese to the wilderness and their migratory roots.Fly away home was a very nice way to wast away a couple of hours and has many aspects of appeal that make it a great film and an ideal pick for all the family although it is perhaps more commoving to the younger viewer. "},{"Title":"I'm lovin' those goslings","Date":"10 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" (By the way, if you don't know, a gosling is a baby goose) Anna Paquin (she played Rogue in X-Men) stars as Amy Alden in this very good film. Amy, whose mother died in a car accident, now lives with her father Thomas Alden (Jeff Daniels) in a serene area away from the city. One day, Amy goes for a walk and finds several large eggs. She takes them and cares for them as best as she can. They actually hatch and several Canadian goslings are born! Thomas discovers them but decides to keep them, for he wants to make his daughter happy since her mother died. She raises them up but now they are grow and need to learn how to fly. Amy and her father use some sort of little plane to teach them how. But will the two successfully lead the geese toward their new permanent home? You just have to rent or buy this movie and find out! Enough about the story, I'll tell how I feel about it. Even though I'm giving it a 7, it's still really a good movie. It's not the best movie in the whole wide world but it's still good. It has calm nice music and the acting is good too. Well, I have always liked this film and I recommend you see it! Plus, the goslings are really adorable!! "},{"Title":"beautiful film","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  This is a lovely gentle film, it has no gunfights, car chases, profanities or explosions so I suppose it appeals to a niche market, but I liked it. The storyline is simple but deals with major themes like bereavement, parenthood and belonging, and was very moving at times. The acting was excellent. How anyone can call it boring is beyond me. "},{"Title":"Amy and her geese!","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Fly Away Home is a delicate, family-friendly, and well-done movie. Anna Paquin is quite gorgeous with her beauty and talent, and, of course, the geese are the real big stars here. It´s very hard to to laugh a lot with them, mainly in the scenes with small geese... they are very cute. Finally, a very good movie for everyone, and extremely special for Paquin fans. "},{"Title":"Everybody loves this movie.","Date":"4 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Bill Lishmanis autobiographical Fly Away Home is one of the best movies for the entire family.  Amy Alden played by adorable Oscar winner Anna Paquin (The Piano, Amistad, Jane Eyre) is as great character and people can identify with her because of her vulnerability.  The parents were divorced and Amy lived with her mother in  New Zealand. Her mother died in a car crash, and Amy became an orphan due to her mothers death. She did not know her father Thomas Alden  Jeff Daniels (Pleasantville, Terms of Endearment) at all,  and has go to Canada to live with him.   He dates Susan Barnes  Dana Delany (China Beach, Tombstone). The three of them have to go to this incredible and beautiful journey where they all bond, because of the Canada geese who have also lost their mom, and Amy could identify with that and decided to adopt them. They have to fly across Canada to the U.S. and down to the Carolinas. The photography is absolutely gorgeous, and Caleb Deschanel was nominated for Best Cinematography Oscar. The music is also beautiful. I have the tape and have watched this movie several times.  Everybody loves this movie. It will make you cheer and tear up at the same time. One of the most interesting points of this movie is the Amy's commitment to the geese.  Favorite Scenes Birds all over;  the dinning room, the table, bathroom, swimming in the toilet bowl. Amy flying down the main-street in Baltimore.Favorite quotes Hey, hey, hey come on geese. Amy telling her dad My geese will not have anything to do with your crazy ideas.  Amy Hello papa goose this is so cool. Amy tells her father You never came to see me. Thomas Alden  New Zealand is pretty far away Amy. Amy That is a real lame excuse! "},{"Title":"Atmospheric, unclichéd","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I was reading the Movie Database sometime after I'd seen the film, and I noticed that there weren't that many reviews which always makes me inclined to write. Even here on the internet it isn't talked about as much as Star Wars or Men In Black or something of that kind would be, it's as understated as it was in the press, I hadn't even heard of it before I accidentally came across it on Satellite. I saw it and immediately realsied it was rather a classic, anyway here are my thoughts.  Fly Away Home was just the kind of unsensational, understated film that is usual lacking in today's world of cinema which seeks to shock & amaze to the detriment of all other qualities. I liked it because it was a simple, unclichéd film about a father who had not seen his daughter in years but is now forced to bring her up because her mother had been killed in a car accident. She discovers some abandoned geese-eggs and becomes the mother of the flock, which she turns to for comfort. They need to re-build their relationship and she remains distant until he hits on the idea of guiding the flock of geese south for the winter by way of a hand-built plane. It pits realism against a far-out idea which would bring a father and daughter together. The characters are something that in everyday life you can relate to, it's as if the writers had tried to avoid movie ideals and to present a picture of something that's just the way it is, and nothing in the film (not even the dramatic saucepan incident) is hyped up too much to extract entertainment from it or underplayed or neglected either. It's as restrained as many classic children's novels are but doesn't lose sight of incidents and storyturns for entertainment value ,such as the cleverly orchestrated plan to rescue the geese from the local ranger) It's not the sort of film that needs to use stereotypes for entertainment, it's a quietly atmospheric film interspersed with beautiful cinematographic shots, the music blends in comfortably with the atmosphere,and the story develops gently and gradually as the daughter becomes used to life with her estranged Dad and his sometimes eccentric existence in Canada. The melancholay beginning leads us to something we're not expecting, when in a state of bereavement she turns to some abandoned geese for comfort, the resolution of the film as her Dad's migration experiment comes to it's head, and when they fly their makeshift planes heading the geese south for the winter it is rewarding. Other films rely on so much action and suspense, to the complete denail of real-life situations, so even though many aspects of the plot of Fly Way Home were technically far-fetched, it is the realism and believability of the film that makes it's climax so glorious and breathtaking. It's one of those classic family films that takes a break from the usual genre of the stereotypical all-american family perpetuated by such films as Home Alone and  Liar Liar ,not that I haven't throroughly enjoyed them, but this film is special because it doesn't have the same old formulaic traits. If you're in the mood for an easily-digestible drama, watch this one because it'll give you a much better view of family-life. you won't go far wrong with the soundtrack either.   "},{"Title":"Sweet, Funny, Human","Date":"19 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Wow, another excellent family film that has received low ratings from many reviewers here - I just don't get it. Fly Away Home is a beautiful story, filled with realistic emotion and incredible views of Canada and the geese.Jeff Daniel's portrayal of the eccentric father is smooth and realistic to the point that you might feel like you could run into him during a drive in the country. Anna Paquin tugs at your heartstrings and our family was cheering her on throughout the movie.Fly Away Home is a wholesome and entertaining family experience that we have watched several times - this says a lot since we rarely all agree on viewing the same film together twice. "},{"Title":"Just Loved It","Date":"19 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" There aren't that many movies that are well-written, well-directed, that have beautiful scenery and a heart touching story, but this is certainly one of them. This movie is well worth the time it takes to watch it. In fact, we seem to rent it about every two or three years so we can view it again and will probably end up purchasing it, which we seldom do. I just can't say enough for this film. Whatever you do, watch it all the way to the end. Very worthwhile for families or anyone who appreciates nature and a great movie. One of the other things we really liked about the film was the fact that we live about a half mile away from one of the locations where it was filmed just outside of Niagara Falls, NY. That made it more personal for us. "},{"Title":"Treat Yourself to a Sense of Joy and Wonder. Great Family Film.","Date":"9 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Sctmpir's review nails this film, which celebrates a young female character with immense richness, complexity even, and grace. I think that the treatment of women in this work is among the most finely nuanced and intelligent I have ever seen in any film.Carroll Ballard, who directed the gracious and almost unbearably beautiful Wind as well as The Black Stallion, Duma, and Never Cry Wolf--all films that have an almost sentimental tone but a tone really closer to romantic in the classic Victorian sense of awe and wonder at life itself&#x97;controls every aspect of the narrative. This film might seem close to but is never saccharine. It is about wonder in the sense of awe.Anna Paquin exhibits brilliance as an adolescent actor that overwhelms me, in part, because there is never anything trite or coquettish that often mares the role many fine young actresses play. The role here required immense transparency, poise, and nuance.Dana Delaney has the same poise, apparent simplicity, attention to nuance and understatement as Ms. Paquin. No actor is better than Jeff Daniels is when he expresses understatement and subtly&#x97;remember him, for example, in Pleasantville and Purple Rose of Cairo. Tim Kerry is a great boon to the film but everyone seems outstanding to me.Caleb Deschane is a master of magic hour cinematography, which works exceptionally well here. He did, for example, The Right Stuff with Philip Kaufman directing, The Passion of the Christ with Mel Gibson directing, A Woman Under the Influence with John Cassavetes, and Being There with Hal Ashby. He also directed the thoughtful film Caruso. The attention to detail in this movie amazes me. There is not a bad frame anywhere in the film. That, of course, is in part the work of the editor Nicholas Smith.Music by Mark Isham is a tad dramatic but still lovely. Mr. Isham is one of the most productive of film composers.And the airplanes are terrific. The aerial images alone overwhelm me and recall the imagery from Wind, one of my favourite action films. The flight though Baltimore alone is worth the price of admission and it one of utter majesty. One plane was the one used in the true story behind the work.As usual, I am not up to doing this fine work credit that it earns. I want to own a copy of it.I rate it ten because I judge films on their individual merits, not necessarily in comparison with other works. "}{"Title":"Poignant Film with excellent music *may contain spoilers*","Date":"13 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I just finished watching Fly away Home on youtube and I had forgotten how sweet the film was not the disgustingly sweet stuff you get with some films,but genuinely sweet and poignant.Anna Paquin plays Amy Alden a young girl who lost her mother and goes to live with her Dad played by Jeff Daniels from Dumb and Dumber and Because of Winn Dixie. She hatches and raises a flock a geese all by herself. The soundtrack is excellent and the song 1000 Miles is one of the best songs I have heard in a movie . At times I was tearing up,this film is based on a true story,but it is in no way a boring documentary. When Amy and her father lead the geese south is one of the best parts of the movie . The Canadian scenery is excellent .All in all this is a very good film "},{"Title":"An Incredibly Moving Family Film","Date":"10 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" To achieve the incredible, you have to attempt the impossibleThis exhilarating film refreshes both the mind and soul. The emotional depiction of father and daughter is deeply moving and real. Honest at heart, lively and simply beautiful.For true family films, it doesn't get much better than this. Here I am almost an adult and I still chock up during the end. The theme song 10,000 miles delivers a perfect match for the mood and tone of the film. There isn't enough good things to say about it, strong performances by all the actors, great believable story, music at it's best, delivers a message you'll find hard to find in another of movie.If you haven't guessed already, I loved this film. I don't have any bad things to say of it.****/**** starsFly Away Home (1996) Rated PG for some language, thematic elements and emotional incidents "},{"Title":"Excellantly Realistic and Practical","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  This is a fantastic movie.I am also and ultralight pilot and a single dad. This is about a 14 year old girl who's mother died and she goes to live with her father in Ontario Canada. She learns about respect for wildlife and the skills to be able to fly a Cosmo Kite, which is an excellant aircraft to learn to fly for ultralight.Alot of kids in her situation end up on a street corner somewhere doing what ever they can to get their next fix.  Before you can appreciate the true value and meaning of this movie, you need to be able to possess the ability to be genuine, openminded and objective. "},{"Title":"Great showcase for kiwi talent","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  This is a nice wee movie. I think that this is the only movie that our Anna's done, thus far, where she's actually been able to be a kiwi. I can empathize with her character a bit too, having been dragged to Vancouver by my Canadian born mother at the age of 12 when my parents separated.I'm just wondering about one thing though, the opening scene. I'm not sure if it was filmed here or in Canada. It seem to me that it would be a bit illogical for the producers to bring over Transit NZ signs and a right hand drive car etc, especially just for one quite small scene. However the ambulance wasn't right. We only have one ambulance service here, St Johns. (Except in Wellington, where they have the Wellington Free Ambulance instead.) That ambulance was not a St Johns ambulance. So can anyone tell me where that opening scene was filmed?  "},{"Title":"Simply Sensational!","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  As a New Zealander, I am extremely proud of what our homegrown Anna Paquin has accomplished. Her portrayal as Amy in this film is just brilliant, particularly for an actress of her age. She managed her 'Kiwi' accent very well, although she has been mainly living in the USA. I also admire the way the two countries (New Zealand & Canada) have been linked, as not only are they both countries with gorgeous scenery, the people are linked too, and you don't see this in a movie everyday. Jeff Daniels does spectacular as Amy's father, and is obviously suited to this genre of film. The plot is so incredibly original. Kudos to the writers and producers for creating such a heart-warming, touching plot that will leave you on tenterhooks.  "},{"Title":"True Story Brought To The Big Screen","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Fly Away Home is a great story that was bought to the big screen. Even though some of it has been fictionalized, it's still well done regardless of that. Jeff Daniels is a superb actor as well as the young Anna Paquin. Most of the film was shot, not too far from where I live in the small town of Port Perry,Ontario. The fact that it was shot in the fall added to the beautiful aerial shots. This is a great film by Carrol Ballard.  "},{"Title":"Very Good Family Entertainment","Date":"16 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  As a daddy of 6 from 4 to 14, this was a thrill.  We all sat glued to the lives of the little geese, and the very happy ending!  I didn't really care for some of the minor off color stuff (dad in underwear; alcohol consumption about 4 times and God's name used lightly about as many), but I just found the fast forward, and the kids had one of the movie treats of the year! Some of it is actually quite profound, especially if you love the road less traveled and the wild places of our lives.  I thought the entire cast did a superb job!  Some of the scenes left my kids in wild laughter, and there were enough of them to ask to see it immediately again, and tomorrow as well.  The film is good stuff, and well worth watching.  "},{"Title":"A charming and uplifting film - breathtakingly filmed","Date":"24 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  It's twee - but a great film. The storyline may be a little worn... a father trying to bond with his estranged daughter, but that's the only thing about this film you could say is clichéd. The rest of the story, and certainly the way it's filmed, set it apart from anything else I've ever seen.It's a great family movie or one to watch if you just need a simple film to make you smile. This is the sort of film that is perhaps lost on most audiences. The start - without any natural sound - is one of the most powerful opening sequences I've seen. Paquin is brilliant... moody, difficult and just plain old confused with everything she's gone through. Daniels is solid as ever as a dad trying to deal with his own life, and taking on the responsibility of a daughter (flock of geese aside!). A beautifully made - and I mean outstandingly shot - film that should be forgiven for it's twee storyline because it's a simple and effective feel-good film.  "},{"Title":"Good old storytelling....","Date":"22 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" This film may not have extravagant visual effects, or complicated story lines. This film just is telling a great story. It has its goodies, and it has its baddies. Jeff Daniels shines as usual, hes a very consistent actor, Paquins character and acting is quite heard to relate to, because she is quite annoying, but their we are. It has good simple themes, such as the irresponsible father, the new step mom which the kid doesn't like. This is just a charming little film, with a great story. It also can appeal to people of all ages, despite it being a bit of a children's film. But its not The Godfather! ha ha "},{"Title":"A pleasing, at home movie","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I think that this movie has very much the same type of public output opinion as movies like The Next Karate Kid (1994), and Flash (1997), and a few others like them because they take a little bit of time to like.  On the Disney Channel, they show this movie as Flying Wild, then I saw this movie on a channel like ABC or something and it was called Fly Away Home.  So I did not understand why it has two different names after the movie had already been finished.  Usually the movie may have numerous names when it is in the film making process, but usually after the movie is finished it establishes a root name which I thought was Fly Away Home.  But now I understand that it just had two names.  The reason I like this movie is because it has a very sweet plot to it.  It tells a story about a girl trying to fly birds South.  Usually movies with birds in them are not scary films, but touching ones.  Except for The Birds.  That isn't all that touching.  But, anyway, this is a movie with a point to the story and has some good lead characters.  I would give it a 9 out of 10 because it took me awhile to get to like this movie and appreciate what it has to tell.  I do recommend this. "}{"Title":"A triumph of movie making. A family film with adult sensibilities.","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  A moving and mature film that avoids cliches and cheap sentimentality, 'Fly Away Home' combines terrific acting by Anna Paquin and Jeff Daniels, crisp direction by Carol Ballard, gorgeous cinematography by Caleb Dechanel, and beautiful music from Mark Isham and Karen Chapin Carpenter, and wraps it all together into a cogent story that draws the viewer in, like the best kind of thriller. A must see. "},{"Title":"So beautiful!","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I just love these unpretentious, sweet and good-natured family movies, that always conquer our hearts... This movie is no exception. The beauty of the possible movie that can be made out of such a story is confirmed by the beauty the movie indeed is. And adding to the fact that I love Anna Paquin's work, I become in love with Caleb Deschanel's cinematography, which simply didn't win the oscar because the movie is too modest. It is a modern classic, full of good taste and sensibility, with also great musical choices and sweet moments. I just love these movies that make you feel nice, even if it is for a few hours. Congratulations to everyone who made it, this movie is beautiful for all ages.  "},{"Title":"Great family movie","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Definitely one of the best family movies that we have seen in a long time. A heart-warming story that just makes you feel good...without the overly evil villains or adult themes that permeate so many other family films. "},{"Title":"I thought it would be sappy...","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Before seeing this movie I thought I would be rather sappy- but watching it proved me wrong. I love Carroll Ballard's other movie Never Cry Wolf for it's hauntingly beautiful scenery and great acting.Fly Away Home had the same great scenery-this time in Canada. I thought Jeff Daniels was great, as well as Anna Paquin who brought her natural acting talent and made her character work. Both kept the story intact (loosely based on a true story). Highly Recommended. "},{"Title":"Literally a 'Wing-Dinger'","Date":"13 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Up we go! Caleb Deschanel's cinematography of flying geese is more than merely uplifting, like the film, it is extraordinary, and well deserved its Oscar nomination. This charming and delightful film is based upon the well-known fact that birds can 'imprint' on whoever or whatever is there when they hatch, and in this case it is the 14 year-old actress Anna Paquin. She was well worth imprinting on, as she is every bit as delightful as the film as a whole. Now that she is all grown up and glamorous, I wouldn't mind imprinting on her myself. - Give me an eggshell, quick! - The story is a wonderful fable about the girl who saves the goose eggs, hatches them, and becomes their Momma. They follow her around everywhere, but wild geese have to migrate, so she is faced with the dilemma what to do at migration time? The girl's father is an eccentric, beautifully portrayed by Jeff Daniels. He is always tinkering with machines and likes to build what we now call 'micro-lites', tiny planes with engines that go 'put put' and carry a single person at low altitudes. So you guessed it, father and daughter get into their micro-lites and lead the geese south! Apparently, wild geese will follow a micro-lite if it is shaped like a goose. The story is a magnificent fable which is just believable, sensitively portrayed and with fabulous cinematography and special effects. It is what is called these days, amidst all the blood and gore and obsession with closeups of copulation, a 'family film', meaning no murders take place and people do something other than have sex all the time. (In a normal Hollywood movie it would be impossible to take the geese south because it would mean the director could not ask lots of actresses to take their clothes off.) Carroll Ballard directs this film really well. He is one of those rare directors who does not want to have all his characters mown down by machine guns or chopped to pieces by maniacs, and he does not want to invent unnecessary bath scenes where the girls show their tits so that he can get his jollies. He also likes animals a lot, and that is always a good sign that he might himself not be a monster like so many other directors are. Any normal person (and there still are some) would have to enjoy this film. It is what used to be called 'heart-warming'. In this era of cold hearts, we need that. "},{"Title":"A film you can watch over and over","Date":"21 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I love this film, and so does my seven year old boy. We've watched it loads of times and haven't tired of it. It is beautiful and touching, and the music makes me cry, even after the last viewing. The acting is really good. Anna Paquin is very believable as an angry and confused girl. One thing I did have to get over is the fact that this is a story loosely based on research designed to learn if geese can be taught their migration routes- it's a great story but most of it is made up. Sometimes the story stretches belief a bit, especially towards the end. I guess it was necessary to add a bit more drama. It is a good movie for teaching kids about problems that wild animals have when people do not bother to take their welfare into account. "},{"Title":"Very touching","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Yes, it is the traditional plot line of a rift between parent and child....but when love brings people together it is a beautiful thing. The love in this story goes beyond humans, and embraces nature and animals as well.  I liked that their was plot with the family dynamics...but they didn't hit you over the head with relationship issues. "},{"Title":"The less said, the better. (Read on - this is not derogatory!)","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Fly Away Home is a masterpiece of film making. The photography is simply stunning. The acting is superb - especially Anna Paquin (as always) and Jeff Daniels. The supporting cast is exemplary. The story is simple - the best kind of story. The directing paramount. The music perfectly complimentary.This is what I mean by the less said, the better. There is nothing here to fault, nothing to complain about, nothing to niggle about.This movie is quite simply superb.10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Welcome to the Ballard Kingdom of Animals.","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  You know what the journey is going to be from the first few scenes but its how they get there that keeps your interest. A visual treat that left a tear in my eye. Only director Ballard could have pulled this off like he did with the other animal movie classic, THE BLACK STALLION. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Family Film!","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  This was indeed one of the most beautifully made family films I've ever seen. It's filled with humor, family conflict, change, and of course... geese! Any child aged 8 and up will adore this movie. It's clean with cursing to a bare minimum, no nudity (altogether now -- yea!), and political correctness isn't an issue. Whew! What a family film ought to be!You just have to see it to enjoy it. I cry (good tears) every time I watch it. "}{"Title":"Quiet days and adventure stories","Date":"7 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Fly Away Home begins on a quiet note. A car driving in the rain, mother and daughter exchanging glances. The focus goes from the windscreen to the road, and back again. Suddenly and surprisingly, violence strikes.This introduces a common theme in children's adventure stories - the loss of one or both parents. It's the very same device that Ballard used in his first film, The Black Stallion, and would use once again in Duma. He's placed no inherent value in it as a plot device, however, stating that If you're going to have a parent die, that has to be the emotional core of the movie. And that's just what it is in this case. Amy (Anna Paquin) doesn't walk off to have fun with the animals simply forgetting her past. But, in a way, this makes the focus less on nature and more on the characters, which I'm not entirely certain was Ballard's original intention. After all, his first two pictures featured next to no human interaction, and this very thing was what made the production of Wind so bothersome for him.After watching Fly Away Home for the first time in nearly ten years, I was struck by its high dramatic quality. Just a week earlier, I had watched another, inferior animal film (also starring Jeff Daniels) called Because of Winn-Dixie. I realized then just how hard it is to strike a balance between what is 'cute' and what is real. The aforementioned film dove headlong into the 'cute' side of things.At the sake of becoming too academic, this is one of the most beautiful films I have ever seen. Caleb Deschanel's photography is effortless in appearance, giving the sensation of weightlessness far more often than in the actual flight sequences. Carroll Ballard has had great success in choosing the best people to photograph his films, and this is a great reunion for the two since their last collaboration on The Black Stallion. Mark Isham takes a totally different approach from his stunning minimalist score of Never Cry Wolf, reaching for - and sometimes - tugging at your heartstrings. In fact, the music is really quite spectacular throughout, except for a rather long and out of place interlude to 10,000 Miles by Mary Chapin Carpenter. This would have been better suited earlier in the flight, it's current placement feeling a little off. It seems reminiscent of Linda Ronstadt's song Winter Light in a 1993 version of The Secret Garden (That film, by the way, I highly recommend for fans of Carroll Ballard).As this film progresses, it moves beyond the relationship aspect as Amy makes a discovery in the forest - geese eggs. In a way, her rescuing and raising of these orphaned chicks helps her to heal from her own loss. At its heart, this film is about loss and rebirth. This takes the story of Fly Away Home into new territory, less about the human aspect, and more about nature.All the supporting cast is good and effective (especially Terry Kinney), but Jeff Daniels and Anna Paquin are the central dramatic point which the other actors center around. I've never seen a more lively or energetic performance by Daniels - it's the sort of role he's always excelled at. Paquin, on the other hand, is in a rather uncommon role for her, a simple, more unrestrained character. Without her, or another exactly suited child (of which I know none), the film's dramatic half would have collapsed in on itself. But for all the geese, the drama and the cinematography, it's the moments of quiet that stand out.As the film comes to a close, there are certain factors that bring in a lack of realism. The human and media response to the flight south seems as if borrowed from another film. This perhaps brings the story to a bit of an anti-climax. The 'evil corporate developer' subplot seems lifted from other, less imaginative films. Regardless of the slightly weak ending, perhaps no other conclusion would work better, not without a significantly longer running time.It's a delicately balanced film, and I greatly respect its director for that. There's no immature jokes, no animals being too cute, or overwrought melodrama. For the most part, it feels natural, and the characters act like real people. I appreciate that in a youth-oriented film. I've long since grown out of other movies such as Free Willy, but this film has stuck with me since childhood - and I appreciate it more now than when I first saw it as a kid myself. "},{"Title":"one of the best movies ever made","Date":"5 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  This film is sweet, uplifting, and encouraging. Its message says that despite the imagined human authority we dictate here on earth, we as people can and should make a difference when it comes to nature and wildlife.Anna Paquin plays the resentful daughter trying to start a her life over again in a new country without her mother. Jeff Daniels plays a liberated father learning to make peace with his daughter and help her find a way for her geese to migrate. If you want to see a perfect movie and are tired of all the violence, dramatic plots, and curse words, then you should go see Fly Away Home.  10/10 all the way. "},{"Title":"fantastic","Date":"21 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I think Fly Away Home is a fantastic movie to watch. It's about a 13 year old girl who has been in a crash has survived. She and her father take care alot of birds that have been born. they teach them how to fly. I give this movie 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Incredible movie","Date":"1 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" How anyone cannot like and appreciate this movie is beyond me. It has an incredible background in fact and is a moving tribute to the human spirit. It also strongly shows that all is not completely lost in the human race and that there is care among us and our fellow beings.What an inspiring movie and so well filmed and documented. Each time it is on, I watch it without fail. So nice to see true human caring and responsibility to all things.We can all learn something from the unwavering focus and support from so many people in overcoming the charge and many times unnecessary destruction of what is left of our former world and mostly in the name of greed and money. It is so nice to see greed being beaten back! We all can learn from this wonderful film. "},{"Title":"not a bad movie","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  this was a pretty good movie, a good plot and nice directing and acting, it was also even funny at some parts. but the thing i didnt like about this movie was it was just kind of boring for anyone to watch. it was alright though "},{"Title":"This movie just doesn't fly...","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Fly Away HomeBoring sentimental rubbish about a young girl (Anna Paquin) whose mother dies in a fatal car crash and is then sent to live with her failed inventor father (Jeff Daniels) on a large farm in the middle of nowhere. After rescuing some baby geese from the Evil Corporate People, her father invents her a device that allows her to train the beasts to fly like a mother would high above the terrain existing below them.The movie relies entirely on tired cliches and poor performances as a floating device. Daniels is superb, as usual, but even he looks bored with the material given to him. Academy Award Winner Paquin does little here to prove she ever deserved that little gold trophy for an earlier film.Cheap sentimental goo similar to Meryl Streep's Music of the Heart that rips off the truly *great* films predating them, which have far more inspiration, stronger messages, and less recycled ideas. A boring, cliched-driven tale from beginning to end.The movie just doesn't fly.** / *****  "},{"Title":"Fantastic movie; I have one question!","Date":"19 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" This is one of my favorite movies, and has been for most of my life. I have one question I've been trying to solve forever! I can't post to the message boards because I am uncomfortable giving IMDb personal information to authenticate, but maybe someone could post an answer for me? The question is this Aren't those earrings that Amy gets from Jeff's partner stunning? I've been searching for them for years. Does anyone know where I might get a pair? Thank you so much!Otherwise, the movie is beautiful, well-scored, stirring, breathtaking. I was enchanted as a little girl and I still watch it whenever I need a pick me up. It is a perfect film to watch with your children. I find it inspiring. Really, check it out. "},{"Title":"Young Amy Alden Proves What Can Happen When You Push the Limits and Let Your Imagination Soar! Literally!","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERSAmy Alden and her mother drove through the streets of New Zealand on a rainy night. Then all of a sudden, a truck came right for them. Amy's mom swerved to miss it and ended up tumbling off the road. Amy survived, but sadly her mother did not. Amy's estranged father, Tom, came to the hospital to take Amy to live with him on his farm in Ontario, Canada. Right away, Amy could tell she wouldn't be enjoying her stay. In the morning, she witnessed Tom trying out his hang glider. He soared through the air light as a feather then crashlanded in the field. Later that day Amy met Tom's lady friend, Susan. She didn't like her that much. Tom spent his time in the barn, which he had turned into a workshop. He's very good with metal. He's got a giant metal dragon as well as a lunar module replica! The next morning, a bulldozer knocked down a tree in some economics movement. Tom raced outside in his boxers to scream at the driver. It was then that Amy discovered an empty goose nest filled with eggs! She sneaks them home.After school, Amy checked on the eggs which had hatched! The goslings immediately took Amy as their mother. She shows Tom and Susan. Amy is permitted to keep them. Soon Amy's uncle David comes to help out; Tom tells D.N.R. Officer Jeremy about the goslings and he comes up to the farm to check them out. The law was very clear that they must have their wings clipped and rendered flightless. When Jeremy tried, Tom kicked him out. Tom, David and their friend Barry perfected Tom's glider with an engine. But their idea try really didn't get off the ground. So they tried a bigger engine, which stalled in mid-air and sent Tom to another crashlanding. Goslings don't stay small forever. They grew and grew. Amy had even named them. One had a limp, which she wanted to name Gimpy but Dave suggested Igor. Amy experiences further frustrations when she and the goslings are in the shower and the soap dispenser malfunctions. Well, Tom never said he was perfect. He also knew that eventually the goslings would fly and without a mother to show them the way, they'd go off on their own and experience danger. If only there were a way to guide them. So Tom tried to get the geese to follow him around. It worked, but when he got into his little airplane. They followed no further. Many future attempts failed, but when Amy decided to fly solo in the aircraft, the geese followed!Tom then set to work designing another aircraft and taught Amy to fly it. Amy thought it was a wonderful idea. Tom sold his lunar module replica and purchased an aircraft motor. He put a giant goose statue on top of it and taught Amy piloting techniques. She mastered them quickly. Next Barry, Tom and David laid out a flight plan. David learned of a new sanctuary for the geese in Valhalla, Maryland. So they would set off on October 22nd and arrive there in four days but that's when Officer Jeremy showed up to cause trouble. He confiscated all of the geese, but thanks to some careful planning from David, the geese were set free and flew after Tom and Amy in their aircrafts. The trip went smoothly. Susan, David and Barry followed on the ground in a truck. The Air Force wasn't too pleased when they make a surprise stop on their air field, but they're quickly forgiven and soon arrive in New York. The news and media were all over them! They made news shows coast to coast! They were nearing Valhalla now. They nearly crashed into some Baltimore skyscrapers. But soon Tom ran into turbulence and crashed into a field. Amy would have to go it alone now. And she did it! The geese followed her all the way to the fields of Valhalla which would be permanently preserved for the wildlife and as luck would have it, the geese returned to Amy's front porch in the spring.This movie was okay. Not one of my personal favorites. I remember going to see it in the theaters. It's a tearjerker, I'll tell ya. Heck, in the scene when Amy remembers swinging on the tire swing as a toddler and her mother and her dog were there, I was about ready to cry myself. But anyway, Jeff Daniels was good, so was Anna Paquin! She won an Academy Award for a movie she did, I don't know which one exactly; This movie contains that Free Willy formula that has worked so well with so many movies. Originally, Fly Away Home was called Flying Wild. If you own an early video copy of Jumanji, you'll see a trailer for it being called Flying Wild and this is because when that little girl decided to fly solo in an airplane and she crashed and killed herself, the movie was put on hiatus. I guess while it was with-held, they decided Fly Away Home was a better title, but anyway, if you haven't seen it and are into a nice family movie, then Fly Away Home is yours! It will make your heart soar!- "},{"Title":"Awesome Visuals, Annoying Kid","Date":"10 March 2007","Score":"14 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" This was pretty good, but it was not as awesome as I had heard it described prior to watching it. The photography and some of the scenery was awesome, but not the spoiled attitude of the 12-year-old girl who starred in the movie. That was Anna Paquin playing Amy Alden. Amy could have used a good smack on the behind a few times, according to the folks I watched the movie with, so you know Anna did a good job of acting to elicit a response from viewers. None of us appreciated that this family film had some profanity, too, including using the Lord's in vain blatantly once. I guess this helped the producers get rid of the G, which they seemed to really want to avoid back in the '80s and '90s. I watched the movie with a guy who is a member of the Niagara Falls Air Force Base, and he's in the picture!The little girl might have been annoying most of the way, but the photography was excellent all of the way, and so were the amazing geese who followed Amy. I also thought highly of the opening credits and the accompanying Mary Chapin Carpenter song. This would have really been a sweet movie had they made the little girl a nice kid instead of a brat. "},{"Title":"Overrated.","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"6 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I had heard many many good things about this film, and wanted to like it. Other than the central idea of leading the geese, however, I found the film to be highly formulaic.  Additionally, I thought that Anna Paquin's character was very much the total brat with whom I found it very hard to sympathize. "}{"Title":"incredibly disappointing and extremely overrated","Date":"1 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I saw this film a few months ago and I did not like it. Where do i start the storyline is just about as dull as you can get. The only thing that saved this from getting a one was the fairly good acting. The story is simple a teenage girl loses her mother in a car crash, she goes to the hospital and is picked up by her estranged father. then she tries to isolate from the rest of the world but what really made me mad about this movie is how bratty, rude annoying and stuck up she was, and the whole geese thing was way overdone. Another thing that annoyed me was that stupid little chant she kept on doing. She also was not very bright she refused to go to school she flew some kind of glider even though she knew she could not fly it. If you are looking for a movie to watch I strongly suggest you stay away from this one. final evaluation 3/10. "},{"Title":"Almost didn't finish watching","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"7 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  This was another of those troubled teen films that I dislike so much. The rebellious, bitchy, bratty teen with the weight of the world solidly placed on her brave little shoulders. What rot! A very hokey production with an unbelievable story about a flock of geese trained to follow a flying go-cart. I've seen worse, but just barely. "}]