[{"Title":"Chapeau!","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"34 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  For anyone with a moderate sensibility, a moderate feeling of the human and humane condition, for anyone capable of getting above the Hollywood ilk, for anyone who is satisfied seeing cinema which does not have a series of Seagals/Willis/Van Dammes blasting the brains out of anybody or seeing who gets into bed with whom, for anyone whose intellectual level reaches a capacity to grasp, sympathise with, comprehend, laugh WITH, cry WITH natural tender heart-warming hilarious compassionate HUMAN BEINGS, `Le Huitième Jour' is waiting for you. Jaco van Dormael has not achieved simply a masterpiece, that would have been too simplistic; he has achieved one of those rare monumental works of art in the cinematographic world which defies any kind of encapsuling. Is it a drama? Is it a comedy? No it is the story of Georges, a wonderful funny pitiful laughable loving frightened beautiful personality, a sufferer of the Downes Syndrome. It is a story which has you laughing through your tears, but this is not one of those classic tear-jerkers; this film moves through a world that has you at once mixing your feelings of compassion or pity or even shame with those of admiration, warmth and even love. A successful banking salesman, Harry, bumps into Georges they were both going in opposite directions with absolutely opposing ideas, problems and priorities; skillfully van Dormael melts these two unlikely men into a warm friendship, but which is so much more than the good buddy friendship of those having a beer down the road. This is a relationship which develops into a profound needing by both for the other. The cuasi-surrealist scenes fit in perfectly Georges recalls (or invents) past scenes of his life while either day-dreaming or sleeping; even the almost phantasmagorical final scene is totally correct. The only scene which might be considered a little out of place is when they steal a bus and drive it out of the show-rooms.  However, this does not detract from the whole. This film is a monument. Even if your French is not up to much, please bear seeing it with sub-titles. `Le Huitième Jour' is worth the trouble. As for anything else, well, just read the following commentaries &#150; I go along with all of them. This film is a joy, it is majestic, it is unique. If you have seen `Rain Man' which I consider an excellent film, you must see this one it is far superior because it has not the superficial veneer of famous Hollywood-produced world-renowned actors; it has Pascal Duquenne and Daniel Auteuil &#150; TEN oscars for these two, and three more for Jaco van Dormael. Who cares&#133;&#133;&#133;&#133;? Yes 11 out of 10 if the IMDb rating doesn't break down under the strain.Magnifique! Chapeau! "},{"Title":"Original, refreshing, challenging, puts Rain Man in the shade","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"20 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is the French and Belgians doing what they do best. It's quirky, visually inventive, exhilarating and emotionally challenging storytelling. Director Jaco van Dormael takes us into the world of Georges, a Down's Syndrome sufferer and his quest for a meaningful relationship with someone, just anyone. This is not done in a patronising way but with a great sense of fun and also honesty. Georges' interplay with corporate management guru, Harry is dazzlingly handled - shifting from comedy to tragedy back to comedy again with breathtaking ease.The Eighth Day puts similar Hollywood fare like Barry Levinson's Oscar winning Rain Man or Robert Zemeckis's Forrest Gump well and truly in the shade. At times, it evokes the humour of Milos Forman's One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest with shades of Dennis Potter thrown in for good measure.As the emotionally blunted and desperately lonely yuppie, Harry, Daniel Auteuil turns in yet another sublime performance. But it is matched by the brilliant Pascal Duquenne as Georges. It's a movie with uniformly strong performances and so many, memorable set pieces - the shoe shop scene, car showroom scene, George's dance to Genesis's 'Jesus He Knows Me,' the conference scene, the fireworks scene. If you haven't seen it, there's only one thing to do. Just rent it or attend a screening at a retro cinema near you and see what you've been missing. Better still, buy this movie. Sheer genius.....  "},{"Title":"Two very different persons with two very different lives meet on their two very different ways","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film is close to be my favorite piece of celluloid. There is really not much I'd need or want to say here. Except maybe See this film and Enjoy the excellent work by Daniel and Pascal, who carries you through this neat, funny and heartbreaking story about 'spending your eighth day' - your own day! Seeing this film made me think seriously about how I spend my eighth day = my life! It appears, that some of us are wasting precious time doing things we think we need to do. Either if it's pleasing a career or just consuming TV-shows and ballgames. What we tend to miss is the satisfaction of being something for another person - make a difference. About taking room and time to be spontaneous and live - NOW! (on the eighth day)... At least that was what I got from 'The Eighth Day'. "},{"Title":"The Hazards Of Opting Out","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  On the eighth day God created Georges. But the same as an eighth day doesn't fit into the week, Georges doesn't fit into the modern world He has Down syndrome and is therefore marginalized by society, shunted off to an asylum after his mother's death four years ago. She was the only one who loved him.Harry is another man that isn't loved anymore. His wife has left him, for reasons that she is unable to explain. He loses the love of his daughters, too, when he arrives too late at the railway station to collect the two kids, who wanted to spend the weekend with their father.Harry is a highly ranked businessman. He knows all the rules that enable us to succeed in our modern meritocracy. But he has entered a state of crisis, which reaches a climax after the loss of the love of his daughters. He questions the sense of his life, without obtaining any definite results.Harry and Georges meet. At first Harry tries to get rid of Georges, the same as all the others do. But Georges can't be shaken off. And it gradually dawns on Harry, how much he needs Georges, if he wants to get over his identity crisis. It is Georges who opens a new access to the world for him and who makes him view his life with different eyes. Friendship and human warmth take the place of calculating striving for success. It is no surprise that Harry now cannot avoid failing in his job.Georges helps Harry to regain the recognition of the daughters. Even his wife has to admit that the fireworks which he organized were worth seeing. Nonetheless a reintegration into the old life is no longer possible. And the new one turns out to be nothing more than a dream with a time limit, which unstoppably will reach its end. The camera watches Harry and Georges from above, for one long minute, as they are both lying down in the grass, just savoring the moment. But the same as this minute will unavoidably go by, the friendship of the two men, which came into being in such a wondrous fashion, will not be long-lasting.  Georges is destroyed by the impossibility of love to the opposite sex and can see no other way out but to commit suicide. Harry turns into a city tramp, who asks the car drivers that are waiting in front of the traffic lights for charity.The movie describes modern meritocracy as a disastrous mechanism which devours positive values such as human warmheartedness or friendship. It is Georges, the mongol, who seems to be capable of showing the way out of the dilemma, but unfortunately his plea comes to a bad end. However, his failure does not necessarily have to mean that it is impossible or not desirable to reach the aspired goal. The way he shows us is surely passable, although it requires a huge amount of willpower and, above all, the courage to apply a radical nonconformism.   "},{"Title":"Of Mice And Rain Men","Date":"17 August 2004","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Foolishly, without bothering to learn any more about it than that it involved Daniel Auteuil and a guy with Downs Syndrome, I avoided this classic til a couple of days ago when they were offering the video for silly money. Let me put my ten cents in with every comment I have read here immediately and state categorically that this film is a JOY. Okay, you know going in that a major character is handicapped so you figure that at some point the movie is going to manipulate your emotions and you're ready for that but, like most things, it's all in the wrist, and this one has an extra metatarsal. It is, of course, the salesman who spends his life lecturing on how to manipulate the buyer who is himself manipulated by Georges - nice touch naming him after the 'normal' one of the two buddies in 'Of Mice And Men', where the retarded Lenny is looked after by George - the irritating, exasperating, impossible lovable guy who walks into his life after Harry nearly ran into his. Okay, to make this work you need to create a character who is the complete opposite of Georges, a guy literally too busy making money and being successful to stop and smell the roses. A guy who misses his daughters dreadfully since his estranged wife - it's not clear if they are divorced or just separated - took them away yet is so busy that he completely forgets to pick them up and leaves them waiting alone at the train station; who opts to attend a conference on his daughter's birthday, you get the picture. Georges misses someone, too. His mother, who is dead. Time and again in his loneliness and hurt he conjures her up and we see the great love they shared. This then, is the back story and the scene is set for what Hollywood used to call a 'meet-cute'. Here, Auteuil, in despair, his mind in a turmoil, driving through the rain runs over something large which he failed to see. Turns out to be the dog that had attached itself to Georges who has lit out from his residential home after watching all the other residents being picked up by relatives. Now all that is left is for Georges to 'change' Harry, to humanise him if you will and this he does in spades. This is a film chock full of laughter and tears and the fact that a leading French actress Miou-Miou agreed to play what is little more than a cameo as Harry's estranged wife speaks volumes for the quality of the writing. Now and again the cynicism surrounding the gongs of filmdom, especially the Oscars, get it right and how appropriate that BOTH these superb actors copped the 'Best Actor' nod at Cannes. 10/10 "},{"Title":"One of My Favorite Movies!","Date":"17 February 2007","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw this film first on my way home from Paris to Newark aboard Air France in August 1996. The film itself I believe is quite a masterpiece. It's the kind of film that people should be making. I still think Daniel Auteuil is one of the sexiest actors around. In this French film, he plays a divorced father and businessman who has lost his zest for life until he across a Down Syndrome man who lives in an institution with other Down Syndrome patients. The actors including the actor who actually has Down Syndrome create a believable friendship and relationship between these two unlikely men. Daniel's life and ours changes forever with the Down Syndrome man. He realizes that life is not just work and not play but for the living and loving and that's what life should be all about. The ending is kind of silly though but I still think it's one of my favorite movies. It's enough to bring a tear to your eye. "},{"Title":"Beautiful.","Date":"12 November 2012","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have not watched many French-language films in my lifetime, but The Eighth Day and Amelie are way up there on my list of favourite movies. Perhaps it's just overexposure to the monolithic crap Hollywood mass produces today, but these films have an atmosphere that are like a breath of fresh air. Even with (or perhaps because of) little to no special effects to bedazzle you, you are immersed before you know it. The spontaneity and sheer oddness of some of the scenes add to the charm of the film, as does the tumultuous and unlikely friendship between a workaholic and a man with Down's syndrome. The Eighth Day gives you something to reflect on, a pause from the fast paced lifestyles we are caught up in today. "},{"Title":"Georges- a special part of creation","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is about 2 worlds colliding- the one of a yuppie motivational speaker on the fast track, the man Harry, and the other of another man, Georges, who has Downs Syndrome.The cinematography alone is so fresh and exciting- as a visual feast alone the film is worth watching.  But the story!  Takes you by surprise- its richness and depth.I just viewed it last night and the scene of the ballet class inside the mental institution was one of the most beautiful things I have ever seen via a television or movie screen.I also haven't laughed so hard in a long time.  The laughter of Harry is infectious.  Enough to break through Georges hard shell... "},{"Title":"The Mystery of the 8th Day","Date":"11 April 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" With 'Le Huitième Jour' director Jaco van Dormael tells us a moving tale of two complete strangers (who couldn't be more different from each other), whose paths cross as they travel opposite directions. After this odd encounter, together, both take turns heading towards each other's destinations but with heartbreaking results. However, this journey allows them to find something they didn't know they were looking for.Let's get the flaws out of the way Certain scenes may feel a little dramatic but it still remains within the tone of the film, never looking out of place. Even though Harry and Georges are the primary focus of the film, some of the important supporting characters are poorly developed, especially Georges's hating sister and Miou Miou's Julie.But those minuses aside, is 'Le Huitième Jour' a road movie (the landscapes are dazzling)? Is it a study of two characters? Is it a 'buddy' movie (certainly not the typical Hollywood kind)? Is it a dramedy?It's poetry. The film, in a way, moves from one genre to another but it flows beautifully. The balance in humour, and intensity is first rate. The jokes work well and the timing is just right. I did find the ending to be a tad too dramatic.What Georges shows the viewer is that, while people desire similarities, it is our differences that make us unique. Yet, that is the very reason why Georges is rejected by the 'real world'. What Harry further shows is that none of these supposed similarities that people look for in each other matters because acceptance, respect, being open to possibilities and being true to oneself are what will bring the greater joy.'Le Huitième Jour' is stunningly filmed and wonderfully acted. Pascal Duquenne and Daniel Auteuil are superb. Duquenne delivers a very natural performance and Auteuil is terrifically restrained. They are well supported by Isabelle Sadoyan, Michele Maes and the two actors who play Harry's daughter.'Le Huitième Jour' engages you right from the start. It's funny, intense, enlightening and reaches straight for the heart. "},{"Title":"Straight into my heart.","Date":"12 August 2009","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The number of times I've had tears in my eyes when watching a movie are few. And there is only one time when I have really cried and that was when I saw this movie. This movie has some kliches but I really don't care. I cry even as I write this and it was quite some time since I saw it. It is perfectly acted and all the production values are good, but what really matters is the simple and wonderful message. We all know it in our hearts, but it is not always easy to remember that the only thing that really matters in life is LOVE in all it's forms. It's only when we love that we're truly alive. I know how sentimental I sound and I promise I'm not usually like that. I'm quite a cynic. This movie has brought out stronger feelings of both sorrow and happiness in me than any other movies and it will probably always be the first movie I recommend others to see. "}{"Title":"A touching film for good natured souls","Date":"11 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film is about the unlikely friendship between a businessman and a man with Down Syndrome.The character development in this film is excellent. We get to believe that Harry is a businessman who neglects his family, and Georges is an innocent man who craves loving and care from the normal society. Acting is excellent, and the Cannes best actor award is well deserved.The fantasy scenes in the film highlights the fact that Georges misery towards his abandonment by his family, and his desire to be treated like a normal person. The song that gets played repeatedly also reinforces this message. The film shows that people who are mentally handicapped are good natured. We have been treating them with discrimination and neglect, a fact that is highlighted by the scene where Georges gives a present to the waitress in the kitchen). If we get to understand and share these people's world, both we and the mentally handicapped can become very happy.I was so drawn into the film and the characters' emotional experiences. It is a touching film for good natured souls. "},{"Title":"I laughed through my tears!","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Everyone we meet influences our thinking, modifies our ways, a little bit of that person rubs off onto us. The Eighth Day takes up this theme (Compare Rainmaker). In this film Harry (Daniel Auteuil) a businessman expert in sales psychology meets up with Georges (Pascal Duquenne), a Down's Syndrome child on the run. Winning performances from both these actors give this film its main strength. The opening sequence is excellent where Georges relates his theory on the creation of the world and in the closing scene we discover what God created on the eighth day. There are some moments in the story that are very frustrating for Harry. For example, Georges who is completely uninhibited demands a pair of expensive shoes and hasn't enough money. It's the kind of scene where you laugh through your tears. I liked the scene where the Down's Syndrome group on a trip to the Art Gallery escape on a bus and gate-crash the Paradis fun park. The most humorous of all the embarrassments is the scene where Harry and Georges pass a horse-float on the highway and, looking back, Georges gives the driver a rude salute.  But there are some gentle scenes as well, especially the impressive use of close-ups of hands - hands feeling the sun,wind and rain, hands reaching up, hands reaching out and clasping in love and friendship.  This is true cinema which touches the heart.  There are very moving scenes where Georges proposes to Nathalie, where Georges cradles Harry's head in his arms, where Georges keeps calling for his dear Mom, where Georges teaches Harry to laugh..I felt there was a profound message in the film that life is beautiful- the very presence of grass (Did you know it cries when you cut it?), the trees overhead, the song of birds, the little insects - all nature's miraculous creatures. They are all there to be enjoyed if we but lie back (like Harry and Georges) look around us and listen......A beautiful film. "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"22 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" After the Movie GIDEON! I never thought any Movie will ever touch my Heart so badly. This Movie so heartwarming. You laugh and you ll cry. French tend to make Movies too Dramatic, but this was different. Many people had problem with the End. The End was really frustrating and they added that song. I cried my eyes off. The song is about  love for a Mother. Very Intense and touching.Comparing this Movie to Rain Man, Rain man looks sillier. The Eighth Day (Le Huitième Jour)Recommendable for the ones, who sometimes enjoy Dramatic European Movies. Watched in the Original language, don't know if it is available in English Subtitels but German though. "},{"Title":"20 out of 10","Date":"27 October 2013","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I watches this movie not expecting much. Actually I thought that it would be depressing, maybe boring, maybe both. But from the first minute it's really good and keeps it up throughout. You feel a real empathy with the characters, the acting is excellent, the story is excellent as well. I think it is more of an experience than a movie, it really feels like you have lived something unique and became a little bit more human and aware of the beauty and fragility of life by the end. As a criticism, there were a few moments when it seemed overly optimistic to the point of being a little bit unrealistic, but this did not ruin the film for me. I think it's one of the most positive movies I have ever seen, very funny and deep at the same time. I don't remember what part I started crying on, but I was laughing so hard that I ended up crying, and then I cried because it was sad... A genuine emotional reaction. i think this is my new favorite movie and i will recommend it to everyone. "},{"Title":"stunning!","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  My all-time favorite movie! I have seen many movies, but this one beats them all! Excelent acting, wonderful story. You will, as a normal caring person start to love George. Altough he is an actor, he is also himself and a very lovable person. And maby most important thing you will learn to respect & look different to people with Down Syndrome. "},{"Title":"a pleasant, pleasant surprise!","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I picked this film up based on the plot summary and critics' quotes on the back of the box.  I'm not big into foreign films, and didn't know what to expect.  I don't really care for subtitles either.  But I absolutely loved it!  It has a simple, lovable quality that leaves you feeling good about life.  I found myself laughing out loud repeatedly.  I'd recommend this picture to anyone, even those who abhor foreign films with subtitles.  This one makes it worth the effort. "},{"Title":"a real masterpiece","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I first saw this movie, I thought it was the typical love thy neighbour stuff....The more the movie was going on, the more I got involved. Acting is magnificent from both actors, direction was great, the story unusual. Cried my eyes off, first time in my life for a movie. A real must have in any serious videoteque. 11 out of 10 "},{"Title":"one of the best","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I really love this movie, saw it again last week after 3 years or so. This movie is perfect, great acting, great story, great directing/camera-work/music. It is a gift to show it to someone you love. too bad jaco van dormael did not make more movies after this one. Top 5 work. Really!!Today, it's 3 years and 3 days later then the comment above. it was never posted because it was not more than 10 lines. Anyway, i saw le huitieme jour again yesterday. This is with no doubt in my movie top 3. together with Cinema Paradiso which is also a masterpiece. The soundtrack is also really good. I am really curious about jaco von dormael's new movie. I hope it will complete my movie top 3. If you see this movie, rent it. Or even better. buy it. Because you will want to see it again. "},{"Title":"Awesome movie","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was a great movie. We had to watch it in our AP French class. It makes you appreciate the little things in life and remind you to enjoy life. It also makes you appreciate friendship. Harry and George were what each other needed.  Harry needed George to remind him that work isn't all that there is.  George needed Harry to take care of him. This movie is a must see. "},{"Title":"seems similar, yet steers away from cliche elements - 3 stars out of 4","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Though the plot elements to The Eighth Day seem like they have been done plenty of times, the film still has much of the spark, mystery, and symbolism that Jaco Van Dormal's first film had.  Though not as good as Toto the Hero, which will always remain on my favorites list, the movie still leaves us with lots of emotions.  Daniel Auteil, from 2001's flavorless The Closet downplays his part, afraid to overact (rightfully so, the role could have easily been ruined if the actor was overly dramatic).  However, I felt the part needed a bit more realism to it, focusing more on the character itself instead of simply the character's growth.Don't walk into this movie expecting the dark humor and unexpected twists that you got from Toto the Hero because you will be disappointed. However, the film still serves as a decent, if not flawed, movie "}{"Title":"Fantastic Film!","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have purchased this film for myself and many of my friends.  It is an inspirational film, encouraging people to slow down and start enjoying the simpler things in life. Through Georges, Harry discovers that the most rewarding life revolves around the people you love the most.  Life is about LIVING, not working.I highly recommend this film to everyone, especially those who need a reminder of what life is truly about. "},{"Title":"wonderful, heartbreaking movie","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies of all time.  I loved Rain Man with Dustin Hoffman and Tom Cruise.  This movie is in some ways similar, but makes Rain Man seem artificial, shallow, unemotional, and trivial by comparison. "},{"Title":"A movie that touches your heart","Date":"5 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is the kind of movie the US doesn't make. It's why people rent foreign films. It's a great story about how one person, even if he is retarded can make a person find reason in an empty life. Everybody can learn from Georges. It also shows how people that are mentally challenged suffer in their life and shows them in a very realistic way (I think). As its classic in foreign films this movie has a bittersweet ending, but that only makes it a better movie.  "},{"Title":"With acting this good, who needs subtitles.","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A good picture is worth all the words.  This film has the most poetic scene ever dreamed of about people with Down's syndrome.  And I won't spoil it by telling you.  You'll want to see it yourself.Pasqual Duquenne is an amazing actor.  I did not need to understand a single word he said to understand his meaning.The film has a magic of it's own.  After watching it I understood better that we put too much value on achievement and not enough on the people we love.  Passion and simplicity is all we need. "},{"Title":"The film finds its way into the hearts, No matter how hard they are.","Date":"1 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If you would like to see a film of different kind, if you feel the Love in your heart, even if you miss the Lord, this film makes you think. Although Georges is mentally handicapped, you can see the ultimate intelligence at the end, when love gives you directions not the brain. I am not emotional, but this film makes you feel the human being. The film is as good as Forrest Gump in my belief. The foreign movies are sometimes more interesting, yet there is not enough advertisement to make them popular. Rang-e khoda (The Color of The God) by Majid Majidi is another example of such foreign movies, almost with similar taste. "},{"Title":"The humble shall be exalted","Date":"14 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" spoilersRecommended to me passionately by one IMDb correspondent and lent to me generously by another, The 8th Day finally found its place in my best films list. Heartfelt thanks to both.One phenomenon I've been experiencing recently is that when I watch a movie, my thought would be often linked to some others I have watched, recently and even not so recently. For The 8th Day, this thought association process is truly internationally Italian 'La Finestra di fronte' (taking a mentally disturbed stranger into one's household), 'Russian' Vozvrashcheniye (driving away leaving a helpless person standing in torrential rain), Brazilian 'Central Station' (taking a total stranger on the road to look for his kin) and Japanese 'Hana-bi' (the fireworks on the beach). Come to think of it, such links can be extended to Hollywood's 'Love Actually' (a possible scenario if the characters played by Laura Linney and Rodrigo Santoro really got married, i.e. she with a mentally troubled brother). But I digress.Crudely generalized, The 8th Day could be seen as another odd-couple type of story, a unlikely relationship between George, born a mongol, and Harry, a hardened sales executive. The physical convergence happens a little bit into the story, when dejected Harry driving in rain at night hits George's dog. The spiritual convergence actually comes earlier in a parallel situation George longing for his deceased mother and Harry's daughters under the custody of his estranged wife longing for their unreachable father. Through laughs and tears, we follow the friendship developed between Harry and George, ending in the heart-wrenching irony of George becoming Harry's savior while he himself is lost in that corner of his own world that cannot be touched by anyone but he beloved, late mother. 'On the eighth day, God created George', a gift, but also a misfit, maybe too good for this world.There are some special motif in this film that are worth mentioning. At the beginning is the use of arrows, perhaps to graphically drive home the message that we, the human species, are lost. Then, both at the beginning and at the end, there is an abundance of beautiful close-up shots of insects, which some would consider as the most humble of all living species. "},{"Title":"How a movie becomes a Film","Date":"24 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" **May contain spoilers** I finally own Le huitième jour.First time I saw it was as a rental, while living in the US. This movie is a true Film, it is a fairytale, where reality and fantasy is interwoven in a true use of style, acting, vision and direction.Watched it yesterday, having found that it was now available on DVD, and buying it in the US of all places.Harry and George start out as the odd couple, but as the Film progress they become two sides of humans and humanity, George is prefacing the end through his words and actions through the Film, and only at the end all of them becomes apparent.This story is one which I think all should on occasion try to see, it is movie making at it's best. The dream sequences would not translate into words as strongly as the visual impact, the fact that no words are spoken through some of them, and the 'force' with which our emotions and thoughts react to them.It is not supposed to be 'believable' it is supposed to tell a story, and it does that to the best possible extent imaginable. And indeed on the Eight day all is good.This is one of my favorite movies all time. "},{"Title":"Handicapped but sweet","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The eighth day, what was it like? Simple, sweet and slightly moralistic, as it turns out. That was when God made George, and endowed him with an extra chromosome, be it by chance or divine experiment. But when God looked at George, he saw it was for the good. And so will you.The plot is simple. Harry (Daniel Auteuil), a stressed-out salesman instructor, is losing grip on the disintegrating fabric of his personal and professional life, when he accidentally meets George (Pascal Duquenne), a stray escapee from a mental institution. George suffers from the Down syndrome, but is adorably adept at enjoying the simple things in life. The only thing he misses is his family. And on the day George eventually goes out to try to find it, he is almost run over by the recklessly driving Harry. Against the odds, the two become friends and set out on a journey to find the missing links of their lives.Not very original, you might say. True enough, comparisons to `Rainman' and `Falling Down' keep coming to mind throughout the movie, with Daniel Auteuil sometimes looking so much like Michael Douglas. But despite these `borrowings' and pervasive overtones of political correctness, the authors of the movie manage to deliver many moments of genuine humor and sweetness in the film. The acting is commendable too, honored by two acting awards of the Cannes Festival in 1996.Eventually, the film prevails over its imperfections, much like George is left unhindered by his own handicap. After all, don't we all sometimes just yield to the magic of the simple things in life? Even if it is only in defiance of life's other, tragic circumstances.  "},{"Title":"Corrections","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I first wanted to say that this was a wonderful movie, that I actually got to see in France when it first came out.  SPOILERS I want to correct some of Detlef Schwede's major misconceptions.  I agreed with most of what he said, but then at the end he said that Georges' and Harry's friendship will not be long-lasting... That's untrue because it's one of those friendships that has affected both of them immensely and will go on forever whether or not they are together in the physical world. Also, Georges does not commit suicide because he cannot find love of the other sex, which he finds with Nathalie; he commits suicide because he does not feel that he belongs in this world where he does not fit in because he is not normal.  He misses his mother and her love so much that he commits suicide.  And finally, Harry does not turn into a city tramp. He is enjoying life, having a cup of coffee and someone walks by and puts money in his cup, mistaking him for a homeless person. That does not mean that he becomes actually is homeless. You can see this because Harry laughs it off. I was really enjoying Detlef's comments until I came to the end and saw those blatant misconstructions of the facts.  If you haven't seen the movie, definitely rent it and watch it.  It is well worth it. "},{"Title":"A real treat","Date":"22 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film, I thought, was the great journey that Forrest Gump should have been.  It's a rare treat to watch a cable movie in the middle of the day and come across a foreign film that is done so well.  This film is very well acted, and I strongly suggest it to anyone who can take sub-titles. "}{"Title":"Wow(Awesome)","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film was one of those feel-good and heartwarming films.  It is one of the best-acted films I've seen.  If you are open to watch a French film and don't care about the subtitles, you definitely want to watch it with your whole family.  "},{"Title":"good..","Date":"26 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" a great film, one of the funniest films ever. the only thing that disturbed me is the music sounds like flashdance...what a feeling.. also it would be more believable if the character Daniel Auteuil plays were a loser businessman,that would be less effective but more believable. but anything else is valid, credible and even realist.. the scene with Georges's sister is touching , the scene with the maid is moving and bitter,the shoe shop scene ,the opening sequence and some others are hilarious. but the car shop one is gone too far..oh well, another issue on the subplot,he is neither unfaithful nor abusive. I don't know what's the problem between harry and his wife. I think I would stand by harry's side like I did in war of roses.it's my first film about Down syndrome people, those forgotten souls(people now only care about and spend too much time and energy on blacks who are actually the real oppressors today)... "},{"Title":"Good acting but not much else.","Date":"19 January 2007","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Eighth Day is supposed to be a charming experience, but I found it to be largely irritating and dull.The film focuses around Harry, played by Daniel Auteuil, a salesman who's life is falling apart. Stuck in his daily routine, estranged from his wife and failing to be a father to his children. This, cut-and-paste character then meets Georges, a guy with Down's Syndrome who proceeds as we all know by now to help him turn his life around and get back to being a father to his kids.The problem is that we are given no insight as to why Harry puts up with Georges after the initial meeting. Harry's life is in a bad enough state as it is, it's completely implausible that he'd risk losing his job by taking time off to try and get Georges to his mother's house. The humour completely misses the mark, instead of showing us why Harry is putting up with this guy, we are treated to a series of irritating, unfunny skits in which Harry bears the brunt of Georges mishaps.The film reaches its peak when Georges remembers it's Harry's daughters birthday and along with other people from his home steal a bus, take Harry out of a conference, set off some fireworks, et viola! Harry is a good father again and now he can see the kids. For a film that is supposed to be grounded in realism (despite its poor attempt at a fantasy/reality message) this is completely implausible and unbelievable. Add to this the demise of Georges character, which I cannot fathom as to how people have been in tears at, as he is surely one of the most irritating characters ever created.The best thing about the film is it does have two great performances from its two leads, but these are not good enough for me to recommend that anyone sit through it. A lot of comments for this film has suggested its similarity and superiority to Rain Man, this is not so in my eyes, this is a watered down sub-standard effort with none of Rain Man's humour or warmth. "},{"Title":"Not Heartwarming, NOT a joy to watch.","Date":"5 April 2006","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I found myself watching this movie in my French class, and, quite simply, I did not like it. I don't believe that either of the characters, Georges and Harry, were sympathetic by the end of the film. It is made clear that Georges cares about nobody but himself and we are supposed to care for him purely because he has down syndrome. Harry is so caught up in business that he didn't remember to pick up the two daughters that he supposedly cares about so much. He attacks his estranged wife and shows no sign of guilt for this over his sadness that she didn't agree to let him see his kids. I wouldn't let him see my kids if thats the way he behaved. Everything is all better at the end of the movie just because he set off some fireworks. That just doesn't make sense to me. In a movie that takes place in reality, the fantasy scenes were awkward and seemed to be squeezed in to anyplace that they could find and didn't convey a necessary message. Georges's sudden death at the end of the film was totally random and had very reason why it should occur. I don't regret seeing any movie, but if you're going to see a Daniel Auteuil movie I would recommend seeing Cache. "},{"Title":"The beauty of the small things.... again.","Date":"23 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" An executive, very successful in his professional life but very unable in his familiar life, meets a boy with down syndrome, escaped from a residence . Both characters feel very alone, and the apparently less intelligent one will show to the executive the beauty of the small things in life... With this argument, the somehow Amelie-like atmosphere and the sentimental music, I didn't expect but a moralistic disgusting movie. Anyway, as there were some interesting scenes (the boy is sometimes quite a violent guy), and the interpretation of both actors, Daniel Auteil and Pasqal Duquenne, was very good, I decided to go on watching the movie. The French cinema, in general, has the ability of showing something that seems quite much to life, opposed to the more stereotyped American cinema. But, because of that, it is much more disappointing to see after the absurd ending, with the impossible death of the boy, the charming tone, the happiness of the executive's family, the cheap moral, the unbearable laughter of the daughters, the guy waving from heaven as Michael Landon... Really nasty, in my humble opinion. "}]