[{"Title":"Low-budget gem","Date":"23 March 2005","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This low-budget comedy was the debut of Emma Kate Groghan and it remains one of the freshest Australian romantic comedies in recent years. Given the limitations of the budget, one would have expected it to fall flat at times; the opposite is true. The cast do a very good job with the offbeat script, most notably Frances Connor and Radha Mitchell. Set in a Melbourne University, Connor takes center stage in a tale of unrequited love and missed glances. The comedic element is often tempered with dark touches which makes a change from the usual limitations of romantic comedies. The end might be a tad obvious but it gels in well with the genuine feel-good nature of the film. "},{"Title":"delightfully quirky!","Date":"3 October 2003","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  this is one of the few successful attempts at trying to capture the vitality, the heart-break, the ecstacy and the madness of college life and campus romances. this is about the desperate and hurried search of adolescents, on the brink of adulthood, for meaningful romances and fulfilling careers. the terrible reality of their tribulations and the utter pettiness of their failures, the monstrosities of their triumphs and the fleetingness of their celebrations.debutante director emma kate croghan captures all this beautifully in putting together a few days in the lives of group of friends. the shoe-string budget of $37,000, provides for the warmth and credibility of the characters and their situations. clearly this is a movie that would have been a disaster with a million dollar budget. the characters are portrayed extremely realistically by the fresh actors and each of the characters shines through with their ability to convey the humor of their plights.all in all, a delightful movie that does not tax the viewer much, but takes one along for a voyeuristic look into campus lives. this might not be one of the three best movies of my life (watch the movie to understand the significance of top three movies) but it is one of the top 5 English language movies of the 90s, whose central theme is love.5. chasing amy 4. as good as it gets 3. love and other catastrophes 2. before sunrise 1. high fidelityanyway, this one is a winner. a delightful 9! "},{"Title":"Great dialogs, great actors, a great little movie....","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When a movie lover like me is watching a movie like this one, his heart becomes happy, really happy. The characters love movies, they are talking seriously about them, with some respectuous words. I hope that the director of this one will going far in her career because she has a lot of talent. "},{"Title":"Cute Romantic Comedy","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Love and Other Catastrophes is co-written and co-produced by a Jewish Australian woman, makes some jokes on Woody Allen, and doesn't repeat any of his stereotypes. There's an interesting Jewish character or two - including a guy named Ari who is a lothario and a guy considering a circumcision due to the demands of his Jewish girlfriend.It fits nicely in the genre of twentysomething roommates seeking love, i.e. Singles, Kicking and Screaming, etc.The lesbian couple is treated completely naturally and romantically and is really the most interesting couple. None of the guys even assume the lesbian's straight best friend is gay, as I think would happen in most American films. The film student satires are a bit heavy handed, but on a whole it's a cute, funny first-time movie casually made. I only recognized two songs out of the whole soundtrack as it was filled with Australian rock 'n' roll I've never heard before. (originally written 4/2/1997) "},{"Title":"Dull, but Entertaining","Date":"10 January 2009","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" In the last day for changing the course in the Melbourne University, the lesbian cinema student Mia (Frances O'Connor) misses her girlfriend Danni (Radha Mitchell), who is dating Savita (Suzi Dougherty), and is trapped in the bureaucracy of the university to transfer to another course. Her mate and best friend Alice (Alice Garner) is seeking out a roommate to share the expenses of their new house, and is alone trying to find a boyfriend that is left-handed and enjoys the same movies as she. Alice is having trouble to complete her thesis about Doris Day, and she has organized a party for that night in their house. Meanwhile the popular student of medicine Ari (Matthew Dyktynski) befriends the lonely Michael Douglas (Matt Day), who has difficulties to relate with girls and wants to move from his house. Ari introduces Michael to Mia and Alice and they invite him to their party. Along the night, Mia and Danny resolve their issues while Alice and Michael find that they have many points in common.Love and Other Catastrophes is a dull, but entertaining low-budget movie. The story is extremely simple and boring in some moments, like for example, when Mia is fighting against the stupid bureaucracy of her university. Nevertheless, the cast is extremely charismatic and shows chemistry, and the young actors and actresses have great performances. My vote is six.Title (Brazil) Amor e Outras Catástrofes (Love and Other Catastrophes) "},{"Title":"A great Gen-X film","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film is for anyone who's in (or was in) university and fallen 'victim' to a bureaucratic bungle. As the title says, the film focuses on love and other catastrophes, the catastrophes being many problems young people face such as the one above-mentioned, moving out of home finding a place to live, fitting into a new environment, making new friends and finding your own identity. The love aspect is about finding your one true love and whether or not he/she exists, and if they do not exist, do you settle for someone who does not fit all your criteria? I give this film 8/10. I would have preferred it to be longer, even though the ending was quite good. All the characters are likeable and unique, Frances O'Connor does a great job at playing Mia. I highly recommend this film to anyone especially those in the 18-25ish age group. "},{"Title":"One of the best films I´ve seen in my life","Date":"23 September 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I've seen lots of films in my life , and this is one of the best . This film talks about why we are always looking for love, and why we lose this love for stupid things . If you are a romantic person , this is a film for you , don´t think about it and see it . I'm sure you´ll never be able to forget the film , I know what I'm writing .  "},{"Title":"Good Choice","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  An excellent film.   Many will miss the references to life, mainly due  to not living it.  But it struck a major chord with those that have.  A must see if you have enjoyed your college years, or are pursuing them now.  A good reference for those attempting fate. "},{"Title":"Excellent australian comedy of love","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is the perfect romantic pick me up. I can watch it every day-- it's short and sweet. Gay or straight, if you want a movie about wanting and hoping and angsting and college and partying and breaking up and making up and discovering and love, this is it. Frances O'Conner is excellent in this, her first film role. "},{"Title":"Great Fun","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I always seem to love these good ol' Aussie comedy movies.  This one is no exception. Love & Other Catastrophies is no doubt a great film.  Without fail it delivers laughs all the way through, and most times its very easy to identify with all of the characters. I strongly suggest this movie for a video night with a few friends, pizza & beers, that is if you're over 18 )OVERALL  4.5 / 5 "}{"Title":"This movie delves into the last great adventure of love.","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  'Love and Other Catastrophes' lends a hand in portraying the true to life problems that go along with either falling or staying in love. For example; you force yourself upon a certain person for an extended period of time, while forcing yourself to love them, only to find out that you were merely settling for someone you didn't love to simply fill a void in your life. Then a person comes out of the blue you never would have expected and in turn you fall in love with them. This moves also proves the old adage that you don't know what you have until it's gone. Whilst doing so in a roundabout way, it is your basic love story with a sharp sense of humor and a twist of that 90's character edge that we have all grown to love. Truly one of the better movies of the decade. "},{"Title":"Grows on you","Date":"19 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The only reason I lasted past the first 5 minutes of this movie (on cable last night) was the 3-star rating from the digital cable guide.  I almost changed the channel, but decided to give it another 5 minutes, and I'm glad I did.  It is quite slow-moving though, especially in the beginning.A nice little movie, but the acting is definitely the best thing about it. It could have been so much better with a catchier opening and better dialogue throughout... but still it's worth watching.The best scenes are Michael (Matt Day) talking to himself in the mirror, and his subsequent discomfort at the party... classic!  "},{"Title":"What are your three favourite films and why?","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  At the end of this film a major character point is concluded through the following question.  I'm telling you this because I'm about to become hopelessly recursive and it's probably a good thing to point this out before we I go any further.  The question isWhat are your three favourite films and why?Not easy.  I film fan will probably jibber and faint.  Out of all of the films ever made ever?  Are you joking?  We like films for lots of different reasons.  Within this film, the question seems to actually meanWhich three films mean the most to you and couldn't you live without?The exercise is simplified.  The film fan sighs deeply and puts down their &#145;Time Out Film Guide', safe in the knowledge they won't have to include anything because they feel like the have to &#150; so out with Fellini, Bergman, Kurosawa and the gang.  Just for fun, go away and write your answer to the question.  You may be surprised.Back?  Good.  Surprised?  When you have to justify your favourite films and extra texture is added.  It's as though you've got to look into yourself and find out who you actually are.  The chances are you've actually just learned something about yourself.  Why am I stringing this out?  Because when I asked myself this question, here are the three films I came up with and the reasonsWhen Harry Met Sally because I think I'm a New Yorker living in the wrong place and it makes me smile every time I watch it Star Wars because it always means I have something to talk about with total strangers Love and Other Catastrophes because it felt like the first film I've seen about meSee &#150; told you this review was going to be recursive.  Believe me, I was a shocked as you possibly might be.  I thought &#145;Ferris Bueller's Day Off' was a shoo-in.  Anyone who's seen the film already will wonder what that means (especially anyone who knows me).  But it's not for the reasons your expecting.  This is the synopsis from the official website (reproduced here with much rebellion and without permission) &#145;Mia and Alice have just moved into a warehouse apartment but are still minus a house mate. Danni, Mia's girlfriend is keen to move in, but Mia fears commitment.  Mia, who can be a solipsistic bitch (but in the nicest possible way), is obsessed with her favourite lecturer and becomes embroiled in a bureaucratic nightmare as she pursues him to his new department.  Alice, a frustrated perfectionist, is four years late with her thesis on Doris Day as a Feminist Warrior. She is looking for the perfect man, but can't find anyone who fits her rigorous criteria. Feeling the need for a change she falls for the most unsuitable man possible - Ari, a Classics student, part-time gigolo and the Warren Beatty of the campus. Little does she know that she has her own secret admirer - Michael, a shy medical student who is living in the share house from hell and wants out.  Her search for love transcends the boundaries of the University and their respective disciplines.  Omnia Vincit Amor...Love Conquers All.'I've edited that a bit &#150; the synopsis at the website does somewhat give the plot away.So you've read that and wondered still why it's about me.  Are rather you've assumed it's because I saw this film and realised for the first time I'm g-a-y.  Sorry to disappoint.  I'm not g-a-y.  I'm not even b-i.  I'm definitely s-t-r-a-i-g-h-t, ask my friend Chris.  So what then?As a Late Reviewer might say &#145;There are a number of levels.'I first saw the film three years ago when I bought it, ex-rental from a &#145;Blockbuster' video shop in Birkenhead.  It had no cover.  I just remembered the title because I knew that one of the few quite good actresses to be shipped through &#145;Neighbours' was in it.  It sat on my shelf for a month.  Then one afternoon I was at a loose end and put it on.  Eighty minutes later I'd wondered what hit me.On a basic level, it has everything I'd ever want from a film.  There was my love of low budget films, the slightly grainy look, the ingenious camera angles,  story told mainly in dialogue.  All of the actors doing there best for the script, seemingly not caring if they don't look absolutely great during every second.  The absolutely fabulous editing, scenes timed perfectly.  As though Robert Rodriguez had decided to spend his $7000 making romantic comedy instead of &#145;El Mariachi'.  The music from a largely unknown set of musicians actually complements to action, a soundtrack album actually being a benefit not a marketing exercise.But a lot of films fulfil these loves.  The aforementioned &#145;El Mariachi' for example.  So what else?The characters just are (I apologise to Louise if she's reading for the strain on the verb &#145;to be' in that phrase).  They exist within the story as though the writer just wanted people it would be cool to hang about with.  They aren't there to fulfil the machinations of some theme or other.  A lesser writer might have strained to make this another treatise on people coming to terms with their sexuality &#150; and anyone who's followed the Jack-arc on &#145;Dawson's Creek' will know how painfully that can be if not done right.  Like many films in what is become an indie film sub-genre (&#145;Chasing Amy', &#145;Sticky Fingers of Time', &#145;Go Fish'), the characters are quite comfortable with their sexuality thank you very much for checking.  It's not how you love, but who you love.  The fact that Danni and Mia are both girls isn't the issue.  Which makes watching the film a whole lot easier and more refreshing to watch.  Chumbawamba are disproved Homophobia might be the worst disease, but you can love who love in times like these.And?It's the script I've been writing in my head for years.  The students away at college is a surprisingly untapped film genre (unless knives or frat parties are involved).  Not quite teens, not quite adults, its difficult to completely get a handle on it.  Perhaps it's just that writers feel that not much excitement can be wrung out of find a housemate or waiting for a course transfer.  Emma-Kate Croghan, the writer-director of this piece seems to have succeeded.  Are heart misses a beat when we find that Mia might not get her course transfer or when Alice fails to find a house mate.  I showed it to my Greek friend Fani, who is much the same predicament as the characters and she loved it.  Even though the film is Australian, the experience is universal.But the get to the route of the matter, the film actually made me think about what I was doing with my life and my relationship to people.  I realised that although it's important to have your ol' friends and family, that you shouldn't stop looking to be friends with new people, who might in turn become close friends (hey Fani!).  It made me pull my socks up and go look for something better.  And so it goes and so it goes and so it goes . ..A mark out of five is meaningless.  You must simply see this film.  "},{"Title":"Love need not be a catastrophe after all...","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  You can read the plot outline a million times; university students Mia and Alice are looking for a flat mate. Michael is looking for a flat. Mia and her girlfriend Danni are breaking up and Ari, though being the Warren Beatty of the campus, the cool philosopher type with a degree in classics, is discovering a few of the simple things in life. But no matter how many different ways you can hear the plot, it will never come close to describing just how darned good this movie is.  There's no gloss, no glamour, just good Aussie film making, the way it was meant to be.This is a day in the life story, where enough happens to fill a lifetime in any other person's life.  At the end of the day, everyone gets what they deserve, and they all get a little bit closer to that thing we all crave... happiness.Excellent. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Incisive","Date":"5 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The Australian move Love and Other Catastrophes is an incisive, often satirical insight into the lives and loves of a group of university students.This lighthearted Aussie film travels well and manages to hold the viewers interest until quite late on, when our writer-director Emma-Kate Croghan is forced to tie up her loose ends. Perhaps leaving some untied may have been advisable. Solid, believable turns from the cast including Matthew Dyktynski, Alice Garner and Radha Mitchell (except a grating Matt Day) help out. A groovy soundtrack adds flavour.Monday, December 1st, 1997 - Hoyts Croydon "},{"Title":"not catastrophic enough","Date":"14 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The one word review for this effort would have to be twee. The words wet and trite also come to mind, but it has some things in its favour. The relatively unconcerned approach to the depiction of the relationship between the two lesbians is refreshingly focused purely on the internal dynamic, and not milked for any audience reaction. This I feel would be in stark contrast to a similar film made by Americans. Over there the concept of sexual deviation has moral overtones that are not as important in most sections of our occasionally more enlightened society, and there are several in-jokes for film-students, clumsily handled though they may be. As a detached observer of the behavioural mores of this group, it seems incredibly bourgeois as well they are all so clean and bright-eyed. Perhaps this is just a reflection of the socio-economic background of the director I lived in Fitzroy and Carlton in my younger days, and the Melbourne Uni students I met had a harder edge than this bunch of fluffy ducks. Their concerns were, shall we say, less egocentric. But I show my age, and the fact that I never went to Uni as a youngster, and perhaps have a more prosaic perception of it.The story is utter guff really, girl/boy meets/splits up with girl/boy/girl, overcomes obstacles and they all live happily ever after. Deep it ain't, there are absolutely no motivational insights into any character they are all ciphers from a psycho-sexual point of view, and we are just invited to laugh along with then without knowing who they are, why they are there, or what they want beyond the Women's Weekly dream…spare me!! It is a nice little effort from a novice director, cheaply done, and Frances O'Connor is always good to look at, but really…who cares about these dills and their little koffee-klatch? Not even some gratuitous nudity would have saved this one in my books. "},{"Title":"Really quite dull.","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Well I'm certainly alone in my opinion here. I was looking forward to this film on TV, sadly it was really quite boring, there were few laughs (and I am Australian so it's not like I didn't get it) and the low budget REALLY shows. It was like My Best Friend's Wedding, it was alright, but at the end of it, is was like, What's next? It's certainly not a movie I'd want to see again, it wasn't bad, but it wasn't that good either. "},{"Title":"Good film","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This was a good, though not great, film.  The characters were all very real, which is hard to find in most movies.  In fact, the characters, and the movie itself, were almost too real.  Mia was a bit too selfish to be immensely likable, though she was very true to life, but having her be a little less bitchy would have increased my enjoyment of this movie, because I struggled with myself a bit to care about her character, and therefore an integral part of the storyline.  The university bureaucracy was almost too realistic to be funny.  All in all, this movie was enjoyable and different from most films these days that are about action or superficial characters. "},{"Title":"One to cuddle up with","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a lovely movie powered by excellent acting and a very good script. The characters are people you could meet at a Uni, and if you have any heart, you'll fall in love with this. The movie is short but there is a lot of action occurring so you're really drawn into the storyline. "},{"Title":"One Dimensional Rubbish","Date":"15 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I took this movie out for a lunch time laugh and instead was forced to suffer through some of the most amateurish writing and acting I have ever seen.The plot (in it's thinnest of definitions) is riddled with meaningless moments that are sad little attempts at humour. The acting, especially by Matt Day, is truly despairing to watch and brings a new meaning to Flat. Having said that Frances O'Connor does show the potential which eventually led to her being noticed by Steven Spielberg for A.I.All in all, one dimensional rubbish. I gave it 3/10 because it deserves two points for inspiring any person wanting to make a film ie, if this can get made, then there's hope for you.If not, then watch Strange Planet. It's by the same director and is just a much, much better film.  "}{"Title":"G'bye mate!","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  1996 must have been a lousy year for Aussie films considering the nominations which this klunker received. Love and Other.... tells of a day in the life of Mia (O'Connor), a lesbian college student who's having a bad day not unlike the audience. This kinda-sorta comedy isn't likely to evoke even a giggle from the average viewer as it staggers amateurishly through its pedestrian story bleeding and in need of a plot...a burial plot. "}]