[{"Title":"Satire and psychobabble...","Date":"4 May 2006","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Platonic best friends and roommates Sarah Jessica Parker (a therapist who's bored with her clients) and Eric Schaeffer (a struggling artist who also teaches art to kids) are frustrated over their lackluster love lives and recall a pact they made years before if they're both without partners at the age of 30, they will jump off the Brooklyn Bridge together. Romantic comedy alternates between being jaded and sentimental; it has flashes of satirical wit--but only flashes. Sarah Jessica Parker doesn't have much of a character here, and she compensates for this by doing silly bits of business (stretching, giggling, making faces). The most natural performance in the film is turned in by Elle Macpherson as Schaeffer's dream girl; the role is an enigma, but Macpherson's offhand appeal and easy manner gives this fantasy figure some personality, whereas Parker is stuck in a vacuum. Ben Stiller overdoes his small part as a celebrity artist and a young Scarlett Johansson turns up as one of Schaeffer's students (looking like a pint-sized Lolita), but Schaeffer himself runs hot and cold. Wearing funny hats and talking in different rhythms, Schaeffer doesn't really overplay or underplay--he's a goofy mensch, but not a dynamic one like Albert Brooks or Woody Allen. He's careful to give his character some shading, yet the quirks--like much of the serious dialogue--are superficial. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Complete ego trip","Date":"23 August 2005","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" If there is any merit in this movie, it is thanks to the performances of Sarah Jessica Parker and Ben Stiller. Elle McPherson is mediocre, as usual, and was obviously only picked for her looks (if you like the boring model type - how original to have her as an object of fantasy - yawn!) In fact, my theory is that the truly awful Schaeffer only wrote this tripe so he could legitimately molest Elle McPherson. He is extremely unattractive physically (what is with that hair and the dreadful clothes?), which wouldn't be a problem if he had a likable personality. I suppose his character is supposed to be sweet, funny and bumbling, but instead he comes across as unpleasant, selfish and completely in love with himself. At one stage Elle's character describes him as funny, intelligent and good looking (or words to that effect) - I'm afraid she's wrong on all three. How the viewer is supposed to believe that any woman would find him attractive, let alone two, is beyond my comprehension. "},{"Title":"Has its moments, but kinda insulting to all involved.","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie in the theater - TWICE - when it first came out. I became smitten with Eric Schaeffer and thought If Lucy Fell was hilarious. Now that I caught it on USA (or TNT, whatever) recently, I'm able to see how flawed this romantic comedy really is and wondering why I was so taken in by it before.First of all, I found the titular character to be pretty unlikeable. She's quick to point out everyone's shortcomings in a cold, clinical sort of way yet can't even look her father in the face when she talks about things that are important to her. She knocks her roommate for being afraid to talk to Jane when *she can't even talk to her own father*! She carries on this passion-less relationship with Dick, not even thinking that it might hurt him less to just cut it off.I liked Joe, esp. his diatribes (still love that job in Central Park scene) but he too was hard to relate to. He hasn't had sex in five years because he's obsessed with Jane, the woman next door? OK, so I know this is Hollywood and things are exaggerated for comic effect, but what are we supposed to think of Bwick? The guy doesn't speak in complete sentences at first and seems near illiterate (or, I guess he's so enmeshed on the artistic plane that he can't be bothered with the concrete). I could have cried for Ben Stiller when again I saw the scene of him painting (i.e. yelling and hurling paint-coated body parts at canvas) - totally ridiculous. I know, that was the point... hook Lucy up with a nutter so that she'll realize what's under her nose.When I first saw this movie, I think I was 28, and the idea of 30 still loomed ahead. Now, at 33, the idea of two single people taking their lives because they haven't found reasonable relationship material is not only beyond crazy, but it's insulting. (Well geez, maybe these guys would have found love if one hadn't wasted years obsessing over an unattainable woman and the other had extricated herself from a dead-end relationship!) It feeds into this ridiculous notion everyone under 30's got that somehow, single life goes downhill after one hits 30. (I can tell you it only gets better!) Still, every pot finds its cover, and these two half-wits find each other by the end of the movie, so all's well that ends well. "},{"Title":"This is one of those movies that is so bad it will make you nauseous.","Date":"5 November 2004","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I don't know how to classify this movie. It is disgustingly bad. It is not funny, yet its supposed to be a comedy. The only part mildly entertaining is Ben Stiller's character, yet he is not developed at all. Everything else is just so serious. These two losers have it so bad. Oh, poor them. Please! Do jump off the Brooklyn Bridge.I did not know anything about this movie before watching it. Initially I thought Joe (Eric Schaeffer) was a homosexual. After all, he had very feminine characteristics. Additionally, he wore a dress in parts of the movie. And also, there is his hair (you know what I'm talking about). And the makeup, etc... etc... I'll admit that I couldn't stand watching the last 20 minutes, but I do know how it ends. Anyway, it would have turned out better if Joe came out of the closet.This is one of the worst movies I've ever seen. It should get a rating of 1. Don't watch this movie! "},{"Title":"Lucy should fall","Date":"2 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" There was a brief moment in the history of cinema in the 90's when coffe shop hippies made movies. They usually consisted of a stupid idea played out over 90 minutes with a terrible deluded and quiet boring conversations. This movie is one of them.Let me start with the main 2 characters. Both are meant to be finding love and along the way find watch other. But wait you guessed it with a stupid twist along the way to keep the dopple headed crowd cheering along the way. This movies insults its viewer by making a movie around a premise which is so retarded that quiet frankly the director should have been shot. Anyway i digress. (I apolgize to the viewer not director). This movie is filled with that 90's cheese that ozzes from every frame. SJP is just awful and her chemistry with her supposed love interest is as noticeable as a fly on doo doo.Let me save you from this rant/review just do not watch this garbage. It is from an era that spawned some great movies but this was not even close to a rental! "},{"Title":"Pathetic waste of time","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Nothing in this movie worked. SJP criticizes one of her patients for being boring when she is one of the most boring creatures on Earth. Her roommate is beyond pathetic and as sorry a specimen as you're likely to find. Why does he wear a skirt and a woman's headband? Because he's a quirky artist. Why does he run around and chase the Chinese menu guy? Because he's a quirky artist. We get it, we just don't care.The characters' quirks were completely manufactured and phony. Nobody speaks, acts or does anything like the people in this movie. I almost cracked a smile once but it went away really fast. I watched half of the movie and couldn't finish it. "},{"Title":"If Lucy fell and suffered brain damage, she could still make a better movie.","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie on cable, so I can't ask for my money back. However, I would like that time of my life back. If Lucy Fell attempts to be an insightful dialogue film, but fails due to lack of insight and any knowledge of how people talk and recognition to any hint of human intelligence.  Maybe people talking about spitting in each other's mouths could be slightly funny if the writer had any talent or could sense any direction, but no. Evaluating the performances is pointless, since any actor working with this material is obviously in too much pain to develop a character.  Save your money and life, avoid this movie at all costs! "},{"Title":"A new york woman and man search for love in the 30 year old singles scene","Date":"2 September 1998","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Essentially, I found this movie meaningless.  Even though I do like Sarah Jessica Parker, Joe (played by Eric Schaeffer) seemed like an unnecessary jerk.  He who has been watching through a telescope supermodel Elle MacPherson, suddenly becomes turned off by her when she admits to having fantasized about him.  Dissapointing ending.  "},{"Title":"(spoiler!) goofs","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" OK. i don't know if anyone else noticed, but this movie has like a million goofs in it. if you guys see anymore, comment back so you know the scene when joe is in jane's apartment when he finds out that she knew he was watching her. every time the camera focuses on jane and comes back to joe, his shirt if buttoned a different way. like one minute it will be half open and the next it will be fully buttoned. and his hair is different too. This scene just seemed so blatantly obvious too me that i felt i had to write this.i don't know, i thought it was interesting. also because there is no goofs section on this page. "},{"Title":"Stupido","Date":"25 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Implausible betting, especially the way the script brings it and the performers and the play make it. A few twists of the plot may attract some interest, but overall, the film is perfectly stupid, eau de rose, despite his unrealistic disguise behind NY American artists. Some gags are trying to make us believe that nothing is serious there, but the insistence of the scenario, the traditional Disney-type music of U.S. cinema, relentlessly trying to highlight ten times with bold lines all the time any love emotion when it is supposed to be present. We feel that it addresses an audience which it does not think too much good about its ability to feel and judge for itself, or is it because if fear of misinterpretation or direction that would betray the intentions of the writer, the author. Why such a thick layer of musical peanut butter (brain?). Sarah Jessica is doing its best, obviously, but has not yet be seen out of the cart of the series B&#x85; Scenario is rather confused, message stinks the scent of rosewater usual easy clichés. Not much to be grabbed out of this, in my opinion. "}{"Title":"Stiller Life","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I sought this film because I was impressed with `One Night at McCools.' That project had flaws, mostly related to the poor acting and production values. but I thought the vision behind it was clever, and in line with some admirable projects. But the vision behind this project is pretty cookiecutter. Its a quite serious attempt at the primary formula for a date movie, made worse for missing the mark because it came whole form one guy's mind.But it had some clever elements Ben Stiller as a painter who literally throws himself into his work, clearly the alterego of Schaeffer. That's fun if you know Stiller. Its something like his `Mystery Men' character. Another element is the Beatles reference. Lots of writers my age are using them, from `Vanilla Sky' to `I Am Sam.' Here, the target is the famous `Lucy in the Sky,' which is great fun if you know what's behind the song. Otherwise, it is a long dreary march to the end.The notion of stealing a narrative from spying (as Joe does to the Elle character) has some promise too. Squandered, alas.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 4 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"The girl in your heart isn't always the girl in your dreams","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film is a masterpiece...in my opinion anyway. It depicts the 90's romance of two roommates that proves that the girl in your dreams is not always the girl in your heart. Eric Schaeffer delivers a brilliant cast and a wonderfully written script.  It's funny, clever, and it's a great movie that represents its genre well.  Highly recommended. The person who commented on the movie before me, obviously, did not understand that Joe was embarrassed when Jane found out his secret. To add to that, Joe and Jane only had a physical attraction to one another, no love was exchanged. Therefore their relationship wasn't going to last very long anyway and by the end of the movie you should be able to understand that love is much more stronger than lust. If you didn't enjoy this movie the first time viewing...give it another chance.  Listen to the music and notice how well one band's music can collaborate so well with one movie. Think deeper into each character and pull out their insecurities. And finally, rethink the moral of the story. "},{"Title":"Under-appreciated","Date":"11 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I can't believe some of the reviews I'm reading - so negative! I love this movie. I realize that to watch it now may leave the audience disappointed - but when it came out back in the 90's, this movie was fantastic. The script gave you just enough about the characters that you were able to draw more from their actions to see their vulnerability and insecurities. There are quite funny moments, sweet, sad and interesting. For me it was great to see these characters learn about themselves and what they wanted. I enjoyed this movie very much - and while it may not be Oscar-worthy or ground breaking, it remains one of my favorites. "},{"Title":"This is a comedy?","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I genuinely like Sarah Jessica Parker. She's bright,chatty,funny and stage-trained. She seems quite sweet from the interviews I've sen her in. So I felt I should give this film a chance. This film,about two platonic friends(Parker and the writer,director Eric Schaefer)who are so convinced that finding love is such a bleak undertaking that they decide to make a suicide pact if they don't find somebody by the time they both turn 30,is such a mind-numbing,depressing film that it shows off all the pretense of the coffee house hipness of the era.The concept of the film is unique and intriguing,but the lengths it goes to,plus all the clever little Friends/Singles-like humor(for examplesthe spit-test,Joe going nuclear over a guest taking a crap in their apartment bathroom,etc.) makes this more self-indulgent and sad than the ironic that I think the filmmaker was aiming for.Not to mention it wastes Ben Stiller and Elle MacPherson(who they manage to make look remarkably UNattractive!). I like to think I'm a fair and moderate judge of movies,but this film was so bad that I probably haven't had a look at this in over eight years and I STILL have a bad reaction to it. "},{"Title":"Even Sarah Jessica Parker's charm couldn't save this stillborn romantic comedy","Date":"20 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is one of the better examples of how Hollywood have lost their edge, and how easy it is to make a romantic comedy. The plot is uninspired, the acting is unimpressive, the characters are poorly written and uninteresting, and the pacing is just awful. It goes too far for laughs, that never actually come. Ben Stiller is unfunny, and the rest of the cast are uninspired. Even Sarah Jessica Parker, who usually makes even the least entertaining film passable. The clichés are all there best friends who should be together but can't see it, the main guy is infatuated with someone who doesn't know that he exists, etc. No new ideas or even semi-interesting presentation of old stuff. Parker plays a therapist, and I couldn't help but think of how happy I am that I don't have a therapist like that. She should seriously be fired, and have a letter of... uh... un-recommendation written that should be mandatory reading for every future possible boss. Yes, she's that bad. There's a scene of her giving children advice, and she charges them. She takes the money of young children... I'll let that sink in. Both of the main characters are annoying and at times despicable, so I suppose they fit together quite nicely. One final criticism why is it, that no Hollywood film can contain a favorable of an artist, particularly a painter? Here he's presented as a childish, eccentric moron. Is that supposed to be funny? Final thought only reason to see this film is to see the young and (already then) talented actress Scarlett Johansson in a very little role as a young child. I recommend this to women who don't care about the quality of romantic comedies and no one else. In fact, I urge you to avoid this at any and all cost, if you don't belong to aforementioned group. Yes, it's that bad. Believe me. 1/10 "},{"Title":"Yawn!","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If Lucy Fell tells of a man and woman who have known each other since childhood, live together platonically, and are both single and looking for love unsuccessfully. Hmmm...what do you suppose is going to happen??Schaeffer's shot at telling this old no-brainer in If Lucy Fell doesn't distinguish itself in any way and though it has it's moments they are few and far between. The film has many deficits with the most obvious being the lack of sincere sentiment and the usual gushing  emotional crescendo at the end. What sentiment there is seems forced and awkward. A so-so little indie romcom which is watchable but not recommendable. (C) "},{"Title":"I hope you enjoy it as much as I did!","Date":"4 October 2006","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" No mistake, I hope you enjoy this movie as much as I did, and I gave it one star. But it's a gold star! A big bright shiny-no wait, that's a finger. Definitely one finger. A middle finger, belonging to me. A long time ago two friends of mine told me they'd just gone to see it, and I made fun of them. Mind you at the time I knew little about the movie other than it had an incredibly stupid name and that Sarah Jessica Parker still looked human. They both told me to shut up because at least I hadn't suffered the movie. Well I never felt really good about my initial response to being told they'd seen it (I literally laughed at them) so when it came on a movie channel last might I decided to check it out. I'll say that I was impressed. Not with Sarah Jessica Parker, who was moving away from pretty (Honeymoon in Vegas pretty) toward the thing from Family Stone. Nor was I impressed with Eric Shaffer (don't know if I spelled that right, don't care-he doesn't' deserve the consideration), who first wrote this horrible movie, then made it, and worst of all cast his own ugly stupid ass in the part that gets Elle Macpherson (I think I spelled that right, checked on her IMDb page and it looks good). And I wasn't impressed by Ben Stiller's moron because, while he did a fine job of playing an idiot, the character lacked any redeeming quality and came across as a prick who tried to act like an artist but who didn't understand art (like the writer/director). What impressed me was that Scarlett Johansson was pretty good at a very young age, that Elle Macpherson acted attracted to an idiot and managed to pull it off a bit and that there was someone in the movie (the old guy) who felt the same way I do about the clown who made the movie. This movie sucked about as badly as a movie can, right up until the cliché 'realize what they're looking for has been staring them in the face' ending. At that point it fell into that brown, stinky, steaming pile of filth, one of which actually IS the worst ever, the rest being serious contenders.What this movie is missing is something vital to a good date movie. The two leads make a pact to jump off the Brooklyn Bridge. A good date movie develops characters that you could potentially like in real life and so you'd rather see them end up happy. Both leads in this suck. They're zeroes, completely lacking in value. I wanted them to jump.One other thing-when I was in college a friend of mine was an art major. Every art major had to exhibit their work openly for anyone who wanted to see. I went to my friend's show and was really surprised. Not because of how good his stuff was (it was and he's made a career of it for almost 15 years now). No, what surprised me was that his wasn't the only exhibit, and that the subject of the other exhibit was---a kid that lived in my dorm. Every picture this chick made (and I think they were all chalk) was this kid in my dorm. Just like in the movie! And when I went to make fun of him for it I couldn't because he thought it so weird and frightening he was afraid to leave his room! Just like in the movie...oh wait, she liked it. I forget that in movies obsession is an appealing quality, peeping is admired and stalking is cool.Having thought about it I think if I ever see Eric Schafer I'll have to give him a good slap. "},{"Title":"A comedy for the mentally challenged.","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The suspension of disbelief for this film would require a large crane and at least 10 high-tension cables, each strong enough to raise the Titanic from the bottom of the ocean.  In fact, James Cameron's Titanic was a better romantic comedy than this film.  What's that you say?  Titanic *wasn't* a romantic comedy?  Guess what neither is If Lucy Fell!!!!Dorky, dress-wearing, pseudo artist stalks (and then gets) supermodel (who happens to have a studly GQ boyfriend) and then lets her go....  uh... ... okay...Death-pact???????And their *true* objective is to open some pre-school?????  Uh-huh... I buy that one too...Even Ben Stiller (who I love) reeks in this film.The best thing about this film is the old dude in the wheel-chair who yells obscenities at the lead character... (but *only* when he's doing that.  His mentor-esque speech at the end is as weak as every other moment in this film)And I can't believe that the back of the video box compares this film to When Harry Met Sally!  Not even close.  Read the Maltin Review, he's on base with this one all the way. "},{"Title":"A sure cure for insomnia","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I rented this movie some time ago, thinking it would be great, especially with Sarah Jessica Parker and Ben Stiller.  However, I found the movie very disappointing .  It did not keep my attention and I kept waiting for it to get good.  It never did.  I ended up falling asleep.  Unlike other movies I have fallen asleep on, I did not feel the need to try to watch it again, especially when spending money to rent it.  In fact, I could not wait to get the tape back video store.  However, whenever I have trouble sleeping, I do consider purchasing a copy of this movie to help me fall asleep.After reading other comments, I see that some people liked this movie and thought it was clever and smart, so it must have some enjoyable and entertaining value from a view point I am either lacking or just have not applied.  However, it is definitely no Something About Mary, or You Got Mail which are wonderful romantic comedies, yet very different from each other.  "},{"Title":"Very Disappointing","Date":"6 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Don't tune into this film if you are looking for the  sparkling actress, Sarah Jessica Parker.  In this  film she is angst ridden and her male room mate  Joe is well a, frustrated (in every since of the  word), struggling artist.They were best college pals and have shared a rather  large NYC apartment, until one or both find the  one for them.Wish, I could find something positive to say, but it  just isn't there.  An interesting, if rather trite,  premise, completely misses the mark in every area.   Are they supposed to be avant garde?  The edgy  soundtrack, and weird performance/character Blick  played by Ben Stiller, tips me off that they were  aiming for hip or black comedy.  Elle Macphearson  was completely wasted, and half of her screen time,  she was wearing some hunter in the great white  north hat.  Terrible.Whatever.  None of it works, and parts of the script  were so pathetic and embarrassing (i.e. would you  drink my spit? and the hug test), it seems that  someone would have objected.By the way, who is the actor portraying the faithful  room mate, Joe.  Hope the casting directors are  hanging their heads in shame, along with the  wardrobe department, and script writers.Too much time spent on his pathetic weirdness, would  have been better spent fleshing out the relationship  between Lucy and her father.  Did most of end up on  the editing room floor, in favor of more screen time  for Joe? All around sad, check out episodes of Sex and the  City, to see what this film was trying to capture,  but missed by a mile.  What makes it worse, are the  few glimpses of what could have been.  This will  only make you more disappointed, in the overall  film. "}{"Title":"Just as bad as I remember","Date":"29 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I saw this in the movies. I think it was the one and only time in my entire life I've fallen asleep in public. But that might have been my date. Either way, this movie was terrible. Now, I've seen it again. It wasn't just age or what was going on with my life - or who I was with. This is a terrible movie. The two lead characters who are supposed to be best friends are mean to each other and do not communicate clearly. Joe, the lead male and writer of the movie, dresses like a girl - complete with headband and dresses and leggings. In fact, he dresses like a little girl in the 1980's. The lead woman, played by SJP, who I can never hate, is just not likable. Nor does she make sense. One second she likes Ben Stiller's pointless character, the next she's rolling her eyes at him like the rest of us. The base story is interesting and one of my favorites, I won't spoil what that is, but suffice it to say there was plenty of potential. This movie doesn't carry it off. The editing is bad - but perhaps that's mostly the fault of a shallow script and unlikeable characters. The actors can't be faulted. They do their best with virtually no material. "},{"Title":"Two friends take on dating in New York in this fun romantic comedy.","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A seemingly dark plot line is suprisingly (and delightfully) light-hearted in the lovely film. Two friends, Joe and Lucy, decide to challenge themselves to keep a promise made in their college years to kill themselves if they are not both in successful relationships by the time Lucy turns 30. This movie takes a unlikely device and makes it seem poissible and introduces characters who are easy to care about and believe in. This film has a beautiful pop soundtrack by Marry Me Jane, and is handled admirably by Eric Schaeffer's humane hand. This film has great performances, and is a treat for Sarah Jessica Parker fans especially. The theme is a common movie theme of happiness is often right under your nose, but it is handled in a unusual way. All Around this movie is fun  "},{"Title":"A funny film that is in the tradition of Something About Mary","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Okay, straight up, I love this film.  I caught this precious gem on viewers choice one day when I was bored and nothing to do.  I hadn't heard anything about it so I just sat down and watched a film that I knew nothing about. All I knew was that Parker was in it and I liked her in LA Story.  I didn't really even know who Ben Stiller was back then.  But what I got was one hell of a funny film.  Some of the humour in here is so over the top that you applaud it for its sheer audacity.  Two of my favourite scenes are when Shaeffer is jogging in the park and when he sits down to finally have a meaningful chat with the man in the wheel chair.  Great stuff.The humour in here is fast and frenzied and it doesn't really let up.  And seeing as this film is written, directed and starring Eric Shaeffer, that can all be attributed to him.  He is not really well known and obviously this film was never really given a chance by anyone in the business and so it remains a hidden masterpiece of comedy.  It's too bad that someone like Ben Stiller couldn't get him some sort of a role in a film and utilize his new found fame after Mary, because Shaeffer is a real talent.  He has so much raw energy in here and it really should be seen.  This film is what comedy is all about and if you do like Mary then I think you'll get a kick out of Lucy.  A great film, and funnier than a lot of what is out there today.  "},{"Title":"One of my favorite romantic comedies....ever","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"11 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  O.K. Stop Here...... You've read this far and it seems every other review is negative, right?  Why? Because people are idiots. Well, not all of you. Some people just don't have a romantic or sentimental bone in their body I guess. What's with all the snivelling comments about unbelievable plot twists and Joe's clothes of all things. It's called suspension of reality folks. Get over your practical self and let yourself be silly for a little while - you rented the freakin' movie didn't you?  And one other thing - this movie isn't trying to be Something About Mary OR Sex in the City. You know why??? Because it came out before either or them....DUH. Allright, enough venting.I LOVED THIS MOVIE SO MUCH I GOT THE DVD. I want to watch it every 6 months of my life until I die. Well, maybe not that much. First of all, Joe is hilarious. He made me laugh like a 6th grade school girl every time he opened his mouth. He was as funny as Jim Carey in Liar Liar. Why he's not on the big screen more is one of life's great mysteries. Sarah Jessica Parker is as cute as ever, and yeah her character is a little annoying, but she's supposed to be. It was in the script. If she was perfect, Joe would have fallen for her long ago. And Ben Stiller's character was off the wall. My wife and I love the scene where he's trying to impress Lucy with his art=life=symbolic piece. God, that's classic Ben Stiller humor. The characters are wrapped inside a good story too. Not your average coulda seen that coming from a mile away big studio hollywood crap. It has some twists that you don't see coming.  Well, I didn't see them all at least.I think I'm done. Sorry for the attitude before.Yes this movie has a sappy ending, but it has a great soundtrack, an independent-film feel, it doesn't try to do too much, it develops it's characters and you care for them (except Elle McPherson's - who we're not supposed to like anyway) and it has a sappy ending. Oh wait, I wrote that already. I love sappy endings. Touching, sappy, romantic endings that make you want to BE one of the characters.  As good an end as Harry Met Sally. What more can I say - Eric Schaeffer created a gem here. "},{"Title":"This is a really funny movie and a perfect date movie","Date":"24 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I am giving this movie 10 stars to compensate for the negative reviews. I am amazed at peoples reactions to this movie as it was really good. But its not surprising that the masses never know whats funny thats why they have audience laughter on TV shows to tell you when to laugh. If you don't have a brain you won't like this movie. I would rate it about an 8 or a 9. It seems Eric Schaeffer is either loved or hated. Ben Stiller is hilarious and Schaeffer's character is a bit of fresh air of seeing an American male who is not a brainwashed insensitive moron. All in all great movie I would recommend to anyone. This requires me to write 10 lines of review so I am continuing to write. Good movie. "},{"Title":"Under-appreciated Satire...","Date":"7 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is for those of us who are jaded and have fallen for a best friend. If you only fit one of these criteria, you probably will not enjoy the film.The film is set in New York City (and incidentally, only took five weeks to shoot...independent film and whatnot), and centers around two best friends/roommates Joe and Lucy. After Lucy dumps her boyfriend of two years due to lack of spark, Lucy reminds Joe of the death pact they made in college--if they both don't have relationships with serious familial possibility by the time Lucy turns 30, in 28 days, they would kill themselves.The rest of the film is a picture of the twenty-something dating scene and the quest for The One. Understated moments of humor speckled throughout make the plot line that could potentially be depressing make this film one of the most enjoyable romantic comedies I've ever seen. I own it, I watch it often.What I don't get is the mass loathing of Eric Schaeffer. In my opinion, he is one of the most talented guys in Hollywood, and this film is more true to life than most of the other rose-colored-glasses romantic comedy trash out there, where the duologue and storyline are unrealistic and the characters are all way too good looking and self-absorbed to be believable. The only other film I have seen that comes close to this one as far as believability and realism is The Mirror Has Two Faces. (did I just call Babs non-self-absorbed and believable? lol I think I did!) I read one comment that's bashing Mr. Schaeffer for his looks...have we all so fully bought into the media's perception of what is beautiful that we have to bash someone for not being the stereotypical romantic hero? Do we read too many romance novels that if a man doesn't look like Fabio on the cover, we automatically dismiss him as not worth our time? Ridiculous. I, for one, think Schaeffer is attractive, but it's more his personality...which in this film is quirky, yes, but also endearing and real.Fabulous performances by Schaeffer, Sarah Jessica Parker, Ben Stiller, Elle MacPherson, Dominic Chianese as the old guy in the wheelchair outside the store (can't remember his character name at the moment)...even the kids in Joe's school...and wonderful writing and direction by Schaeffer make this film a must see. Bravo! "},{"Title":"If Lucy Fell","Date":"29 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Eric Schaffer is excellent and so funny. I look for really big things from him. Sarah Jessica Parker is a hoot and an early Scarlett Johanson is beautiful. I'm not a big romantic comedy fan. But I love this movie. I hope it goes down as a cult classic. Ben Stiller is also a hoot as only he can be. I recommend this movie to anyone of the age to watch it. It is a great viewing pleasure for all ages old enough to see an R rated movie. Although some may call it a quirky movie, and it is, it is worth all the quirkiness it holds. It is also an independent movie and I usually don't care for those either. Even my husband enjoys this movie. It is one we watch at least once a year. It is definitely on my top ten list of favorites. "},{"Title":"Sweetness","Date":"8 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie was quite funny, I'm not sure what this other person is talking about. Its more of a dark comedy, which is more of my style. Ben character was great he is just so out there, Like the part when he says something like, I dare you for me not to call you. I don't know exactly what he said but it was just such a great line. And Sarah Jessica Parkers character was just as great. I've watched her in Sex in the City she is just a great Actor.I've seen quite a few movies, I think this is a good movie. Its worth watching a few times, I've seen way I'm mean way way worse movies than this. If you like dark Comedy watch this. "},{"Title":"Beautiful & Charming. Very good soundtrack","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film is probably one of my all time favorites (well, I got many favorites). Sarah Jessica Parker and Eric Schaeffer is best mates and makes a deal. If none of them aren't in a serious relationship by the age of 30 - they both kill them self by jumping off the Brooklyn Bridge.The script is charming, beautiful and witty - the picturesque quality is good. Ben Stiller plays a quirky artist, the small kids in the part are real charming - and director/writer/actor Eric Schaeffer does a wonderful job as the ever so eccentric Joe.Elle McPherson and James Rebhorn also stars in this movie, that is a real gemstone. The now dissolved American alternative rock band Marry Me Jane has the beautiful score and film music.All in all, 9/10 - very charming "},{"Title":"Two friends take on dating in New York in this fun romantic comedy.","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A seemingly dark plot line is suprisingly (and delightfully) light-hearted in the lovely film. Two friends, Joe and Lucy, decide to challenge themselves to keep a promise made in their college years to kill themselves if they are not both in successful relationships by the time Lucy turns 30. This movie takes a unlikely device and makes it seem possible and introduces characters who are easy to care about and believe in.This film has a beautiful pop soundtrack by Marry Me Jane, and is handled admirably by Eric Schaeffer's humane hand. This film has great performances, and is a treat for Sarah Jessica Parker fans especially.The theme is a common movie theme of happiness is often right under your nose, but it is handled in a unusual way. All Around this movie is fun "}{"Title":"Hidden Gem","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Just got this DVD as a Christmas present was my  first time seeing it...(second time making this post...sorry if it repeats) Basically the short and the sweet....its not a good film,its a GREAT film....simple......what you need to know about the good points have been well stated in the other favorable reviews....what i would like to know is WHERE ARE YOU MR. SCHAEFFER?  Surely  a man that could do such a genuine and honest film would not be interested in a few bad reviews....People like me who like GOOD film want you to come out of hiding and do something else.So basically if you are sitting on the fence wondering if you should see this movie or not...just see it...you will be glad you did! "},{"Title":"A funny romantic comedy.","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have seen a few romantic comedies,but this clearly one of the best. The story is entertaining and you can recognize yourself in a lot of the story.The story is very similar to the stories in sex in the city,but this is much more fun.Maybe one of the reasons I liked this movie were because it has Sarah Jessica Parker,Ben Stiller and the beautiful Elle Macpherson in it. Ben Stiller is just amazing in this role as a mad art artist and he always make me laugh. Sarah Jessica Parker is sweet as always and plays her part well,I remember her most from her role in sex in the city. And Elle Macpherson is maybe not the best actress,but she is really good looking,and that is enough when she has Ben Stiller and Sarah Jessica Parker there to help her out.Maybe the plot isn't the best,but I found it entertaining and that is all that matters.A funny and sometimes serious movie that reflects many of the problems in real life.  "},{"Title":"really funny and smart","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Sarah Jessica Parker was extremely funny.  Her role of Lucy Ackerman had a very cute playful nature, but was also very cold and distant.  Joe played by Eric Schaeffer was just as funny.  As a writer, I have to give him credit for the humor.  It was a passing humor, that most people wouldn't get if they were expecting hollywood humor.  The dialogue, plot, and humor all reminded me of an independant film.  Ben Stiller was amazing.  What a diverse actor he is.  I recommend this movie to anyone who likes those cheesy romantic movies.  "},{"Title":"Fabulous tale of comedic/romantic mishaps","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Each of the characters bring out a little of what is hiding in us. It could be a hopeless romantic, hiding in his fantasies, or a confused person wanting to have justification for love. You can find it somewhere in this movie. "},{"Title":"Underrated, unique romantic comedy","Date":"24 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A recommendation from Portland, Maine's movie oasis, Videoport! Videoport's Matthew and I may be the only two people in Portland who genuinely a). know who writer/director/star Eric Scheffer is and b). don't think he's weird and annoying. Well, you guys just haven't gotten to know him like we have. This 1996 romantic comedy was Schaeffer's shot at mainstream success and, while that didn't work out, it's remains a refreshingly-odd and affecting antidote to bland 'romantic comedies' like The Wedding Planner, The Wedding Date, My Big, Fat, Greek Wedding or anything with Kate Hudson in it. It's weird that this didn't do better, really, as Schaeffer was savvy (or lucky) enough to have brought in Sarah Jessica Parker and Ben Stiller (right before they really took off) as support; (it's also a bummer that neither of them have reciprocated now that they pull down ten million or so a picture). In this one, Schaeffer plays Joe, Scheffer's usual snaggly, slightly spazzy goof with a soulful side who lives with his best friend Lucy (Parker, getting to act softer and goofier than usual, herself), and who pines helplessly for his unbelievably-gorgeous neighbor, the leggy Jane (played by at-the-peak-of-her-strapping-loveliness Elle MacPherson). He's a painter, she's a therapist, they're both in 29 and sadly single and Jane reminds them of a long-ago promise to kill themselves in a 'death pact' if neither of them is in a real relationship by the time they're 30. Premise! So they both agree to throw caution to the wind for the last month before jumping off the Brooklyn Bridge Joe will finally court Jane, while Lucy will go out with anyone who asks, leading her to reluctantly accept the off-the-wall advances of famous, fatuous art phenom Bwick Elias (a funny turn by a dreadlocked Stiller). Like I said, I like Schaeffer- he's a unique comic voice and a funny guy with a serious romantic streak, and Parker and Stiller were showing more colors back then before their public personas hardened into commercial product and, if the whole 'death pact' thing doesn't quite pay off, well, it's still an unique way to get things rolling towards the predictable, yet satisfying, conclusion. Great songs by the band Marry Me Jane. Look for a young Scarlett Johansen in a small role. Also, check out Schaeffer's other films Fall, Mind the Gap, Never Again, and Wirey Spindell (sadly, his excellent first comedy My Life's In Turnaround remains out of print), and see if you'll join Matt and me in the Portland chapter of the Eric Schaeffer fan club. "},{"Title":"My top romantic comedy Faves!","Date":"12 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I really liked this movie's quirky nature. I am sure a lot of people out there may not be able to relate to the playful friendship between Joe and Lucy, but I think it was a very realistic portrayal when compared to my own relationship with my husband - it is this reason I think this movie was so great. I wish there were more of these type of movies out there, but then again, I may not appreciate them so much if they were common place.In addition to the playful banter and camaraderie between Joe and Lucy, the movie also has some totally hysterical scenes, like when Joe talks about something that one of Lucy's suitors did in their place (don't want to spoil it if you haven't seen it - you have to get the greatest laugh value out of this).I hope you enjoy the movie as much as I did! "},{"Title":"For lovers of Sex and the City!","Date":"20 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie, from 1996, is a sneak peak at SJP's wry take on the awfulness of the dating scene in NYC pre-Sex and the City. There are hilarious moments - like when she goes on a date and afterward the guy stays in her bathroom for 20 minutes. Her and Joe have a very funny conversation about it later. This is the kind of classic moment you'd find in Sex and the City two years later among her girlfriends on that show. Their death pact, while morbid, is also oddly amusing.Ben Stiller is ridiculous and over the top. Joe cracks me up - like the scenes of him running in Central Park - especially the more times I see this film. Though I am a little disappointed about the cliché end, it's no worse than most romantic comedies out there.Basically, this is a movie for those of you whole like romantic comedies, Sarah Jessica Parker and NYC. It's something I like to watch when I'm feeling blah about being single in the city. "},{"Title":"worthwhile","Date":"28 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Although this is only a so-so romcom, i feel that it is entirely worth watching for two important reasons, and for these reasons, i truly enjoy this film. One, it is about as early 90s as a movie can get. Case and point, Schaeffer's character, an artist is as often as not seen wearing a dress. Why people in the early 90s thought this was an okay look for guys is beyond me. Second, and more importantly, in my opinion, this is one of Stiller's best performances to date. There is nothing that Bwick does that does not make me laugh out loud. (eg. I. . . art?) Additionally, Elle Macpherson is insanely hot, which doesn't hurt the film. "},{"Title":"One Of My Favorites","Date":"22 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  No . . . It's not the most exciting film out there or the most intellectual thing in the world but If Lucy Fell portrays a quirky, contemporary best-friendship between a man and a woman (both of whom are totally and utterly screwed up beyond belief). There are moments of disbelief that people may actually think and be this way, other moments of awe at the innocent and sweet nature of friends and children, and others of . . . I can't believe she just said that. I've wanted to say something that clever my whole life. Bottom line it's fun, funky, and laughable and purely a good time . . . as long as you don't think about it too much.  "},{"Title":"hilarious","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a hilarious romantic comedy which I highly recommend.  It's about a guy and girl who are roommates and have a death pact to meet the right person and get married by the time they are thirty (or something like that) - otherwise they commit suicide.  The deadline is approaching and they are desperate to find romance.  They live in New York City and have run-ins with all sorts of eccentric characters.  These two are probably the most eccentric and quirky of all though, and following them around the movie while the are looking for love in all the wrong places will keep you laughing the whole way through the movie.  I thought the ending was good as well.  A nice story - very funny. "}{"Title":"The fun side of romantic extremism","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When compared to other romantic comedies, _If Lucy Fell_ is more than a little dark.  (Of course, I can't imagine a film based on a suicide pact that wouldn't be dark.)  Despite this somewhat risky departure from genre rules and the sometimes overbearing Parker, the film remains fun and true to the spirit of romance.  I especially liked the fact that it does reflect a little more of the reality surrounding single people and their relationships than we typically see in the movies.  This seems to be one of the main thematic points of the film and is well reinforced visually with a grey urban atmosphere, which paradoxically breeds numerous romantic encounters.There are a few rough points in this film which need to be overlooked.  The scenes involving Elle MacPherson don't jive with the rest of the film as well as they should and feel kind of detached.  Also, Sarah Jessica Parker seems to be very fond of using this movie (and any other she happens to appear in) to show us just how cute she is.  If you're willing to get over those (and you should be) and this definitely worth a viewing. "}]