[{"Title":"One of Altman's best","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"27 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  This film is so deceptively constructed that it took me a fewviewings to completely get it.  Not the most inviting  recommendation for a film, but even at first look, there is muchto enjoy. The music is superb, the performances outlandish andentertaining, and the take on politics and race relations trulyincisive. For example, kidnapping really was a political tool in1930's Kansas City; Blondie's (Jennifer Jason Leigh) real crimeis kidnapping a politician's wife for personal reasons. Thoughhis contempt for romanticism is truly bitter, this remains oneof Altman's best films.   "},{"Title":"pretty good movie with amazing music","Date":"18 June 2004","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  I happen to like this film... apparently quite a bit more than most people. I even still have a copy of it on VHS somewhere. First and foremost is the music. Absolutely INCREDIBLE old time jazz. The best scene to me is clearly the 'battle' between the sax players at the club. The music in the club throughout the movie and the background score during the non-club scenes is about as good as it gets. And I'm not really a huge jazz guy though I have always liked the Miles Davis - John Coltrane type stuff. This is my favorite non - Angelo Badalamente (sp?)film score. Seriously, see this flick just for the music alone. And, see it for Miranda Richardson who is AWESOME in this movie. I think she really steals the show in this one. J. Jason Leigh is solid and plays the part of a not too bright, not very successful midwest girl decently. Also, Harry Belafonte is great as Seldom Seen and he just looks and sounds the part so well. Steve Buscemi, Dermot Mulroney and the woman who plays J. Jason Leigh's sister are all quite good in supporting roles, and Michael Murphy is perfect for the part of the slightly confused, yet somewhat powerful husband to the kidnapped Richardson character.The clothes, cars, and look of the film is nicely done (cmon it IS an Altman picture!!!) and really does make you feel as if you are in Missouri circa 1935-1940. Add to that a slightly twisted ending and you have a really good and def. underrated film that I really want to see again... on DVD this time to REALLY crank up the music scenes. I give Kansas City 7.5/10  "},{"Title":"A Fantastic Film with a Bonus of Great Music","Date":"27 April 2005","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" Bottom line, whether you love or hate Kansas City will depend on your reaction to Jennifer Jason Leigh's performance. Leigh's character Blondie anchors the story as a desperate wife trying to save her husband from the gangsters he tried to rob. Leigh looks great in this role, she is fit and trim which makes her face cuter and her character more fragile looking. The contrast between her almost angelic appearance and her tough persona is intentional because the toughness is an affectation, qualities she has adopted because she loves her husband and they are a turn-on for him. Her's is the key performance of the film, the twist is her emulation of Kansas City native Jean Harlow (The Public Enemy and Girl from Missoui). Watch Harlow in Red Headed Woman and you will see the incredible physical resemblance between the two actresses. Personally I found it both touching and humorous; her character worthy of the brave heroine hall of fame. But it is almost a caricature and some viewer will be put off by this tiny woman talking so tough.As in Nashville, there are great songs (but jazz rather than country) throughout the film. It is important to realize that Blondie's behavior is intended to mirror the cutting contests between the jazz musicians on-stage at the club. Just as the musicians borrow from one another and weave each others stuff into what they are improvising, Blondie borrows from the movies and weaves Harlow's tough girl phrases and expressions into her conversation.Leigh and Miranda Richardson spend most of the film in each other's company. Although Richardson's character is doped up on laudanum (tincture of opium) most of the time, you get the idea that she is taking in a lot more of the situation than she is letting on. There is almost a Thelma and Louise quality to their relationship, in part because Leigh doing Harlow ends up sounding a lot like Geena Davis doing Geena Davis. The two women are polar opposites in the way they react to the desperation in their lives; one has lost all restraint, the other has lost everything but restraint.Richardson's character is unexpectedly touching. An emotional bond is subtly forged between the two women as the film proceeds, with Richarson gradually becoming totally protective of her kidnapper. The ending is shocking but you understand the motivation, then looking back you pick up on the various foreshadowing devices that Altman placed throughout the film. He goes out with a bass duet of Duke Ellington's Solitude performed by Ron Carter and Christian McBride.Like many films with downbeat endings, Kansas City is destined to be more appreciated 25 years after its release. "},{"Title":"Altman at his best!","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  Kansas City is absolutely stunning! Jazz is played practically throughout the entire movie, and one scene in particular could have gone on forever as far as I'm concerned. You'll know which scene I mean when you see it! A real get up and jump 10 minutes or so. Jennifer Jason Leigh was at her best. It was a complex role and her development of the character was incredible. Belefonte was chilling! Altman really picked up a sense of the time and place. This is a must see for jazz fans.  "},{"Title":"Celluloid Jazz","Date":"4 March 2009","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" You know what I didn't do today? I didn't vote. &#x96; Carolyn StiltonI absolutely hated Kansas City upon first viewing. Its pace seemed strange, its flashbacks seemed oddly placed, its camera seemed to dwell on unimportant details and none of its characters seemed to exist to propel any clearly defined story forward. In other words, though I'd seen virtually every other Robert Altman film, Kansas City still left me in a state of bewilderment.But as is often the case with Altman, Kansas City began to make sense - in so far as Altman desires to make sense; his films seem to embrace a certain chaos - upon second viewing. Filled with loving shots of jazz musicians, the film is itself a jazzy tone poem, Altman coming at the audience from odd angles, asking us to pick up on his shifting rhythms of plot and character, themes of race, politics, violence and money. Consider the subtle juxtapositions Altman weaves into the film...A poor white man (Johnny O'Hara) paints his face black and robs a wealthy black man. Seeking assistance, the black man visits a powerful black crime boss called Seldom Seen. Seldom agrees to help, kidnaps Johnny and kills him.In contrast, Johnny's wife (Blondie O'Hara) kidnaps a wealthy white woman (Carolyn Stilton) while she applies a white beauty mask. Carolyn is married to Henry Stilton, a powerful politician. Blondie wants Henry to negotiate with the crime lord so that she may get her husband back. Blondie is eventually killed by Carolyn Stilton. While this drama is unfolding, other characters enter the mix. A young Charlie Parker, years away from musical fame, finds a pregnant black girl. He takes her to a maternity ward. Meanwhile, we learn that Blondie had her baby aborted because Johnny didn't want kids.Similarly, a poor black cab driver (who helped Johnny stage his robbery) is taken to a back alleyway and killed by Seldom and his gang. In contrast, Henry Stilton's goons kill a white man in broad daylight because he was hampering their efforts to falsify local election ballots.And so on and on it goes, Altman juxtaposing his jazz notes, Kansas City less a linear narrative than a series of contrasting sequences or oppositional musical riffs, some obvious, some subtle, but all revolving around class, race and gender. Blackface paint is mirrored to white beauty cream, black crime lords are mirrored to corrupt white politicians, political thugs are mirrored to violent gangsters, abortions are mirrored to pregnancies, loving marriages are mirrored to loveless couples, poverty is mirrored to power, underground gambling joints and brothels are mirrored to above ground poll booths and ballot stations.Blondie O'Hara, the young kidnapper, is herself contrasted with Carolyn Stilton, the woman she kidnaps. Blondie loves her husband and would do anything for him. Mrs Stilton, in contrast, is constantly doped up on opium and has long given up on her marriage. Furthermore, Blondie is constantly emulating Kansas City native Jean Harlow, an actress whom she idolises. This notion of narrative emulation is itself intended to mirror the cutting contests between the jazz musicians sprinkled throughout the film. Just as the musicians borrow from one another and weave each other's material into what they are improvising, Blondie borrows from the movies and weaves Harlow's tough girl phrases and expressions into her conversation. But Blondie's toughness is all a facade, a suit of armour used to compensate for her petite size and coarse environment. While Blondie gives up her child and is constantly subservient to her husband, it is Carolyn Stilton who possesses true strength. Despite her permanently doped up state, Carolyn constantly gives the impression that she knows more than she's letting on, always absorbing information and assessing her surroundings. Her final line, I didn't vote, itself lets us know that she has long cut herself off from a venal world which she refuses to legitimize.And so with Kansas City - a film which ends with a crime lord counting money in the dark corners of a jazz club - Altman has abstracted the politics of power and persuasion, threat and privilege. Everything in the film hinges on social power, Altman drawing a clean line between those violent people who wield power and all those pathetic dreamers who try to grab it but never succeed in doing so for more than a fleeting moment.The political corruption of the city's democratic machine (the country was built on voting fraud and rigged elections; practises common even today), and the expanding influence of Hollywood (and the power of film to seduce and destroy people such as Blondie), is as important to Altman as the racial segregation that produces Kansas City's two worlds the white world, dominated by the Stilton's, and the inverted black world of Seldom Seen, a vampiric world of music which seems to only come to life long after the surface world has gone to sleep.The film is also unique in the way it offers jazz music an unprecedented role within the diegetic world. This music is constantly seeping into he story, providing a kind of tapestry for the characters to perform against. The result is that the jazz music seems to become intertwined with the very social climate that influences it. Altman himself has said that it was his intention that jazz be the structure of the entire film. Whilst a typical song lasts 3 minutes, a jazz tune lasts as much as 17, the effect being that many of the film's scenes are elongated and purposefully stretched out. Seldom Seen is like a brass instrument, Altman says, when it's his turn to solo, he does long monologues and riffs. But the discussions of the two women are like reed instruments, saxophones having duets.8/10 - Best appreciated as a kind of cinematic jazz, the plot lethargically frustrating as it intrigues. "},{"Title":"I found the movie very interesting","Date":"6 August 2005","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" The movie was obviously a musical satire of the political and social conditions in Americain that era (and to some degree today. Even if Altman did experience it first hand, he it he obviously did research and wrote as well as directed a movie that was right on the money. I found everyone's performance to be excellent and if you could not understand some of Belafontes lines it didn't detract from his role, nor did the performances of the rest of the cast as the movie was meant to make you think............as well as be entertained. As for a story line..........unless you know nothing of the past........it was right in your face. "},{"Title":"improvise","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" Jennifer Jason Leigh plays a desperate woman who tries to rescue her boyfriend (Dermot Mulrooney) from the hands of local black mobsters led by Harry Belafonte, who have made him a prisoner after he robbed one of them. She kidnaps the laudnum addicted wife (Miranda Richardson) of a Roosevelt political adviser (Michael Murphy) in an effort to somehow get enough leverage to achieve her goal. The Kansas City of the Depression setting looks pretty real and wide open, not only for crime but also political fraud. Robert Altman made a great character for Steve Buscemi as a brutal political operative who's assigned to get out the vote by any and all means possible, including the use of baseball bats, but he failed to give him enough space. Nonetheless, he's just another part of this mosaic of the period, and does well enough with the meager scenes he has. Jennifer Jason Leigh is at the film's center while social, political, and economic forces swirl around her. She affects a Jean Harlow persona throughout the film, and in one scene is actually in a theater watching a Jean Harlow film. The tough girl act conceals her real life existence as yet another victim of the Great Depression of the 1930's. By the end of the film she appears on screen with her hair dyed platinum blond and in an all white evening gown, actually becoming the famous actress who died so young. While the film meanders around, going into and out of crooked politics, race, teen pregnancy, drugs, etc...and in and out of the Hey-Hey Club with the ongoing birth of blues and bebop, the ending that punctuates the kernel of a plot is quite an exclamation point and is well worth the wait. "},{"Title":"A question about the ending","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" These comments about the movie and a question. I enjoyed the movie, the music , and the feel of the film. It seemed very authentic the sets, the lighting, costumes and the extras in the background. Also the social atmosphere that was presented in the film of class, race and economics was very effective. I was mesmerized watching as the film progressed. However, I am at a lost as to what it was about when it got to the end. Can anyone please explain the ending? I saw the movie twice and must have missed something. Why did the politician's wife kill the crook's wife? How did her husband know that this would happen and was outside the house waiting for his wife, who wordlessly gets in the car with him. Thanks. "},{"Title":"Rhythm","Date":"17 March 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" I am an unabashed admirer of the personal in film. I suppose cinematic personality can be expressed in a variety of ways, but I value it most when its from a filmmaker, and it affects the cinematic vocabulary. I like Altman. Yes, I like certain films of his these stand on their own outside of the long term dialog I've had with him.But I like the dialog as well, that long languid experience of punctuated experiments in his worlds and then mine.What he does, where his core experiments are rooted is in the rhythm of how he puts his films together. Its unlike anything else that could be considered competently relevant in film. His interest is in the notion of discovered pace.To understand why this is so weird, and sometimes so unsettling, you have to understand that there are very strict conventions in the business about what viewers will accept in terms of the pace, arc and rhythm of a film. Editors and filmmakers learn these conventions either through understanding the theory, through intuition or experience, depending on their approach. Its very, very narrow, what these allow.Regular readers of my comment know I believe that TeeVee is one of the worst evils we face. It is because it forces this vocabulary to be ever more narrow, constriction the visual imagination of a whole planet.Altman is a sort of Moses in this environment, trying every escape he can imagine. He tries to let actors surprise the camaraman and editor. He tries strange overlaps in scenes. He tries all sorts of parallel narratives. He particularly likes to juggle several layers of the narrative at once with contradictory, even warring cadences.Here what he does is work with three rhythms. The first is the obvious one, jazz, and particularly the style originating in Kansas City.The style can be directly attributable to the type of political corruption that dominated the town, extreme even when compared to Chicago and St Louis. The corruption is based on a sort of lie that pretends to be the truth but is bent. You can see it here in the voting. In Chicago at this time there would be no pretense dead people's ballots would simply appear in the ballot box without the show of hiring bodies to cast them. Blacks would simply be ignored at best without the church performing nominal help (and then lynching). (This church-influenced near-truth politics still dominates the town, even famously to the court system. You do not want a trial in Kansas City.)So we have the jazz playing, and influencing the action while political power and helping a 14 year old pregnant black girl are suspended. Its a particular trading of phrases that if you listen you can see reflected in the structure particularly the twisted flash-forwards of the narrative arrangement.Then you have the characters of the two women, each with their own world-rhythms. The character played by Jason Leigh is typical of what she can do personality-wise. Here it actually matters because of the way she pushes the future with the way she shapes words with an aggressive mouth. There's much to say here in the story about how this is folded into a similar character-induced pacing devised by Jean Harlow, who Leigh's character emulates. Harlow was in fact from Kansas City and her style was self-consciously KC jazz- influenced.The other character is played by Miranda Richardson, who (unlike her sister) had at the time a reputation for stiff English types. Here she plays something like that, one of those third generation frontier types with corn aristocracy, now turned vapid from drugs. Its a pretty layered performance, every big as complex as Leigh's. She also has a sort of nonlinear time based on rewriting and scrambling.Its an amazing construction, a thrilling experiment. By design, it lacks the sort of pace you come to expect. That's the point. Anyone who complains that it doesn't do well pacewise, just doesn't get it and if they were in the movie, would be disemboweled and then shot by a bullet through your girlfriend.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"A very special movie","Date":"21 October 1998","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie is by no means a box office magnet, but it is a unique and excellent film about a special time and place the Kansas City underworld of 1934 and Kansas City jazz of that period. If you are at all interested in this period you will love this movie. Jennifer Jason Leigh is simply astonishing.  "}{"Title":"Rich Textured Visuals","Date":"12 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" A kidnapping and a robbery move the plot forward in a film that's less about plot than about cultural ambiance. Kansas City is mostly a cinematic expression of place and time. It's 1934, when gangsters and jazz ruled and Blacks and Whites went their separate ways.Visuals are very dark. And though the film is in color, tints are muted, which conveys a nostalgic, sentimental mood. The thin plot takes place largely at night. And the plot alternates with dark interior scenes at the Hey Hey Club, a risqué, all-Black speakeasy where an all-Black band jives free-form jazz, and where illegal gambling fills the back rooms.None of the characters are sympathetic. But I don't think they're supposed to be. They're archetypes, models of desperate people in desperate times. A gun-wielding gangster's girl named Blondie (Jennifer Jason Leigh) wants to be like Jean Harlow. Mrs. Stilton (Miranda Richardson) is a wealthy, spaced-out politician's wife. Seldom Seen (based on a real-life person and played by Harry Belafonte) is the cigar smoking godfather who rules the dark, smoky Hey Hey Club with an iron fist and who likes to stand around giving lectures to people.The script's dialogue is mostly subtext, with message directed less at other characters than at viewers. And, as in other Altman films, then-current politics dance around the edges of the seedy story. The overall tone mixes depression with desperation.For me this is an easy film to judge. The characters and plot I cared for not at all. Jennifer Jason Leigh was painful to watch. And though the jazz is performed with great competence, its free-form, improvisational style is too contemporary to reflect the 1930s. On the other hand, Miranda Richardson gives a fine performance. Attention to detail in costumes, sets, props, and storefront exteriors make the film come alive with era realism. And lighting is absolutely terrific.If you go into this movie expecting a deep story and well-constructed plot, you'll be disappointed. Absorb the overall texture of the film's visuals. Kansas City is a terrific visual portrait of a specific place at a specific time. "},{"Title":"A bonanza for jazz lovers - one of Mr Altman's more personal works","Date":"4 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" God knows English politics is corrupt,but America seems to have raised duplicity to another level.Wheeling,dealing,threatening,bribing,snouts deep in the trough....I would have to be held at gunpoint before I'd vote for anybody.In the poor black Wards of Kansas City in the mid 1930s it doesn't matter who you vote for,your life is not going to get any better,the successful politico is just going to get richer. With a plot and characters remarkably similar to early Runyon,Mr Altman parallels the development of KC jazz with its turbulent social history. For lovers of Bennie Moten/Count Basie type music the movie is at least an aural treat;for the average moviegoer,Kansas City is very much a curate's egg. Unless you are at least familiar with Hawk,Pres,Bird and Jean Harlow your enjoyment of the movie may well be limited to the amount of admiration you have for Mr Altman's more personal work. With all due respect to the acting talent involved,no one apart from the much - maligned Miss J.J. Leigh has much to work with.As Blondie she has the only role that actually develops during the course of the film. In an era when movies were enormously influential her conscious morphing into a Jean Harlow persona is touching rather than laughable. With Kansas City,Mr Altman continued to plough his lonely furrow.That it was not a great commercial success is hardly surprising,but admirers of maverick works will get pleasure from it.Jazz loving moviegoers,themselves to some degree mavericks,scouring the schedules in a usually vain attempt to satisfy both their Joneses,should seize the moment. "},{"Title":"A must for real jazz fans","Date":"26 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" The music is superb. The movie is so-so. The period sets are perfect and its just like being back in KC during the infamous Pendergast era. Altman made this movie as a paean to his hometown and the music that came out of it. One cannot divorce the music from the movie. Either you are a jazz fan or you're not. If you're not, you won't like this movie. Its that simple. If you are, you are really in for a treat. The film features all of the new stars in jazz from the mid-90's (James Carter and Craig Handy on saxes, Mark Whitfield on guitar, Geri Allen and Cyrus Chestnut on piano....the list goes on and on. They all play the legends of jazz that came out of Kansas City-people like Count Basie, Joe Williams, Lester Young and Coleman Hawkins. A veritable treat for the in-the-know jazz fan but probably a bore for anyone else. Altman stays on the music longer than most directors would because this is a film about the music as much as it is about the plot. And here's the real irony. Movie buffs will say they wished Altman wouldn't have devoted so much time to the music and jazz buffs will say they wished Altman would have done away with the ridiculous, annoying plot and grating performance by Jennifer Jason Leigh and focused entirely on the music. How to please everyone? The end result is uneven but there's enough here to keep all parties interested.If any actor should be singled out, it should be Harry Belafonte. His turn as the underworld kingpin, Seldom Seen, is fantastic. He speaks in a low, gruff rasp but his dialogue is truly worth the effort to understand. When he goes off on the Marcus Garvey speech, its worth the price of admission. Of course, it helps to know who Marcus Garvey was. Jazz fans (and reggae fans, too) will get it. After all, this is a movie for them/us. "},{"Title":"It's about the MUSIC, the plot is secondary","Date":"16 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" Robert Altman was born and raised in Kansas City. This film was, by his description, intended as a tribute to the music he remembers hearing while growing up. 1934 was the highpoint of the Pendergas Machine's political strength in Kansas City, and nothing shown in the movie is beyond reality.But, the music is the thing. I heard an interview with Altman before I saw the film, and it really helped me understand what was going on. Essentially, the whole thing is structured like a tune. There's an exposition of 2 separate themes (the Leigh/Richardson story and the Hey Hey Club); those themes are expanded, developed, torn up, put back together, and finally, combined. The plot of Leigh/Richardson's story is secondary to the music. Heck, the plot of Seldom Seen's story is secondary to the music. The performances are pretty good, even if they aren't all really true to the Kansas City style--but, check out Indiana for as close to the real thing as you'll hear anywhere outside of a Benny Moten collection. For pure musical heaven, the closing credits with Solitude (Ellington) is done with so much taste by Christian McBride and Ron Carter. Pure magic, especially on first viewing in a theater. Thank you, Mr Altman! "},{"Title":"It was a great experience!","Date":"21 November 2006","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" I was an extra in the film and it was an illuminating experience. We shot the Union Station scenes in 98 degree heat (no AC) and in winter costumes! I was wearing a wool dress, real silk stockings, leather heels and a BEAVER coat! Oh yes, and I was 6 months pregnant! Despite the sweat involved, it was a blast and I am glad I had the experience. Not only was I paid to be in a film, but the caterer was fabulous, the people were very interesting, and it's cool that I can see myself on the screen. I would let my kids see it, but 90% of the movie isn't exactly kid- friendly! I was sorry to hear of Mr. Altman's death - he was one in a trillion. Glad so many people enjoyed the film... "},{"Title":"A Good Altman With All That Jazz But It's A Little Bit Confusing","Date":"4 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" After a new born to a new audience with excellent The Player and Short Cuts and slip down with the weird and unfunny Prét-à-Porter, the master of the independent cinema Robert Altman gets back with a minor but interesting work in Kansas City. Here, he reveals the dangerous Kansas City of the 1930's with their corrupt politicians, scary mobsters and people involved with all this world without noticing the danger right ahead.In the 1930's the young and beautiful Blondie (Jennifer Jason Leigh) kidnaps Carolyn (Miranda Richardson) the wife of a powerful politician (Michael Murphy) who can help her to save her boyfriend Johnny (Dermot Mulroney), a little burglar who stole an important big shot in the crime world, and now he's going to be killed by another powerful mob figure, the gangster Seldom Seen (Harry Belafonte). The frightened Carolyn is dragged away along with Blondie to several places in town, trying to get along with each other, which doesn't work quite well because of their different backgrounds. Blondie is addicted to the films of Jean Harlow and she keeps annoying her hostage all the way; while Carolyn is an addicted to opium that barely gets out of the house, suffering with her addiction. In the meantime the politician keeps dealing with the case, in a very discreet way to not ruin his future election that its getting ahead and because of his proximity with President Roosevelt. On the other part of town, Johnny has the chance to know more about what the real world of crime really is, listening to Seldom's menacing stories and to lots of jazz that is played in his captivity. Besides these two kidnaps there's a subplot concerning a girl who came to town to get an abortion and a political scandal involving a party which is buying votes to win the election using of deadly tactics. The same team of writers who signed Short Cuts tries to unite several characters that follow the same path in several situations having as link the jazz as musical background played in almost every scene. As I said, they tried to unite them but they end up confusing the public by dividing two situations, apparently disconnected, that will meet in the end, and until it get to the final result you keep wondering what's the reason for both kidnaps. When the two parts get together it all makes sense but before some answers appear many will have walked away of the movie because everything is slow, almost tedious. The perfect Short Cuts which tells the story of 23 characters crossing the way of each other in a chaotic Los Angeles, in a excellent tragicomedy of the real life, gets way better than Kansas City with their 6 main characters. On the other hand this confusion in dividing the film in two situations makes a intriguing film that makes the audience wants to know of what happens next.As favorable points, Kansas City has a great period reconstitution, the costumes of the 1930's, the old cars; the music (Altman worked the same musicians who appeared in his documentary Jazz 34); and a great performance by Harry Belafonte as the talking gangster who has an answer to everything. Michael Murphy surprises a lot in his short moments in which he appears; the other performances are not so interesting, sometimes they are very annoying, and that is the case of the main pair. Jennifer Jason Leigh's voice is tiring and very debauched for a dramatic film; Miranda Richardson has a very aloof character, a role that she would dominate better in the great Falling Angels.Robert Altman made a good job despite not being too much impressive as his previous works. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Belafonte Fine, Music Even Better--But Central Miscasting Dooms It!","Date":"14 March 2013","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" Like the films of Orson Welles, Federico Fellini or Woody Allen, there's almost always a reason to watch, even if the completed whole doesn't quite add up to the sum of it's parts. Kansas City fits that bill for me.Altman weaves his usual rich tapestry of lives affected by history in a city alive with jazz and political chicanery, and Kansas City is worth watching for the unexpectedly mesmerizing performance by Harry Belafonte as Seldom Seen, mobster boss.The jazz on display is equally dazzling, but just when your mind is settling into some rich, heady music, the film cuts back to the deadly, mannered, whiny performance turned in by Jennifer Jason Leigh; when most film fans recall the disaster that became Godfather III, the director's indulgence of the lackluster performance turned in by Sofia Coppola comes to mind; Leigh's performance similarly affects the tone of Kansas City, and since she is the protagonist, the film's interest flags with her director-free indulgence in some kind of method acting that fails to evoke much but self-indulgence.In short, Kansas City is well worth a look for superb mise-en-scene,for the music and atmosphere, but is deeply frustrating for it's central performance. "},{"Title":"Jennifer Jason Leigh holds Miranda Richardson hostage against a background of jazz in Harry Belafonte's dive","Date":"3 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" Kansas City (1996) is a good neo-noir that I recommend, but most viewers will have to contend with the irascible and grating lead character played by Jennifer Jason Leigh.The movie has a number of strong points. One of them is the Harry Belafonte character who has rich dialog. He's an underworld figure who owns a dive in which the famous 1930s Kansas City jazz is performed. He can be and is brutal toward those who cross him. But before the climactic violence, he is heard ruminating and expounding pointedly on such subjects as ofays and their greed. This performance is alone worth the price of admission.Then there is the visual feast and especially the feeling that this imparts of being there in the heyday of Kansas City jazz to see and hear the greats perform in the setting of the mid-1930s in a nightclub where black people dance, gamble and where youngsters and those of lesser means can sit up in a balcony and take in the music. The moment that we hear Tickle Toe, Lester Young's composition, our imaginations kick in and we are there. We can hear all this material at any time played by the original artists, and I've listened to this particular music countless times. But it's still great fun to see skilled contemporary musicians recreate the spirit of the players of that time and their music. At one point we view the contrast between the Illinois Jacquet and Lester Young styles in a battle of the saxes. At all times we see the musicians playing head arrangements without written music. We see stand-ins for Mary Lou Williams, Bill Basie, Jo Jones and Walter Page.Another strong point is the production and set design. Yet another is the way in which the movie depicts the black people, the black area of town, the white attitudes, and the political vote-buying and violence of the time. All of this felt genuine. It was neither condescending nor preachy nor romanticized. It didn't go to excess.The ending of the story is a strong point. Without revealing it, I will only say that an unhappy ending of the type shown makes a great deal of sense if one thinks about it. The ending depends critically on the character arc of the kidnapped Miranda Richardson and what she has to contend with. She does not have much explicit dialog to explain herself, but she does a marvelous job in the role nonetheless.The story itself is intriguing. Leigh's husband (Dermot Mulroney) has robbed a gambler en route to Belafonte's club for an annual event. Belafonte has found out, captured Mulroney and is pondering the precise kind of brutality that will be the fate of Mulroney. Leigh kidnaps the wife (Miranda Richardson) of a big political honcho (Michael Murphy) who is on his way to Washington by way of Chicago. She wants him to exert pressure to free Mulroney from Belafonte. As is typical with an Altman movie, disparate pieces come together as the movie proceeds.Richardson gives a nicely-shaded performance as a childless woman hooked on laudanum. The smaller parts are filled out quite well. It is the performance of Leigh in the lead that may turn off many viewers, and one has to overcome this obstacle in order to accept the story. Leigh wears heavy white powder makeup, and she will go peroxide blonde later in the film. This is to emulate Jean Harlow. She acts and talks tough, which is her idea of imitating her idol, Jean Harlow. She gets very upset when Richardson says that Harlow looks cheap in Hold Your Man. For most of the picture, she's bossy, irritating and snarling. But this is because she knows that the situation for her husband is desperate, she has little leverage, and she has to keep Richardson in line and pressure the big-wigs.I didn't find it all that difficult to go with the flow once I understood Leigh's character. How else could she have played it? She couldn't play it as being sweet and gentle, or else she wouldn't have come up with a kidnapping and be waving a gun. She couldn't play it as intrinsically mean, murderous and nasty because her whole character is deeply allied with her husband. She had to play it as someone in a desperate corner who as one of the powerless masses has to rise to the occasion. Leigh's character has to imagine herself as a tough Harlow heroine. "},{"Title":"Lost somewhere between the 1930s and 1990s.","Date":"13 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" Robert Altman's Kansas City is not a terrible movie by any stretch of the imagination and for any other director it would be a minor triumph. Yet, given the pedigree he has provided for himself, particularly with films such as MASH, McCabe & Mrs. Miller, Nashville and 3 Women on his resume, I hold his films to a higher order than most.Perhaps for that reason most of all, I was quite disappointed by this outcome. Jennifer Jason Leigh and Miranda Richardson star as small-time hoodlum and rich politician's wives, respectively, with Leigh taking Richardson hostage in hope that her husband will be released by the notorious gangster Seldom Seen. However, all this is simply a contrivance for what Altman is really after, which seems to me to be the context and feeling of the city of Kansas City in the 1930s when Jean Harlow movies played in the local cinemas and voting was a high-stakes gamble that if gone wrong had very serious consequences.In terms of the film itself, I would consider this film to suffer from the Hudsucker Proxy syndrome it looks fantastic with the sets and costumes all perfectly realizing the era in which it attempts to capture. Yet, the story is almost thrown together with really not attempt to clarify or make known exactly what is happening. I understand this is Altman's style, particularly for this film, but in order to string the movie along and maintain audience interest, it certainly would have helped to include a more cohesive story line. Also, Jennifer Jason Leigh doesn't fit this part in my opinion, coming off more annoying and self-conscious than sympathetic and interestingly quirky. Her dialogue and delivery seem to come right out of the 1990s and have almost no place in the setting of the rest of the characters.I admire Altman as a director too much to call this film a disaster but it is by far the weakest of all his films I have seen and makes me question why he decided to make this film. Perhaps because he grew up in Kansas City in the 1930s or he felt interested in gangsters, jazz and the setting of a growing town prior to World War II. Whatever the reason, I was frequently out of touch with the story and can really give no compelling reason to seek it out as one of Altman's finer works. "},{"Title":"....And All That Jazz","Date":"26 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" Robert Altman dishes up a terrific serving of jazz and Depression-era atmosphere in this crime thriller with film noir trappings.Jennifer Jason Leigh gives a fascinating and heartbreaking performance as Blondie, the pathetic Jean Harlow wannabe who kidnaps a senator's (Michael Murphy) wife (Miranda Richardson) in an attempt to force him into helping her husband, Johnny (Dermot Mulroney), who's himself been kidnapped by Seldom Seen (Harry Belafonte), a local gangster kingpin, after Johnny tried to pull a heist on one of Seldom's own. The dark plot works its way toward an inevitable and tragic ending, but as is true with many Altman films, what happens isn't as much fun as how it happens. Altman intersperses the film with segments of music being played in a hot jazz club, and the nearly constant soundtrack gives the whole movie the pulse and rhythm of the jazz numbers it's set to.I'm not so sure I liked the performance of Richardson. She plays a woman doped up on opiates, and while I don't know how someone would act in those circumstances, her performance felt cartoonish and exaggerated to me. But Leigh more than makes up for any weak performances, and she owns this film. Blondie is a born loser, a woman who's learned how to act tough from watching movies but who's not nearly tough enough to survive in the world around her. It's with a mixture of pity and relief that we see the film, and Blondie's fate, move toward its They Shoot Horses, Don't They? resolution.Grade A "}{"Title":"All that jazz","Date":"4 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" Robert Altman, perhaps one of the most innovative directors, working in Hollywood pays homage to his home town Kansas City. Mr. Altman recreates a long gone era that he probably didn't know that well, being only a child at the time the action takes place. It seems as though the allure of the period made a vivid mark in the director's mind, as he takes us, with this film, for a long over due visit. Make no mistake, this is not another Nashville, quite the contrary. The only similarity is the title that reflects a city name. As written by the director and Frank Barhydt, the film succeeds in creating the atmosphere, but as far as the story line goes, it has the quality to disorient, even the most avid of Mr. Altman's fans.What Kansas City lacks in story line, it makes up with the glorious music that serves as compensation with the thinness of the material one sees on the screen. The music is the best excuse to watch the movie that showcases an excellent group of musicians playing heavenly in between the action.Mr. Altman's choice of Jennifer Jason Leigh as Blondie, is probably what's wrong with the film. This actress mumbles her lines, plays Blondie as strident woman and manages to derail the film. On the other hand, Miranda Richardson's Carolyn Stilton gives her one of the best roles in her career. Ms. Richardson appears to be on a cloud most of the time because of her opium addiction. She makes us care for her portrayal of this society woman that needs all the help she can get. Having it all, she can't cope with being married to a cold man that couldn't care less about her. Where other lonely wives resort to drinking, Mrs. Stilton gets away from it all with drugs.Harry Belafonte plays the local gangster in charge of illegal gambling that evidently was prevalent in the city. His Seldom Seen character is at times inaudible by the way he throws his lines. Sometimes we have to strain our ears in order to hear what he is saying. Mr. Belafonte is a fine actor. As far as Dermot Mulroney and Steve Buscemi are concerned, they have not much to play in the movie to make us care for them. The supporting roles are good.In spite of this movie not being one of Robert Altman's best, it presents a fine opportunity to absorb the atmosphere and the music of the era, oh, and all that jazz! "},{"Title":"A depressing movie you should not watch when already depressed","Date":"11 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" Here, Robert Altman attempts to do for Kansas City what William Kennedy did for Albany, New York. Sort of. Kennedy portrays the indefatigable Albany machine with a mix of cynicism, respect and love. In Ironweed we see more of the underbelly of the city, but even though a dark movie, there is a love for his O Albany. Altman's portrayal of Kansas City is dripping with cynicism, but lacks the love, and only offers the blackest of humor. What's worse, there are few likable characters. We spend most of the time watching two brainless women talking incoherently, one on drugs, the other with her teeth wired together. Yet Kansas City is still worth watching, if you are a serious film buff. Everyone, I assume, loves M*A*S*H (except, perhaps, for the Koreans, who do not have a sense of humor about their own country). Nashville and Gosford Park take a bit more savvy to appreciate, but if you understand them, you will know how to approach Kansas City. These Altman movies take an almost sociological-anthropological approach to their subjects, have strong portrayals of many characters, and more or less lack a plot or center, preferring a more naturalistic unfolding of events. Robert Altman is perhaps the greatest modern slice of life movie director. So don't focus so much on the story line as on the characters and their interactions.However, in Kansas City we are introduced to what we would expect to be more of an action movie, or at least a movie with a Hitchcock type plot. This is not what we get. And the first section consists of cutting back and forth among characters and scenes that do not bear much temporal relationship, which is confusing, and distracts from trying to focus on understanding the characters. Eventually, the movie assumes temporal normality, if not linearity.The music is absolutely outstanding. Much of it seems to accurately reproduce 1930s to early 1940s jazz, and seeing it performed in its natural setting of a nightclub gives you better insight into it than merely listening on a record, which gives it a more cerebral air. However, when truly great musicians like this were really cooking, I think the room would have been quieter, out of respect and interest; that's what I have read in some jazz musician memoirs. I was surprised by the atonality of some of the Count Basie riffs on the piano, not typical Basie style. Silver plated brass instruments would not have been common back then. And Charlie Parker never played a single note in the film, as he was pretty horrible when he was 14.There are no brave heroes in this movie. There was one clueless hero, the elections official, but he lasted for about 15 seconds, before being lines up against the wall and shot (although not realistic, perhaps key to the cinematic message). The musicians are the closest thing to nice guys in the movie, but they stay strictly in the barroom, holding aloof from corruption swirling around them, even while they see much of what is going on, as do most of the blacks. In short, Altman's Kansas City is as devoid of heroes as High Noon would be without Gary Cooper, or It's a Wonderful Life without Jimmy Stewart. Yeah, it's corrupt, but what are you going to do? Make the best of it by joining in, getting a piece of the action. (In reality, not everyone was corrupt, not even all Missouri politicians.)As to the portrayal of the Tom Pendergast political machine, I think Altman over does it. I sincerely doubt a political hack would pull out a gun in broad daylight in front of a polling place and shoot an elections official. Unnecessary and stupid, and sure to make the evening papers. The Pendergast machine was corrupt, but not stupid; the corruption focused on government contracts, from what I have read. The movie's strength is showing the different levels of society and how they interact, black working class, black mob, white political elite, white trash. Its other strength is reproducing the era in astonishingly rich detail. I love movies like this that get it right, and make you feel like you are being transported back in time. The acting is great, especially Harry Belafonte. Jennifer Jason Leigh gets on your nerves, big time, but does so convincingly.Spoiler alertNear the end, Mrs. Stilton drops her medicine bottle on the ground. Your first thought is it was empty. Or she had decided to break her habit. But I suspect the real meaning, judging from her body language when she tosses the bottle down, is she was faking it, and wasn't so dependent on her medicine. If you like this movie, try Ironweed, starring Jack Nicholson and Merle Streep. It's a better movie, but Kansas City has better jazz. The jazz, alone, is worth the price of admission. "},{"Title":"Vivid depiction of Kansas City, 1934","Date":"8 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" Having read all the reviews and seen the rating given this film by even more viewers, it would seem that many viewers are not au courant with the style of Jean Harlow and/or do not have the patience necessary to appreciate some films which do not move along at a quick clip. This would seem to be Altman's tribute to his hometown and to the period when he was a kid-he would have been 9 in 1934.Altman's take on the outre political corruption in Kansas City at that time would seem to be of a sort with the corruption facilitated by the Pendergras machine of the time. His depiction of black characters as autonomous, strong characters is refreshing. Harry Belafonte's mob boss Seldom Seen has to be one of the most ruthless characters seen on celluloid in recent years. Belafonte is at the top of his game, his smoky baritone all the more ominous for his low-key manner. Belafonte really deserved an Oscar nomination for his performance in this movie. One of the many aspects to recommend this film is the music that lit up Kansas City at that time-jazz. The music, featuring Lester Young, Coleman Hawkins, and even a very young Charlie Parker before he was a musician, is electric. The musicians-played by world-class musicians like Joshua Redman, David 'Fathead' Newman, and Christian McBride, electrify the scenes they are in, particularly in one duel which continues until daybreak. The musical scenes are truly magical and electric. We get a sense of the energy and vibrance in the Kansas City music scene at that time.Altman also tweaks notions of race by having white Johnny Flynn (an almost silent Dermot Mulroney) attempting to knock off a mob underling while wearing blackface. Altman considers race and is not afraid to depict and play around with it. The very fact that he is willing to consider its existence and status in society is interesting in itself. There are many black characters, many given great depth and range. Altman adds depth to our understanding of race and fleshes out depiction of people of color in ways that the vast majority of directors do not even acknowledge or consider. This makes the film valuable in and of itself.The film's plot revolves around the kidnapping of the Missouri governor's wife Caroline Stilson (Miranda Richardson) who is kidnapped to pressure the Governor to release Blondie's husband (Dermot Mulroney's Jonny Flynn) who has been caught after trying to rip off one of Seldom Seen's mob lieutenants. Blondie thinks that taking the governor's wife hostage will cause the governor to take the release of her husband more seriously.Some people don't like Jennifer Jason Leigh's performance in this movie, suggesting that it is difficult to understand her. I think that was intentional on her part-an effort to pay tribute to the work of Jean Harlow who was from Kansas City and who we see in a movie that Caroline and Blondie are watching. It's clear that Jean Harlow was attempting to depict a tougher veneer than she really had, as we see as Blondie's tough outer shell collapses as the movie progresses. I found it a very original, Oscar-worthy, performance. Miranda Richardson's depiction of a depressed, drug-addled, lonely political wife who ultimately turns out to know more than she lets on is very compelling. The chemistry between her and Leigh is electric and Richardson's role is very interesting. She delivers an excellent performance in an unusual role.Altman interweaves story lines-those of Seldom Seen and Jonny Flynn on the one hand, and Caroline Stilson and Blondie on the other-expertly-linking them effortlessly. This is one of Altman's greatest strengths-tying in disparate story lines and making connections where they might be less obvious to most filmmakers. Altman makes connections among figures where most directors wouldn't see them.I don't think this film is on the level of his tours de force in Gosford Park, Short Cuts, The Player, MASH, and Nashville, but Altman was always more about depicting a milieu and setting a scene and if his story did not have the pyrotechnics of some of many films in theaters at the time, he didn't care. This film smolders quietly, suggesting a city rotting from the inside out as evidenced by the political and criminal malfeasance which are so brazen in the picture. Altman tells rich, colorful stories and this one is no exception. "},{"Title":"Recommended for Altmanites","Date":"21 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" I basically concur with sws-3 from Albany, though I don't give it a 10-star rating. 'Kansas City' is a period piece from Altman's childhood. Having said that, don't expect it to brim with nostalgia. The director's trademark gentle cynicism is very much in evidence. Of course there is no 'message' but the depiction of race relations is certainly of interest. The whole film is inspired by jazz and could even be viewed as a kind of visual jazz, (with some nasty wallpaper). The ensemble cast is wonderful. Some reviewers complained that the Jason Leigh and Richardson characters did not develop a rapport, but I disagree. People who have liked other Altman films should consider giving this one a chance. "},{"Title":"A good but slow pace movie!","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  Maybe Kansas City is not one of the best works of Robert Altman. In fact, when we think about Altman we always remember some great moments of him like Mash, for instance. But Kansas City is a act of courage. Indeed, I think that the gangster era and the first days of jazz are not the kind of theme Altman is really concerned; but he does fine here, with a interesting and sometimes funny plotline and the background music is really remarkable. However, the main problem here is the cast. Although Jennifer Jason Leigh is a good actress, she is far-fetched and unconvincing as Blondie. Just Miranda Richardson hits the target, with a nuts performance of Mrs. Stilton.  "},{"Title":"A Beautiful Reconstitution of a Period, in a Too Long Movie","Date":"8 December 2003","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  One night in 1934, in Kansas City, Blondie O'Hara (Jennifer Jason Lee) kidnaps Carolyn Stilton (Miranda Richardson), the wife of an eminent politician, trying to save her husband Johnny (Dermot Mulroney) from the claws of the gangster Seldon Seen (Harry Belafonte). Many events, as usual in a Robert Altman movie, happen along this night. This movie has a beautiful reconstitution of this period, some jazz songs, but the plot is too short for a running time of 116 minutes. Therefore, there are many parts very boring, or highlight in minor plots. My vote is six.  "},{"Title":"dark comedic musical","Date":"6 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" This unusual film played like a dark, comedic version of Altman's own childhood; he himself describes it (and most of his other films) as a musical. Similar in structure to Miller's Crossing, I found it to be a tribute, perhaps unintentional, to many of the Coen brothers themes; like painting a serious subject with hues of dark comedy that many mistake for badly done straight drama. Jennfer Jason Leigh's performance is very mindful of her performance in the Hudsucker Proxy, and just as worthy; one is decidedly satirical (Hudsucker, and this one is an essential statement of character, as a sadly-going-nowhere Midwestern babe who loves Jean Harlowe and the Hollywood escapism of movies, and spews as best she can in her own tragic real life. Certainly not Altman's best, but why should it be? It is defining of his articulation on film about music, a face in the crowd tragedy overlooked, and his own fast paced violence that ends life and is over in seconds, unlike his contemporary Sam Peckinpaugh and a thousand other directors. Without the music I would have rated this film a seven or lower, but without the music, West Side Story would be a 5 and South Pacific a 2. This film is haunting in many, many ways, and its muted use of color gives it an appropriately old fashioned 30's look and tone. The most memorable assembly of jazz artists and rifts on film. You can see better films; you'll never hear better jazz. "},{"Title":"Starring Ron Carter","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  What a strange movie that threatened at times to be really good. Jennifer Jason Leigh manages to mumble her way through another movie like some female version of Brando, but was pretty good anyway. The real winner is the music - which was beautiful - although for us purists managed to become more anachronistic as the movie wore on, culminating in a beautiful rendition of solitude with 2 basses featuring the great Ron Carter who, for those who know him, seemed to steal every scene he was in. It's his best movie since Round Midnight. "},{"Title":"A real mess - needed a script, and a director to give the movie some purpose - any purpose!","Date":"30 June 2004","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  Okay, he's making a movie about gangsters in Kansas City which features a bar where free-form jazz is played, so he decides a nice way to make the movie (what a surprise) is to give the actors free reign to improvise their lines! It may SOUND like a good idea - Altman sure thinks it does, he uses it to make most of his movies - but this is no excuse for offering us a muddled, terribly acted half-baked film that essentially has about three scenes that are stretched out. The plot of this is one of the worst you're likely to see. I remember, at the time i was watching it, i felt there were such major problems with the motivations within the story that completely undid its narrative structure. It pains me enough to recollect the movie, let alone think of it in that much detail.What Altman doesn't seem to realise is that improvisation seems to make most actors nervous. When they're saying a line they know they've made up during rehersals, they seem not to believe in it. It may have worked for Brando in Last Tango in Paris - but Brando was a titan. These actors, and most name actors Altman shows the true colours of, are not.The first major mistake was giving Harry Belafonte improvisation priveleges. God, is he obnoxious in this. He's the bad guy, but he's not obnoxious in a way that makes you think oh, isn't he good or maybe isn't this fun. You just think Belafonte is an arrogant guy.Jason-Leigh's accent and acting are particularly hammy. Miranda Richardson is the only one who escapes unscathed. She's pretty good.1/10.Films this bad are rare. Can't recommend enough that you avoid this like the plague. "},{"Title":"Oh the pain, the pain.  Is it over yet?","Date":"29 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" I'm sorry but this movie was pitiful. I hated it. KC is S-L-O-W, B-O-R-I-N-G, crap. The dialog was laughable, trite and completely unbelievable. This is a bland thirty-minute short story stretched out to almost two painfully excruciating hours. The only good qualities in this waste of celluloid were 1. Great costumes and 2. Fabulous period cars. Where did they get all of those great old cars? CAUTION - This film is for jazz lovers only....and I hate jazz. How bad can it be? If YOU like this crap-fest, then help yourself to my DVD copy. I threw my disk in the trash. It'll be out at the county dump by now (where it belongs). 1 star out of 10 "}{"Title":"Atmosphere","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  This film takes exactly 25 minutes before it starts.At least that's how it can feel for the viewer. For a notorious Altman regular as myself, this is now surprise. He likes to establish the mood of the film, the tone of the story and time before he blends into the characters. It is one of those characteristics about his direction that makes him one of our times' greatest. It is a daring move in an industry that demands fast pace for keeping the spectators attention.Sometimes Altmans film feels merely as an atmosphere study. In recent films such as THE GINGERBREAD MAN and DR. T AND THE WOMEN, the story never really captivates. Here it does indeed - KANSAS CITY is an underestimated gem.Jennifer Jason Leigh, who always has that sour tone of bitterness and uncomfortability about her acting, is a perfect cast as Blondie O'Hara. Miranda Richardson, the British Meryl Streep, if you like, tones her dipsy Carolyn 'Red' Stilton down and add a subtle layer of curiosity to her upper class stereotypical wife. Harry Belafonte though is the true treasure in this film. As a black mafioso he shines and gives an oscarworthy performance with splendor, evil and humour. In smaller parts Jane Adams, Steve Buscemi and Dermot Mulroney is given very little time, but still manages to be remarkable.The true star of KANSAS CITY is the music and the set decoration. If you are a fan of depression era jazz, this simply is a magnificent pearl, gift wrapped in rich, emotional settings. Combined with the cinematography and a captivating, surprising tale, this is indeed a remarkable Altman movie. Do not miss it. "},{"Title":"More like my cup of poison than my cup of tea, but it has a nice soundtrack","Date":"23 June 2005","Score":"12 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" I'm not convinced that this film is not more well-respected just because director Robert Altman's name is attached. Show Kansas City to your average casual film-viewer without letting them know who directed, or you can even let them know, if they're not cineastes and do not know Altman, and I think the average opinion would be much lower. That's not to say there are no positive qualities to the film, but it is far more burdened with flaws, and it's more likely to ultimately annoy rather than entertain.The story is of course set in Kansas City, during the depression. Blondie O'Hara (Jennifer Jason Leigh) enters the home of socialite Carolyn Stilton (Miranda Richardson) under false pretenses (she says she's there to give Mrs. Stilton her normal manicure) and ends up pulling a gun on her. Mrs. Stilton figures it's just your run-of-the-mill robbery, but O'Hara wants something else. O'Hara's husband, Johnny (Dermot Mulroney), has gotten himself into trouble and Mrs. Stilton's influential husband, Henry (Michael Murphy), an adviser to President Roosevelt, can help him out.Let me mention the positive aspects of the film first, because otherwise I'll likely run out of room. The primary asset is the film's music. Because of the setting, including that a lot of the film takes place in a black jazz joint, the Hey Hey Club, the music is jazz during its transitional phase between swing and early bop--heck, even a young Charlie Parker (Albert J. Burnes) is in the film, although the setting has Parker too young to be shown performing (and Parker turns out to be irrelevant to the film). But it does have musicians playing Lester Young, Coleman Hawkins, and Count Basie, and the musicians who perform throughout the film read like all all-star roster of contemporary jazzers, including David Murray, Joshua Redman, David Fathead Newman, Ron Carter, Christian McBride, Geri Allen and Victor Lewis. The music is excellent if you're a jazz fan, as Altman must be.The other asset is that production designer Stephen Altman, the director's son, does an excellent job getting the period setting right. Especially if you're into classic cars of the era, the film will be a treat to watch, but all of the details seem right. The cinematography isn't bad, either.However, even as good as the music is, it just doesn't work within the context of the film. Most of the musicians can't act but try to. Maybe it's that they weren't directed very well by Altman. He features them on camera too much, and even lingers on them for relatively long songs. A concert film featuring the band would have been great. In the middle of a dramatic film, these shots just feel like padding with bad acting.The story itself, although relatively simple--too simple, perhaps, is chopped up and told as if it's going to have some big revelation or twist. Altman keeps unnecessarily jumping back and forth in time--but just a few hours, and he keeps unnecessarily jumping back and forth between different sets of characters in the middle of (very) long scenes. I guess he realized the scenes were too long and needed to be broken up. The scenes should have been cut back instead. More should have happened. Far too often, scenes feel like they're stretched out with pointless dialogue just to increase the film's running time.And the dialogue isn't just pointless. It's loaded with non-sequiturs. I've never experienced laudanum or known anyone who has, but one of the characters, shown as a laudanum user, regularly speaks gibberish. At least that seems to be the excuse for it. It turns out that everyone in the film routinely speaks gibberish as if they're on some kind of heavy drugs. Not every line is like that, but enough are that it's relatively inexplicable. The plot in general has a lot of non-sequiturs. It seems almost as if Altman, who co-wrote the script with Frank Barhydt, was shooting for some kind of bizarre surrealism, except that surrealism seems so out of context for the setting and basic gist of the film, and it's too understated to seem intentional. I just don't get why people in the film would speak and behave so oddly.Then there are the performances. I've liked Jennifer Jason Leigh in some films--I absolutely love eXistenZ (1999) for example, and she certainly can act like someone other than herself, which a lot of people seem to use as one of the main criteria for good acting, but her character here is so annoying that I couldn't wait for the film to be over. She bizarrely barks out her dialogue in a grating accent. When I thought of it upon waking up this morning with my review gelling in my head (I usually watch films at night then think about them while I head off to sleep--reviews often pop up almost fully formed when I awake), I burst out laughing remembering the character. It's something I'd more expect from an alien sketch on a show like MadTV or Saturday Night Live. Imagine Prymatt Conehead with a sour and somewhat hyper Brooklyn attitude.Harry Belafonte, as the ridiculously named Seldom Seen, also tended to be annoying--and he probably has more lines than anyone else but Leigh. A number of other characters were primarily annoying, too. The only one I really didn't mind was Miranda Richardson, despite the gibberish, and she's also gorgeous, so she's a treat to watch.There are a couple good sequences, but they tended to be those focused on action--when characters were up and about, doing something rather than sitting in a room and talking, and the climax was great (I even cheered). Unfortunately, those sequences were few and far between. The majority of the film just seems flat and drawn out. My advice is to just buy the soundtrack; avoid the film. "},{"Title":"Red State Blues","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" Altman's version of 1930s Kansas City, depicting the contrasting lives of its citizens and the corrupting influence of unchecked power. The leaders fight to exploit each other and those who serve them; the latter are expendable. Meanwhile, the most exploited of all are busy inventing jazz. Memorable performances by Leigh as a tough, honest ordinary person and Richardson as a clueless, detached aristocrat. The weak really believed in the clichéd family/community values, maybe because they felt helpless individually. Like Shakespeare's Julius Caesar, the powerful bestride the narrow world / Like a Colossus, and we petty men / Walk under his huge legs and peep about. They try to turn everything to their advantage. Obviously American society has improved since then. Maybe because of the WWII/Depression shocks. "},{"Title":"Close your eyes and listen to the music","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  The movie itself isn't that hot, interesting but nothing to get excited over. But the age of Jazz in the Jazz District of Kansas City, that is something else. The music is fabulous, so don't bother buying the movie, but buy the CD.   "},{"Title":"It could have worked!","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  WARNING!The plot and the end of the movie are revealed!This movie started out very promising. Great actors, great setting and a good basic story-line. On one level a gangster movie, with a small-time white crook who tries to doubledeal a slightly mysterious black mobster, who is also a bit of a philosopher. The white crook fails almost immediately. The question becomes if he will die horribly to set an example, or if there is some alternate use for him. On the other level it is a movie about two women. The wife of the small-time crook decides to rescue him by kidnapping the wife of a prominent Kansas City politician. The politician will have to use his influence to save her husband as ransom. Both women have problems apart from the kidnapping. The wife of the crook is good-natured and beautiful, and though she is tough she isn´t violent. Her problem is that she is dedicated to the crook, who isn´t worth being dedicated to. The politician´s wife is a junkie, apparently because she is bored with living alone in their great house in Kansas City while her husband is in Washington. Life is passing her by, because she lets it pass her by. It sounds like the premise for a great movie. In the gangster story all sorts of harsh adventures and wise but dark monologues. Regardless of whether the small-time crook ends up walking into the sunset with his gal at his side or dying in her arms it ought to be good. It isn´t. Far too many rambling monologues, far too little action. And the final solution, after so much big philosophical talk is a  cheap-shot disappointment. The two women spending the night and a chaotic election day together ought to be good too. The thrill and the practical problems of being kidnapper/kidnapped combined with the politician´s wife seeing the world outside her house and her regular social circle. This part of the movie is quite good, until the strange ending. If mrs Stilton is prepared to blow out her kidnapper´s brains when she could just have walked away, why didn´t she run away from her at one of the previous opportunities? Perhaps the movie suddenly ran out of money, so they had to settle for only showing Harry Belafonte in the gangster scenes and stitching together a sudden ending for the movie as a whole? "},{"Title":"atmospheric but slow as dirt","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" This movie does a good job of portraying a 1930s Kansas City of mobsters, racial unrest, petty criminals and jazz, and if all it took to make a good movie was atmosphere then this would be a great film. But all this movie has is atmosphere, and it's not enough. I'm not a big fan of Altman (I like about 1 out of every 15 of his movies) but I watch anything Jennifer Jason Leigh is in, so I had to watch it. Leigh is fine but this is not one of those electric performances that has made me such a fan. I don't think it's possible to bring any electricity to this lumbering creature. I was incredibly bored throughout and only kept watching out of a vague curiosity as to how it would all turn out, but at the final I felt heavy and almost paralyzed with boredom and disinterest. I'd say this is for Altman fans only. "},{"Title":"Patience needed;The Soundtrack is HIGHLY recommendable","Date":"13 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" Robert Altman's depression-era flick,set in his hometown,is a somewhat tangled,hard to embrace film that is long on authenticity and substance but short on hooks that is going to get the average viewer.The characters are tough to develop any real feel for. Unhinged and desperate,Blondie O'HAra(Jennifer JAson Leigh) kidnaps a rich,heavily soused politician's wife(Miranda Richardson,who's very strong here) with the misguided idea that this will free her dense,scheming boyfriend/husband JOhnny(Dermont Mulroney,who barely speaks in this film). She ends up crossing both the Black gangsters of the town,led by a charismatic tough called Seldom Seen(HArry Belafonte) and the political machine that she's trying to manipulate. The results are fairly predictable;it's the interplay between Blondie and Mrs.Stinson as Blondie tries to wait out her scheme that becomes of more interest. Along the way,you get a brief glimpse of the violence,corruption and poverty that is rampant in the area in the post-Prohibition,pre-WWII urban Midwest. Steve Buscemi's turn as a loud-mouthed saloon owner and Pendergast machine lackey who is married to Blondie's sister is strong(As most of his turns in films are)and way too brief. IN sum,this movie is a worthy watch,but ONLY if one is willing to ride along with the difficult situation as it is laid out. I have not seen that many Altman movies,but I would say I got more out the stories of THe PLayer,Short Cuts or (my personal fave)Cookie's Fortune. The music,however is very strong and practically takes a life of its own,as no fewer than nine established jazz musicians(Kevin Mahogany,Cyrus Chestnut,Ron CArter among them) jam on tunes of(or styled around)the era. If you enjoy jazz,this film--and even more so the soundtrack--is a must to watch and listen. "},{"Title":"Altman reaches a new low","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  I don't often walk out of a film, but I did on this one. Kansas City is a truly woeful film. Meant as a paean to Altman's home town, and that city's place in the evolution of jazz, it actually ends up on the screen as a paeon! It's weird to think that the Director of Nashville, Short Cuts, and The Player, could be responsible for this melange. Still, he did make O.C. & Stiggs, too. I've heard that in Cookie's Fortune, Altman is back to form, so perhaps we can forgive him for these celluloid discretions. "},{"Title":"Half baked","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  In 1934 Kansas City is the capital of music, gambling and crime.  It's a wide open hotbed of violence with various mobs competing for their own area.  Into this mix comes Johnny, a small time criminal who is caught stealing from night-club owner Seldom Seen.  Seen takes him prisoner to extract revenge but Johnny's wife takes action to get him back by kidnapping the wife of politician Stilton in the hope that his political influence will get her man back.  Blondie baby-sits the laudanum addicted Carolyn while Seen contemplates Johnny's future, political wheels begin to repair the damage before it happens and the voters turn out for a busy election day in Kansas.I don't dislike Altman films (in fact I love The Player and MASH) but I have struggled the odd time to get into his films where they are solely driven by characters and not plots &#150; for example Nashville and Short Cuts I found hard work&#133;..and don't get me started on Pret a Porter.  This I found to be a good mix of character and plot and worked really well for me.The actual plot is great and really works well within a flashback structure that could have failed but instead works well.  However the focus on a bit of plot and a bit of character pulls Altman a little bit and some of it doesn't work. Only the main narrative strand is followed through to completion even though I had gotten involved with the various other characters drifting through &#150; these are just dropped.The plot is interesting enough and there are some pretty good scenes but it just didn't hang together.  Altman drifts off to look at musicians playing quite a lot and these scenes are a welcome break from the disjointed plot jumps.  That's not to say it isn't entertaining, but it just felt like it was all half baked.  The performances don't help this feel.Usually a good cast will lift a weak film but here they don't seem to help at all.  Leigh is like a mockery of her self here.  Her twisted mouthed gangster moll being a spoof &#150; if she had forced it anymore her mouth would have moved up onto the side of her face &#150; why did no one tell her during shooting?  Don't they have rushes?  Richardson is OK and I actually enjoyed Belafonte in his scenes with Johnny, even if he lacked enough onscreen menace.  Mulroney is wasted as is Buscemi.  Johnson is good as Pearl &#150; but again, a character I wanted to follow who just got dropped along the way.Overall this is not terrible it just isn't finished.  The characters aren't followed through and the bad ones are the main ones who we stick. The acting is wasted and is surprisingly bad in some cases and the whole film just feels like it could have been twice as good if only they'd ironed out some of the flaws.  Music's good though! "},{"Title":"Thank you for the music...","Date":"3 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":" This is another one of those intelligent art films you need to read the review first before you can understand the movie. If it wasn't for the great music and in general wonderful atmosphere created by the director at the Hey-Hey club, this movie would have been a total flop. The storyline is simply ridiculous, it has no meaning, no reason to be. The secondary story even less, we fail to even understand why it is there. The acting is superficial, in some cases exaggerated to the point of being silly (Jason-Leigh). The only remotely positive acting performance (surprisingly) was Belafonte in a not-so-bad copy of Brando's Godfather. The dialog was simply stupid, the only decent characterization was that of Belafonte's seldom Seen which emanated some real emotions, everything else seemed to be on the level of a five-year old. Thank god for the music...! "}{"Title":"Only for Belafonta and the jazz score.","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  A great jazz score keeps this film alive as Altman enters Kansas' gangster territory, 1934. Belafonta as the lead mobster is the only interest as you wonder what makes him tick. I'm sure this was a pet project Altman had stored in his heart and finally got out off his system.  "},{"Title":"Very Slow...but good period piece","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  Jennifer Jason Leigh Sucks in this movie. She tries too hard to be a tough broad and comes off acting silly. However, the movie was never meant to be a master piece, but was meant to give the viewer a sense of Depression era Kansas City, which it does well.This movie is recommended fro those interested in 20th century U.S. history "},{"Title":"One of Altman's worst","Date":"28 August 1998","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Music","Review":"  A true nadir in the chronology of a sometimes great director, and a female lead performance worthy of an Ed Wood film "}]