[{"Title":"Wonderful adaptation of the play","Date":"11 December 2004","Score":"56 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I liked this movie. I thought it kept it's edge and that was largely because of Madonna. I didn't want to like Madonna in the part...she seemed too flighty, too self-involved. I didn't hold out too much hope for her acting.She really surprised me. Not only did she do a wonderful job with the script as given, she also went so far as to watch footage of Eva Peron and got the hand gestures and facial expressions down.I also heard that she is credited in obtaining permission from the Argentine government to film at the Casa Rosada. Eva Peron is STILL considered a saint, and they were worried the movie would show her in a bad light. Madonna proved to them (and then followed through on film) that she was going to give the role dignity...to show Eva Peron in a balanced way as a person with flaws, not an evil woman bent on destroying Argentina.She actually made the movie for me to the point where I couldn't envision anyone else in the role.Antonio Banderas was also a bit of a surprise for me. I didn't know anything about him and kinda considered him eye candy instead of a serious actor. I was pleasantly surprised when I found out he can sing as well as act. Jonathan Price was good at portraying a Juan Peron. He could be gentle and kind to his friends, but also showed no remorse for removing anyone who opposes him. I read in another review of this movie that Price wasn't barbaric enough for the part. Juan Peron WAS very charismatic...he had to be, or else he would NEVER had been elected president.One of the things I liked most about this movie was that all the people in it seemed real. The extras were neither overly good looking or freakishly ugly. They looked like anyone you would see walking down any given street.The cinematography is splendid, and it's hard to beat the soundtrack.It's an 8/10 for me. "},{"Title":"I loved the movie!","Date":"21 February 2004","Score":"54 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" As a Lloyd Webber fan, I was thrilled to hear 'Evita' being made into a major motion picture. But I had my doubts that Madonna could play Eva Peron. Then I saw the movie and realized Webber's genius in casting her to play the lead. Madonna shines as Evita and proves her vocal talent on 'Don't Cry For Me' and 'Buenos Aires.' Another pleasant surprise was Antonio Banderas playing Che. I had no idea he could sing! And sing he does! He was the showstopper in an excellent role. And Jonathan Pryce...what can I say about the Engineer from 'Miss Saigon'? As Juan Peron, he holds his own against the powerhouse playing his wife. And he has some of the best facial expressions I've ever seen on an actor. 'You Must Love Me,' written specifically for the movie, was the Oscar-winning song for the talented composer; a tribute long overdue, if you ask me. Excellent casting! Excellent effects! Excellent movie!To quote TIME magazine, You must see 'Evita.' Yes, you must. Some of you will love it, some will hate it. But I hope that you all agree that Lloyd Webber is a genius. He is the true star of the film. 10/10 "},{"Title":"This movie was phenomenal!!!","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"50 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I cannot imagine ANYONE seeing this movie and not being completely blown away by it.  It is one of the most beautifully done pieces of work I've ever seen.  I have never seen anyone act and sing and dance their heart out the way Madonna does in this movie, and she deserved an Oscar as much as anyone EVER has.  She portrayed Eva amazingly, and they made her look so much like Evita you buy it's her.  Madonna stretches her vocal cords incredibly to sing this part, her voice is as gorgeous and strong as ever in this movie, and she sings it fabulously.  She dances...well, like Madonna, with talent and grace and style.  She acts it perfectly, every facial expression, every tear, every line.  After this movie was made, I didn't hear ANYONE ever say Madonna couldn't act ever again.Taking the movie from the stage to the screen was hard to do, but the directors and producers succeeded in having it still blow your mind, even on screen.  The scenes are dashing, the way all the pieces are put together is genius.  You love and hate Evita, you sympathize and despise her.  You're fascinated by her though, whatever emotional feelings you may have towards her.But don't think Evita's the only thing incredible about this film.  Who knew Antonio Banderas could sing???  I didn't!  He sang great for how hard Che's parts were, and for it being his first time singing.  He also acted the part of Che fantastically.  His chemistry with Madonna is there and he uses it to the fullest to bring out the magic between Che and Evita.  He had an even bigger role to fulfill than Madonna in the transition from stage to film.  Madonna is in real life much like Evita so this part was like home for her, but Antonio's stretch to become Che was right on key, and you just love him.And Jonathan Price!  Dear God, he was beautiful too, and did again, genius work.  He is a stage actor, so of course he played Juan's intensity just right.  All three of these actors deserved AT LEAST Golden Globes, and Madonna deserved an Oscar, along with the director who blew your mind with the movie, making you laugh and cry.  This movie is in one word...phenomenal. "},{"Title":"A Great Film, Better With Each Viewing","Date":"12 September 2004","Score":"43 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Saw this film just after release in Jan '97. Not much impressed. Wife bought the CD and began playing it on car trips. Music grew on me to the point where I found myself taking spins in the car alone, just to play the CD and totally absorb the experience.One evening in '99, caught the film on TV and enjoyed a perfect ecstasy in relating the music to the scenes, which I had forgotten. Played the CD less frequently over the next few years. Then, this spring (2004), HBO began showing Evita repeatedly. Watched it night after night, becoming transfixed by the music, the dancing, the cinematography, the nuances of Pryce's portrayal of Peron.Lately, I've been watching the DVD once a week, using the NEXT button to bypass the violence and the army/high society chants. What comes across is a softer, gentler story of poor girl makes good, marries famous man. It's a story rich in melody -- the Latin beat of Buenos Aires, the soft sax of Another Suitcase and I'd be Good For You, the touching strings of Don't Cry For Me and You Must Love Me.. And the film is framed in moody, unforgettable backdrops. To name just one, the all-pervading afternoon sun -- hot on the dusty plain, glowing hazily upon the bustling Buenos Aires streets, aslant along the long corridor and stairs, as Peron carries the dying Evita to her bed, and finally, an eery spotlight upon the draped casket lying in state. Madonna is superb, both in voice and screen presence. Pryce's performance is a triumph of the actor's craft. Banderos is a perfect Che, although, in my view, he shines as a tertiary star behind Madonna and Pryce.See Evita, if you haven't already. If you've seen it ten times, see it again. There is still more pleasure to take from this wonderful film with each viewing.  "},{"Title":"Evita Triumphs!!!","Date":"22 December 2004","Score":"39 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Evita, the long awaited musical is Madonna at the top of her game, and in all her splendor she nails the role of the First Lady of Argentina, Eva Duarte de Peron!!! Madonna's portrayal of Eva Peron not only resurrected the story of Eva's life, but breathed new life into her as well! Madonna finally surpasses the cardboard reading, she's given us in past films, and generously gives of herself to this role, something warm, alive and tangible. Andrew Lloyd Webber and Tim Rice's music and lyrics were just that, until Madonna made them her own! Precise enunciation and pitch sent me into the stratosphere, Madonna was no longer a singer, but now an accomplished voice to be reckoned with! The meticulous attention to detail on the sets, costuming, and shooting helped propel the grandeur of the film and it's believability. Madonna finally leaps beyond her persona and truly BECOMES the First Lady of Argentina, Eva Duarte de Peron!!! The Golden Globes took recognition of the hard work put forth by crew, actors and director. Evita snagged 'Best Director' for Alan Parker and 'Best Actess in a Musical or Comedy' for Madonna, well deserved! A must see film!! "},{"Title":"Superb realization of the Broadway musical","Date":"14 August 1998","Score":"35 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This was a simply stupendous movie. The visuals and costumes were stunning,  the new realization of the musical score excellent. Madonna deserves more  credit than she has gotten for this. Although her voice is perhaps a bit  thin for the role, she really stretched herself for this, and did a fine  job. Banderas was simply fantastic. Most of the naysayers (and there are  many), clearly don't care for Weber, or for musicals in general. Of course  it isn't deep, it's a musical! The question is how well was the original  play transformed to the screen, and I would be hard pressed to imagine  anything more successful than this.  "},{"Title":"Beautiful to See and Hear","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"27 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Evita is an opera, albeit a rock opera, in the true sense of the word -- there can't be fifty words of spoken dialogue in the entire movie.  Music drama is a highly stylized form, which admittedly is not everyone's cup of tea.  Perhaps that is why the overall rating given the film by IMDb voters, 6.3 out of 10, is as low as it is.  To those of us who like the operatic form, though, this is an outstanding film, beautiful to look at, well acted, and most importantly well sung.  The only weakness I found was the one that inheres in every Andrew Lloyd Webber piece  too much recycling of too few musical themes over two-plus hours.  Nevertheless, Tim Rice's lyrics are wonderful, they are consistently inventive and drive the story.  Madonna was good in the title role but Antonio Banderas's performance as Ché was great, both dramatically and musically.  Evita is highly recommended, 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Well made underrated musical","Date":"15 May 2004","Score":"26 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I knew before, that Madonna can sing but now I know what she also can act. Meanwhile, I knew before that Antonio Banderas can act, but now I know what he can sing. And in Evita he sang incredibly good. I agree, Madonna wasn't bad, but Antonio really stole the show. He brings to the movie incredible latin style. Also very good Jonathan Pryse as president Peron. This movie was very well directed and have very good cast.  But, best in Evita, of course, are music and songs. With excellent songs and pretty good singing Evita becomes on of the best musical movies ever made. Alan Parker bring out the political climate from that years very well. Maybe whole movie was too political, but now too many time have passed and nobody shouldn't care about that.  Best songs for me are Don't cry for me Argentina and nearly all Antonio's songs. In fact, only one minor problem in the movie is that Madonna in the beginning of the movie looks too old. Worth seeing for any music and movie lover. Sorry for my bad English8,1 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"The first great musical movie after nearly 20 years","Date":"19 December 1998","Score":"20 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Excellent Lloyd Webber-Rice musical is finally brought to the silver screen twenty years after the release of its concept album.  Being used to watching flashy, colourful musicals, namely from MGM, full of catchy tunes and full of breathtaking dance routines, Evita left me quite shocked.  It was the first (and last) political musical I saw.  The music impressed me at once, however the story and the setting did not quite do so at first sight.  It was only later, when I read something about the life story of Eva Peron did I really appreciate the excellent work Lloyd Webber and Rice did.  Even though they were not 100% faithful to the real story, the bio-musical gave a somewhat clear picture of what type of woman Eva Peron was.  The movie was great with its re-enactments of the 1940s-1950s Argentine elections, however, having personally performed in the stage version (playing a descamisado, a waiter, a policeman and one of Eva's lovers), I cannot but point out the several drawbacks it had.  It is true that the funeral, the electoral campaign and the terrorism were by far better on screen than on stage, yet the stage musical had a certain charm which was lost in the film. It could be due to the fact that on stage there was some dancing involved while the movie had none; it could be because one was live and one was playback; it could be because some of the harmonies were lost in the movie; it could be simply due to the fact that in one I participated while in the other I was just a spectator.  I don't know, still the stage version was more alive.  Nonetheless, in order to be fair, I have to admit that the movie version did have some improvements as regards to the play.  The best one of them was the song You Must Love Me. Apart from finally re-uniting composer and lyricist after more than 10 years of cold war, it presents the First Lady of Argentina as a woman who has some feelings, who is afraid in front of her approaching death, who is not only interested in becoming vice-president, as the stage production tends to hint. How much this is historically true is beyond me, yet it is good to give some human element to the heroine.I was quite impressed by the actors' interpretations.  Madonna has finally showed the world that she is able to look great without taking her clothes off, that she is more than just voice, boobs and scandal.  Jonathan Pryce was excellent as the Argentine president - such a pity he had so little to sing, having such a great voice.  Antonio Banderas impressed me - I did not know he was that good at singing.  The role of the narrator was quite a breakthrough after his &#145;tough-guy' parts, and he did it quite well.  Some critics said that this movie would set the way for future film versions of musicals - I hope they were right!  "},{"Title":"Best role for Madonna","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"17 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I used to think that there were a couple of absolutes in this world other than the standard issue ones. One is that I will always hate Andrew Lloyd Webber and another is that Madonna will never be a good actress. After seeing Alan Parker's 1996 musical Evita however, starring Madonna and featuring the music of Andrew Lloyd Webber, I have had to amend those two statements slightly.Evita tells the true story of Eva Peron, the wife of Argentina's former president (and dictator) Juan Peron. In a story that was ready-made for Hollywood, she started out as the illegitimate and poor daughter of a man who dies when she is very young, sleeps with a mediocre nightclub singer at the age of 15 in order to gain passage to Buenos Aires, and from there begins her struggle to reach whatever achievements her ambitions require (which is a lot). Using her body to gain important friends (because, frankly, she didn't have any acting talent) she becomes an actress and radio star before she meets Juan Peron, at the time, an up and coming politician. They get married and the two work to get him elected as the president of Argentina on the platform that they are workers too. When he is elected, Evita's popularity grows even more, to the point where her dreams of becoming the vice president of the country could be realized, until she is stricken with cancer and dies, essentially with the image of a saint, at the age of 32.Evita is a gorgeous, lush film, full of thousands of extras, great location scenes and features a very talented cast. It acts almost as an incredibly big budgeted and elaborate music video, mainly because it features almost constant singing, and well, it stars one of the most visible music video stars of all time. Madonna finally found her part in this film, and no, it wasn't just easier because she didn't have a lot of speaking lines. It is clear that not only did she take voice lessons (which actually is true) because her voice quality was better than normal, and has stayed that way since the making of this film, but she was able to knock off some decent dramatic moments. Banderas, though he spent a lot of the film looking pretty furious with the camera, doesn't have to prove any acting mettle (anyone who has seen him in an Almodovar film can attest to this) but did come up with a surprisingly good singing voice. Jonathan Pryce, who was curiously cast as Peron also did a good job, though his part was fairly minor, and even at that he was relegated to giving Evita a lot of loving looks. All in all, however, the slick production, some catchy music (I cannot believe I am actually saying that I actually really like a film featuring the music of the insipid, mainstream, gnome-like Webber) that is good enough to listen to extra-curricularly and performances that weren't bad made for a pretty good and very entertaining viewing.Don't get me wrong &#150; there are more than a few eye-rolling moments in Evita, but the good definitely outweighs the bad, exponentially. The story, while coherent, was pretty mediocre, and I found that I felt that there were some things that were glossed over or trivialized with a cute musical number. Admittedly, however, this IS a musical and you don't sign up for a hard-hitting knowledge fest when you watch one. This wasn't the first time I had seen this film, and yet I still end up getting so wrapped up in the action that I end up bawling a couple of times, and this viewing was no exception. More importantly, though, I didn't feel like a doofus when I recommended it as a movie that three guys and I should watch together, because while it's slick and a musical, (and therefore, traditionally, a chick film) there's enough compelling elements to the film that will keep some guys happy as well. Good job, Parker and thanks a lot for blowing two of the absolutes I normally stand by. 6/10 --Shelly "}{"Title":"maybe madonna can act...","Date":"19 September 2003","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"   maybe this movie was just so perfect for madonna.  it's certainly a great performance that won her a golden globe.  maybe it's the fact that when combining acting with singing and dancing, no one can beat her.  maybe it's because the story is so close to her own.  when Eva arrives in Buenos Aires singing about how she wants to take it over, one can't help but think of the now fabled story of Madonna landing in New York with nothing, and asking the cab driver to take her to the center of everything (which was Times Square)  a lot of people say that it pains Evita as a saint, but it doesn't.  it paints her as a complex person; a hypocrite, a heroine, a slut who sleeps her way to the top.  in the end, she is someone who gave hope to a lot of people.  however, the real scene-stealer is Antonio Banderas who plays the narrator, her critic, her fan, and her enemy.  he represents everyone around her, while being the only one who sees both her good and bad traits.  the songs have amazingly crafted lyrics, especially in Goodnight and Thank You, which is the best defense of sleeping your way to the top that i've ever heard, and the Waltz Between Eva and Che, which has Eva finally defend her goals, her politics, and her desires.  8/10. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece","Date":"25 July 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Transforming theater productions into movies can often have mixed results depending on factors such as the cast, the script and what they choose to leave in or out. Therefore I was apprehensive about this musical and, when I heard they had cast Madonna, they were taking a great risk as her movie career is not of a high standard to say the least Thankfully for them, the risk paid off. This is a great movie which oes more than justice to the original musical The plot and script flows well and is both intriguing and interesting. The songs are well-chosen and wonderful to listen to. Like the theater production, the movie takes some liberties with historical fact and accuracy and there's more than a little bias in the way that Eva Peron is portrayed (it doesn't to mention the fact, for instance, that Eva Peron's brother played a big role in smuggling Nazi war criminals into Argentina and that Eva and Gen Peron probably knew about and allowed it). But, as long as you are prepared not to take the movie at face value as being historically accurate -which you probably shouldn't do anyway for any Hollywood movie based on history -this is a charming and entertaining movieMadonna really gives the performance of her life as Evita. It is certainly probably her best musical performance to date and she absolutely shines in this role, both in her singing and her acting. Jonathan Pryce makes a very believable and likable Peron and Antonio Banderas portrays Che very well. But, as I indicated previously, it is Madonna who absolutely steals the show with her charm, grace, elegance and musical talent I highly recommend this. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Evita lovers are born, not made","Date":"2 October 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I've noticed that this movie continues to sink in the IMDb ratings, having dropped from 6.4 to 6.1 in the three years since I first looked it up. Apparently, Evita is not a film that grows on you. Loving it or hating it is in your DNA.I guess I'm fortunate in my DNA, because I am heart-and-soul addicted to this film. I own the DVD and have played it dozens of times. I watch the film anytime I catch it on cable. I cannot account for my passion. I am not a Madonna fan; I have no desire to see Madonna in anything else. I have no special interest in Antonio Banderas, and although I've sought out other Jonathan Pryce films, I have yet to find one I've really enjoyed.I love all three in this film. I cannot imagine anyone else playing the roles. I've seen Evita on stage in three different presentations and each time I left the theater asking myself the same question, Who are these impersonators playing Evita, Che and Juan? I know there are Jimmy Nail fans who consider his role in Evita to be a practical joke. To me, Jimmy Nail is the only possible Agustin Magaldi.Am I interested in Argentine history? Am I a political scholar? Do I have a long-standing fascination with Juan and Eva Peron? No, no and no.I will take a guess at what attracts a dedicated minority to this film. It is because, I believe, we are born romantics -- sensitized, heart-on-your-sleeve romantics, which is to say, we are opera lovers. And it turns out that the first opera many of us ever saw was the film version of Evita. It was the first time we ever saw characters talk to one another exclusively in song, the first time we ever shared the unrelenting intimacy that addressing each other in song evokes.And so we hear I would be good for you and You must love me rather than the oblique prose that people substitute in conversation.How is this different from a standard musical? It is different in that the song is not superimposed upon the dialogue. You are not asked to adjust to the manic-depressive world of the musical, where prosaic characters suddenly burst into unlikely melody. Instead, Evita draws you into an operatic setting, where events unfold to a rhythmic cadence, where the characters move always to the music, where prose reality is saved for the final stark revelation Eva, you are dying. Rather than a musical, Evita is a story told in music.Why the film, not the stage play? Because of the remarkable cinematography that lifts the opera from its stage setting to a enormously evocative time and place. What is it about the dusty funeral procession on the sun-baked plain, the arrival of Agustin and Eva in the bustling city, the fall of darkness upon the city's tango bars that is so nostalgically compelling? Why do we pine for this Argentina of long ago? Which of us who loves this film does not hope one day to visit Buenos Aires and find, by a miracle, that the city that greeted young Eva awaits us.Well, that's my personal attempt to explain an addiction. If someone knows a sure-fire method of withdrawal, kindly keep it to yourself. "},{"Title":"the amazing story of Eva Peron","Date":"14 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I went into this movie thinking it would be alright. actually i only saw it because i love Antonio Banderas but it turned out to be one of my favorite movies. I have never liked Madonna but I was pleasantly surprised by her performance as her acting was good and her voice with these songs was wonderful. Madonna-surprisingly good. Antonio Banderas-Outstanging as always. Antonio Banderas has a wonderful voice and after seeing this movie i went and bought the soundtrack. the waltz for Eva and Che always brings tears to my eyes. i rarely cry in movies and only have around twice(this makes three) but this is an exceptionally sad movie and is a must see for everyone. "},{"Title":"Stunning! Better than one expects!","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The film is grand, combining Lloyd Webber's superb music, Hollywood's effects, masterfully direction and surprisingly fine actor's work. Antonio Banderas is a real star in the film; he adds passion, charm and humour to the story. It's a clever invention of Webber and Rice to introduce a narrator and commentator who helps the audience understand events better and makes us think. In fact Banderas does more than this. He portraits a complex character, angry, criticising, witty and even cynical on the one hand and very emotional with deep feelings and `impossible dreams' on the other. He makes Che one of the main heroes of the story. The last scene is very moving and tense, as Che confesses his sorrow for Evita and at the same time warns Peron of the future. Antonio's Spanish good looks and plasticity suit the role exactly. His singing is expressive and pleasant to hear, and the voice is very strong, good even for the hard parts such as The Lady's Got Potential (great moment, impossible for the stage). Madonna acts wonderfully. She really resembles Eva Duarte de Peron, and her performance is so believable and true that I forget sometimes I'm watching artificial scenes. I can't see the death scene without tears (How she lived, how she shined! But how soon the lights were gone!). However I'm not totally satisfied with Madonna singing. I do not mean that she sings badly, I only want to say that Elaine Paige sings much better. Nevertheless, some scenes (I'd Be Good For You, Rainbow High, You Must Love Me) I did like immensely, and her duets with Antonio I simply enjoyed (Goodnight And Thank You is very amusing, Waltz For Eva And Che is so spirited, it's a masterpiece). I also must mention Jonathan Pryce. He did great job as Peron. His every gesture, expression and look are correct, matching moments and situations. All crowd scenes in the movie are impressive and exciting, making you wishing to join the choir (A New Argentina, And Money Kept Rolling In And Out). I decided to watch the movie for the sake of ALW unforgettable music, but soon I found that Evita is more than a musical on the screen - it's classic. Director, producer, operators and actors did everything to create a powerful epic film, revealing struggles, splendour and tragedy of Eva Peron's life as well as giving a touch of unique Argentine 1940s atmosphere. I would earnestly recommend the film to everyone it's dynamic, without one unnecessary moment, very interesting and touching and full of inspiring music.  "},{"Title":"Breathtaking...","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This movie has defined the way in which future movie musicals were made, it re-created the genre of movie musical, and above-all it was the most thought-provoking and touching films that has gone down into cinema history.From the smooth, luxurious tones of Madonna, to the brash latino spark of Antonia Banderas, and from the poverty stricken child to Argentina's first lady, Evita contains everything needed to succeed through the box office and grab a few Oscars on the way.Telling the unique and heart-wrenching story of Eva Evita Duarte-Peron from her poor childhood, through her numerous affairs with powerful men, her yearning for acceptance, and how she lifted millions out of poverty to her record-breaking, tragic and stunning funeral where millions of Argentinians lined up in the pouring rain to just get a final glimpse of her - the spiritual leader of the nation.Evita is a film that has gone down into history, being quoted as simply stunning, with Madonna at her finest moment. If you're not a Madonna fan you can still watch it, because there is not a spec of her in this role, she took on Evita with such passion that she got her first Oscar nomination.If you're not a fan of musicals than this isn't for you, with only two lines ever being spoken in the whole play, yet it dosen't feel like a musical it feels like a stunning epic fable that will never be forgotten.It quite simply is...breathtaking "},{"Title":"Evita is the best","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Evita is the best musical every written. ALW and TR are geniuses, as most impressively demonstrated on I'd be Surprisingly Good for You, in my estimate the most beautiful song every written. Each time I hear that song, I am instantly transported to a land of possibility and the deep, natural yearning of the heart, all drama aside. Madonna more than rose to the occasion playing Evita. She WAS Evita (sorry, Patti). She dazzled and delighted and what was probably a gamble paid big dividends. Banderos was a huge wonderful surprise. I didn't think he could get more attractive, but he did. What a voice! I can't think that playing Evita did not have some deep impact on Madonna. Who could give life to that character and that music and not have it be thus? Che's (and others')jabs at Evita were brilliant and hugely humorous, but no doubt lost on some. To those of us who got them, they were the creme de la creme of entertaining wit. I have heard that some people couldn't make out the lyrics. Lucky me, I could. If you haven't seen the play or the movie, do it! Read a little about Evita and Che Guevera first. Without some background, much of this incredible musical might be lost on you. I am this musical's number one fan and have seen stage productions in five cities and will see it again and again. The only production I didn't enjoy terribly was the one in Chicago in the 90's - for two reasons. The director of that play chose to make Evita more of a buffoon than a sympathetic character and the actress who played her had a nasal tone which made me cringe every time she opened her mouth. Directors, don't do that to this character, please! Evita is the very best of the best. "},{"Title":"Would rather push sharp things in my ears...","Date":"21 December 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Good heavens! This film lasted 135 mins - 120-odd mins too long!(there were a couple of good songs). What possessed someone to think, Hhmm, let's get the cast to tunelessly 'sing' their lines ALL THE WAY THROUGH THE FILM?!?!? Don't get me wrong, it was quite visually stunning, a great snapshot of a tumultuous historical turning point and all that, but PLEASE, how did people sit through two hours of that?? Despite the film's saving graces (and there were a few), this still makes it into my worst films of all time list, purely because I found it impossible to sit through from start to finish without wanting to pour red-hot magma into my ears! "},{"Title":"Opera?  Not even close","Date":"30 November 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Has anyone read Leonard Bernstein's account of how he discovered that West Side Story wasn't an opera?  He'd written countless different musical interpretations of Maria's final speech, in a variety of styles and musical forms, and none of them had come close to working.  The scene was a dramatic climax, and in an opera any such scene would have to be a musical climax as well.  But Bernstein realised that for the scene to work dramatically in West Side Story the characters would have to stop singing and talk to one another; therefore, West Side Story couldn't be an opera.It's a pity that Andrew Lloyd Webber didn't have a similar epiphany.  Evita clearly thinks of itself as a grand and serious opera, but it's considerably further from being one than West Side Story - despite the fact that there's not a line of spoken dialogue.  And spoken dialogue would certainly help.  Partly because no character can break OUT of speech INTO song - there's not even an undercurrent of recitative - no song feels like the expression of anyone's point of view but Tim Rice's.  Almost all songs are sung by nobody in particular.I suspect the transfer to the screen has made things worse.  The photography is gorgeous - I never saw it on the big screen, where, I'm sure, it was ten times as gorgeous - but it's all wasted it simply serves to turn Evita into one big, long music video.  All the spectacular images are in the form of seconds-long illustrations, vignettes, and flashbacks.  If only Alan Parker had had the courage to just ONCE give us a single unblinking shot of ANYTHING, even if it was just of a character simply singing...  As it is, this is the coldest musical drama you're likely to see.  The characters are so remote I'm not sure they're there.  I can't see any larger epic structure, either it takes more than an army of extras to give a movie one of those.And let's face it musically, Lloyd Webber isn't up to the task he's set himself.  His instrumental music is curiously dead - which, I presume, is why there's so little of it - and even the songs arouse my suspicion.  So much artificial respiration drum machines, modulations, juxtaposition, unmotivated changes of rhythm, choral intervention ... truly memorable material ought to be able to breathe on its own.  A film that's going to be ALL score requires a stronger score than this.I agree with those who praise the cast, though. "},{"Title":"Very Good! Know the story before you watch it though","Date":"19 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" When I first saw this movie, I initially thought it was alright, but not to par. . I thought Madonna was just PERFECT for the role, but I felt it was just missing something.It was confusing at times, and some parts are unexplained What it did however do, is get me wondering about Eva Peron. So, I watched a documentary on her and was blown away. Not by the documentary of course. But Alan Parker. As the documentary showed the real Eva Peron, I noticed how amazing accurate Alan Parker wanted to make his film.I then watched the film again having higher hopes and was completely taken out of seat. Every outfit, every word, every event. every picture, has historical reference or the way the people perceived her. Every single of one of Madonna's outfit's is a replica of an outfit that Eva Peron wore. Alan Parker clearly had spent YEARS researching Eva Peron. And it shows, The news (If you know Spanish and look in the background) is what was going on at the time. Everything is spot-on. I think my favorite thing is tho, is that certain melodies, constantly show up in another song. Don't Cry for me Argentina if you listen to the beats and melodies, constantly shows up in many of the songs. These and many other small details make this movie one of my favorites. The music is fun, the cast in one word, is brilliant and the sets perfectly fit the time-frame. Although, I do feel like it missed the energy of the on-stage version by an inch. So, all-in-all, good movie. Not a 'must see'. Good, if you're not familiar with the story. But downright brilliant if you're either willing to sit down and learn about Eva Peron, or already know about her "}{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"5 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" That this is a musical, a filmed version of a musical stageplay, only strengthens its cinematic potency. Having the parentage of many performances on the world's greatest stages, and a proved record of thralling audiences with the story and the music, one would expect this to be wonderful film. And it is truly wonderful. Anyone who sees this and rates it low either doesn't like musicals, or doesn't like film. This is possibly the BEST of its genre. Alan Parker took this to another level when he adapted it to the screen he managed to capture Eva Peron's rise from lowest-class in a very class-conscious culture to her status of wife of a semi-dictator. After being a dance hall girl and a radio star, Eva bloomed in her final role of First Lady--- Champion of the Underprivileged. Her early death at 33 shocked Argentina. Parker deserves much praise for this adaptation which captured the reality and the tabloid unreality of Eva Peron. The initial scene in the smoke-filled movie theater where the Argentinians are told of her passing and the sombre days afterward when her preserved body lay in state for viewing by the slowly moving queues give us a real sense how much she mattered to her countrymen and women. The outpouring of grief in the funeral march uses many of the same people, allegedly, who marched in the actual funeral procession 30 years before. The grief----of something precious taken from them, of a vital loss---has lessened, yet is still there. Parker's use of these people means he didn't have to rely on doctoring old newsreels to gain the effect of national mourning. Directorial touches like this take this movie from mere musical to biographical homage. We see, and feel more deeply how she affected others, and it is this depth that is necessary for it to be not only a filmed musical.Others have commented here how good Antonio Banderas is in his role of singing narrator, a modern adaptation of the Greek chorus who is both part of the drama, and detached commenting observer at the same time. His voice and his inflections! . . . maybe it is his Latin heritage, making him a very wise choice for the role, and maybe it is because he is just damn good here that he is so effective. His voice is beautiful, impassioned and he has a sincerity that is needed to balance the one weakness that Madonna brings to her portrayal of Eva, and that is her lack of depth. It is not that she is a bad actress... she can emote, she is polished and trained as a dancer so she moves well on screen, but she lacks some ill defined depth of character and all her supporting actors and actresses in 'Evita' help to shore up this missing ingredient in her performance.Perhaps it isn't that Madonna lacks depth for this role, so much that she is visibly 'playing' Eva Peron instead of becoming Evita, of takingon her persona. Her singing is excellent. She felt herself similar in background (clawed from poorer beginnings to the top) to Evita and campaigned for the movie role it is said. But she lacks that capacity to allow the audience to feel what she is suffering . . . that marvelous ability that great actors have, even silent Kabuki ones, to create a genuine emotional sensation in the spectators. Would this movie be even stronger had she that capacity...? Of course. And it may be that that same drive to succeed that took her to the top also works against her in this she cannot stop being who she labored so hard to become, to become someone like her. She can't get out of her own way. And this is not to denigrate her performance.. some have questioned whether Patti Lupone who played Eva on Broadway in an award-winning performance should not also have played the movie role. I don't know. I heard Lupone was great, and brought real soul to it. Maybe.Still, Madonna is very good in the role . . . if there is a lack of authenticity in her acting it is compensated by her dancing and singing and the greater authenticity of those around her. Jonathan Price as Peron is convincing. He has a slightly distant military air, and something of the father image that supposedly drew Eva to him, her own father having died when she was a child. He seems to love her, but she is also not an equal to him, less man and wife, more father and ward. There was an age difference between Eva and Peron, so this is historically accurate. The rest of the cast is unfaultable. Singing, music, couldn't be better. I love this movie. It is my favorite cinema adaptation of a musical drama. I only watched it after I had listened to the soundtrack numerous times and was truly amazed how artfully Parker interwove dramatic action and song. I give this movie a 10, and for all the right reasons. It is as good as it gets. "},{"Title":"Oscar for Madonna-someday?","Date":"31 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Madonna should have gotten an Oscar this role. This movie is one of my favorites even today. I saw it the theater with my friends and fell in love with all the characters. I loved how she stuck by her husband...especially when things were not right politically. Even though she did not fit in, she did not let that deter her. He also gave her strength. An ideal union working together. Antonio B was also great he set the mood for the movie. This movie is a classic. I highly recommend it. Everyone should have their own copy. I love musicals and they all sang from the heart. Her Death, even though you know from the beginning that she dies young...you forget will watching the movie. The irony is the circumstances of her death and how she would still be alive (due to medical technology). The scene when she tells the little girl to go back to school was gutsy. what happens now--where am I going don't ask anymore are repeated over and over in the movie. Questioning does not always guarantee an answer, yet we keep asking...what will be will be...things could of been different for her if her father's family had accepted her, a child is a child---Eva was deeply affected by middle class values (fathers other family.) I have seen it a few times. This movie demonstrates the power of a woman's will. you act has not changed much...neither has yours-WOW. Maybe he should of taken care of the diamond instead of exploiting it. Madonna is amazing, how she can play any role...Her new album is her best! I think more people would be happy if they just accepted themselves. Madonna does not need marketing but I like her attitude about life.I recommend Swept away as well...not well received by critics but I liked the British humor. "},{"Title":"Madonna and Banderas Sing and Shine","Date":"6 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Evita, based on the hit Andrew Lloyd Webber/Tim Rice musical, starts off with the announcement of Eva Peron's(Madonna)death. From there, we meet Che (Antonio Banderas), who tells the audience that people may mourn her as a saint, but she was far from perfect.Eva Duarte grew up poor and resentful of the middle-class (Her family wasn't even allowed to attend the funeral of the children's father, calling them bastards). She sees a chance to escape her small town existence when she has an affair with Magaldi(Jimmy Nail), who brings her to Buenos Aires. After being dumped (He's a married man), Eva uses her smarts and body to get what she wants. Soon she becomes an actress and radio star, which leads her to Col. Juan Peron (Jonathan Pryce), future President of Argentina.Their relationship is frowned upon by pretty much everyone, calling her a social climber and whore. The government is also unstable, and Peron is thrown in jail. Evita rallies the people to stand up against the government and to put Peron in power. Her beauty and brains not only propel him to President, but she becomes the first lady of Argentina, loved and adored, even as the country is constantly in turmoil and poverty.But as the saying goes, the light that burns twice as bright burns out just as quickly. And Eva's light goes out at the age of 33, due to cancer. But even in death, Eva's beauty is still haunting the country to this day (Many people were furious when Madonna was given the role).As for the film itself, Madonna and Banderas do some very good singing and dancing, propelling the story along in a quick pace. You can tell how hard Madonna worked to be in this film, because her voice is incredible (Especially when she is singing the Oscar-winning You Must Love Me.).One of Madonna's best films. "},{"Title":"A lavish operatic adaptation of the musical","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Surely Madonna was made for this role, that of Eva Duarte de Peron, a young girl from the country who rises to the top with a combination of brains, wits, political savvy and sexuality.  Sure she used men to attain her dreams, but what was a girl to do in 1930s-40s Argentina? Antonio Banderas is superb as Che, the narrator critic, perhaps the soul of the Argentinian peasants.  Banderas' background is stage musicals, and he matches Madonna in every way.  Jonathan Pryce is also excellent in his role as the dictator who rises to power only with the talents of Eva. This is not your ordinary musical.  Almost every word is sung, as in opera, and the whole thing works.  Andrew Lloyd Webber proves himself again a master tunesmith. Besides Don't cry for me Argentina, all the other songs (if you can call them that) are beautiful, ranging from sweet ballads to waltz and rock. The film is lavish in breadth and depth, with thousands of extras just like the old Hollywood spectaculars.  No f/x here, but real people.  The cinematography is also superb.  This is truly a triumph, a glorious experience, totally unique in film. Highly recommended. ***** "},{"Title":"It was surprisingly good for me!","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The legend of Evita will never die - certainly not after this one! Madonna and Antonio Banderas simply excel theirselves. Evita is full of motions and good songs, which Madonna performs in a beautiful way. She really has got in the exactly right spirit in her role. I simply love the soundtrack and the whole musical! You better watch it, Madonna did not get her Golden Globe in vain.. "},{"Title":"a beautiful piece of cinema","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  A wild, driven, intense musical. It's picture perfect -- the cinematography, with it's brown tones and beautiful framing and timing, is just what was needed for this production.The acting is outstanding. The story is outstanding. The music is absolutely, completely, mesmerizingly, amazing. It's nothing short of brilliant.It may be a tad emotionally distant at certain times, but nothing could be more emotional as when Evita sings for the first time, Don't Cry For Me Argentina. Words cannot express the way I felt as they showed her on a train, sticking out her arm and feeling the air, intercutting with her absolutely moving balcony scene. Nearly brings a tear to my eye... "},{"Title":"my favorite movie EVER!!! (except star wars, *g*)","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  EVITA is such a great movie. every single time I've seen it, (that's, like, 15 times) i just go WOW. the photography, the actors, the music, the costumes and everything else are AWESOME!  i don't get a bit bored during the movie. your right, i got the sound track. "},{"Title":"It is a musical worth seeing!","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  As a person who is not a big fan of movie musicals, I was thoroughly impressed by the magnificent performance of Madonna playing the title role and singing the immortal hit Don't cry for me Argentina. Jonathan Pryce and Antonio Banderas were also spectacular in their respective roles.(p)Andrew Lloyd Weber's musical genius is captured in this touching and historic portrayal of the life of Argentine First Lady Eva Peron.  A peasant girl who used her charms and elegance as an aspiring entertainer and rises to become the wife of Argentina's most powerful politician is sequentially presented with song and dance that only a masterful musical producer such as Weber could create.(p)I highly recommend this movie to anyone interested in learning about the life of an important poltical figure of the twentieth century and being delightfully entertained at the same. "},{"Title":"wonderful!","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  wonderful! madonna and especially antonio banderas was wonderful! of course, it wouldn't all be possible without the outstanding work of tim rice and andrew lloyd webber.i just watched it an hour ago and loved it. i heard the songs from the radio and soundtrack, but i never did take the time to watch the whole film. now i'm glad i did! broadway does it again! "},{"Title":"Madonna gives a memorable Performance","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"       The best thing about Evita is Madonna's amazing performance. Madonna not only sings the soundtrack flawlessly but her acting in her final scenes and the scene where she dances with Che were Oscar worthy. Madonna is not an actress by training and comes through in a lot of movies but here she is excellent. She has to be given the credit, she really wanted this role and it shows in her great performance. Antonio Banderes who played Che gives a surprisingly excellent performance. His singing is much better than I expected. Jonathan Price who played Juan Peron is good but his role isn't very big.       Technically the movie is very impressive as is Alan Parker's lively direction. The sets, costumes and cinematography are all excellent and makes the movie great to just look at. Parker's direction is excellent. He gets great performances from the actor's and has a real visual sense.     Evita Was one of the best movies of 1996 and is greatly underrated.       "}{"Title":"High Flying, Adored","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This musical ranks right up there with WEST SIDE STORY and CABARET for me as one of the best musicals of all time for me. I don't know how so many could have overlooked its great style and beautiful sets and direction. Madonna and Antonio Banderas are both wonderful and should have both nominated for the Academy Award for it. As a matter of fact, the picture should have been nominated also. It looks like the Golden Globes got right about EVITA. One of my favorite films. "},{"Title":"You Must Love Evita...","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Once you get following the storyline your emotions take over. You become eager to see & hear more. When Eva's heart comes to a stop, it feels like yours has too. I loved this movie as much as the people loved her.  "},{"Title":"Don't Cry For Me, Arge And Tina","Date":"15 February 2015","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Well, if I'm not mistaken this was the movie that was supposed to convince all of us sneering sceptics that Madonna could, in fact, really sing.And, Yeah, OK - I admit that it did convince me that Madonna could, indeed, sing. It did. But, it was like I had always suspected - Madonna couldn't sing very well - At least, not without all of the technical, voice-enhancing gadgetry around to back her up.When it comes to Madonna's singing I can only take it in very-very small doses, anyways. So, having to listen to her shrill, little voice almost constantly throughout Evita's 134 minute running time was really almost too much for my delicate ears to bear.I think it's totally hilarious that while Madonna was down on location in Buenos Aires for this film, the proud people of Argentina actually gathered (in large numbers, I hear) outside her hotel to protest against her playing the part of their national heroine, Eva Peron. They angrily claimed that Madonna was not fit to play their saintly heroine - That Madonna was an utter disgrace to the memory of this woman.Isn't that just too hilarious? If anyone's at all interested in this sort of thing - Here's a little bit of movie-trivia regarding Evita - Entered into the Guinness Book of World Records - Most costume changes made by an actress in the course of a film - 85 costume changes by Madonna - Beating out 65 costume changes by Elizabeth Taylor in Cleopatra.Fascinating stuff, eh? You know, with Evita's running time of 134 minutes, Madonna was literally changing her costumes about every minute and a half. Phew!! It makes my head spin.You know, I can really see why Madonna would want so badly to play the part of Eva Peron. In so many ways these 2 women's lives run along parallel lines. It's true.OK. Let's see - Both women came from fairly modest backgrounds. Both women could easily be considered B-Grade when it came to being singers/actresses. Both women married men of influence who helped boost their own careers. Both women were so fanatically ambitious that when it came to the pursuit of their careers, they made their rise up the ladder to fame and fortune by lying on their backs with their legs spread wide and up in the air.It's true. "},{"Title":"I'm a guy and I liked it","Date":"6 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I'm a 15 year old boy, not exactly the stereotypical person to like musicals. But I really liked this movie because it was ALL singing, so it moved fast, and wasn't like a lot of other musicals that seem to be going on about nothing. The music is good, and the story is good.Basically, it's a biographical movie about Eva Peron, who lived in Argetina. This film shows her way of social climbing, often ruthlessly, to get what she wants, yet portrays her as a lovable person. I think it's pretty interesting, and not many know, that this movie was or is (I'm not sure) banned in Argentina, because of the bad portrayals. But I personally think that's stupid and it's really not anything all the controversial.Overall, a good movie for anyone. "},{"Title":"Underrated and better with time","Date":"29 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" After 8 years, the qualities of this film do nothing but shine brighter. The fine performances (even from Madonna), the extraordinary work of Rice and Webber, the deep emotional impact achieved with no dialogue...The story of Eva Perón is still meaningful in Argentina and Latin-America, and yes, some will still contend that the film is not altogether faithful to the historical figure. This can be said of any work of fiction dealing with historical characters, and can easily be dismissed, since the important thing is does it work as fiction, as art? Does it convey feelings, does it accurately affect the public's emotions? In this case, seeing it again today there seems no doubt that it achieves that essential intemporal quality... it works fine, it works even better after the debate was forgotten.The master touch in all the dramatic recreation of a singular individual and moment in Argentina is, of course, the use of a supraconscience, a narrator and critic in the guise of Ernesto Che Guevara, who was a young opposition militant when Eva Perón rose and fell. The magnificent counterpoint always offered by the character of Che (not in fact related to the biography or thought of the guerrilla leader) is the source of some of the movie's finest moments, and Banderas as Che is probably at the height of his performance powers, as actor and singer.Underrated for long, the movie has slowly managed to creep into the lists of greatest musicals, and it will probably continue to do so. It is always a pleasure to see it. "},{"Title":"The most moving Opera in the History","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Since I saw EVITA for the first time I knew that would be my favourite movie I would ever see in my life. I don't know why it does mean so much to me, maybe because is the story of a woman who, even if you are atheous, you would see become a saint. She died when she was 33, like Christ or Alexander the great, and Madonna embodies so wonderfully the part of a girl that comes from nothing and becomes an idol, that you can't distinguish the life of Madonna from the Eva's one. Then the movie is so well done, the cinematography is so beautiful, scenography takes your breathe away and costumes are simply wonderful!And the music is so moving, it expresses exactly the feelings of the charachters and lyrics are really incredible in the way they can give a complete introspection to the charachters. I always listen to the soundtracks and I've seen the film unnumerable times and any time I learn something new. Eva's final broadcast is simply fantastic, is full of emotions. I love you must love me and the valzer scene. The fact is that only who really love music and epic stories can really aprreciate this movie. EVITA will be loved only by those who deeply feel his contents, so those people won't never lose the strong emotions watching it. Madonna has so much to teach, and few people share this idea, and I will always say she is one of the greatest artist ever lived. Remember BETTER TO WIN BY ADMITTING MY SIN THAN TO LOSE WITH THE HALO. You'd say that's not the point of view of a saint, I'd say it's exactly the point of view of a person that has so much to say, and both Rice and Webber understood. Thanks to all who believe in the power of Art. "},{"Title":"For Tulane class, Zach Schurkman","Date":"5 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The movie Evita, starring Madonna, Antonio Banderas and Johnathan Pryce is a musical account of the life of Eva Peron. An adaptation of the original rock opera by Tim Rice and Andrew Lloyd Webber, the film is told as a flash back with the narrator, Antonio Banderas as Che, recounting the events that have lead to the opening scene the announcement of Evita's death.Evita, played by Madonna, was born into poverty in rural Argentina. She was able to climb the social ladder through her numerous male relationships and acting career. Eventually she marries Juan Peron, played by Jonathan Price, who is an up and coming Colonel in the Argentine military. Evita then becomes the first lady when a military lead coup makes Peron President. As first lady, Evita is extremely popular with the general Argentinean population because she is considered to understand the needs of the lower class, as she came from a poor background herself. Peron exploits his wife's popularity by having Evita tour the world and run charitable foundations. As the story develops the narrator portrays Evita as increasingly more negative and aloof to her husband's repressive actions and policies.From a historical standpoint Evita has many inconsistencies, however, the general storyline is factual and based on Mary Main's biography of Eva Peron. Unfortunately, Mary Main's biography has been criticized as biased because much of her evidence was attained from anti-Peron sources. As a result the movie also shares this historical criticism, and many of the events and portrayals in the film have been disputed. The films' suggestion that Evita was a terrible actress who slept her way to the top has been disproved by historians. Likewise, the film's portrayal of Evita's arrival in Buenos Aires as mistress of a married man has also been proved false. Nonetheless, the core historical events portrayed in the film are on the whole extremely accurate. The movie does a particularly good job of illustrating the social unrest and governmental corruption rampant in Argentina during the 1940's and 1950's. The film also correctly addresses the large gap between the rich and poor during the time period and its relative implications on society. All the dates, events and characters are based on historical fact, except for Che the narrator. This gives the movie a pseudo-realism that is unique from other musicals. As an educational film, Evita could be very helpful in depicting the events surrounding Peron's rise to power, as long as one notes the biases and alleged inconsistencies ahead of time.From an entertainment perspective, Evita is thoroughly enjoyable. Antonio Banderas in particular, does a fabulous job in his role of Che. Madonna, in the role she was born to play, is spotty at times, but on the whole is very commendable. The music, already famous from the play, is well incorporated into the movie and generally well sang by the cast. The simple cinematography allows the movie to progress very smoothly and incorporate Che in scenes the play never could. The story is widely held as a classic and is quite entertaining. Evita's realism allows viewers to associate themselves with aspects of Evita or any of the other characters lives, while the music makes the movie easy to follow and family friendly.Clearly Evita is worth watching as it is both entertaining and educational, a rare combination. Although, one must be preemptively warned that the movie has been criticized from a historical viewpoint as being unfairly negative toward Evita. The movie also portrays the many charitable and positive actions lead by Evita. The movie makes no claims to be entirely historically accurate, and subsequently must be understood as entertainment first, and history second. Still, the movie provides a strong background in Argentine history and politics that are relevant even today. On a scale of one to ten I would rate the movie a nine for entertainment and a seven for historical accuracy. "},{"Title":"Evita Velveeta","Date":"30 July 2005","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" It sounded like a good idea. One of the century's most widely admired and successful modern operas; a reunion of the composer and lyricist to personally adapt the material for the screen; a huge budget; and the very problematic Madonna at last cast in a role seemingly made for her the manipulative, power-hungry, blonde bombshell role of Eva Peron.How could it go wrong? Very easily. In order to get permission to film in Argentina the producers had to remove virtually everything from the stage show that actually made it memorable--and to cover the gaps Rice and Webber added fluff. Madonna never had the opportunity to play the cut-throat Evita; she was instead given a poor little pitiful me Evita--a role that even the greatest actresses of the day would have difficulty putting across. And as for that mammoth budget... well, let's just say that the entire film has the look of an expensively made videotape.Madonna does the best she can with it, but there aren't any fireworks in the reworked material. Both Banderas and Price seem more than a little miscast in their roles of Che and Juan Peron. And the action drags and drags drags. Extremely, extremely disappointing.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"Evita","Date":"12 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I had seen the film poster and had known the three leading stars for years, and I knew one of the songs featuring, I was hoping it would be good, based on the hit Broadway musical by Lord Sir Andrew Lloyd Webber and Sir Tim Rice, directed by Golden Globe nominated Alan Parker (Bugsy Malone). Basically the film tells the story of Eva Evita Duarte de Perón (Golden Globe winning Madonna), as told by storyteller Ché (Golden Globe nominated Antonio Banderas) (named after Ché Guevara), who acts as the view for both the people of the rural community and high society. Young Eva (María Luján Hidalgo) started life in poverty as the daughter of a farmer, but as a teenager she got attached to Latin singer Agustín Magaldi (Ain't No Doubt singer Jimmy Nail) and accompanied him to the big city, Buenos Aires, there she rose from being a poor rural girl to being an aspiring actress. Eva becomes more famous through film and radio, eventually moving moving into influential circles within Buenos Aires society, her name soon becomes linked to rising politician Juan Perón (Jonathan Pryce), this quickly creates interest, and soon after marrying Perón is elected President, with the inspirational Eva by his side. As First Lady and Spiritual Leader of the Nation of Argentina, Eva attracts attention like no other woman before or since, hypnotising eighteen million people for seven years with her huge political influence and constant charity work, gaining adoration and love from workers and (Spanish) liberals, but disdain and fear from the military and upper classes. This public and political interest, both positive and negative, being the most hated and the most beloved woman of Argentina, continued until the untimely death of Eva, passing away from cancer at the age of 33, nearly three million people attended the funeral in the streets of Buenos Aires. Also starring Victoria Sus as Doña Juana, Julian Littman as Brother Juan, Olga Merediz as Blanca, Laura Pallas as Elisa Duarte, Julia Worsley as Erminda, Andrea Corr as Perón's Mistress and Peter Polycarpou as Domingo Mercante. With Desparetely Seeking Susan (perhaps Dick Tracy and A League of Their Own also), this is the only enjoyable performance by the Queen of Pop, the less said about Body of Evidence, Die Another Day (apart from her song) and Swept Away the better, Madonna is very good as she goes through all the triumphs and traumas of the First Lady of Argentina. Pryce as the up and coming President and Banderas as the everyman revolutionary get their moments, but Madonna and most of the songs are the big hook to the film, the best song for me being Don't Cry for Me Argentina, it does get slightly tedious with hardly any dialogue and mostly all singing, the story of a girl going from nothing to something is alright, and the political stuff didn't grab me, overall it's not a bad musical biography. It won the Oscar for Best Song for You Must Love Me (it also won the Golden Globe), and it was nominated for Best Cinematography, Best Art Direction-Set Decoration, Best Sound and Best Film Editing, and it was nominated the BAFTAs for the Anthony Asquith Award for Film Music for Lloyd Webber and Rice, Best Adapted Screenplay for Alan Parker and Oliver Stone, Best Cinematography, Best Production Design, Best Costume Design, Best Editing, Best Sound and Best Make Up/Hair. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"Superb and epic screen musical","Date":"17 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" EVITA began life in Britain as a concept album by Tim Rice and Andrew Lloyd Webber in 1976. In 1978, it became a stage musical in London's West End. Early in the 1980s, English director Ken Russell was hired to make the movie version - which never got off the ground. Finally, in 1996, another English director - Alan Parker - brought the story of Eva Peron to the screen with a budget of $55 million. The resulting film won 3 Golden Globes and an Oscar for Best Song.Despite thousands of extras and the use of authentic locations in Argentina and Hungary (as well as Shepperton Studios in England for the interiors), the whole film is captivated by the stars and score. Madonna as Eva - from teenage girl to Christian-Diored saint and first lady of the Argentine - never reminds you of Madonna the pop star. This Eva is her own creation, a genuine actress performance. Antonio Banderas is Che - well, not the Che Guevara in beard and beret of the stage show, but a representative of the Argentinian people; he drifts through the action variously as a protesting worker, waiter, barman, reporter, projectionist, aristocrat, all the time providing a sardonic narration.The film opens in a cinema in Buenos Aires 1952. The manager interrupts the performance to tell the audience that Eva Peron has died. There is much weeping and outpouring of grief - except the unmoved Che. At her state funeral he's the one objecting voice Instead of government/we had a stage/instead of ideas/a prima dona's rage, he sings before taking us on a guided tour of her life. It stretches from the bed of travelling singer Magaldi (Jimmy Nail) to the balcony of the Presidential Palace alongside Juan Peron (Jonathan Pryce).Parker's direction creates a credible Argentina of the 1940s and 1950s (the cinematography has the pale look of vintage photos). He handles the big numbers well 'Don't Cry for Me, Argentina' is a speech sung on the balcony of the Presidential Place on Peron's inauguration day. 'High Flying Adored' is sung by Che wandering through the victory ball - it's an intimate number placed in a big scene. 'We're Having a Ball' was originally 'The Lady's Got Potential' on the album, dropped from the stage show and here used to describe Peron's rapid rise to power. One of the best numbers, 'Waltz for Eva and Che' has become a dream sequence, with the two characters waltzing around a deserted ballroom, through a meat packers' shed, through the back streets of Buenos Aires and back to the ballroom.There's never a static moment in the film countless big scenes of riots and protesting workers. This musical feels 'epic' and in the manner of 'Lawrence of Arabia' and 'Gandhi' it begins with an epilogue. The production design (by Brian Morris) and costumes (by Penny Rose) are a standout.Parker's approach to the musical - which is all song - is realistic rather than the stylised and studio bound approach Rob Marshall took to 'Chicago'. Fabulous score by Lloyd Webber and Rice's cynical lyrics are amongst the best ever written for a musical. "}{"Title":"Madonna's Finest Moment","Date":"19 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Evita was probably the most snubbed film of it's year even for all the recognition it got. The film is a beautiful and moving tribute to a truly remarkable woman who rose above her scandalous and poor past to become one of the most beloved people in Argentina- because she never forgot where she came from.Madonna sparkles on screen as Evita, and her performance is marvelous. This film will forever go down as the greatest thing she ever did. She was robbed of a Best Actress nomination. Her voice is gorgeous as well. Supporting actors Antonio Banderas and Jonathan Pryce are good as well, but they can never steal the light from our lovely leading lady. The film's only downfall is that the lyrics can be hard to understand at times for first time listeners. I'm sure some people would be turned off as well by that it is only singing and barely any talking. It does take a little getting used to the first time you see it; it's unlike any movie musical ever made before. It's also a classic. 8/10 stars!Jay Addison "},{"Title":"An eye-popping, ear-pleasing extravaganza","Date":"10 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" If you haven't seen the stage version of EVITA, you really should. It's a great example of how much you can do with limited staging and a relatively small cast. I've seen it twice, and was so impressed that I avoided the film, assuming it couldn't possibly live up to the original. I also have to admit that I can't stand Madonna and didn't want to watch her on screen for over two hours.But I finally saw the film and have to confess that I was caught up and blown away by the intensity of the visuals, the re-recorded music, and most of the cast. The opening ten minutes, which includes the theater scene and the funeral procession, convinced me that Alan Parker had the vision to bring this classic musical to the screen. Every song was opened up with carefully-chosen locations, unlimited cast, and superb lighting and camera work. But nothing was overdone.Viewing the film confirmed my thought that EVITA is really the best thing Lloyd Webber has ever done. There are some great ballads of course, but there are some complicated, angular songs that are just right for the mood but more difficult than usual Broadway fare. The new orchestrations and recording kick the excitement up several notches, with a driving rhythm section and greater clarity in all the instruments, from the horns and strings to the classical guitar and percussion.I wasn't bothered too much by Parker's monkeying with some of the songs and their order. And I loved the new soap commercial verse in Goodnight and Thank You, and the song The Lady's Got Potential. Madonna looked the part well, and she's a decent actress, but she is nowhere near as strong vocally as Patti LuPone from the original B'way cast, and that was a serious drawback. She is strictly a studio singer, relying on engineers and recording tricks to create her sound. (Remember her awful live Oscar performance with the song from Dick Tracy?) Jimmy Nail was also a disappointment; although he looked great as Magaldi, his voice is strictly for rock-and-roll, not for tangos.The standouts were 1) Jonathan Pryce, who looked much heavier and looming in this role than in other films, and who sang admirably; and 2) Antonio Banderas, who IMHO should have received the award nominations instead of his blonde co-star. He is electric on the screen, and his vocals were surprisingly good, much weightier than Mandy Patinkin, and of course with the proper South American accent. I'm not particularly a fan of his, but he instantly captures your attention every time he appears and is an ideal foil for Madonna.So three cheers for Alan Parker for taking a great work of art and giving it even more visual and audio impact. I hope an expanded DVD version is on the horizon. "},{"Title":"Hollywood Adaptation Of Webber's Musical Evita","Date":"21 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Evita (1996) Starring Madonna, Antonio Banderas, Jonathan Pryce, Jimmy Nail, Julian Littman, Victoria Sus, Olga Merediz, Laura Pallas, Julia Worsley, Maria Lujan Hidalgo, Servando Villamil, Andrea Corr, Peter Polycarpou, Gabriel Kraisman, Martin Drogo, Venesa Weis, Veronica Ferrari Risler, Aldana Garcia Soler, Domingo Chiofalo, Nick Holder, Eva Vari, Denis Lill, Ana Justo, Sergio Lerer, Marcelo Alejandro Auchelli, Fernando Agustin Henin, Brian Cobby, Victor Satchwell....Director Alan Parker. Based On The Musical By Andrew Lloyd Webber With Lyrics By Tim Rice, Screenplay By Oliver Stone.Hollywood had long desired to adapt the riveting story of Argentina's First Lady Eva Peron into a movie but the major Broadway composer Andrew Lloyd Webber (Dreamcoat, Jesus Christ Superstar, Phantom of the Opera, Cats, Sunset Boulevard) had previously made it into a hit stage musical sometime in the late 70's. This is the film version of that same musical, though some of the original songs and certain scenes were cut out and edited due to time. When it was released in 1996, it was not a big success, despite attempts to make it a grand affair- the casting of pop singing legend Madonna, Spanish-born actor Antonio Banderas, a script partly written by Oliver Stone and a lavish, big-budget production. Madonna has long been regarded by some as a lousy actress who promotes her pop singing career even through film but ought to stick to singing ONLY. In the past, she attempted to have a joint career as both actress and singer but it's in the role of singer/entertainer she is most comfortable with. As an actress, she tends to appear strangely awkward and very stiff. She does not have the Broadway voice so necessary for Evita as audiences saw in performances by singers such as Patti Lupone and indeed her voice is lighter than most Broadway divas. Yet, her version of Don't Cry For Me Argentina the most beautiful song in the musical, was made famous through this film and played constantly on the radio in 1996 and the soundtrack as well as single sold millions. Because this is one particular musical where dialog is not included, Madonna's acting is terribly weak and the few times she seems to be acting she makes Evita appear very vulnerable and too American when she ought to be poised, regal and very Latin. It's a pity they didn't cast a Hispanic woman with similar features to the real life Eva Peron. Dark, sexy and charismatic Latin actor Antonio Banderas has a great, expressive, singing voice (who knew ?)but looks oddly out of place in this film. He appears to be a brief visitor to the film like Madonna herself. As usual, fans of the Lloyd Webber musical were displeased. Webber's musicals are generally not well received on film, such as the recent December 2004/January 2005 film version of Phantom of the Opera attested. The story of Evita Peron is told through various scenes and ensemble/solo songs in this lush cinematic work. Set in Argentina in the 40's, we follow the rise of Eva Peron to power. From her humble beginnings as a poor country girl, to her social climbing days as an actress to her marriage to President Juan Peron. But being on top had its share of problems. In Argentina, workers are on strike and protesting social injustice, World War II rages on and Eva is privately struggling with cancer. She becomes a larger than life figure, like a sort of Latin Eleanor Roosevelt and far outshines her own husband. She goes on the famous and highly publicized Rainbow Tour of Europe where she meets with the Pope, Spain's dictator Franco and the French President. She finds keeping power is difficult and feels she is still the same girl she left behind in her acting days. Ahead of her time, she prefigured such star-turned-politicians as Ronald Reagan and Schwartznegger. Eva Peron's life is not accurately portrayed in this musical as this is mostly a form of theater and entertainment. It's very operatic and emotional but not entirely truthful. Great costumes and cinematography which beautifully depict a long ago time and place. This is a beautiful film, despite the fact that many film critics and even the Oscars snubbed it. It's a musical with a powerful emotional scope and if you're familiar with the life of Evita Peron, this film is sure to be a delight. "},{"Title":"Very good biographical musical with a great  Madonna","Date":"1 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Madonna has found her role. She's absolutely perfect in the part of Evita. Her voice never been so clear, strong and beautiful. She has changed eyes' colour and teeth for the performance and she has entered the Guinnes World Book of record to be the actress who had wore the largest number of clothes in a movie. The movie is perhaps too long but it's very well done. Madonna won the Golden Globe as Best Actress, but the Academy didn't even give her a nomination, and that's really a scandal. How is it possible an actress who won the Golden Globe isn't nominated to the Oscars? The unique reason was that her name was Madonna. By the way this musical witnesses Madonna's talent as an actress but it shows also that the quality of the movie depends mostly on the script with a great script ( in this case Andrew Lloyd Webber musical ) you can do a good movie, and what is more, it's a director's job to show the best of his actors, remember this! "},{"Title":"Great?","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Evita was a truly marvelous story that kept me guessing all the way through. The Best part was the end, the lyrics Che sings say  The choice was your's and no one else's You can cry for a body in despair Hang your head because she is no longer there To shine, or dazzle, or betray.the last word betray just wraps the whole story together. You grow to love Eva and in the end she is no more than the lower class girl she has always been. You can't change who you are, it's so amaing that she was so well loved. The lyrics were the highlight of this movie quite touching too. When Madonna sang yiou must love me, ex Deep in my heart i am concealing things that i am longing to say , scared to confess what i'm feeling , granted you'll slip away. one of the best songs ever. Evita is truly mind stopping "},{"Title":"Evita - One of the best movie I would like to recommend","Date":"22 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Evita, impressed me very much from every shot of the film. From every beat of the music and every word of the songs. A MUST SEE movie other than Twelve Angry Men (1957).The start of the movie cleverly intercept the two funeral events - the death of Eva's father and herself. Oh! What A Circus begun to tell the key note of Evita, this song extremely matches the scene and perfectly performed. The movie clearly and orderly presented the life of Evita and demonstrated the sole of the song Don't cry for me Argentina. You'll feel the dilemma Evita faced with when she stepped into the top politics of Argentina and willing to be the vice-president of Argentina as well as struggling with the cancer that pushing her into death.Again, please take note of every wordings of all the songs. An excellent movie. "},{"Title":"Madonna's not my favorite, but she'll do.","Date":"12 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  If you are not a fan of musical theater, particularly the rock opera genre, you were probably bored to tears with Evita. Taking into consideration how well loved Andrew Lloyd Webber and Tim Rice are amongst theater patrons, it is no wonder this movie had the success it did. Add to that Madonna's fanbase and the hype the film received, it is no surprise that this movie was very successful. As for claims that it was one big long music video, those people should have done their research before bashing this film. It is a movie version of a play that is nearly entirely sung. Yes, sometimes that can eclipse the drama of the plot, but only because those who despise musicals tend to ignore the songs and only listen to the dialogue, because the songs usually only reiterate what is said. But in an opera, or rock opera, you have to listen to all of the singing, because otherwise you are lost.So if you liked the stage play, you should like this one. But Patti Lupone will always be my favorite Evita.  "},{"Title":"Very well-done.","Date":"19 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I've been a fan of this musical for years and I've been a fan of Madonna's for years (although I've been pretty critical of her acting and choice of film roles), so I was ecstatic when she finally got the part she's been fighting for for many years.  Movie musicals are really long music videos with a storyline.  I heard people refer to this film as that since it's release and, well yeah--it is, what the hell do you expect a movie musical to be like?  If it was a film of the stage version, well, it wouldn't be a movie would it?  This is a sung-through musical no dialogue.  Most other musical movies will have dialogue and then break into song, which seems unnatural and silly.  Evita, from start to finish, is non-stop music, so there aren't really any awkward moments of breaking into song.  I think this movie was extremely well-done, and well-sung (although other fans of the stage version criticized the way the music was re-written to accommodate Madonna's voice, but I found her voice to sound more natural than say, Patti LuPone's high-pitched shouting of every line being said/sung <I love Patti's Evita, but what worked for the stage, wouldn't work on film>).  My only real gripes with the film are with the balcony scenes and the noticeable differences in the soundtrack where some parts were obviously sung live and not lip-synced--the audio just doesn't match up.  The balcony scenes were either shot from so far that the cast looked like little ants in the background, or so close that you can't tell if it's really the real Casa Rosada's balcony (Madonna actually did sing on the same balcony Eva Peron made several speeches from) or just a set on a sound stage.  Those two minor gripes aside, I really love this movie.  And before you say, but I don't like Madonna, well her acting is really pretty good here, but you'll find the real scene-stealer is Antonio Banderas.  If you like musicals, you'll like Evita. "},{"Title":"Amazing!","Date":"25 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Evita is possibly one of the best movies I've ever seen. I may be a bit biased, however, because I am a musical-lover. The music is amazing, all the way from the catchy can't-get-out-of-your-head, Buenos Aires all the way to the emotional, Don't Cry for Me, Argentina. Madonna does a fantastic job portraying Eva Peron, showing that she not only has great vocal talent, but also exceptional acting skills. Antonio Banderas does an equally outstanding job, possibly proving the inverse, that he not only is a superb actor, but also is a wonderful singer. He's also one of the most good-looking actors on the face of the Earth, so...*Again, I'm a being a little biased.* And we can't forget Jonathan Pryce, whom I had never heard of before seeing this movie, and just ended up falling in love with because of his believable acting. The relationship between Evita and Peron is slightly complex, but also simple at the same time. At first it appears they are only involved with each other for gaining and benefiting somehow themselves, but we also see glimpses of how much they love each other, which must have been a difficult relationship to convey, but Madonna and Pryce did a wonderful job! Jimmy Nail also does a good job at playing a character everyone just loves to hate. Magaldi annoys me, but there I go again, letting personal feelings getting in the way of things...This is truly an amazing true story of the life of Eva Peron, captured in beautiful, well-written music of great quality, performed with amazing talent, the scenery and costumes are amazing. So, let's sum that all up; the best possible qualities a movie could have Great music, a great story, great costumes, great actors, and (one of the best of those great actors) Antonio Banderas. That's all you need. I give it two thumbs up, maybe three if I can borrow one, and a 10/10. See it if you haven't already, asap!  "},{"Title":"A Cinematic and Musical Masterpiece","Date":"22 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The film is brilliant from start to finish. The cinematography and editing are both stunning, and Madonna physically resembles the true Evita Peron physically to an uncanny degree. Banderas as the surreal narrator lends a great cohesion to the marvelous unfolding of acting and song. I've actually watched this film about 10 times. I'm mesmerized by how it captures the full scope of Eva Peron's unique and controversial career. Madonna's acting was excellent, Banderas was his usual highly skilled and deeply compelling self and the supporting cast was handled exquisitely. The cleverness of the lyrics, the profound romantic trust of the music -- all of this is freshly interpreted for the camera in a way that distinguishes this production from any accomplishment of this extremely popular musical on the stage. I don't think this film got all the praise it should have gotten. Madonna's overwhelming reputation actually hurt her here which is lamentable. She deserved awards. Inspired by the film, I searched biographies of Eva Peron and found the film was accurate in its portrayal to an amazing degree. But more significantly, the musical and the film of it portray a hungry and desperate and talented young person determined to make a mark. It is an old story, but it is a universal story, and it must be told over and over again in new ways. The film's flavor and originality were unforgettable. I highly recommend this to anyone who loves cinema, to anyone who loves music, and if you love both you must stop everything and sit down and enjoy this at once. If you hear criticism of this film, be sure to ask the person whether or not he or she has actually seen the film. This is a splendid movie that catches people off guard.  "}{"Title":"A Wonderful Feeling!","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I have seen Evita many times along with other musicals, there is something about it. Once you watch this movie you will be left with a wonderful feeling. I think the singing in this film is so unique that my 5 year old will sit and watch it. What also was a well ilked point was they told the story very fair, in that I mean they did not sugar coat Eva Peron with some of the things she did in her past. I did not know who or what Evita was until I saw this movie, it left me with a need to know more about this amazing woman in history. One point I thought they could have improved on was what happened after her story ended. This movie was an inspiring movie to me and with that I have started a whole new career, I wish the movies would do more with real life historical figures and show them true to the point. Thank you  "},{"Title":"Not Revisionist History!","Date":"9 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Wow... after reading the other comments posted by people, I had to rethink what I thought of the movie. My girlfriend had, for a long time, told me I had to see it... that Madonna and Pryce and Banderas were great. So, last night, it aired on one of the Encore channels on cable (the Love channel, of all places... I guess!). Well, I have to say I agree with her. I've seen the stage play (many years ago when it played in Chicago) and it was one of my favorite productions ever. The movie... I think it's also great. It has to be reviewed in context. Yes, the production numbers are incredible... the street scenes, the interiors, everything can be done so much more opulently on screen than on a small stage. Yes, Madonna CAN act. Banderas CAN sing. Pryor can do both, as has been seen in the past (and who can forget his role in the offbeat movie Brazil?). I don't think the Webber/Rice team ever intended this as a faithful historical retelling of the Peron era in Argentina. Like Jesus Christ, Superstar, it's stylized... an ENTERTAINMENT, if you will (to borrow a line from Man of LaMancha). If you read too deeply into any of these films/plays you'll get a skewed vision of history... and I'm sure Webber and Rice didn't intend that.  "},{"Title":"Masterpiece is an Understatement for Evita","Date":"24 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I just saw this movie for the 50th time on DVD (I've seen it 7 times on the big screen). And each time i fell more and more in love with it. The stunning cinematography, the breathtaking sets and locations, the sinfully melodious music, the way director Alan Parker narrates the story through Che (Antonio B), and last but not least... the true star of Evita... MADONNA!!!She truly embodies the character in a way no other actress ever could. I once saw it onstage in Broadway, forgot who played the lead role in the play, but she couldn't capture Evita the way Madonna did.I mean when i see movies like Body of Evidence and Swept Away, i truly feel like slapping Madonna for wasting her talent with those sorts of movies; but if you see Evita (or for the matter, Desperately Seeking Susan, A League of their own) you will notice a spark in Madonna that you've never seen before. She deserved the Oscar, Hell the Movie deserved to win as many oscars as Gone With The Wind!!!Nevertheless, Madonna did win the Golden Globe, hence her acting talents didnt go unnoticed.Antonio and Johnathan Pryce played their parts spectacularly and laurells to Alan Parker for his direction , and cheers to Oliver Stone who co-wrote the screen play with Alan.No other Andrew Lloyd Webber & Tim Rice Collaboration can beat the onscreen spleandor that is ... EVITA... it gets a 10 in my book(PS. its after the success of Evita did Rob Marshal, offer Madonna the lead role in Chicago)  "},{"Title":"A Brilliant Musical","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  All right, I just have to say that this movie is one of the most brilliant I have ever seen.  The songs, of course, are gorgeous, seeing as they're written by Andrew Lloyd Webber (a genius, in my opinion).  And, anyway, who knew Madonna could act?  Heck, who knew Antonio Banderas could SING? (And well, I might add.)  The whole cast, in fact, did a marvelous job of pulling this off.  I was very afraid before I saw this movie for various reasons. But I must say that seeing the film dispelled all those fears.  I don't think I could improve the film in any way. Oh, yes, and as for the movie's, uh, discreditors, I really have no idea whatsoever what the heck they are talking about.  A really long music video? Please, who came up with that one?  Some people just have no appreciation for good musical theatre.  In the words of Eva Duarte de Peron It doesn't matter what those morons say... -Moondust_Hermione     "},{"Title":"A revelation!","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Even before watching this film, I knew that Madonna was going to sing beautifully and her acting will be worth it (in my opinion, this is the only film Madonna's acting was ever good in).  Jonathan Pryce will make a really good Juan Duarte and you just know he's going to sing magnificently too.  I also knew that this movie will be very visually exciting and the costumes are lovely.  No need to rave about the music and the songs, it is Andrew Lloyd Webber's best work.  What was surprising, was, ANTONIO BANDERAS!Heck, I didn't know this guy could sing!  I didn't know he had such a wonderful, masculine voice!  This is the film that made me fall in love with Antonio Banderas.  He plays Che, the narrator of the story.  He was a forceful narrator and he was funny and sarcastic and danced really well with Madonna.  There was such a surprising sexual chemistry between Banderas and Madonna in the dream sequence where they are dancing a sexy tango as Che criticizes Evita for being a false savior of Argentina and Evita angrily defending herself.  This is a wonderful musical, not as good as Chicago, but it definitely ranks up there in musical entertainment.  This is a good movie to buy and keep and watch over and over again.I give it an A-. "},{"Title":"Next to Chicago, the best musical out there.","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I love movie musicals and have seen many of them. Chicago is my favorite but as far as musicals go Evita would definitely be up there. This movie was beautifully done and much more then just good. I found it both moving and utterly enthralling and kind of expected it to become an instant classic. While it does seem well liked, it doesn't seem to have the level of recognition I'd have thought it would.Evita was throughly captivating on many levels. Everything, from the music to the breathtaking sets to the talented cast, were unforgettable. This was the first version of Evita I had seen and the movie made me hunger to see the play. I also had originally been skeptical of Madonna playing this role but she really did great and became the character, Antonio Bandares was excellent too(I had heard he was being considered to play the Phantom in Phantom of the Opera but after looking it up on this site, I guess I had inaccurate information-to bad.)I still don't think it's as good as Chicago which is why I gave it a 9 and Chicago a 10 but then again-they are 2 totally different films.I do think though, that this is a movie musical worthy of admiration because of how many things did work. It was a movie I had expected to like but I'm not sure I expected to like it to that level.To sum up- Evita is another great musical, wonderfully cast and superbly directed. "},{"Title":"I Loved this Film","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  It's certainly not easy to encapsulate the 33 years of Eva Peron's lifetime, but this film presents an excellent panoply of well shot scenes that bring us a movie of a musical that is right on. The music is the thing--it's an operetta really--and the more you listen, the better it gets, and you will be quite rewarded if you watch this film many times, and/or, of course, listen to the original London recording on two wonderful CDs. Madonna shines brightly throughout the film, as well as all supporting male actors. Give this film a chance to grow on you--and you'll begin to regard it as one of the best musical films ever made. "},{"Title":"The best Musical after Sound of Music","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The Movie is a sheer delight to watch and watch I did about eleven times. In the face of the Hollywood's decadence manifested by dumb movies like Beautiful Mind, which has some idiot bran meat-head making faces to win awards and accolades by Hollywood bums, this is a real entertainment. The movie is fast-paced, engrossing, poignant and sad. The song Where Do We Go From Here..certainties disappear!--How true in real life-soulfull lyrics by Tim Rice and enchanting music by Andrew Lloyd Weber. I read this song was penned just for the movie, shows the genius of Andrew Lloyd Weber. I consider myself a brave soul, but this scene brought tears and lasting admiration for the fine cast headed by Madonna. This is one of the top ten movies in my short list. "},{"Title":"BEST FILM I HAVE SEEN","Date":"18 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  i know...EVITA can be a little confusing if you are a first time viewer but it does deserve a chance.  i first saw the movie in 1998 and did not appreciate it very much ( i was younger and didnt care for musicals) However, when i gave it a second chance in early 2003, i realized that the picture really is a sort of diamond in the rough.  Considering Madonna's real life antics, i think she made a complete turn around in her role as Eva Peron!  Antonio Banderas also shines brightly on the silver screen as the fictional narrator Che..he doesnt sing too badly either.  many of the loud scenes in front of the CASA ROSADA are exceptional..i got chills..i also appreciated songs like EVA AND CHE'S WALTZ..and i'd be surprisingly good for you!! My hat definitely goes off to the cast and crew of this wonderful film, for it is an excellent tribute to EVA DUARTE DE PERON!! "},{"Title":"Great Movie! Great Adaptation! Great Soundtrack!","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Great Soundtrack!!! Great Adaptation of the Story. I don´t really enjoy watching Musicals, but Evita and Moulin Rouge made me change my mind about them, must see them both! Evita´s story is very known here in Argentina and it is a story of how a common lady reach to the Argentina´s Goberment and fights for peoples rights and needs...  "}{"Title":"The Show must go on","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  It is often said that there is nothing better than a subjective perspective of history to achieve reality. Here in Argentina, Evita has had several harsh critics, having had certain strong government sectors trying to ban the picture. They believe their Santa Evita was harmed by the movie. They have claimed here and there all the conceptual mistakes in the film. How could a yanquee portrait Evita as a prostitute (still no one can deny she wasn't). But last night, when my family and I decided to watch Parker's polemic musical, we were surprised, not only to see that it was more accurate than any other Argentinian production, but it was also a terrific movie, a good proof that musicals are still alive.  Antonio Banderas is at his best, spreading talent in every single scene he appears in, and Madonna is more that convincing. They should have both been nominated for the Academy Awards. Parker's direction is also stunning, having dug in Argentinian history and even Hollywood musicals even furtherer than Lloyd Webber had. Not only does Evita show that musicals can still be made, but they do not have to be based upon silly stories as old Hollywood musicals are. It is a very compromised film which should set the model for future musical productions.  "},{"Title":"An Extraordinary Epic Musical Masterpiece","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  First and foremost I am not a Madonna admirer, fan or groupie.  However, Madonna gave the finest performance of her career in Evita and her snub by the Oscars was an inexcusable act of elitism and just plain snobbery.  I am an amateur scholar regarding Evita and the Peron administration and while the film can not be considered a documentary it still offers the spirit of Eva Duarte Peron.I can understand Madonna identifying with Evita as there are many similarities between them both. Two women who were determined to overcome their birth and parental raising.  In other words both women did anything and everything to rich the pinnacle of success and fame.  Both were plagued by viscious gossip, rumors and inuendo.  Both women became icons and each have made a lasting impression both culturally and historically.Regarding the rest of the cast---it is superb!!!  Antonio is mesmerizing and captivating.  Jonathan Pryce while he may be English but he absorbs himself into the role of Juan Peron.Of course no review would be complete with out stating that the music is the magical component that gives the movie its emotional depth and powerful impact on the senses.Finally the sets, costumes, locations and the cinematography is exquisite, to say the very least.  The scenes that encompassed hundreds to thousands of extras were awesome and breathtaking.  When Madonna gives her oration from the very same palace balcony as Eva Peron you feel as you have traveled back in time to a part of world history that still affects the Argentinians to this day.  Eva Peron was the most influential First Lady of the 20th century.This film is a must for those who appreciate musical theatre, history or simply an exception film performed to perfection technically and by actors who ARE the characters brought so dazzling to life!! "},{"Title":"'Oh What A Show...'","Date":"19 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I'll be totally honest with you.  I'm a huge Madonna fan.  I like the fact that she can reinvent herself so many times and still stay popular.  I like the fact that even though she's not the world's most amazing actress, she can still get parts in movies.  I like the fact that I still get teary-eyed when I hear 'Crazy For You'.  Wait, forget the last thing I said.Having told you that, when I first heard that she was going to portray Eva Peron in the movie version of 'Evita', I thought somebody had really messed up.  I knew that if she was given a chance, she may be able to pull it off, but I really had my doubts on whether the rest of the world would fall for it.  I was also extremely terrified when I heard that Antonio Banderas was going to play Che.  When I heard that this movie was in the works, I figured Mandy Patinkin would star as Che, but when I heard Antonio's name, I about fell off my chair.So the movie came out, and my wife and I decided to see it.  I was quite shocked and amazed at what I heard.  Is that really Antonio singing?, I'd ask my wife on every song Mr. Banderas belted out.  I was floored, to say the least.Then entered Juan Peron, portrayed by Jonathan Pryce.  I knew him from 'Something Wicked This Way Comes' and that was the only movie I knew him from, and I was even more in awe that he could sing than I was with Antonio.'Evita' is an amazing movie.  It is visually stunning, especially the funeral scenes.  (You do know that Eva is no longer alive, right?)  All of the actors are fabulous!  There is nothing in this movie that I was disappointed with.  "},{"Title":"Hopelessly In Love","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I am hopelessly in love with this film. When it came out in 1996, my mother took me and my sister to see it. I was 7 at the time and liked it. Later, my mom bought the soundtrack. On car trips, my sister would get tired of me always wanting to listen to the soundtrack. Last year in Spanish class, we watched Evita. My love for this movie was revived. Since then I have seen it roughly 15 times and listened to the soundtrack more times than I can count. This movie wasn't perfect. After Peron is elected President, and he goes to her room and the door is locked, there is no explanation why. That part has always confused me, and I did not figure out until 2 nights ago, the last time I watched it. The maindraw back of this movie is the INTENSITY. There is no place where you can stop to take a break. After I watch it, I am always worn out. You will either love this movie and watch it over and over or hate it and never watch it again. You can't really be in between. The film itself as in the costumes and music, is superb. And Madonna has to be congratulated. They were going to write the songs to fit her voice, but she insisted on taking voice lessons. In fact, she used the same voice teacher as the Evita on Broadway. And Antonio Banderas did a nice performance. One of the most annoying things about this movie, is the hairstyles. THe males hairs are all perfect, never one hair out of place. The upper class females hair is often ridicuously fancy. Lastly, you should see this movie. It is a wonderful movie but is very underappreciated. "},{"Title":"andrew lloyd webber at his best","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  evita is absolutely a great musical, with great musics of andrew lloyd webber. the play of webber is marvellous put on screen by alan parker, that shows us a musical full of power and life. evita tells us, in a form of musical, the story of eva peron, that is played by madonna, that gives her best performance thus far. the academy should have nominated her for best leading actress in 1996. antonio banderas is another great surprise, he's a great playing che guevara, and i was impressed by his singing talents, he's very good. in short, if u like musicals u can watch this jewel of andrew lloyd webber. if u don't like musicals this is not ur motion picture. "},{"Title":"Lovely movie","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Absolutely lovely movie.  Funny, sad, horrifying and breathtaking.  This, of course, was based on the musical of Eva Peron's life by Andrew Lloyd Webber, not necessarily on the life of Eva Peron (I recommend searching for biographies if you want accuracy.)  But facts aside, this was very entertaining.Madonna's performance was wonderful.  The joke according to the critics was  She can't say the lines, so let her sing them, which I have to admit was partially true.  It's possible she received the Golden Globe due to the fact that she will never again get this type of role.  It was obvious she took this role very seriously by taking singing lessons (already late in her musical career,) and did a fabulous singing performance in her role.  I can't say that she didn't deserve to get a Golden Globe, because she did.  She busted her butt in this movie and it was obvious.  She stated that she had quite a bit in common with Eva Peron and was able to bring forth emotions that were obviously real (the death of her own mother from uterine cancer for one,) and integrate them into her performance.  Eva's deathbed scene is rarely viewed by myself or friends without shedding a tear.  Probably the best scene of all her movie performances -- ever.Antonio Bandaras, of course, was absolutely perfect as Che.  He and Madonna competed in their roles in the movie for the spotlight, singing back and forth with criticism, to climax in a showdown duet in a waltz.  Antonio gave an incredible performance and in my opinion, pushed himself up to a higher level of caliber as an actor.First note  Madonna was pregnant throughout the movie and upon close viewing you can kind of tell which scenes were filmed at which time.  In some scenes, her abdomen is flat as a board and in earlier scenes, her belly is obviously swelling from pregnancy, including the balcony scenes where it was reported she was in her third trimester and the back of her dress had to be cut in order for her to fit in the dress and not appear as if she were pregnant.  Second note  Do NOT see this movie with theater actors/actresses or any one who is a huge fan of the onstage musical Evita.  I happened to see this onscreen with a few friends who were community theater performers and after coming out of the movie was bombarded with plenty of criticism that I felt was entirely unnecessary.  Although the onstage performances (by various other actresses) were obviously different from Madonna's, I felt there was no need to compare the two as taking anything to the big screen is always going to cause differences.  This movie holds water and if you don't cry during the deathbed scene, then you didn't cry when Old Yeller died.  "},{"Title":"A superior movie based on a superior Broadway Musical!","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie! Ever since I saw the play, I anticipated a film version. Though I'm not a big Madonna follower, she was PERFECT for the part. I don't understand why the film didn't get more awards. I saw it the first day of it's release and again the second day.I just finished watching my home video of it once again, and had to share my comments. This was a very well done movie!  "},{"Title":"An under-rated movie opera delight.","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Here it is, the year 2000, and I am re-playing my copy of Evita, four years later . . . and enjoying more, every time I play it.Evita is an ambitious movie opera that works. I am not a big Madonna fan--unless you want to talk successful marketing--but the movie is engaging, and the music, outstanding. And of course, it has Antonio Banderas, always worth watching. Jonathan Pryce, as Juan Peron, was very believable and the perfect actor for that role.If you don't like musicals, then you probably won't like this movie. But if you enjoy good songs that stick with you years later, then this is for you.One wonders why Madonna often associates herself with femmes fatale, like Marilyn, Evita, etc. ... will she encounter tragedies as did these other legends? For the sake of her daughter, I hope not. (God help us if she ever takes a fancy to Princess Di!!) In any event, this movie should be regarded as one of her more important artistic achievements. "},{"Title":"Guns! Tanks! Exposions! More Tanks! Earthquakes!","Date":"2 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Nearly ten years after seeing it in the West End on Boxing Day my mother and I sat down to watch our bargain basement copy of Evita Two hours or so later all we could say to each other was Sniffle, wow!.If you have the power to switch it into b&w you'll be transformed - the attention to detail is amazing.After the inexplicably lauded Chicago, Evita takes us back to the first half of the 20th Century where hopes were rising in the southern hemisphere that they would overtake war torn Europe and rise as the dominant power.Madonna is understated and sublime as Eva Peron. She acts with her eyes. I abhor Madonna's acting but there is something about her as Evita which is so touching, so powerful one cannot helped but be hypnotised.Evita ROCKS. You are watching a very serious movie where every word, more or less, is sung. The MTV generation can handle that - can you? "},{"Title":"A Well Done Movie","Date":"4 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Evita is one of my favorite musicals. It is a beautiful movie with great acting and wonderful songs. I've seen it many times and never get tired of it.Evita tells the story of the life of Eva Peron. It started out when she was a young child and followed her life until her death. It showed how she helped a nation in need during a time of disaster.My favorite songs are Don't Cry for Me Argentina, High Flying Adored, You Must Love Me, and Eva Beware of the City. I also own the CD of Evita and the DVD.In conclusion, this was a really good movie. I give it 10/10 stars. "}{"Title":"They Need to Adore Me, so Christian Dior Me","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Evita, Evita...where shall I begin?  I'm not sure if I can say without a doubt that this is my all-time favorite movie ever, but it's up there.  I first saw this movie in theatres when I was in eighth grade.  I was pretty obsessed...listening to the soundtrack 24/7...my parents thought it was phase...but no, now I'm college, and I'm still pretty well obsessed.Why?  Well, I could give many reasons, but the main reason is simple...Madonna.  After seeing the film the first time, all I could think of was how much I just wanted to be like Madonna in this role.  I mean, in this movie she had more beauty, grace, poise, and sheer talent than I have seen any actress exhibit in any other movie.  No other actress could have taken on this role the way Madonna did, it's as simple as that.  The Foreign Press was right on the mark by awarding her the Best Actress Golden Globe. She was wrongfully snubbed by the Academy for a Best Actress nomination, and why I will never understand.  Politics I guess.The only people I find to generally dislike this movie are those who dislike the musical genre overall.  I can understand the fact that people will either love or hate a movie that is entirely singing, but I for one, think that music has the ability at times to convey feelings that simple words could not.  Yes, you have to buy into the fact that sometimes songs may over-simplify matters, but the musical aspect generally adds to the overall experience.If you haven't this movie, I recommend it.  Besides Madonna's breathtaking performance, there are also superb jobs done by Antonio Banderas and Jonathan Pryce.  All I can say it that it's just an all around beautiful movie that should not be missed. "},{"Title":"Jimmy Nail In Bed With Madonna????!!!!!","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I didn't see this in the cinema despite being a long time fan of her Madgesty and all, however I got it for Xmas one year. I didn't feel like watching at first as it looked like a bit of a trek of a movie and I feared that Mrs Ritchie and that Banderas bloke may have massacred the fabulous musical. I was very much wrong. The film itself is stunning, beautifully shot and directed. The casting of the roles were equally as eye catching. Casting Madonna in the title role of Eva Peron was a great little side joke, (Both were working class, Catholics and bottle blonds). Both rose from poverty to become huge icons plus they more or less had the same careers. Whilst M was captivating in the role I can't help think that her desperation to gain approval from the audience that she was right for the role came across obviously in her performance. I don't know if she really was genuinely playing a character or just going through the motions of her past experience. Mind you I don't think  Mads is a Method actor. That woman's a myth.As for Antonio Banderas, I think a bit of trophy casting went on there. Sure he's gorgeous and has a great voice but he just looked constipated through out. He cannot control those eyebrows either. He did sing well and his duets with Madonna were VERY spicy. Jimmy Nail - No comment. The Musical/story here is very biased. No one really knows whether Eva herself was a selfless or a selfish person. Madonna does display Eva tenderly at times and the ending was moving. This movie is gloriously filmed. But to be honest you'll either just like it or just hate it.  I like it.  "},{"Title":"Pretty much what I expected (Warning! Some Spoilers)","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" As a musical theater fan, I've had the pleasure of seeing Evita several times on stage.  I've watched the Queen of Argentina portrayed by beautiful, talented ladies with powerful soprano voices and engaging stage presences.  On each of these occasions, I've left the theater in tears at the end.I knew that would change when I found out Madonna had been cast to play Evita Peron.  Madonna just isn't a dramatic actress, nor is she a broadway-quality vocalist.  She is a *pop* singer.  I cringed when I noticed that certain notes had been lowered because they were too high for her, while others were raised or spoken because they were too low.  And, as she lay dying at the end, for the first time, I wasn't even nearly moved to tears.Jonathan Pryce (as Juan Peron) and Antonio Banderas (as Che) do their best to charm the audience, but without a strong leading lady, this movie is hopeless.  My advice skip the movie and see it on stage.  "},{"Title":"Who suffered more, Eva Perone or the viewers?","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Madonna's Johnny one-note appearance could have been truly dramatic if she had actually given birth on screen, at least that way she might have shared the agony with the viewers. Bandera's performance is a stretch but rather humorous in his over reach. Had he worn a prosthetic leg he at least would have had one to stand on. One leaves the theater singing and praying, thankful that this tinker toy of a musical was confined to several hours and did not last a life time. The film might have truly defied reality if Modanna's real family and ex-lovers could have appeared at her side. Hey, why not do that next time and change the name of the film to protect the innocent. "},{"Title":"death would be more enjoyable","Date":"19 October 2006","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I recently discussed this film with my brother, and we both agree that on separate occasions we wanted to walk out of the cinema, but we were forced to stay with our friends (who seemingly wanted to suffer the horrible music). All we wanted was for the singing to stop for one second ... but NO! It's nothing to do with Madonna's appearance in the film, we are not anti-Madonna (we quite like material girl, but we are sick of hearing about the African child and wish the press would let it lie) we mainly object to the incessant caterwauling. There really is not a moments peace in the whole farrago. I recommend people stay clear of this awful movie/musical. "},{"Title":"Below Ordinary! Not one funny or moving moment.","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" When I had seen Andrew Lloyd Webber and Allan Parker (I think) complain during the Oscar ceremony about how many awards English Patient  was winning, just judging from their attitude and confidence I figured they are real proud of their work, and it  may be worth to rent it.I was wrong.When some of the critics thrashed this movie, and called Lloyd Webber's music ordinary, they were right.The direction is equally horrible. When during the first scene, Eva's death is announced, the people's reaction instead of being moving is almost comical. The director and writers devoted almost no time describing Eva's accomplishments, instead of one or two brief passing remarks. Instead they devoted half the movie on how she spent money on glamour, and most of all, they gave us step by step unnecessary detail of how she slept her way up.If she was supposed to be a heroic figure, the makers of this movie have completely destroyed it.The foreign press that decides Golden Globes,  must have gotten over excited about the fact that subject material is about foreign country and not US. Otherwise, this movie is complete waste of time and resources. "},{"Title":"...ick","Date":"9 September 2006","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" this movie bites plain and simple, no i do not know what its based upon other than a musical but i found this movie to stink more than gym socks. Madonna sounds horrible and i wonder why Antonio agreed to do this film. the music made me want to officially hate every single musical for life (luckily enough i've seen a good few before i saw this nasty film), the acting was sickening, and there were just moments i felt like hurting someone, and since no one else was around i just pictured hurting whoever was involved in creating this film. it was boring, really boring, and really really boring. it sounds cruel but so is the movie.this movie gave me a headache, literally. "},{"Title":"What a crashing bore!","Date":"11 September 2006","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I must be one of the few that will be posting a bad comment on this movie, but I thought it was absolutely atrocious. Not surprising considering I've always hated both Andrew Lloyd Webber's music and Madonna's singing. Not a good basis on which to comment on this film.To be honest I did actually attempt to sit through Evita, but was utterly bored long before the half-way point was reached. As for the song Don't cry for me Argentina, I'd already become sick to death with it before the movie was even made.I know there's not many who will agree with me, but it's my opinion (and I'll stick with it) that apart from The Kissing Bandit, Annie and Finian's Rainbow, it must be the worst musical ever written. "},{"Title":"A THRILLING FILM --for the simple minded","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  What dreck!  What excrement!  I have never been so bored by a musical in my life.  And this wasn't really a musical.  It was, ironically, a CIRCUS.  I can out diva you!   NO NO.. I'm better!  Let me be positive first, though.  Madonna did this role as well as she could.  I could see her working her butt off to perform up to the other prima donas who have done their spotlight bits in this pile or rubbish.  (Like Patti LuPooPoo.. PLEASE.)  Antonio Banderas.. well he did all right.  His singing didn't astound me, but it was acceptable.  Musical talent is no longer required, anyway.  Look at the boy bands.  And the shower scene.. yum!The musical isn't the amazing thing people claim it to be.  They only say so because they're too ignorant to know better.  The MTV generation will love this film for it's cinematography.  Personally, I felt like I was on a roller coaster and wanted to retch (and not just from the images!).  But the music will appeal to the mindless, I'm sure.  With a score by the endlessly self-imitating ALW, how can you go right?  But the mindless masses will constantly go out and buy his art.  But no matter what I say, people will still flood like herded sheep and shell out the dough.  People will continue to think CATS is the greatest musical ever.  Forget Sondheim .. that requires you to THINK.  Egads!  Not that!  Forget Rogers and Hammerstein, Shwartz, Herman, and so many others.  Go out and see this trash, because you won't have to pop one neuron into action.   Be my guest.  But I will warn you if your reading level is beyond that of an eigth grader, do better things with your money.  Rent the PBS recording of Into the Woods and see good theatre. "},{"Title":"Madonna at Her Best.","Date":"19 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Evita (1996) Dir Alan Parker / Cast Madonna, Antonio Banderas, Jonathan Pryce, Jimmy Nail, Olga Merediz Almost every aspect of this film is musical with dialogue expressed beautifully by lyrics. Madonna stars as Evita, the wife of a political leader and how she pulls her way to the top. Expertly crafted and executed brilliantly by director Alan Parker who has made great musicals before with Fame and Pink Floyd The Wall. Madonna's voice compliments the material as she pours emotion through song. She is an aid to her political significant other but all attention falls on her even up to her death through illness. This is easily the best performance from a musician whose critics have not been kind to her in the past. Antonio Banderas is also effective as the narrator who expresses his views through lyrics and makes a great musical counter to Madonna's veteran skills. He will be there until the end just as he is in translating it all to us. Jonathan Pryce is well cast as a political figure overshadowed by her presence but ultimately benefiting greatly. Jimmy Nail as a tango dancer she has an affair with could have been less predictable but at any rate it further skirts Evita under the radar. Spectacular art direction and massive production highlight a message of manipulation. Madonna is not accustom to great films but here she is at her best in a role she was born to play and she sparkles. Score 9 ½ / 10 "}{"Title":"One of my favorite films of the 90's","Date":"12 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Evita tells the story of the reign of Evita Peron. It is filled with some of the most memorable songs of the era and the film is told in operatic form. Each song is rich with context towards the story which is not really about two people but rather two archetypes of power (Peron) and the populace (Banderas' role that was originally Che Guevera in the stage musical) in a story that tells a political story that's very unique in that few narratives on film have as much political depth as this movie does. On top of that, when you consider that it's all done in musical form, that's pretty darn impressive. I have always had a strong interest in Latin American politics that certainly helps me appreciate the film's intersection with some of the more universal themes of Latin American politics including the folk like mythology of political leaders, the appeals to populism, and the tabloid-like glamor of the Peron dynasty. If you're not knowledgeable about the Peron reign in Argentina, there's a lot to appreciate about how Madonna's choice to play Evita Peron is a sly commentary on her own rise to fame. "},{"Title":"Madonna was brilliant but the changes were not","Date":"22 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I had seen many stage productions of Evita before this film version came out and was delighted by Madonna's performance, because she captured Eva Peron so well.However the changes from the stage to the screen were horrific. I have heard many of these were to gain the approval of the Argentine government for location filming. If so, they should have shot it elsewhere.Gone was the Che character (which was merely a chorus anyway as Guevara has no real connection to the Perons) but the replacement by Antonio Bandaras made no sense as he had to be coached. His voice was okay but fell in comparison to Madonna.Lyrics were changed, softened to make Eva less of a self-serving type, more approachable. Peron was not cast so much as a fascist (which he was) and Eva was less power-mad.It probably mirrors better the way Argentina would LIKE Evita to have been, but not what she was. "},{"Title":"Madonna is surprisingly good","Date":"24 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Ignore the IMDb average rating, which is increasingly becoming worse at indicating the quality of a film.In the interim between 1978 and 1996, the story had become more timely. Those watching the film in 1997 couldn't have failed to see the parallel between this and Princess Diana's death. Comparing the two gives some idea of how the Argetinians felt towards Eva.Madonna proves to be an ideal choice. I've never been particularly interested in Madonna, but she captures the attention of the audience throughout. She plays her journey from naive girl to politicised woman smoothly and believably, seeming to identify with Eva on some level. Vocally, she does not have a musical theatre voice but then Broadway belting isn't appropriate in a modern movie musicals. Her voice is thin but very pleasant to listen to and appropriately intimate for songs like Another Suitcase in Another Hall (which in the stage version is sung by a minor character) and I'd Be Surprisingly Good For You.Eva's methods of getting to the top- bed-hopping until she finds the right bed- may seem dubious, but it's not inconceivable to think that a beautiful young woman with no social standing would use all that she does have to climb to a position where she won't need to use that. Because Eva does seem genuinely nice, Che (Antonio Banderas) becomes less sympathetic. Che is the working man who appears throughout Eva's life in various guises, casting doubt on whether she is nothing more than an actress. Banderas' voice has character and it works well with the film but it's not a very musical voice. Perhaps it is appropriate that this working class man, the voice of reality, should have a rougher voice.As Juan Peron, Jonathan Pryce's part is relatively small yet he remains convincing. He's no great singer but the acting that comes through in his singing more than compensates. His love for Eva and her love for him is completely believable, almost heartbreaking.Those unfamiliar with South American politics may find themselves confused at points in the film but the story is abstract enough to have power on its own, and perhaps is best treated as that rather than a historical documentary. The film is also completely sung-through, apart from a few lines, so fans of Les Miserables and Phantom of The Opera should definitely watch this. For those who aren't used to that style, if you keep an open mind, you'll find yourself swept along, as happened with The Artist.Unlike some of his other musicals, Andrew Lloyd Webber (with Tim Rice as lyricist) has created songs that are fully integrated into the narrative. Evita is one of his more sophisticated shows and proof that the dichotomy between popular musicals and serious musicals is false. Don't Cry For Me Argentina is the most well-known but there are many great ones Oh What A Circus, Good Night and Good Luck, I'd Be Surprisingly Good For You, etc.Films with this emotional power are rare, so track it down now! "},{"Title":"Quite good movie adaptation, but wrong person in lead role","Date":"11 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The film was fairly good, the music great, Antonio Banderas brilliant as always. However, it was a huge mistake to cast Madonna as Eva Peron, even though she did her level best. Elaine Paige would have been a hundred times better as she has a much better voice and is a much better actor.Watched it in the cinema with my family and clearly Madonna was misplaced, out of her depth and just didn't have the acting skills needed in such an otherwise great production. Elaine Paige had already performed the musical on stage many times, and would have been the natural choice, but unfortunately she wasn't allowed to shine in the movie adaptation. "},{"Title":"Lovely musical capturing the essence of the controversial figure","Date":"18 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This is an epic musical in every sense of the word stirring music, compelling visuals, an energetic pace. Pretty costumes, lovely scenery, and yes, some fluff. Of course, what else would you expect from such an acclaimed musical?In case you're not sure what to expect, it begins a little silly but transforms into a stirring drama that propels you through the turbulent history that the story attempts to capture (but, yes, largely glosses over and/or flies through) and the woman at the center of it all. A Broadway musical in every sense of the word.The acting is superb. I was very moved by Madonna's performance. Her voice was stronger than I expected and melted well into the overall story. Why hasn't she done any other movies of this caliber since? Of course, I can't imagine anyone else in the role and perhaps she could never play another role quite as perfectly as she did in this.As for the political, historical side that the story revolves around... well, the controversial nature of it must explain why this movie has such a low rating on IMDb. Don't expect an in-depth history lesson or necessarily a flawless portrayal of the controversial figure. Even historians don't exactly know what to make of her and unbiased resources on her are rare if non-existent. If you are looking for a completely accurate history of the woman, however, I wouldn't exactly expect anyone to turn to a musical for a flawless history lesson.This movie was released over a decade and a half ago... but I think it stands the test of time very well. A good one to dust off and thoroughly enjoy! "},{"Title":"A powerful splash of Argentine colour!","Date":"14 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" To say that Tim Rice's lyrics did not amount to metrically admirable poetry would be putting it mildly. Fortunately, what the lyrics lack in charm they make up for in hard-hitting, fast-paced content to mirror so perfectly the real pace of its subject's life and death, and Andrew Lloyd Webber's music is catchy and helps us to forget how terribly transcribed was this excellent story. But it is Alan Parker's images and direction that bring it all to fruition and hereon out it will be impossible to create a better-loved adaptation.There is just something magical about this film in that we can be captivated by things so flawed, even shockingly so. I have already mentioned the lyrical style, but the title character herself is an excellent case in point. Eva Duarte de Perón, one of the most polarizing women in history, is portrayed here as a cynical whore--and yet she is absolutely adorable.I tend to move in social circles that, if asked, would say they loathe the likes of the Perons and the Peronistas and I could not help but be moved by Madonna Ciccone's heartfelt bellowing of Don't Cry for Me, Argentina. Ciccone is, of course, entirely to credit for her performance here. She takes a character that could have been a cynical, cold-hearted wench and seduces us so powerfully. Jonathan Pryce and Antonio Banderas as, respectively, Juan Perón and Che Guevara are good, but neither can hope to compare next to Ciccone, at least not so far as this film is concerned.It is difficult, nay, impossible, to comment on all the clever interpolations regarding Evita's life the mixing of the sacred and profane (at Mass she receives the Eucharist under both species; normally the Chalice--blood under species of wine--is reserved for the clergy or the extremely sick who cannot ingest the gluten host--body under species of bread), the bitter hatred of the Peróns from the military and the grande bourgeoisie (whose musical numbers are correspondingly flat and bitter; those who assert this piece is anti-Evita should pay more attention to the subtleties), the internalization of political energies as personal emotions and desires...Naturally, I still loathe Peronist politics and Eva Duarte de Perón is not to be let off the hook for the role she played in luring the masses to her husband's side, but was she really just a cynical plunderer? The film does not answer this question. When she dresses herself up to the nines in furs and jewellery, she claims she does it to give the Argentine people a good show--and so convincingly does she say it that we want, so badly, to believe it is true. She wants to be a rainbow--and what a rainbow!Complex, colourful, emotional and just generally bursting with life, this film the sort of cultural product that makes me eager to visit Latin America. I'm Argentina... and always will be! promises Evita. In this movie we see both good and bad of South America, both externally and internally to the person of Evita Perón. I've never been to South America and don't know just what its complexities entail, and I don't know if the real Evita was so rich in depth of character, but this South America entails quite a splash and this Evita certainly is. "},{"Title":"A great, true rendition of one of Lloyd Webber's best musicals","Date":"26 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" It is not often that a movie is completely true to the medium it is adapted from, whether that is stage or book, but this is a very true rendition. It encapsulates the stage show, while making the necessary changes to make it a workable movie.Based on the life of Argentina's glamour couple Eva and Juan Perron, this film follows Eva's life from her childhood through to her death. It depicts her almost obsessive climb from lower class poverty to the darling of Argentina as she does anything in her power to climb through the social classes.Madonna gives what is possibly the best performance of her acting career. She appears to really get into the character and seems to relate to Eva in a way she doesn't in most of her other films. There are a number of similarities between Eva and Madonna that are quite fun to pick out. She is basically in her element in this film, as it is basically a 2 hour long video clip - and her talents certainly lie in singing, dancing and music videos as opposed to straight drama.Antonio Banderas is great in the apathetic role of Che, a character who narrates the film. He is dripping with the necessary distaste, sarcasm and distrust the part requires. He has a great singing voice that, surprisingly, goes very well with Madonna's.The visuals in this movie are a treat, with amazing attention to detail, vivid colours and an array of amazing costumes.My only criticism is that it starts to drag a bit toward the end, but it ends on an impressive note.This is a film I could watch repeatedly and enjoy on different levels each time. However, I can totally understand why some people don't like it. If you don't like musicals DO NOT watch this!!! There are only about 10 lines of dialogue in the whole film, the rest is sung! "},{"Title":"The Icon Known as Evita","Date":"9 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" 'Evita' is based on the life of the legendary First lady of Argentina, Eva Peron (also affectionately known as Evita), played by pop superstar Madonna. Eva was born an illegitimate child into a poverty riddled childhood. She had big dreams, and fought her way to the top as an actress, relentlessly using her charisma and sexuality to get ahead. When she meets and marries Colonel Juan Peron (Jonathan Pryce), she uses her savvy, strong will and empathy for the poor to help him become President of Argentina. During this time, her polarizing personality makes her loved by the masses, but loathed by the elite. By the time she dies of cancer at age 33, she leaves behind a legacy.I have to say that I thoroughly enjoyed this film, from beginning to end. I've heard complaints from some about the non-stop singing, but let's not forget that it is supposed to be a musical. The film is an adaptation of the Broadway play. The songs are energetic and ingratiating, especially since some of the melodies and lyrics are used more than once for thematic effect. It never feels gratuitous, but maybe that's because I'm a music lover and understand that music is another way to communicate. My favorite numbers are 'Buenos Aires', 'I'd Be Surprisingly Good For You' and the classic 'Don't Cry For Me Argentina'. I've also read some stuffy film critics complain that the film was not deep enough or the audience wasn't able to connect emotionally to Eva. But I would have to disagree. Eva Peron was a very complex woman. She's ambitious, cunning, passionate, generous, and vulnerable. The film, in my opinion, did a great job at showing her different layers and sides. A lot of this has to do with the lead actress, Madonna. Previously criticized for not showing enough range on screen, Madonna pulls out all the stops as she totally embodies the role of Evita. Most of the time, I was so absorbed in the character that I forgot that I was watching Madonna on screen (which is quite a feat for a superstar of her proportions). As the press and Madonna herself have pointed out before, she and Eva Peron have many things in common and I'm sure that helped her connect to the character. She definitely deserved her Golden Globe.Antonio Banderas also shines as the film's narrator, Che. Who knew that he had such a voice? He adds an intensity and flavor to to his role, and also serves as Evita's conscience at certain times. He displays the movie's message about Eva's multidimensional nature. She's not exactly the saint that countless Argentinians believed she was, but not the evil whore that the snobbish upper class thought that she was either.'Evita' really delivers. It is manages to be both entertaining and uplifting. I would recommend to any fan of musicals or to anyone looking to learn more about an iconic woman. "},{"Title":"It's Not My Problem- It's Your Indifference","Date":"21 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This film is an example of what a modern musical can almost be. While it does not quite rise to the perfection of other musicals like Dream Girls recently, & Rent, it is a solid film. Madonna is actually the perfect choice to play Evita. She is an outstanding singer who can really hit the tone perfect with the music. The original material woman comes off looking very good in this role which requires more singing talent the way it is staged.Antonio Bandaras has the right look for this film. I am not sure he is the perfect actor because the way the film is staged is based more upon music than on acting. The film would be a little stronger if a talented male singer would have been found to balance with Madonna but good male singers for this type role are in short supply these days. Bandaras as a result is here but never really gets started.The looks of the film and the references to the hit Broadway Play are all here and since the play is pretty much gone from live performances now this is the best venue to see this. It is a historical period piece which over time is less and less valuable but the music and the staging have an entertainment value which will always endure. "},{"Title":"Only Madonna!!","Date":"9 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Well, it has been said by many that this is the role Madonna was born to play. Although on the receiving end of much criticism at the time for trying to instill some feeling of empathy with Eva,the woman shines in what is essentially one long-form music video. The entire filming Evita story could be made into a movie itself, such a long and torturous process that it became. However once it became clear that Parker's attempt was highly likely to get off the ground Madonna wasted no time in going for the role. (look at her video for the Take A Bow single - she's pure Eva). And once in the role it was famously Madonna who persuaded the Argentine President to allow permission to film on the balcony of the Casa Rosada in Buenos Aries, something no-one else had been able to arrange. Deservedly gaining Madonna a Golden Globe, controversially not even gaining her a nomination come Oscar time, this is possibly one of the most spectacular cinematic adaptations of a stage musical it has ever been my privilege to see. A masterpiece. "}{"Title":"Some Musicals Just Don't Translate Very Well Into Films","Date":"4 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I've never seen Evita on stage, but from watching this film it becomes very obvious that that is where this story belongs, and although certain musicals have translated very well into films ('the Phantom of the Opera' and 'Hairspray' being two that spring immediately to mind), this is one of those that I feel should have been left on stage. Saying that however, watching this film has made me very keen to see the musical in it's original format one day, and it is just a shame that it is no longer being shown in the West End.Whenever Andrew Lloyd Webber and Tim Rice get together for a musical, you know you're going to be in for a treat, and no matter what other reservations I have about this film, there is no doubting that musically, it is a masterpiece. There are many, very, very good songs, ('Oh, What a Circus' and 'I'd be Surprisingly Good for You', being two examples), which are only improved by casting Madonna as Eva (no matter what anyone may say about her acting, you cannot deny that her voice is sublime). On the topic of acting, although I feel that Madonna did look much too old for the role, her acting did vastly improve as the film went on, and if it wasn't for her age I would have said she made the perfect Eva Peron for her acting near the end was very powerful and conveyed a lot of emotion. I also really loved Antonio Banderas' casting as Che, but I have never seen a single performance by Banderas which I have disapproved of.I think the major issue with this film is that, being based off the musical, it's story is therefore somewhat limited (especially seeing as the musical was based off a real life event), and, rather than a climactic ending most movie-goers are used to seeing, the film never reaches a huge peak, but rather, fizzles out slowly. Although this is often acceptable whilst watching a musical in theatre, it doesn't translate very well on film.I did like this film, and am glad I watched it purely because it has now convinced me that I have to go see the musical on theatre next time it is close to me, but it wasn't a piece of filming masterpiece, even if it was genius on stage. I enjoyed i t while watching, but it's not one that I will watch again in a hurry. "},{"Title":"The movie that revived movie-musicals","Date":"7 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Pretty much all through the eighties (and for a big part, the seventies as well) movie musicals were considered a relict from the past. When Menken and Ashman wrote the score for The little Mermaid, they made movie musicals acceptable again, at least for as long as they were animated. This proved to become a curse as well, since after a while, this became a formula not only for Disney but for pretty much any animated movie in production.But then came Evita.I remember reading about the fight over the casting of the title role back then. Every year or so some magazine would bring an update and say that now, at last, the movie would be produced. I never thought it would really happen. And then, suddenly, it actually was in production. And Madonna was in the title role. And suddenly this movie became the talk of the town. Argentinians were going berserk because Madonna (who of all celebrities had lived a life that probably resembled that of Evita's closer than the biography of any other Hollywood actress) was not virtuous enough for them to play the part. Reports of Madonna's pregnancy messing up the schedule appeared everywhere. Andrew Lloyd Webber had produced a new song for the movie (in order for it to have a chance at the Oscar's, smart guy) and next years fashion line was pretty much inspired by Evita's (in real life) and Madonna's (in the movie) look.With all this going on about the movie I was really surprised how quickly it has become almost forgotten.I really like the movie a lot, in fact, I think that the faults it has come from the source material. The songs in the first half, with a few exceptions, are forgettable and thus the first half drags a bit, a lot of things going on are not easily understandable for people who are not familiar with Argentinia in the fifties. While Peron's rise to power is explained in a song most of the stuff that goes on while the couple rules the country seems sketched and one REALLY needs to keep up not to lose track of what's actually going on there. Also, the musical supports the urban legend that Eva started the riots to get Peron out of prison. Devotees of Evita cried out that the movie portrayed her too negatively, critics of Evita dismissed the movie for showing her in a too positive light. Frankly, I believe if you upset both sides, I think you are probably not too far away from the truth. In fact, the libretto is wonderfully ambiguous with its admiration for the way Evita handled her own image and her good intention and its criticism for the recklessness she used to acquire her goals and the glamour that covers up everything. Rice does something wonderful here He gives listeners both sides and lets them decide which to choose.I think all the singers are great. Banderas should have become a rock star, Pryce with the sonority in his voice takes some getting used to but is actually marvelous and Madonna... well she owns the film. You hear people everywhere shouting Ohhhhh Patty Lu Pone had a much stronger voice! and stuff like that. Yes, true, Lu Pone has a stronger voice but you also have to keep in mind that her performance was created for the stage so it had to be a lot broader. Also, the singing is always just one aspect of the performance and an actor has to create a wholesome character. I think Madonna turned her softer voice, what some people might call a weakness, into a strength and shaped a character that befitted this voice. Her Evita is softer, more emotional and also more cunning this way. I am by no means a great fan of Madonna but one really has to acknowledge what she has done here and how great she was.Even though the movie's popularity has sunk in the last decade it's legacy still lives on. It was the first serious big budget, non-animated musical in a long time and it approached the subjects of musicals in a new way, making it look less staged by having it shot mostly on location. Also, it is a lot more about characters than about choreography and it has formed musicals in the way that today in musicals there is actually a lot more singing than talking, which also used to be different. I am absolutely certain that without Evita, none of the recent musicals would have been possible and maybe even Moulin Rouge and most certainly Chicago would never have been made. "},{"Title":"Seeing is Believing","Date":"27 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I began watching Evita with some smoldering doubts about both movie musicals and Madonna. But in short order, this explosive musical drama made me a believer.Set in mid-20th century Argentina, the story of one Latin American country's convulsive history captivates us by sheer force of talent in the telling. Singing, not speaking, throughout, the characters are not only believable, they are ravishing. And the music...it picks us up and carries us into the sensitive, sensuous soul of another place and time. Madonna plays young Eva Duarte, the illegitimate daughter of her dead father's mistress, who moves from a rural Argentinian village into teeming Buenos Aires to seek her fortune, using as many men as necessary to worm her way upward in radio and on stage. At a party, she catches the eye of one of Argentina's strong men--Peron, and they end up marrying, realizing they could be good for each other. Evita begins to champion the cause of the common people she came from, while astutely lauding Peron to them--He knows you, understands you, loves you--and proof of that is, if not, how could he love *me*? The film's unvarnished depiction of the ambitious and controversial woman who became Argentina's First Lady is brilliantly demonstrated in a party scene in which Eva complains to a retired navy man, They called me 'whore'! I can't believe it! to which the uniformed older man slyly replies, Well, they called me 'admiral' and I haven't been to sea in years...Antonio Banderas gives a remarkable performance in the role of Greek Chorus, as an objective, interactive narrator. Not only does he possess a voice as appealing as his looks, he actually makes us feel comfortable watching him sing directly to the camera! When Evita is finally cut down by an invasive disease which kills her at the tender age of 26, Argentina weeps, and we do too, in spite of Banderas' mocking challenge to Evita, what have you really done? The poignant melody Don't cry for me, Argentina... haunted me sweetly for weeks afterward...Don't miss this unusual movie. "},{"Title":"Not Perfect but worth seeing","Date":"23 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Yes I give this a 10 because I love the score. Now Madonna does a great job. She was born to be in this movie. Please keep in mind she doesn't have to act in this movie but sing and dance. She does it however and she is great. The biggest controversy about this movie is that Madonna sings the song Another Suitcase in ANother HAll. In the play Juan Perons mistress sings it. In the movie its Evita. The movie is 100% singing & dancing. Don't let that stop you from watching. Now my biggest complaint about this movie is that it has very few close ups. I also didn't like the way it was edited. (Like a music video) However I still can watch the movie (or listen) to it everyday. "},{"Title":"Evita","Date":"26 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I own this movie. First, I have to say I own several Madonna movies. This is the only one she excels in. And how.However, this movie is not about Madonna. It's about Eva Peron, and Madonna forces you to understand at least part of her. Through the eyes of a musical, a people, and and artist. I do feel I connected with something bigger than me.As far as Madonna is concerned. I think she related a bit to the character.I'm not talking erotica in Australia aka erotica tour connections, but human connections. She wanted this part, and I think she probably hit it closer than Sarah Brightman.I wholly recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"I must love this movie.","Date":"3 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Of all of Madonna's terrible movies, she makes an excellent movie that is an Oscar winner. I think that the movies that she does well in are where she is singing. This movie is a musical about the life of Evita Peron. Evita grows up poor and rejected but goes on the marry the president of the country. The music is excellent and there are some lipsynching parts but I really didn't pay attention to it. Then there are some parts near the end that are not lipsynched and those are excellent too.Waltz over and grab the tissues because the ending is really sad. The music just makes this movie spectacular. The tension between the workers and Evita and the tension between Che and Evita really drive this movie this as well. Madonna does an excellent job of acting and singing and this is her greatest movie.The truth is, I love this movie! "},{"Title":"not Weber's best","Date":"16 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Okay, this is a pretty good movie, as movies go, and, as far as I know, an accurate portrayal of Evita (more accurate than the Argentinians wanted, at any rate; they were mad at the parts that portrayed her sleeping with people to get ahead in life). And the music is good as music goes. But, compared to Weber's Phantom of the Opera, this was a bit of a disappointment for me. Much of the music sounds similar, and I'm not talking about recurring themes. Then again, maybe I just didn't like this type of music as well as Weber's music in Phantom. Even so, I do believe Weber shows a greater amount of talent in Phantom than he does in this movie. Whatever you may believe, this movie is probably worth watching at least once. After that, you'll have to decide for yourself. "},{"Title":"EXCELLENT","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I, for one am a huge Andrew Lloyd Webber fan. I have seen a production of Evita live and when the coming of the film was announced, I knew I had to see it, if only to compare the two. I believe that Madonna is a close physical likeness of the real Eva Peron. The comment that is posted previous to mine, mentions something about it being too long. I agree in terms of films. But, for those who are unaware, Webber has a particular talent and habit of many reprises of the major themes in the score. As for Antonio Banderas' role in the film, some may feel that he has a strong presence in the first half of the film but the character he portrays is a necessary opposite for the color and taste in the film/story.  "},{"Title":"andrew lloyd webber at his best","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  evita is absolutely a great musical, with great musics of andrew lloyd webber. the play of webber is marvellous put on screen by alan parker, that shows us a musical full of power and life. evita tells us, in a form of musical, the story of eva peron, that is played by madonna, that gives her best performance thus far. the academy should have nominated her for best leading actress in 1996. antonio banderas is another great surprise, he's a great playing che guevara, and i was impressed by his singing talents, he's very good. in short, if u like musicals u can watch this jewel of andrew lloyd webber. if u don't like musicals this is not ur motion picture. "},{"Title":"The greatest musical successfully on the silver screen.","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I don't quite understand why so many people ignored this film. For me it is one of the best musical adaptations on the silver screen & perhaps Madonna's performance is really great. She deserved at least an Oscar with her talented role of Eva Peron. One of the best things is that the movie is much more like an opera & a tribute to a powerful lady of her country. A ***** ( 5 star ) movie to watch all over again & again. I advise the DVD. "}{"Title":"This was a great movie","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I watched again for the 4th time.  I think this was a most unappreciated movie.  I am appalled at some of the movies that do well at the box office and yet great movies are often overlooked, don't make any money at the box office and are criticized unjustly.  I just hope that people that try to make quality movies with good stories, actors and have something to impart don't fall by the wayside because of the lack of taste of the American people.  There are some of us that still know good movie making and judge the movie based on that. And for the critics out there that keep slashing at new ideas--go away!!! "},{"Title":"I had no idea it would be this good!","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I didn't expect too much, for a variety of reasons. I *loved* the play on Broadway, and wondered how it would translate.It was *terrific*! Madonna was better than I've ever seen here (and I loved Desperately Seeking Susan). Antonio Banderas made a wonderful Che. (As someone else noted, not THE Che, but A Che.) I loved the chemistry between the two of them.If you're iffy about seeing this ... do it! "},{"Title":"Very Good Acting, Watered-Down Impact.","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Ah, Evita.  An interesting film, if nothing else.  To shoot it in Buenos Aires, much of the material of Andrew Lloyd Webber and Tim Rice's original musical had to be toned down considerably, and it's understandable if one mistakes it for a heroine's story.Evita is a dark, cynical musical about Eva Peron, with emphasis on how she slept her way to the top and then proceeded to keep all of the Argentine people charmed.  The negativity is not muted, but certainly made less vicious.The musical is narrated by a character named Che, who in the original London production was dressed masterfully so he looked precisely like Che Guevarra. In this version, though, Che is played by Antonio Banderas.  And believe me when I say that Banderas's performance is worth seeing the movie for.  It's the best work I have ever seen him do, and he nails the bitterness and sarcasm of Rice's commentary right on the head--his version of Oh What a Circus! is still the one that sticks with me.  He also does the character perfectly in High Flying, Adored and in the final waltz.Madonna looks hauntingly like Eva Peron did, in the later scenes at least. In the earlier scenes, she's made to look absurdly younger than she is, and it really shows.  She's not nearly the best Eva I've heard, though; whereas Banderas's Che is sung on a level like unto the concept album and original London cast, Madonna's Eva is far too sympathetic.  You get the impression that she liked Eva, yet the musical's point is to show that she was a manipulative actress.  I found that highly disturbing.Jonathan Pryce is very good as Juan Peron, and he also nails the role visually.  Not incredible singing, but good.  The rest of the cast is well-chosen.The movie is filmed well, if too sympathetic to the Peron regime.  (This was done entirely to film in Buenos Aires.)  At the end, an argument between Eva and Juan is turned into, more or less, a tender little scene.  It is replaced by You Must Love Me, a song that is entirely non-sequitur in a musical about two people who mutually use one another.  Also, the big number of the original (Don't Cry For Me, Argentina) is...well...the song's lyrics are a lot less sincere than it comes off as being.  It's a masterful work that manipulates the audience as well as Eva's crowd, and just gives me chills, even though I know it's one of the funniest songs in the movie, in an ironic way.The film is good, and more than worth seeing for Antonio Banderas's work as Che alone.  The visuals are spectacular.  However, be sure to get a listen to the original concept album or the London cast recording--Evita the movie likes the lead character too much, and it's worthwhile to hear the original work.  Avoid the American cast recording, which has in the role of Che a singer whose lines are delivered without any meaningful passion whatsoever. "},{"Title":"Delicious cinematography combined with smashing musicality.","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Andrew Llyod Webber and Tim Rice are two names that forever will be etched in the minds of all music loving people of the world. Despite the fact that they have collaborated only on a few projects, they have both shined individually as well as when working together. In my own experience, this has been proved by Webber in his many extraordinary musical scores (which you, quite frankly, already know), and by Rice in his lyrics to almost every recent Disney flick.Evita is, as much as it tries to be only about Eva Peron, also about Rice and Webber, because the movie has proved that their work is grand enough to not only fit into a stage, but also the silver screen. I've heard other critics say that Webber's score was repetitive - not so! It merely establishes themes that are used again and again throughout the film as parallels occur. It's an ancient scoring techniqued named Leid Motif, and almost every major film composer uses it. Having established all this, I'll move on to the movie itself. And, by the way, there might be some very light spoilers ahead, for the very sensitive.The score is sung (and yes, it IS a sung-through movie) by some very talented stars - you might have heard of them... Who am I kidding? Everyone knows Madonna, Jonathan Pryce, and Antonio Banderas by name if not by voice. All of them sing well, though I never doubted it, and especially Banderas makes it. His role, Che (supposedly not THE Che, by the way, but merely A Che - if you don't get that, take some history classes), is the narrator, and represents the audience perfectly, while posing questions necessary for us to keep our eyes on the matter at hand.However, a score and good actors don't make a movie, and Alan Parker directs it all with a terrifyingly great hand, showing us the forties as if we were there ourselves. He even gets to have a cameo, so it couldn't really be any better, can it?Oh, but it could. Evita sadly does have a few shortcomings. First, it is understandably hard to get all the lyrics the first time around, so you really have to see it a few more times to get the details right. Second, the Jimmy Nail character is disposed of too quickly. He would have popped up again later, to deliver the classic I told you so if I had made the movie. But these are rather small concerns, that really does nothing but keep Evita from scoring absolutely the highest mark in my book. Call it a 9/10, and, for God's sake, see it if you haven't seen it yet. "},{"Title":"Beautiful!","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I think this movie was beautiful and exquisite.Eva Peron would be pretty proud of herself if she saw this movie. If I were her, I would be to. Madonna sang quite well, especially Don't Cry for Me, Argentina. Well, I'll watch it again "},{"Title":"Evita is one of the most unique films I've seen.  A must!!","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Evita.  Who was she?  A saint?  A sinner?  How about both?  This magnificent film raises those questions and ultimately leaves the audience to decide.The great thing I love about this film is the way it presents its very historic tale.  I'm sure some things aren't exactly accurate, but the film does get Eva Peron's story across to the mass...and I'm sure she'd be proud.The songs in the film are truly beautiful.  And Madonna's voice has never sounded so strong and eloquent.  Her greatest strength is presenting Eva as a very multi-dimensional character.  When she kicks Colonel Peron's young lover out of the house, you see her as the--umm, bitch she could be. However, you cannot deem her a bitch simply because she is a strong woman with an agenda and strong opinions.  At other points in the film, you see Madonna's Eva as a very young, somewhat naive girl and are truly moved. However, it is at the close of the film that Madonna really becomes Eva Peron.  Madonna did not just play a role in this film.  She transforms herself into Evita.  As she lies on her deathbed, her voice cracks and her tears are very real as she still declares her great love for her people. It truly breaks your heart.Yes, Madonna's Eva is definitely portrayed realistically.  In between all the musical numbers, you see a woman who uses some kind of very internal personal strength to go from rags to riches.  Does she use men in many ways? Yes!  But once she has power, does she use it to help her 'descamisados'? Yes, she most certainly does.  Evita may not have been the purest woman in the world, but she was a politician, neither dirtier or more corrupt than any other politician.  And another key difference between Evita and her people is the fact that her people truly loved her and believed she loved them.  There was a real connection and it is superbly portrayed in the film. By the end, you have seen many of Evita's sides...the more tender, loving side as she pets very sick children...the strong side that made her the most powerful person in Argentina--a country still heavily male-dominated.  So, by the end, the movie doesn't tell the audience how it should view Evita. Instead, you are forced to decide for yourself.   "},{"Title":"In my opinion","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I only have a few things to say about the movie. It was the best musical that I have seen so far. The songs were just wonderful, and Madonna was just Gorgeous. It was actually very educational too. I never knew Antonio Banderes could sing that good! That's about all I have to say. Thanx.  "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Amazingly above average.Madonna,Jonathon Pryce,Antonio Banderas and Jimmy Nail act their hearts out.For all those people who disagree-what number is the highest in the ratings?Huh? "},{"Title":"Madonna's triumph","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Madonna was right to ask for this role; it was made for her. I've never been a fan of her music, or her persona, but she is undeniably talented. She's always gotten a bad rap for her acting, but I thought she's usually done quite well. In Evita, she really didn't need to act as much as in other roles, and her voice is certainly up for it. I thoroughly enjoyed the film, although I had never seen the show, or heard the music before. It is an odd half-musical, half-opera style of movie. And who knew Antonio Banderas could sing? "},{"Title":"I have not seen the show, but i am happy about the movie","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I bought the album in a disk shop about 13 years ago, why? Simply cause it was a 2 disks nice-price and it turned out to be an amazing bargain. But without the show something was missing this movie has given me the missing part, now i can enjoy it much more. But even more i did appreciate Madonna performance(i normally don't like her as a singer nor as an actress), are we sure it was Her ? Finally the revised music great job ! As far as i am concerned is like having 2 different albums  "}{"Title":"Madonna a surprise hit","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I have not been a great fan of Madonna's, but her performance in this movie came as a revelation to me. Her talent is undeniable - her powerhouse performance has made this movie one of my top 5. "},{"Title":"¡Ché!","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I confess, I never saw EVITA when it was released, though it was a hot topic in one of the Spanish classes I was taking at the time. Especially Antonio Banderas in the role of Ché! Though it was erroneously said by many to be the part of Ché Guevarra. Not true! As I found out about 3 years later when I married an Argentine, many Argentines refer to one another as Ché - to get someone's attention for example - so in EVITA, Ché represented the voice of the people.When I first met the man whom I later married, I thought watching EVITA would be a good way for me to see a little bit of Argentina and to learn a little bit about Argentine political history... granted - this is a rock-opera and not a documentary. The movie did a great job of showing the phenomenon of Evita though. (Perón's role in the phenomenon was drastically downplayed in EVITA, but of course, the movie wasn't about him.) I watched it with my husband so he could point out to me which parts were actually shot in Argentina. (For example, the train station where young Evita arrives in Buenos Aires (actually a train station to the south), the outside of the Casa Rosada with the crowd outside the balcony, the street protest that passes the Alberti metro station.)Overall, I thought the movie, casting and the music were absolutely wonderful, even though I am not a big fan of Madonna. Though I agree with the review that the scenes with tanks rolling down the streets were confusing. You have no idea which political group is doing what to whom, or why. If you'd really like to have this confusion cleared up (there's only so much that can be presented in a movie!), I'd recommend reading Evita The Real Life of Eva Perón by Nicholas Fraser & Marysa Navarro. It can help you separate the myth from the reality - though maybe no one really may ever know the REAL Evita. Like any powerful figure, enemies and friends will have different versions of the same events... "},{"Title":"A magnificent performance by a remarkable woman...","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The passion was overwhelmingly ferocious.  The portrayal of Eva Peron by Madonna was immaculate.  No other actress could have displayed the emotion Madonna created. Truly her baby, and grandest performance. Costumes were fab.  And, well, what more could be said about Antonio. Apart from he is a hunk 'o burning love. These two sizzle, steam and sweat their was to sheer visual pleasure.Music to die for.  Actors we live for. A vision we strive for. Don't cry for me...Argentina... By the way, how grand would it be to wave upon thousands knowing that in some small way they idolise the simple fact that you minutely changed their lives...EVITA! EVITA! Madonna plays such an innocent 16 year old!  Amazing at 40.  "},{"Title":"Madonna really shone!","Date":"27 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This is the movie that showed everyone Madonna could act as well as sing, and do them at the same time.She made me smile and cry in this movie.  And she did it with grace and poise.Antonio was his usual charming self.This movie was excellently cast, acted and directed.  "},{"Title":"A Non-Stop Awe-Inspiring Spectacle!","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This film is without a doubt the greatest film ever made. The cinematography is, for lack of a better word, incredible. The non-stop sweeping 2.351 panoramas will leave you gasping for air by the time it's over. It will surely take your breath away. The entire scope and grandeur of this film is unprecedented in cinema. NOTE THIS FILM MUST BE VIEWED IN WIDESCREEN AT ALL COSTS. "},{"Title":"MADONNA'S TRIUMPH!!!!!","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Evita, the long awaited musical is Madonna at the top of her game, and in all her splendor she nails the role of the First Lady of Argentina, Eva Duarte de Peron!!! Madonna's portrayal of Eva Peron not only resurrected the story of Eva's life, but breathed new life into her as well!  Madonna finally surpasses the cardboard reading, she's given us in past films, and generously gives of herself to this role, something warm, alive and tangible.  Andrew Lloyd Webber and Tim Rice's music and lyrics were just that, until Madonna made them her own!  Precise enunciation and pitch sent me into the stratosphere, Madonna was no longer a singer, but now an accomplished voice to be reckoned with!  The meticulous attention to detail on the sets, costuming, and shooting helped propel the grandeur of the film and it's believability. Madonna finally leaps beyond her persona and truly BECOMES the First Lady of Argentina, Eva Duarte de Peron!!! "},{"Title":"Fast Moving Entertainment","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This film was one I had to see not only because of the story of Eva Peron, which has always interested me, but also because I thought Madonna suited the roll well. Her and Antonio Banderas played their parts with enthusiasm and it was an all round good film. I bought the CD also. "},{"Title":"Small Town Girl Makes Good!","Date":"22 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Bravo, Evita!Finally, three years later, I watched the video and loved it! Madonna was extraordinary, as was Banderas. Both not only surprised me with their acting ability, but with their singing as well. The entire score of the opera was magnificent such lyrical, poignant, rousing music -funny at times - . ..the Big Apple!Jonathan Price as Peron was properly reserved and somewhat aloof, after all, he knew Evita was his ticket to success!The use of Banderas (Che) as a narrator was an interesting device, much like the ancient Greek Chorus perhaps?A nice way to present history in an entertaining way. Two thumbs up! "},{"Title":"A triumph. Evita is nothing less than a masterpiece.","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Evita is nothing less than a masterpiece. I'm not particularly a fan of opera so I saw the film with a wee bit of trepidation. From the first minute I was fascinated, enthralled, transfixed, even transported to the little cantina with Antonio Banderas. I was there. The music itself, the score, the acting, and so much, the production is astounding. It will make you feel proud you have the ability to love film. This is immaculate story-making for those who love excellence and sentiment. And music. Oh, the music. An experience. An opera. Don't miss it. 5 stars out of 5. &#150; John Kimble.  "},{"Title":"A Musical and Visual Masterpiece","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Madonna's performance as the notorious Eva Peron is truly stunning.  I never knew she could act so well!  Her voice adds the emotion and flair to the role of Eva and Antonio Banderas as her conscience really adds to the storytelling.  Best of all, the excellent music tells the story fluently and gracefully. "}{"Title":"A MUST SEE","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Madonna's portrayal of Eva Peron is spellbinding.  Fans of musicals will have to enjoy this musical.  It is the best one to come along in years. Madonna is in a role that should have gotten her an Oscar nomination for best actress, but due to snobbery of the Academy she didn't make the list. It is too bad.  This is one of the best movies of all time as far as I'm concerned.  "},{"Title":"Changed my mind about musicals.","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Truly one of the best musicals I've seen for years. There were no big dance numbers that take away from the story. The ambience and setting are so rich that a dance number isn't needed to dress things up. Antonio proves that he's more than just a pretty face, but he has a great voice as well. I'd love to see the stage play sometime, now that I've listened to and enjoyed the score so much. "},{"Title":"Antonio Banderas is great!","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I thought Madonna was an excellent choice for the title role, and she did a fine job.  But to me, the best performance in the film is given by Antonio Banderas.  I was surprised that he had such a fine singing voice.  He was great! "},{"Title":"A wonderful movie with powerful music!","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  When Evita came out in 1996, it was like a breath of fresh air. Finally, a musical that wasn't animated!  Madonna shines like a jewel, from her acting to her elegant clothes.  Antonio Banderas deserves applause, too.The music...one cannot praise it enough.  Tim Rice's lyrics, combined with the harmony of Andrew Lloyd Webber,  result into the beautiful and raucus melodies we hear.  I never tire of listening to it.  My compliments to you all on such marvelous work!   "},{"Title":"Banderas Redeems Himself","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  To be blunt, I really can't stand Antonio Banderas.  I've alwaysthought that he was relatively talentless and was typecast forhis looks primarily.  Until this adaptation.  I did not realizethat the film would be sung like the musical.  Banderas took meby storm, impressed me, and redeemed himself a bit.  I neverexpected that he could sing, and stand his own alongsideMadonna, who sings for a living (among other things). I mightrent Zorro now, though an excellent example of Mr. Banderas'typecasting. "},{"Title":"GREAT movie, Madonna and Banderas give Excellent performances.","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  While I have never seen the Broadway version of this story, you can bet that if I ever get the chance, I will.  The story captivates me, like few others have.  Madonna is excellent as Eva Peron.  It isn't only her singing that gets to me, it is the facial expressions she gives, they show sincere emotions.  Banderas makes his Biggest break yet.  I was outright shocked when he started singing.  The boy CAN SING.  One other cast member who is often forgotten is Jonathan Pryce.  He is very good as Juan Peron.  Not as good as Madonna or Banderas, but good none the less.  The interaction between Pryce and Madonna, and Madonna and Baneras is Superb.  Would like to have seen all three of them in more camera shots together.  Overall, a GREAT movie, that I will recommend for a lifetime. "},{"Title":"Excellent, moving, the best musical since Grease","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  An excellent performance by Madonna and Banderas given through songs portraying Evita Peron's life. Needless to say more. A Must. "},{"Title":"This movie is FANTASTIC!","Date":"7 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Evita is fantastic!  Madonna gives the defining performance of her acting career.  Antonio Banderas and Jonathan Pryce are perfectly cast.  The sets and costumes are wonderful.  Madonna's performance is full of charisma.  She deserved the Golden Globe she won and should have received an Oscar nominatiion.  This is one of my favorite films and deserved more recognition than it got. "},{"Title":"The real story","Date":"27 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I had been listening to a lot of bad commentaries about this film. But I decided to see it anyway. I really liked the movie. I think Alan Parker had to investigate a lot about Eva's story because the details are perfect. "},{"Title":"A wild musical advent","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I found Evita to be a fun musical advent. It appeals to those who are knowledgeable of the story as to generation X as well. Madonna breathed life into Eva Peron and made her come alive. "}{"Title":"From an actor's point of view","Date":"7 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I have been in the musical Evita, and I tell you the play is MUCH better. I played several roles (A General, Papal Admiral, Soldier, and one of Evita's lovers).  The songs in the movie are not staged well and they are chopped up.  Madonna, though, gives an inspired performance as Evita.  All of the actors did a splendid job.If you have a chance, go see the play.  You will enjoy it much more. "},{"Title":"Madonna shines as Eva Peron","Date":"2 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  An exceptionally, outstanding movie. The movie has best of everything. The cinematography is amazing, the movie is visually very beautiful, has some of the best shots of Madonna of her career, the music is cool. Jonathon Pryce makes a very convincing Juan Peron and Antonio Banderas is oozing with sex appeal but it is Madonna who shines in the end. Madonna brings her charisma to the role which no actress could have provided. Her sensitive portrayal of Eva Peron would surely go down in history as one of the Greatest Performances by an Actress. "},{"Title":"Refreshingly Different","Date":"16 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I'm not a fan of musicals so it took a good 15 minutes or so for me to get used to this film where characters sing almost all of the dialog, but after that I became engrossed in both the story being told and the music and visuals used to tell it.Thinking about the mammoth task it must have been to edit this film, I'm surprised that it was beaten to the Oscar by The English Patient which looks far more straightforward by comparison.  "},{"Title":"The 2nd Best of All Time","Date":"3 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I loved everything about it... The music, well, coming from London's best, the acting, amazing, especially Madonna, the best performance in a musical along with Liza Minnelli in Cabaret. It is utterly amazing, especially the last quarter of the film, you will need a handkerchief. Madonna on the deathbed, well, just guess... "},{"Title":"THE VERY BEST MOVIE OF ALL TIME!","Date":"29 July 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This is the very best movie of all time. The music is lively and fun and  -bonus- you can understand every word! Madonna is perfect for this part and Antonio is . . . well, LOOK at him. And besides, he has an awesome voice. The movie doesn't have any mistakes in comparison with her actual history  (from someone who knows). Perfect sound + perfect actors + perfect set = the most perfect movie of all time!  "},{"Title":"I never liked musicals much...","Date":"31 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I never liked musicals much, and this one is definitely not an exception. Too much music and too little (hi)story... In addition, the movie is also ideologically and politically very clearly oriented to the left, which doesn't help. It simply isn't true that the 'Peronistas' where all good guys, and the others all bad... Who knows, absurdly though, if the military had stayed in power longer like in Chile, maybe Argentina wouldn't have gotten into the sort of financial troubles that have ravaged a once rich and prosperous nation and almost destroyed it altogether (and please note that I am no way a militarist at all)!Surprisingly, the only thing I appreciated was Madonna's singing, which was very good. Otherwise the movie was average. "},{"Title":"It is...","Date":"22 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" It is not a biographic movie. It is not homage to a great artist. It is only exploration of a myth. With errors, good intentions and a lot of exaggerations. A film for Johnathon Schaech's charm and for beginning of childhood dreams taste. Delicate and sweet, for who knows than magic is an ingredient of existence. For dreamers. And for remember a name. Old, lost, fascinating.It is not a film about Eva Evita Duarte de Peron. It is a short story about a character with his name but others ways of life and different nuances of facts. May be a Rider Digest material. About a shadow of a strange time for who the limits are fiction. Evita is not a bad movie. And not a masterpiece. Only a show, very delicate with details but , in fact, a beautiful stamp, it is first step to discover a impressive science to broke the limits and to understand the days more than a summer rain. "},{"Title":"So much better than I thought it would be...","Date":"3 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I love musicals and was eager to watch Evita. I'm not the biggest of all Andrew Lloyd Webber fans, though Phantom of the Opera is phenomenal and all his work has at least one standout song(Memory for Cats, Don't Cry for me Argentina for Evita and Any Dream Will do for Joseph).This Evita was so much better than anticipated. I cannot deny the music is wonderful, but I was also sceptical because of Madonna, who I like as a singer but not so much as an actress. I was proved wrong, Madonna while not quite my idea for Evita is wonderful in the role, she does justice to Buenos Aires and Don't Cry for me Argentina and the whole performance is very moving.She has a good cast, with the dashing Antonio Banderas exuding tremendous chemistry with her and Jonathan Pryce a revelation as Juan Peren. The visuals are spectacular, the cinematography is sumptuous and the colours, costumes and settings are wonderfully vivid. The story might just lack the spark of the musical itself, but it is still emotionally resonant and the script and direction are more than credible.Evita may drag a little towards the end, but overall it was a very good film and much better than I thought. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Don't Cry for Madonna -- She Didn't Need That Academy Award","Date":"17 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Andrew Lloyd Webber's rock opera about one-time Argentinian first lady Eva Peron gets the big screen treatment, and turns out to be about as good as any movie based on this material was ever going to be.Director Alan Parker doesn't create a movie so much as an extended music video -- the star of the film is the film editor, who works overtime to assemble a non-stop assortment of songs into a narrative that works cinematically. The movie looks extraordinary, a feast for the eyes, and the music sounds great too.People slobbered over Madonna and Antonio Banderas at the time, and there was actually the sense that Madonna was robbed when she wasn't nominated for an Academy Award. But in retrospect, the Academy made a wise decision. Neither of them really acts so much as strike poses -- Madonna looks beseeching and Banderas lowers his head and glowers. But the two of them have tremendous chemistry, and the first time they appear on the screen together created an almost physical jolt of electricity that I could feel in my seat.This is a diorama, not a movie, and it shouldn't be mistaken for history, but it's entertaining for what it is.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"Evita","Date":"5 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The movie Evita tells the story of Eva Peron and her rise to fame in Argentina. The movie starts when Eva was a young girl and follows her story until her death. Surrounding Eva's story is the turbulent times of her native Argentina. The story primarily occurs in the 1940s and early 1950s. This time period is one of great social upheaval, military and political fighting, and worker rebellions. Through it all, Eva became Evita, arguably the most prolific and infamous individual Argentina has ever produced. This movie is historically accurate but is biased towards Eva. This movie only touches the issues surrounding Evita's rise to infamy. The plot shows Eva and her ambitious rise to the top. The movie showed her using men to get to where she wanted to be and finally falling deeply in love with Juan Peron, future husband and president of Argentina. The director left out a lot of truth, but did not lie in the movie. The director also showed the perspective of both the well-to-do, who opposed Peron, and the poor workers, who supported Peron. The director left out much of the seriousness of the infighting surrounding Eva's position in government; the infighting was much more intense. Many hated Evita. The movie, as a story, was very enjoyable, especially if you like musicals. The music is very dramatic, as is most of Andrew Lloyd Weber's music. Viewers should also remember that this is a musical; there is very little un-sung dialogue in the movie. Since this is a musical, viewers must listen to the music and its lyrics to understand what is going on. The performances were great and very entertaining. The movie was also educational, because it portrays the significance of Eva and Juan Peron and the impact they had on society in Argentina. Overall, the movie was easy to understand with little or no knowledge of Argentina's history (everyone can generally understand what is going on). The movie sparked my interest (and could possibly spark other's interests) in the subject and encouraged me to research the Perons more in depth. On a scale of 1-10, I would rate this movie an 8. I give it an 8, because historically, the movie is biased and leaves out a lot of information. But, I and the viewers must remember that this movie is largely a love story. The movie is very fun, informative, and a great story. The actors did a fantastic job and the music was great. People who like musicals will love this movie. "}{"Title":"Great","Date":"22 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The singing , music , and cast was spectacular . I hated  Goodnight and Thank You  . It wasn't the singing or the music just the story behind it . I also did not understand Che 's part of the story . Was Che in love with Evita or was there something between them we were never told about ? I kept wondering that though the movie . I believe he did. I loved the sets . My favorite song and scene was the  Waltz for Eva and Che  . I thought Evita 's funeral was beautifully done . I never thought Che would show up . Also , why did he hate Evita so much? Why didn't someone explain ? Anyway , great story . The costumes were beautiful . "},{"Title":"Webber and Rice have done it again!","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I believe that this movie, is by far one of the best musicals I have ever seen on film. Andrew Lloyd Webber and Tim Rice did a great job on this movie. It is a great way to teach about the life of Eva Duarte Perón. Madonna is magnificent as Eva and Antonio Banderas is great as Ché, the narrator of the story. As a student of Hispanic culture, I found this movie not only to be entertaining, but to be very useful and informative about the life of Eva Perón. This was an amazing movie! I would recommend it to all people. Not just Spanish speakers because it was interesting and fun to watch. This movie is great I loved it. But, Antonio Banderas was a little weak at first but improves through the movie. I give this move 9 of 10 stars because it deserved it. It was a great movie and I recommend it 100 percent. "},{"Title":"Revolting System","Date":"19 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This is the most bizarre of the Disney princess movies. Perhaps a mix of 'Barry Lyndon' with 'Robin Hood'.Spoiler minefield ahead...I've lumped Peckinpah, Bakshi, Parker, Stone, and Tarantino in my cinema excess category. They are identifiable by their montages, stereotypes and social commentary--often through the use of violence. Each has had his grand moments ('Wild Bunch', 'JFK', 'Pulp Fiction', etc.) but have become either sanitized or repetitive.'Evita' is one example that was doomed from the start. After all, when it's rooted in Webber & Rice--two chaps reliant on lyrics, not melody--and starring the Queen of Accessories herself, how can Parker win?Simple, he grabs his king editor (Hambling), a daring photographer (Khondji), and an old friend to write the script (Stone). Since they sleepwalk through their efforts, Parker loses. He couldn't have made a more sanitized and boring movie if he had tried; just as daft as 'West Side Story' and 'The Sound of Music'.I'll give him some credit. The idea of the montage springs from Eisenstein and Lenin's appreciation of the revolution and 'Evita' tries to latch onto those principles. But nothing connects, disappointing since Khondji had just finished 'Se7en'.This is especially frustrating after 'Pink Floyd' where Parker's images could carry the tone. He also had more daring music (in both form and lyrics) with 'The Wall' than this sonic trash. Safe versus dangerously edgy.This failure done, the torch passes to Luhrmann.Final Analysis = = Cinematic Dud  "},{"Title":"OK, but a bit overlong!","Date":"14 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Evita is one of those films that you may push to one side and not really think of watching, and i can see why. There are too many songs in it and even though it is a musical i was hoping for some dialog to be introduced amongst it. The film also proves a bit too long for my liking and the same Argentian backdrop proves to be a little daunting and doesn't really grab you're attention as films should. However there is one thing that does stand out and that is Madonna's performance as Evita. She single handedly carried this film out of the incinerator and gave it some credibility. The scene with the infamous don't cry for me Argentina performance was the highlight of the entire film and is genuinely a moving moment. Antonio Banderas is OK but proves forgettable and there is a nice cameo appearance from Andrea corr as Peron's mistress. Overall this film is probably worth about 6/10, for nothing other than a knockout performance by Madonna  "},{"Title":"A New Argentina!","Date":"24 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" At first viewing for us Maddy fans, we consider EVITA an epic. But it's not. It IS good though. There are a few moments where Madonna really acts well--particularly the A New Argentina scene. Her constant eye blinking can become very annoying. She has a big presence and needs a big movie to carry her--and this certainly is a big movie. The problem with Madonna in Evita is she seems to at times lose focus---she goes from BRILLIANT (A New Argentina, Hello And Goodbye) to horrible (Death Scene--she doesn't shed one tear). This could be the director's fault. Perhaps he didn't choose her best scenes at times. She has never sounded better though. True Maddy fans love the film because it is what she worked for her whole life--dancing, singing, and acting--and it is good. "},{"Title":"laughable","Date":"6 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  All I've got to say about this picture is that it is laughable. First of all, i'm from Buenos Aires, so I know pretty well the story about Evita and Peron. The first thing that is funny to me is the cast. I mean, Madonna???? Evita was waaay much uglier and had a much more serious girl. Also, Jonathan Pryce as Peron????? I have to say first, that here, where we know the whole story, we say that Peron was a rat. He gave all the money away and stole what was left, he was very fond of the nazis (Argentina declared war to the Axis on May 1945, he was a close friend to Mussolini (and an admirer). He used censorship and banned many political groups (to not say 'all of them') and he was practically a fascist. In the acts, at school we had to sing before our National Anthem, the Peronist Anthem...and not because we wanted to... If you see what I mean you'll understand why it's laughable to me that a man like Jonathan Pryce plays Peron, a noble one, on screen.Second, Evita WAS in fact a very intelligent woman, she WAS loved by many, she DID give more rights to the women and all that. But she was a woman from the high class. She had the same ambitions as everybody else surrounding her. Some people here say that in fact, she was the one that brought Peron into politics again in 1955 or something.And she couldn't sing.So, as a movie it is not a bad one. But if we are talking about simility with the real, it's far from there.PS Argentina is VERY cheap now. Come and buy "},{"Title":"A 134 minute music video, sound boring? it is.","Date":"28 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  With a director like Alan Parker, this movie should have been very good, he did Midnight Express, Pink Floyd, The Wall, Angel Heart, and Mississippi Burning, these are all excellent movies, and I thought this would be another great addition to that collection, wrong!! I expected a little more diologue to keep the story going, the music was good, Madonna was beautiful, but these things could not keep this movie from sinking.  I'll stick to Parker's other films from now on.  ** out of ****. "},{"Title":"It Has Its Monents, It Has Some Style...","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Evita is one of the best-known works by Andrew Lloyd Webber.  And here, the legendary stage hit makes its way to the screen.  Eva Peron, the heroine of the composition, is played and sung by Madonna.  Her voice may not hit all the notes, but she brings the attitude!  The story follows Eva's rise to power, and how her husband Juan Domingo Peron made her a glamorous front behind which he hid his dictatorial business.  People who are familiar with the original stage production will notice the obvious differences in the movie.  A few liberties were taken with the story, a fair amount more with the lyrics.  The movie features the original song You Must Love Me, plus The Lady's Got Potential, which was on the original concept album (which came before the stage show).  I enjoyed Evita very much, making me want to see it on stage.  Whether you like Webber or not, Evita will impress you! "},{"Title":"Disappointing in some ways, excellent in others","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I was very annoyed at how much they toned down Evita's personality from the musical (which I could sing end to end at the time the movie came out) -- most of her more cutting remarks were left out. For all I know, the movie might be truer to Eva Peron's life -- but that's not what I went to see.On the other hand, the music is excellently done, and the cinematography is spectacular. Being able to actually see the locations I had imagined so often was wonderful. "},{"Title":"tremendous portrayal of this ambitious and misunderstood woman...","Date":"15 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  1st watched 12/27/1999 - (Dir-Alan Parker) Although at first, the thought came to mind --- can I stand watching an entire movie sung and understand this complex of a historical subject? -- you forget about this as you become enthralled with Madonna's character and her tremendous portrayal of this ambitious and misunderstood woman.  The narrator (and singer in Banderas) provides a more critical look at her life which makes for an interesting movie to follow. "}{"Title":"About As Much Drama As a Never-Ending Music Video.","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Would-be emotional powerhouse struggles through with a near endless soundtrack and musical numbers that will tire very fast. Tim Rice's play about the titled character (Madonna), a woman who became the first lady to Argentina for a time before succumbing to illness, becomes a near interminable experience on the big screen. The titled lady was a B-movie actress who eventually became the love of the president's (Jonathan Pryce) life. Her life is told by musical narrator Antonio Banderas and her relationship (usually good and very rarely bad) with the common people in her country is given some time as well. Screenwriter/director Alan Parker chose an odd subject here and honestly the movie just never really got off the ground for me. Madonna (who has never proven she can act) dominates with her singing and that is all right, but the constant routine sucks the drama out of the important story. Really this is too much of a musical and not enough of a drama. It easily won the Best Original Song Oscar in 1996 for You Must Love Me, but considering the amount of singing in this thing it was bound to win that award. Disappointing and over-rated, Evita is one of the bigger duds of the 1990s that has somehow endeared itself to many in the viewing public. 2.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Unexpectedly average","Date":"17 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  There were those who thought Evita was going to be a total masterpiece and those who were expecting a major disaster. Quite surprisingly, they were all wrong. In fact, the worst thing that could have happened to this movie actually happened  Evita is a rather dull affair. The art direction, Madonna, Pryce and some stunning scenes are probably the best things here, but the whole movie is far too polished to be convincing. Of course it's a lot better than what a lot of french reviewers said (the movie was generally disliked over here) but so ordinary you can hardly believe it. Ironically another (and much better !) musical movie was released in the same time in France  Everyone says I love you... Watch this one instead ! "},{"Title":"Purely Epic","Date":"15 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I've seen a lot of reviews complain due to the lack of actual dialogue in this film. I want to start there... If you don't want to hear singing don't watch a musical! As musicals go this is one of the best and it's in my personal top 3. Where do I start with a film this good. Let's start with the lead actors. I'm not usually a fan of Madonna but she is brilliant. Let's remember that this role demands a change of acting style as the evita gets older. This is pulled off by Madonna in epic style. Her singing can be a little screechy in places, but she is a pop singer not a west end star and she has a good enough voice. But the star of the show, by a country mile, is banderas. When I heard he was was in this I was expecting a spoken style like Rex Harrison. What I didn't realise just what a voice banderas has. Every song is done perfectly. And , even more amazingly, whether he is singing a soft ballad, or belting out a rock note, his acting performance as che is consistent and is THE best acting performance I have ever seen in a musical. BAR NONE.If you like musicals you must see this film. That is a no brainier "},{"Title":"Amazing fav musical!","Date":"2 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Andrew Lloyd Webber's smash hit musical Evita, is captivating and mesmerizing, based on the true story of Eva Peron, a girl who grew up without a penny, only just making ends meet, who becomes a successful radio and film actress, then marries Juan Peron a rising politician.With Madonna in the part of Eva the film was bound to cause some interest. People doubted her and questioned her acting skills, in my opinion Madonna really showcased her talent for both singing and acting with a very convincing portrayal of the iconic figure in Argentinian history. The facial expressions and hand movements made by Madonna fit Eva perfectly, she managed to portray her amazingly, and she also resembled the real Eva reasonably well, with the same sort of face shape and clothes. The outfits were perfect and played a rather large part in the film, with Madonna changing outfits 85 times. Wearing 39 different hats, 45 pairs of shoes and 56 pairs of ear rings throughout the film. The film has a great sense of style about it, which attracts lots of attention. Madonna also put a lot of emotion into her performance leaving everyone just as emotional as she was at the end. All in all the casting of Madonna as Eva was simply perfect.There was an unlikely casting of Antonio Banderas as Che, a character who questions the movements that Eva makes throughout the story. Banderas also showcases his surprising talent for musical theater, with his great acting skills and tremendous singing voice. His accent also adding another level to his performance making his character more complex and interesting. The dance between Eva and Che was well choreographed and effectively used in the film, it gave both Madonna and Antonio Banderas a chance to show off their dance skills. Jonathan Pryce's portrayal of Juan Peron the husband of Eva was intense and very believable, he used great facial expressions which created a whole impression of how Juan Peron was. The emotional storyline and great acting from the cast never fails to bring me close to tears at certain parts. The emotional deepness of the music is touchingly beautiful, although depressing at times, it fits amazingly well to the story and makes the film so great. So with a questionable cast the movie was bound to be highly anticipated, with everyone wondering just how good or bad it was going to be. In my opinion it was a very good musical film, it may have had a few slip up errors here and there, with people not getting the lips synced in certain places, but apart from that the film was well edited. Also with practically no talking the film can be enjoyed for its great musical score from Andrew Lloyd Webber. This musical film in my opinion is a triumph and always manages to leave me in tears at the end. "},{"Title":"Things have come to a pretty pass....","Date":"2 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Having not watched this movie in its entirety since its premiere in 1996 (and the first film version of a Broadway musical in almost a decade), I was curious to see how it held up. I have seen two stage versions of this since the release of the movie-one a national tour in the mid millennium, and the other a short-lived Broadway revival which suffered from a less than magnetic leading lady. More attention was paid to Ricky Martin in that revival than the Argentine singer and actress who headed the show. The same, I must say, is true with the movie, as Antonio Banderas stands out far more than Madonna who looks the part and sings it magnificently, but lacks the acting chops to make it the role she thought would carry her into film stardom.Not pro or con Madonna, I felt she did deserve her Golden Globe for the part, Best Actress in a Comedy or Musical, but when you consider the dramatic chops of the actresses who did get Oscar nominations, Madonna just didn't hold up in comparison. Then, when paired opposite Banderas as Che (who in my opinion seems to be playing some sort of spiritual on- looker, most likely the angel of death) or Jonathan Pryce (so subtle, yet powerful as Juan Peron), the difficulty of her role makes it more clear. She certainly is glamorous in this part, but like other movie stars who took over for the Broadway original, the passion seems to be missing, especially when you consider the power you feel in the original British and Broadway casts with Elaine Page and Patti LuPone.Evita came out as a movie at an ironic time, being the last year in the life of England's Princess Diana, and the mass hysteria over her death was comparable to what happened with Eva Duarte Peron, the poor illegitimate country girl who became a mediocre radio and film actress, and pretty much slept her way from being a model to actress to the first lady of Argentina who took the people into her heart as much as they took her into theirs. Sinner or saint?, Che asks the audience to decide for themselves, and the answer is a combination of both. Had the film had some dialog for Madonna to recite rather than all music, she might have had the chance to work on her skills and come off as more than a music video star. She is certainly more than tolerable in the part, and deserves kudos for giving it her best shot.Banderas acts with his singing, showing both despair, cynicism and respect for the first lady of Argentina who tried to conquer the hearts of the Europeans as well as her own people, obviously made the attempt to do some good, but showing hints that more was in it for her than for the people she was promoting her foundations for. Madonna does show the regret as her body falls apart and she becomes a bit closer to God in knowing that she is facing her final days. There is also the fact that she took away the song of Peron's mistress (Another Suitcase in Another Hall) which does seem appropriate for Eva at the time, but gave that character on stage some meaning rather than just showing Eva's viperous social climbing ambitions. The character deserved at least to reprise it more than just the little bit she got to sing.In Don't Cry For Me, Argentina, there was the bad judgment of having Eva sing while flashbacks of her earlier life occurred, footage we had already seen and didn't need to interrupt the show's eleven o'clock number. If the show needed to use flashbacks (or show footage at the beginning of the film which we would see later as well), it made more sense to do it towards the end. This took away dramatic impact from the show's best song, more a fault of the editors and director than its leading lady, of course.Still, I have to rank this very highly for its technical achievements and for bringing the story to life. There have been much worse movie versions of Broadway musicals (and certainly much worse casting), and this one doesn't hit the mark of missed opportunity, although a stronger leading lady to make the dramatic marks truly hit would have certainly pushed it up to a 10. "},{"Title":"Madonna at the Opera","Date":"31 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The life story of Evita as portrayed by pop singer Madonna and directed by Alan Parker. For someone knowing very little about the subject, this film is a quite a chore to sit through. It's over two hours long, without much plot, and we begins with the elaborate funeral of its lead character. Since the subject, Eva Duarte, was evidently engaging, and played by another fascinating woman, the film is disappointing. In one scene, she gives away money by throwing it at people. The material girl's jewels and wardrobe must be worth millions...Lost is why so many remember Evita, but forget Michael J. Brody Jr....The story is told in operatic fashion. Yet, it is not a traditional opera, or musical - it is like a silent film in color, with dubbed songs and a synchronized sound effects track. In lieu of title cards, handsome Antonio Banderas (as Che) sings about the woman he professes to dislike, but we know he really loves. The dubbing works best with Madonna, who is quite convincing in her sing acting - especially on the film's best song, Don't Cry for Me, Argentina (a great one, composed by Tim Rice and Andrew Lloyd Webber), but the melding of music and motion picture is otherwise mechanical. The film lacks heart.***** Evita (12/14/96) Alan Parker ~ Madonna, Antonio Banderas, Jonathan Pryce, Jimmy Nail "},{"Title":"Oh, What a Movie!","Date":"19 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Although musicals were a highly theatrical form during the last quarter of the twentieth century, the traditional cinema musical declined during this period; Evita was one of the few stage musicals to transfer to the cinema screen. Most cinematic musicals of the period (Fame being a good example and Grease a rare exception) generally use spoken dialogue to convey emotion, with the characters only singing and dancing in situations where people would sing and dance in real life. Evita, however, goes to the opposite extreme. It is more like an opera than to a traditional musical, with little spoken dialogue, almost everything being sung.   Eva Perón was, and remains, a controversial figure, both in her native Argentina and internationally, but there can be little doubt that she was also a remarkable one. (I cannot imagine any other female political leader from Latin America who could have inspired a hit musical). Evita has always had a special interest for me, both as a stage production and as a film, because I used to have an Argentine girlfriend, and our first date was to see the stage version; she was able to explain a lot of the political background to me. Eva's husband Juan Perón is often thought of, at least in Europe and North America, as a fascist, but (as my girlfriend was quick to point out) there was a big difference between him and other Latin American leaders referred to by this term. The likes of Pinochet, Stroessner and Galtieri were military strongmen who ruled by force of arms; any support they might have enjoyed among the civilian population came largely from their countries' upper classes. Perón, by contrast, was a populist leader with links to the trade unions who enjoyed strong working-class support. Despite his military background he was distrusted by his fellow military leaders and loathed by Argentina's social elite, who saw him as a jumped-up demagogue. Although his regime was undoubtedly an authoritarian one, he was also responsible for instituting many social reforms, and the strength of his legacy can be gauged by the fact that since 1946, Peronist candidates have won eight of the ten Argentine presidential elections that they have not been banned from participating in; the current president, Cristina Kirchner, is a Peronist. Eva played an important role in her husband's rise to power, rallying his supporters when he was arrested by the military dictatorship, and during his time in office she was virtually canonised by the party faithful, who saw her as the spiritual leader of the nation. The film, like the stage musical, traces her life from her impoverished childhood, through her rise to fame as an actress, her marriage to Perón and her time as first lady to her tragic death from cancer at the age of 33. The film essentially tells the same story as the stage show, but makes two major changes. In the stage production, Eva leaves her first lover, the singer Agustín Magaldi; in the film he abandons her to return to his wife. The reason, it seems, is to make the young Eva a more sympathetic and vulnerable character, and possibly also to give Madonna the chance to perform one of the show's hit songs, Another Suitcase in Another Hall, which on stage is sung by Perón's mistress. The second major change concerns the character of Che, who here becomes an everyman figure and is not identified with the historical Che Guevara. (It is said that the left-leaning director Alan Parker made this change because he did not like the way Guevara, an idol of the Left, had been treated by the right-leaning lyricist Tim Rice). If anything, the Che of the movie is more of a disillusioned Peronist- we see him marching as one of the descamisados who sweep Perón to power- than a Communist. Madonna has not always struck me as the world's greatest actress, and it was a brave move on Parker's part to cast her here ahead of established actresses like Liza Minnelli and Michelle Pfeiffer. Although she had given decent performances in films like Desperately Seeking Susan and A League of their Own, she had also given some lousy ones, Body of Evidence being a notorious example. Parker's gamble paid off; Madonna had campaigned hard for the part, describing it as a role she was born to play, and was able to make good her boast. She gives here the greatest acting performance of her career, able to bring out all the contrasting sides of Eva's personality, making her not merely a strong and determined woman but also a vulnerable and tragic one. Madonna, of course, was a singer before she was an actress, so may have been helped by the fact that her role is almost entirely sung rather than spoken. Jonathan Pryce is also good as Perón, played here less passionate and less determined than his wife, but also a wily political opportunist. Antonio Banderas makes a charismatic Che, although I felt his singing voice was not always up to the role. The film's great strength, of course, is the combination of Rice's lyrics and Andrew Lloyd Webber's music, which combine to produce some of the most memorable songs in the modern musical theatre. Sometimes these are mordantly cynical (Oh What a Circus, Goodnight and Thank You, Peron's Latest Flame), sometimes lyrical and poignant.( Another Suitcase in Another Hall, Don't Cry for Me Argentina), and sometimes they manage to combine both moods (I'd Be Surprisingly Good for You). I should also mention Parker's direction and his ability to find striking visual images to complement the songs. Evita triumphantly proved that, even in the nineties, there was still life in the cinematic musical. A goof. We see Magaldi performing at a concert in 1944, which would have been clever of him, given that he died in 1938. "},{"Title":"a great musical film -- just don't act like it's a history lesson","Date":"23 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I am a fan of great musicals ... in this effort I've sat thru a lot of bad ones ('Show Boat', 'Carousel', 'The King and I', etc) ... well you have to wade thru the crap to get to the good stuff such as 'My Fair Lady' (imho the best of all-time) and 'Sound of Music', perhaps 'Chicago' and I'd even put 'jesus Christ Superstar' in that realm (tho again, don't think it's going to be a perfectly accurate biblical retelling) ... not sure why people go to musical theatre to see 'history' ... it has little to nothing to do with it ... but of course Evita has been subject to this criteria since it was a record rock opera OK so 'sound of music wasn't historical accurate either ... get over it ... maria was not the Julie Andrews, everyone's idyllic nanny/mother/saint/whore fantasy ... the real maria was a hateful slave-driving bitch of a stage mother who i am eternally surprised wasn't murdered by those kids ... 'so long, farewell, Auf Wiedersehen, goodbye, i must be jabbing this ice pick in your eye' -- far more accurate ...so let's try and put aside the historical and we'll stick to the musical ... which, in not uncertain terms, is a truly great piece of musical theatre ... i never went to see it when originally out on the theatres and frankly had no interest involving anything Madonna was associated with ... but when it made it to cable i happened to leave it on one day was was floored by Antonia Banderas' performance ... much like the the Stage Manager in 'Our Town', has to carry much of the performance by acting like the Greek chorus and adding little bits of info to help us understand some of the finer points ... not to mention give some of the characters a hard time which is pretty delightful all in all ... he is fabulous and really makes the movie move and work Madonna of course has had plenty of accolades for her performance and it is deserved ... she plays it perfectly ...Alan Parker delivers another great adaptation of a musical (Pink Floyd's 'The Wall' being the other) and perhaps he should do more of these ... he seems to have a good touch with them ...but the musical is really the dynamo that keeps the play surging along ... I am not a fan of most Spanish music, I'm a big fan of most music just not Spanish ... but this music is well done and doesn't annoy me at all ... so perhaps it's not so Spanish ... the final scene between Evita and Che as they have their dance during Evita's surgery hallucination is as good as any scene ever in any musical ... the musical is surging and moving and the dance of desire and disgust is perfect as the betrayed everyman represented by Che and the haughty Evita as truly a great climax to the play ...this is well worth several viewings since there are subtleties especially in Banderas' performance that had so much wit and humor that they should not be missed "},{"Title":"Not Webber's best, but a high ranking musical","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The movie was done splendidly, catching the little important things such as setting and history. If you know nothing about Juan Peron or Argentina you may be a bit confused in the beginning with what is going on. It helps to know a little about Argentina's background, as well as Evita and Peron. It is a musical, which makes the story even more powerful through the voices of the characters. Based on the story, Webber has done an excellent job at forming beautiful lyrics and composing emotional music that goes a bit deeper into thing than the book itself. Just as opera, if the story is told through music, there is a better understanding for everyone. The music is incredible, but not as good as the live Broadway musical. "},{"Title":"It was okay...","Date":"28 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Being a musical lover, I thought that I may as well watch Evita.The opening looked fantastic, very much like the real funeral of Eva Péron and it definately set the tone for an Alan Parker film. Antonio Banderas surprised me, after hearing his rather pathetic singing at Andrew Lloyd Webber's 50th Birthday concert, I was very surprised -- was he dubbed or something? Madonna also very much surprised me, I wasn't really expecting much of her, but she was very very good. Jonathan Pyrce was exceptional... one good thing about this film, they didn't let Andrea Corr sing 'Another Suitcase in Another Hall' thank you whoever decided that! After the strength of the opening, the film seemed to go down hill. It was still visually very good, but the storyline sort of vanished, it was still there, but hidden. I think that his particular musical was probably more suited to the stage.  "}{"Title":"Curiously inert","Date":"24 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  For a movie with a lot of singing and dancing, Evita will leave any viewer familiar with the stage version unmoved and disappointed.  Attempts have been made to adapt the stage play into a more cinematic mode, but the outcome is nowhere near as electrifying as Chicago and some of the big production numbers, such as BA-Buenos Aires feel forced and even hokey. The film's weaknesses can't be blamed entirely on Madonna.  She sings better than might be expected, though she lacks the power, expression, and vibrancy of Patti Lupone.  She is able to convey the impatient greed of the young Eva, but her performance never gets much deeper or more interesting. Antonio Banderas does a surprisingly good job, though, perversely, you can't help wondering if he'd be better on stage than in the movie, as his Che is sometimes a little broad.  Jonathan Pryce gives a smooth performance, as always.Bottom line  if you don't know the stage play, you might enjoy this. The music has been updated a little, given a little more of a Latin feel. But if you've seen a good live production of Evita, or if you wore the grooves out on the original cast album, this is bound to be a disappointment. "},{"Title":"Lacking polish but enjoyable.","Date":"22 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Evita is the film adaptation of the classic Andrew Lloyd Webber-Tim Rice musical of the same name directed by Alan Parker.  As a fan of the stage musical, it is nice to see the story played out in a wider setting and Parker does a good job of transposing the story and this is made all the more remarkable by the reliance of his 3 main leads whilst the other roles are essentially bit parts.All of the 3 leads do impressive jobs.  As Evita, Madonna turns in her finest celluloid performance.  Her Evita hits the right highs and lows and she is certainly believable in the role.  However, the accolades should go to Jonathan Pryce playing Juan Peron.  Having seen him perform in Oliver! on the London stage I was not suprised by his vocal performances but what stuck me was his range of emotions and how well he played Peron as a reluctant leader forced to play second fiddle to his popular wife.  Antonio Banderas as Che, started in my opinion quite poorly and his rendition of O, What a Circus which is probably Che's best song appeared rushed and slurred. However, I felt as the film progressed, he improved and gave excellent performances in Goodnight and Thank You and during the more sombre moments.  In addition to the performance of the leads, the stand out musical moments of the piece are Goodnight and Thank You,I'd be Suprisingly Good For You, A New Argentina and Dangerous Jade and the Waltz for Che and Eva.However, there are also some negative points.  Firstly regarding orchestration.  I was suprised to read during the credits that Andrew Lloyd Webber was in charge of orchestrations because some of the opening numbers sounded strange to the point of off-key.  It has been suggested that it was Madonna could not reach the high notes and whatever the reason, the result was disappointing.  In addition, at times the score sounded more like a soft porn soundtrack as the more traditional orchestral sounds are drowned out by saxophones.  Also, there appears to be a lack of polish in the film as a whole.  In the crowd scenes, the lip-synchs are not in time, particularly in close-up which is distracting.  The main hurdle, however, for Evita is that since its release Moulin Rouge and Chicago have raised the bar in terms of production values and as such, it feels dated.As there are only 3 main parts, some of the bit parts are underexposed and some of the casting decisions are slightly idiosyncratic.  Jimmy Nail as Augustin Malgaldi performs On This Night Of A Thousand Stars well but his accent is Argentina by way of Ashington and is off-putting.  Also, the decision to cast Andrea Corr as Peron's jilted mistress could have been inspired had she been given the opportunity to shine in the Another Suitcase In Another Hall piece.  However, she too cannot fully shake her native accent which sounds like Buenos Aires by way of Ballymena.Overall, fans of the stage musical will like this and fans of musicals are likely to enjoy it also.  It will not be to everyone's taste, however, and in particular, Parker's faithfulness to the original's opretta style (meaning little spoken dialogue) will automatically turn some people off. The cinematography is excellent as is the majority of the direction and it should appeal to a wide range of people if they connect with the material from the outset.7/10 - Good but for better examples of screen musicals, see Singing In The Rain, Moulin Rouge or Chicago. "},{"Title":"hugely political musical","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Madonna takes on the role of Eva Peron against all the odds, and almost pulls it off.  Her singing is fine, but she just looks too old in the early scenes heading to Buenos Aires.Rewrites of the music have given it a Latin feel, perhaps to accommodate the interesting phrasing of Antonio Banderas, giving his all as Che (or several prototypes of Che, in various situations, bringing out the political climate of the story of Eva).  This especially works well for the first section of the movie.Perhaps my favourite song of all the tracks is `I'd Be Surprisingly Good For You', which has a smoky late-night club feel to it.  A pity the movie sequence that matches it is fairly poor.  The best sequences are (obviously) `Don't Cry For Me, Argentina', and the `Waltz for Eva and Che' (later pinched for Moulin Rouge).    "},{"Title":"Good effort, but loses touch towards the end (spoilers)","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Based on the true story of Eva Peron and filled with alot of intrigue and action, Evita rides on the strength of the musical on which it is based.  Many of the famous songs, Don't Cry for Me Argentina and Another Suitcase In Another Hall to name but two, are used here to good effect and the music is performed with a contagious passion that lights up the screen. Where Evita falls down, however, is in failing to maintain it's momentum.  As a result the story loses much of it's cohesion, and much of it's sympathy for it's protagonist, towards the end of the film.Eva Duarte (Madonna) is a peasant girl from rural Argentina who hitches a ride with a visiting tango singer Magaldi (Jimmy Nail) to the capital of Buenos Aires seeking fame and fortune.  Although she initially encounters disillusion and disappointment, she eventually gets her foot on the bottom rung of the Argentine social ladder and, sleeping her way through a string of men, rapidly starts to climb.  Eventually she meets rising Army Colonel Juan Peron (Jonathan Pryce), and helps propel him to the Presidency...The first part of the movie works far better than the second simply through it's simplicity.  After Eva meets Peron, the story becomes increasingly lost in amidst the numerous riots, explosions and crowd scenes that overwhelm the picture.  By the end, with Eva's decline and premature death, the audience has completely lost sight of the irony and tragedy of Eva's life that any sympathy we might have with her or her people has evaporated.The story works best, however, when it scrutinises Eva and challenges her ideals and ambitions.  This is done through the character of Che, played by Antonio Banderas.  Played as an Everyman chorus, Che appears at every stage in Eva's life criticising her, and Peron's, every move and motivation.  The presence of this character, in the film as in the play, helps make the story more comprehensible and allows it's themes to be more fully explored.Nearly every line in Evita is sung, but unless you really despise opera, this doesn't hurt the picture.  Indeed, the film employs rock music to enhance some of the bigger crowd numbers.  It might be a little out-of-period, but it is very effective.  The principal players are a mix of British and American talent.  Madonna turns in a solid performance as Eva.  Far better at singing her lines than on the few occasions she actually speaks them, Madonna nevertheless embodies the role and makes it her own.  Banderas is a winner as Che, filling his part with sardonic observation and a fiery-hot Spanish rage.  Jonathan Pryce turns in an elegant and charming performance as Peron, even if he doesn't quite attain the stature befitting the feared dictator the real Peron was.The film is very well shot and edited together, although the pace could have been slowed down slightly to allow for better understanding of some later scenes.  For the most, though, the cinematography is spot on.A very bold effort, and with some very good moments, Evita doesn't quite achieve the effect it is aiming for, especially towards the end.  Evita is spectacular and very enjoyable entertainment, but a more in-depth study of a fascinating and tragic woman has yet to be committed to film. "},{"Title":"My Favourite Film of all time","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I really enjoyed this film, in fact so much so that I went to the cinema to see it twice!  The songs were beautiful, my favourites being You must love Me and High Flying, Adored.I was both surprised and impressed at the strength of Madonna's performance. And Antonio Banderas was just fantastic.  Both Jimmy Nail and Jonathan Pryce sounded superb.This film deserved so much more recognition than it got.  Why don't they make them like this anymore? "},{"Title":"Madonna fine, Antonio amazing","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Evita was slow moving and confusing.  It was difficult to access what was going on with Argentine politics just with the songs.  They simplified things too much.  When tanks are rolling down streets to guitar, it is very exciting but I wondered who the tanks were fighting and why and who sent them?  Things like that bothered me throughout the movie.The music was unstoppable. I adore Andrew Lloyd Webber and Madonna did his music justice. Though Madonna won the golden globe, Antonio was the real shining star.  His performance just blew me away.  His singing was beautiful and powerful.  His acting was great.  He could express so much with so few lines, with his face, his body, the tone of his singing.  Antonio is one of the best actors we have and he made Evita bearable during the slow parts.  "},{"Title":"Decent music and acting, terrible screenplay","Date":"15 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Not sure why so many people are complaining about Madonna and Banderas. Madonna, well, you already know what she's going to sound like, so if you expected something else, you were deceiving yourself. She's not a great actress, but who expects her to be. Banderas, he basically plays himself, kind of a narrator who is peripherally involved with the action. His singing is fine, but again, I don't buy CDs of Antonio's greatest hits, y'know? What killed the movie was the terrible screenplay. Maybe the original play was different, I don't know. But opening the movie with a big long overly weepy series of scenes about a dead character we haven't even met seems to me a bad choice. Yeah, she was beloved by the whole country, more or less. I get that. I don't need five minutes of wailing and funeral shots (interspersed with her father's funeral years before, I guy I care even less about).When the movie finally gets to Eva Duarte/Person and her rise up from poverty, it really takes off. The songs are better, then action has pacing, and the movie has direction.It doesn't give much of a sense of Argentina of the 1930s and 40s, but poor is poor no matter what the country. It also doesn't explain what made Eva so special (i.e. why her and not some other guttersnipe). But it has life, and action, and dancing--in other words, everything that makes Madonna interesting.But once at the top, the movie is just lost. Peron's story in and of itself has no inherent drama, and the screenplay can't invent any. Yeah, sure, she loses her connection with the people but since we never saw much connection to begin with, the loss is cerebral. Yeah she was the first woman in South America to have actual political power, but I don't really care in 2010, the novelty has long worn off. Yes, she had some enemies who were trying to bring her down, but what political figure *doesn't* have enemies? Whether you're male or female isn't relevant--your enemies are trying to toss you out of power so they can take it themselves, not because you've offended the natural order.Of course, Eva didn't really have to do battle with them (her husband took care of that) and long before he fell, she died of cancer. Which, means, of course, long weepy scenes just like the movie started with. We know she's going to die, we know she's going to be brave and noble about it, and we know the songs are going to creep along at dreary pace. Fine, whatever--keep it to the last 3mins, and I could have dealt with it by getting up to go to the bathroom and maybe check some basketball scores. But it's almost *half of the freaking movie*! Don't Cry for Me Argentina should have been Don't Indulge My Drama Queen Flourishes Argentina. But again, there was really no story here to tell, or if there was, the screenwriters didn't find it. Enjoy it for the music and the spectacle. As soon as she collapses in Rome, stop the movie and go do something more enjoyable with the next hour. Like listen to Ray of Light and let it take you back to the late 90s again. "},{"Title":"Evita needs to take a breather","Date":"28 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Madonna, always captivating, whether it be music or movies. I've enjoyed listening to her ever since I can remember. And her singing Don't Cry for Me Argentina is as good as everyone says.I normally don't care much for Antonio Banderas, but as I watched on he really grew on me in this seemingly unlikely role.Evita is interesting enough to watch. The scenes are short and somewhat effective.The problem, as strange as it may sound, is this movie has too much music for a musical. Should a musical use music to help tell the story? Of course! But most good musicals incorporate music into the movie. In Evita the music overruns the story, overwhelming the audience. In other musicals you are allowed to listen to the music, rather than having it bombard your ears.Like a lot of music? Like a little history? Then you just might like this movie. But if you're looking for a really good modern musical, go watch Chicago instead. "},{"Title":"Musicals...","Date":"17 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I am currently preparing the musical Evita. My theatrical group is going to present it in my city and I'm very familiar to the songs by now; and to all what the musical is. I like being on it because Tim Rice and Andrew Lloyd Webber are responsible for the music and the lyrics. I did Jesus Christ Superstar last year, and it was great. Evita includes more drama and similar melodies, but the essence is still there.Now, one thing is a theatrical musical, and another one is a movie musical. Yes, they're both musicals, but not the same; even when the movie is based on the play. We're talking about the movie now, but we can't forget about the play. There are some things the movie has wrong, and I'm not going to specify them for two reasons because we can pass them (they're not ruining the plot) and because it's cinema. Things are not happening in a rectangular stage, where everything is limited. Cinema takes the advantage to play with scenery, and puts everyone in every place at any time. That's why we are sometimes fascinated by this movie, that takes us (it took me) to those places we can never imagine on a theater stage.This movie looks beautiful, that's for sure. I had to see it to get some things about my character, because it isn't just about the songs, there are characters, like in every play and every movie. There's a contradiction about the three main actors, and their roles (not their characters) in the film. Madonna knows how to sing, but doesn't know how to act. Antonio Banderas knows how to act, but doesn't know how to sing; the same happens with Jonathan Pryce. However, they were all recognized, and they deserved it, because they did better than expectations. I mean, Madonna (Evita) won a Golden Globe (even if that's not very important). I never knew how she arrived at this role, but when she became the star, she took advantage of it; she sang the songs in lower keys (tones) because she couldn't sing them higher. But anyway, singing is what she does best, and adding the expressions, she got it.Antonio Banderas (Ché) sang in the original tones, and add a lot to his character. He deserved better for his performance. Jonathan Pryce (Juan Perón) was the actor that amazed me the most, achieving a perfect balance between anger and emotion. He could also sing the songs! The rest of the cast is barely noticeable, but always in the right positions for each scene.The scenes, I said, are beautifully constructed and realized. Alan Parker and his team worked at their best for the editing and the cinematography. The music (and the lyrics, of course), the reason for the existence of the film in first place, makes the movie worth watching. You Must Love Me turned out to be a beautiful song, in my opinion.But please, let's establish one thing by all means, this is not a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Worst film ever.....possibly","Date":"1 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Where to start? I've been avoiding this film for some time - and now I know why.  Musicals are always problematic but the their limitations can be overcome with the catchy tune and the memorable performance.  Not here, however. The songs are toe-curlingly awful, the performances are eccentric in the extreme and the historical context section with rock track is staggeringly bad.  Parker's star has been in the descendant for some time but this elongated belch of a movie should persuade anyone that he should go back to making commercials.  Anyone involved should hang their head in shame and beat themselves with sticks. constantly. Having also recently seen Battlefield Earth & showgirls I hoped I'd seen the 2 worst films in recent years. How wrong you can be. Sooooooooooooooooo bad. "}{"Title":"Boring","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This is movie is stupid. I don't call it a movie it's more a long videoclip. only songs and more songs and no talking. And Madonna looks to old in the early scenes. Nobody would believe that she is playing a young girl and I don't see why she got an Golden-Globe for it the only thing she is doing is singing songs and some songs are so stupid. And what is Antonio Banderas doing in this movie?  "},{"Title":"Mediocrity set to music","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Quite possibly one of the worst things to ever inch its way through a projector. When compared to the original stage production we get plot replaced by over staged pageantry and acting replaced by posing.It is impossible to talk about Evita without considering the presence of Madonna. Not since the hunt for Scarlet O Hara was there as much chatter about the casting of a film role. The Julliard trained Patti LuPone, who created the role on the stage found it too taxing and could not do matinees. So if someone like LuPone finds the role a handful, how can Madonna do? Poorly is how. In the nearly 20 years Madonna has been around there are a few things we know about her abilities. We know she can write a good pop tune, we know she can dance. Her greatest talent is of course her ability to market herself and her worse talent is her acting. But in Evita, she sings not one song written by her, and due to her state of pregnancy during the shoot does very little dancing. About the only interesting thing about this picture is the many imaginative ways she hides her swollen abdomen; Madonna standing behind a chair, Madonna holding a huge bouquet to her waist etc. As an actress Madonna is sub-par and she simply does not have the skills to play a character that first appears as a 16 year old girl and ends as a 33 year old cancer riddled dictator's wife. So limited is her acting range, so awkward is her body language her performance is almost embarrassing to watch. But it is her greatest talent, that of marketing herself, where the pay off appears to the tune of a Golden Globe. Battling Madonna's omnipresence is the hint that this film has some sort of epic production values. We are constantly bombarded with huge crowd scenes which on even the most slightest of examination reveals the same crowd of actors, in the same location, pointing their attention to Madonna in yet another costume and hairstyle. Marketing is really the only thing Evita has going for itself. Countless people, who would never have the patience of sitting through a real opera can pat themselves on the back because they were wrongly convinced this was some great work of art. When Evita first came on to the stage in the late 70s it was ahead of the curve in dealing with a story steeped in greed, corruption and sex. By the time it made it to the screen in the late 90s, these themes were abandoned for spin and marketing used to mask the shallow mediocrity that decade may best be known for.  "},{"Title":"Tepid Film that is Incomplete","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Evita suffers from many problems that disallow it to be watched as a complete and enjoyable film.  Not only is the continuity vulgarized, the director often manages to confuse the film viewer as to what exactly is going on.  This is not a great film, not even a good one, what carries it are the production values, songs, and locations.  After getting through the extremely boring  commencement of the picture, I noticed that there would be no dialogue in this picture at all, at every moment someone was singing a silly and repetitive song.  This isn't bad in its whole, but when everyone is already confused about the character it becomes extremely agitating.  The voice dubs of the songs are so apparent that the film seems contrived and indifferent to its tackiness.  Here we have people that are supposed to be singing and yet the contorted sound room song is playing and they are merely mouthing their parts.  Banderas is terrible in his singing abilities yet his presence is well recommended.  In this role he plays the conscience of the working class, a Che Guevera type revolutionary whom witnesses Eva's ascension and ultimate fall.  Madonna is wonderful in this role, not only can she move around the screen in charismatic beauty but her songs are capable and worthy.  The sets are absolutely gorgeous and the costumes are fabulous.  What we get in the end is a romanticized MTV style video but it is dreadfully long at 2 1/2 hours.  I couldn't wait til the termination.  Everything is not a concise whole, so the film flounders and ultimately fails. "},{"Title":"It's difficult for me to put into words how much I despise this film","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I saw the musical version of Evita.  It didn't leave much of an impression on me one way or another.  In general I like musicals and I like Madonna, but the film version of Evita was long, slow, repetitious, painfully boring. I have never been so ecstatic to see a movie end.  This is my least favorite film ever. -><- "},{"Title":"Nicely sung, but so slow","Date":"14 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Musical version of Andrew Lloyd Webber's 1970's musical hit that showcases the life of Argentinian first lady Evita Peron.  What might have worked on stage does not work here; it comes off more like an extended music video.Peron moved up the social ladder by sleeping her way to the top, and she is an interesting character. She charmed and fascinated her people, yet repulsed them by supporting her husband's fascist regime.  Madonna sings very well and her costumes are great (she reportedly had to change costumes 85 times!) and Antonio Banderas also sings well as Che, a sort of narrator/voice of the people/conscience who seems to be everywhere.  Jonathan Pryce, who sang on Broadway in the original production of Miss Saigon, does nicely as Juan Peron, who knows the power of his wife, and knows that even in their marriage, he is not loved as much as she loves her people.As well meaning as the film is, it is simply boring.  With barely any dialogue, we are swept from one song to another without knowing these characters as much as we should.  A nice idea that would have better been left on stage.  How the film and Madonna defeated Fargo and Frances McDormand in the Golden Globes is beyond my understanding.Vote 5  "},{"Title":"A well-done film adaptation of the musical, the singing is all first-rate.","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This is a comment on the home DVD version of Evita.The DVD picture is very sharp, colors very real.  The surround soundtrack is also done very well.I had put off seeing this movie for a long time because I'm not highly interested in historical films which this one is.  I am a musician, and I like good singing of all kinds.  I was especially impressed with the signing and song interpretation of all the main characters.  I was most pleasantly surprised how good Antonio Banderas is.  I rate the movie 8 of 10 for a movie musical.  However, when the film was over, I came away with no particular feeling - good or bad - about Eva Peron. "},{"Title":"Okay Adaptation of the Stage Version","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Alan Parker takes advantage of the big screen to give us lots and lots of big crowd, outdoors-type scenes.  This really doesn't improve the movie, but it certainly doesn't hurt it either.  The principals are okay, and Madonna demonstrates she can act while Banderas shows he can sing.  The real strength is in Rice & Lloyd's musical score, which comes across well on screen and they might have even added a number or two (based on what I recall from the stage version).  Don't Cry for Me... gets a bit tiresome, but Another Suitcase... and The Money Kept Rolling In are two of my favorites.  "},{"Title":"Butchered Version of the Original","Date":"10 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I can't tell you how disappointing this film is. The stage version is brilliant and this miscast, misdirected film version is a complete failure. Note; Madonna only received a Golden Globe Award which is SO telling! I'm convinced the GG can be purchased. All kinds of songs were chopped and there was no choreography! Go see the stage version! Madonna's weakness as a singer is clear. She should stick to pop music and video acting. The wardrobe was done very well but certainly not enough of a reason to see this waste of money. What a shame that every big actress in town wanted this role and this is how it wound up. All of the men were miscast as well. Especially Magaldi. "},{"Title":"The most absurd excuse for a movie I've ever seen.","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Just so you know, I only got through 20 minutes of this movie, so if it got better, forgive me. All I saw for a solid twenty minutes was people singing and dancing around, with vague descriptions of an actual story behind the words. This movie was beyond musical. It's nothing more than a big emotional production that attempted to depict some great woman's life through sappy verses and wonderful scenery. I couldn't watch another minute. Even if you like musicals, from what I saw, Evita goes so INCREDIBLY slowly that to make it to the end you would have to be extremely patient. I don't know why all the comments in IMDb are so great. I did notice that all they focus on is how splendid the acting was, or how good the cinematography was. What they fail to mention is that the great acting is performed on rather hollow content. Like I said, finding an interesting story behind all the crap is quite difficult. And good cinematography is meaningless. National Geographic can pull off the same thing, but it doesn't matter because it's BORING. Let me put it to you this way If you want to see lots of big buildings and hear majestic choirs, if you want to be surrounded by dialog that is sung to the tune of Don't cry for me Argentina, if you want to be in awe each time the orchestra strikes up a tune for a full minute after every scene, or if you want to cry just because everybody else is crying, then go see Evita! "},{"Title":"Madonna shines in the title role of Evita","Date":"14 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I had first heard about Evita through a parody SCTV did a parody ad for a musical called Indira about Indian prime minister Indira Gandhi (portrayed by Andrea Martin) which had her singing Don't Cry for Me, Argentina with Slim Whitman (Joe Flaherty) warbling the male part before segueing to another song. I then saw the actual commercials for Evita with, I think, Patti LuPone and Mandy Patinkin doing those songs I previously saw spoofed on that SCTV spot. So over 30 years later, I finally watched the film version of the Andrew Lloyd Webber-Tim Rice musical with Madonna essaying the title role. She's quite good singing songs different from her set list especially on the one original song for the movie-You Must Love Me. Having her veer from caring to shallow and back was also partly natural especially considering the contradictory versions of Evita's life I read about recounted on Wikipedia after seeing the movie. So, yes, she deserves high praise for taking this role and gets much help from both Antonio Banderas as Che and Jonathan Pryce as Eva's eventual husband, Juan Peron. In summary, I highly enjoyed Evita. "}{"Title":"Bollywood needs a film like this every once in a while..","Date":"11 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Evita is the film that Bollywood cannot ever produce genuinely. What I mean by this is, the fact that with an intense story such as the one in Evita, the requisite bollywood formula of 5 dance numbers just does not fit into the storyline, and thus becomes jarring and inappropriate. The only way to remove the songs would be to classify the movie as an art film, which would lead to many filmgoers dismissing the film and subsequenlty producers would have a tough time attracting top stars to the project.Evita is a very ambitious film with a very different storyline from the bollywood conventional norms. The problem is the over abundance of violence and profanity which many current filmgoers have become averse to. Even hot blooded Indian males seem to be shunning action movies and watching gay musical romps with teen agers or teletubbies in the lead roles. Come on we need more Sunny Deols and Akshay Kumar movies. I think that the violent nature of the movie and the characters will lead a large majority of filmgoers to ignore this film, including the ladies and the above mentioned males.Jonathan Pryce does an outstanding job as the trecharous father in law.While the lead actress, is severely mis cast in her role, and is just screaming for a national award. Although we must give her kudos for attempting a difficult role requiring more range than dancing around the alps of Switzerland.Jonathan Pryce role is inconsequential and meaningless. Since there is no positive role in the movie, you would expect him to be the knight in shining armour but he just seems to be stuck in, in the last 30 minutes of the film to sing a song and may be draw in audiences who are unaware of his overglorified cameo. And his subsequent fate is rather meaningless was well. (spoiler alert)!!!! The sad part of the film is the fact that it does not follow bollywood conventions when it is necessary. Why does Madonna not get her revenge in the end. Instead she is seen pandering to her father in law by leaving Peru thinking he is a great man because he let her son go. Blow his brains out KK, audiences would have loved to see a female commando.I gave this movie a 6/10 for effort. But the actual material is handled quite poorly. It is not surprising to see that it wilted away at the Indian/International Box Office. But to make a good movie, you have to tight-rope walk to appease the frontbenchers who are the quentessential gapers who are mesmerized with Split skirts and Dishum-Dishum fights preferably involving a nitwit leading actor who is at least marginally handsome. "},{"Title":"Evita Not Quite Rainbow High","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" A spectacularly adult, witty, satirical examination of politics (both governmental and sexual) becomes a confused attempt to see all sides of Evita in the film. Trying to make her more dimensional and sympathetic in the film ruined it; this material should not be a character study, a history lesson or a balanced portrayal of the woman. The lyrics, songs and structure are Rice's attempt to satirize power and glamour and sexual politics. The film is unfocused as it wildly shifts mood for no reason; for example, Evita finds her way to Buenos Aires (poorly sung by Madonna), then gets dumped and depressed (but why? She didn't love Magaldi anyway), then bounces back and uses a string of lovers. This sequence, so brilliant on stage, is a mess on film as it doesn't make sense. Madonna's confiscating the Another Suitcase song eliminates the score's greatest satirical moment when the mistress, the only sympathetic character, has the only moment of real emotion, and she is the victim of sexual politics, namely, Eva's. The film would have been better sticking to its original vision, one of satire and examination, rather than character study. Madonna's performance is flat throughout. While some of her vocals are effective, they are never matched by her bland, blank acting, even if in costume she looks a dead-ringer for Eva. Her Don't Cry for Me is passionless and captures none of the irony. Clearly, she interpreted it as a sincere plea by Eva, not the duplicitous expression of rhetoric as originally written. Some of the scenes and direction or cinematically brilliant, suggesting that a great film lies in there (the funeral, A New Argentina, The Waltz) but all changes from the stage show reduce its power. The Rainbow High number is one of the least effective as Madonna cannot sing it and the direction, always cutting away from her and mostly done in voice over, takes away from the conniving. While an ambitious effort, the director Alan Parker didn't know what kind of movie he was making and with a star who had no idea how to act it. "},{"Title":"Boring, yet intriguing.","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I am a person for classics and epics and I do not really enjoy drama, since I can rarely stay awake because to me, they are slow and boring. Well, Evita is a drama and a musical. And if it weren't for the music, I think I would have fallen asleep somewhere around the first 45 minutes. Well, in my opinion, although Evita was not something I would call 'really enjoyable', it was really not bad. And for a person who dislikes drama to actually label this movie 'not bad', that is really a compliment to be proud of. I love the first part though, during the song 'Oh! What a Circus'. That was a good start for a movie that didn't make it far, as it gets the viewer pulled into the movie. Some people have been saying that the movie was a wreck mainly because of Madonna and that she was a result of bad casting. I say no. Sure, she is not exactly an actress, but she did do well. I say that the wreckage was due to bad cinematography and partly direction. There is too much music. Sure, it's a musical, but one must know where to draw the line. This is the big-screen, not a stage. They should have changed some singing into dialog like in the Phantom of the Opera movie. The Evita movie, which I believe was a very good stage production even though I've never seen it, ended up seeming like the world's longest music video. If you asked me, I would say that what saved the movie from becoming a total disaster was Antonio Banderas. If it weren't for him, I would not have enjoyed it much at all. Only in Evita did I realize what a talented actor he is, and he can sing! I was taken by surprise, I had no idea he could sing that well. He might have a future in music and I hope to see him in another musical. His performance saved the ship from crashing into the rocks. Well, as a conclusion If you like dramas, you have to watch this movie. If you don't, like me, watch it if you have nothing better to do and try to look deep inside it to find its true soul. Perhaps then you will not think it to be a total disappointment. 6.5*/10* "},{"Title":"Nothing compared to Hal Prince's stage version","Date":"1 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Director-producer Harold Prince changed the face of Broadway as its preeminent showman of the second half of the 20th Century by pioneering the so-called concept musical, a show built around an idea that incorporated fluid, cinematic staging, a strong score and utilitarian scenery. His creative powers culminated in Evita in which the true life story of Eva Peron on stage is accurately enhanced by the projection of historical cinematic snapshots. The song The Art of the Possible, in which a game of musical chairs is used to represent the power struggle and eventual rise of Juan Peron in the Argentine military, is pure directorial brilliance. The staging and choreography for Peron's Latest Flame is likewise splendid. There are several other great moments provided by Prince and Fuller that also produce theatrical magic. The only drawback to their continued involvement is that today the production doesn't feel fresh anymore. The Bus-and-Truck-version that brought the Evita tour to Europe in 1989-1990 featured a dazzling Florence Lacey as Evita, an imposing Robert Alton as Juan Perón and a charismatic James Sbano as Ché, but was already then somewhat compromised by the reduction in size and orchestra. Still, Evita was a box office hit in Germany and the Benelux countries and made Flo Lacey the uncrowned queen of all Evitas. In this respect, the film adaptation is a treat big orchestra, huge choirs, lavish costumes and scenery, with Don't cry for me Argentina for the first time delivered by Madonna on the balcony of the Casa Rosada. All true and worthy of respect, only... the core competence and poignance of Evita is lost Jonathan Price is a sleepwalking Peron, morose and lethargic throughout the movie, Antonio Banderas is a plain Argentine student who bears little resemblance to the political Ernesto Ché Guevara. The complex psychological insights into the main characters drown into the opulence, the lushness, the screaming colours, the noise. In conclusion better see the concept musical with Hal Prince's utilitarian scenery which really puts the finger on it. "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"16 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I usually try to keep my opinions to myself until I actually review a film on IMDb, but this time I got on my feet and I booed with the rest of the angry mob. I would have thrown fruit if I'd had some. This is the silliest thing to come out of South America since the movie Medellín. It's overacted, it's under-directed and it's paced like a SNAIL. Oh, and did I mention it's long?You know, it's a real disappointment for me because I had Madonna on my list of stars to watch in 1994. And now I think I'm gonna have her on my list of stars to watch fade in 1996. "},{"Title":"A Miserable Failure","Date":"23 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" It's amazing how misguided this film adaptation of the stage musical is. Stage director Harold Prince, who'd previously directed the film version of Stephen Sondheim's A LITTLE NIGHT MUSIC, is sorely missed. EVITA succeeded as a concept rock opera because it was daring and original, and the score is lush and diversified. But it achieved its greatest heights on stage. Director Prince added SO much more to the basic recording that it literally became a new creation. While the character of Evita Peron isn't fully developed in the initial recording, here she's fully fleshed, aided not only by the brilliant actresses who portrayed her(Elaine Paige, Patti LuPone, Marti Webb, Florence Lacey, etc.), but she becomes the cunning vixen she was(and had to be to achieve what she did). Laughingly, Eva Peron's greatest acting wasn't on stage, the radio or on film...she was actually quite mediocre. In the song High Flying Adored, Che tells us that she was a scrappy fighter, clawing her way to the top. On stage, Evita even flips off her audience. But something sad happens in its cinematic version. What WOULD have seemed like perfect casting of Madonna in the title role is dashed almost immediately. Simply put- she just doesn't have the chops. There's no fire in her vocals, and the girl can't act. Jonathan Pryce, tho a fine actor, is simply miscast as the brutish thug Juan Peron. Only Antonio Banderas comes out of this unscathed- his singing and acting is excellent(although one wonders why this Che is generisized into an Everyman vs the Che Guevara rebel of the recording and stage show). While all TECHNICAL aspects of this film are superb, the destroyer of EVITA lies with its director Alan Parker, screenwriter Oliver Stone and no doubt aided by Madonna herself. In their attempts to film in Argentina I think all three placated the title character- Seriously... how could the wimpy creature as portrayed by Madonna EVER achieve what the real Evita did? EVERYTHING in the film tries to make Eva sympathetic, even to the point of stealing Peron's mistress's song Another Suitcase In Another Hall. It's quite obvious the filmmakers wanted to show the current Argentinian regime that they were going to HONOR their national heroine, and by whitewashing Eva to the point of total blandness, they succeeded in destroying the spirit of the musical. Completely. One can only hope that Andrew Lloyd Webber and Tim Rice take the route they've done with CATS, Jesus Christ SUPERSTAR and Joseph AND THE AMAZING TECHNICOLOR DREAMCOAT...and recreate the original stage presentation and direction, hopefully with Harold Prince involved. Only THEN will we see the magic that is the rock opera EVITA! "},{"Title":"Good musical that is a little too long","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  In 1952 Argentina went through a period of mourning for the passing of actress and one-time working class girl Eva Perón nee Duarte.  The film follows her from the sticks to the big city where she manages to sleep her way up the chain of command, eventually meeting Col Juan Perón.  The two take up together despite the disapproval of the governing classes.  However, when a coup occurs Eva helps keep Perón in power by claiming he loves the working class &#150; as shown in his love for her.  Her star continues to shine to the people as she climbs higher.Saw this in the cinema years ago and enjoyed it &#150; it's probably best seen in a big cinema where the music can blast you.  Watched it on TV last night and was able to maybe view it more fairly without the hype and the feeling the loud music gives.  It is a good film generally and it's main weakness is that it was written for the stage.  The plot is good and is very clear about Eva's climb to the top &#150; the song where Eva goes through lovers like toilet paper is very funny and full of mock sincerity.  My favourite line in the film comes where Eva is touring Europe and complains of the crowd chanting whore at her `it's an easy mistake to make' says her host `I still get called General even though I withdrew from the military years ago' &#150; ie he comforts her by saying that she was a whore once!This is probably the element of the story that attracted Parker and Stone and it is what makes the film so very interesting - this is not propaganda.  However the film goes on too long and the middle quarter begins to drag a little &#150; this could easily have lost 20 minutes.  What exasperates this situation is the way that the music repeats the same songs several times (albeit in different ways).  This makes it feel a little repetitive &#150; even if you like the songs (as I did). Because the songs generally have instrumental sections the film suffers.  In these sections we have crowd shots or actions shots of some sort.  What we don't have is choreographed numbers than are the norm in a musical, to me this was a bit of a loss as the film tries to stay as a film with songs as opposed to a musical.  Having said that, Parker does direct well and most of the scenes are lavish and well worked.The cast is strong and surprisingly good.  Given Madonna's reputation as an actress in the press, this stands out as one of her better roles &#150; mainly because it requires her to do her day job of singing.  She doesn't manage to make Eva totally sympathetic in that her death bed cries don't sound any different to her hollow cries made while climbing the social ladder but apart from that she is good and brings out the harder edge to her well.  Banderas is only the narrator and not part of the film but for the first hour he is the driving force for the film, and his reduced use in the second half is a loss.  He is funny and his physical actions really add to his lines.  Pryce is surprisingly good as Perón and has a measured voice on him.  Of the support everyone does well and over-acts in a stage way (the opening grief in the cinema is a good example of what I mean).  One that stood out was Jimmy Nail &#150; but only because I kept laughing imagining him breaking into Crocodile Shoes or hearing him sing `she's lying' at the end of every line!Despite the fact that this suffers from being a musical that tries to exist as a `proper' film it has good music (if a little repetitive) and enough comment in the plot to hold the interest.  Ideally it could have lost 20 minutes to be a slimmer, less weighty beast but it is an enjoyable film none the less &#150; this from a man who isn't too keen on musicals generally. "},{"Title":"Watch it, don't listen to it. Actually, don't watch it either.","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Patti LuPone, the original Eva Peron on Broadway, announced when this film was released that she wouldn't see it. It looks like a boring piece of s*** she said, and claimed that she would watch it if it had the kind of electricity she had experienced during her run, but that it had none of that. Now, LuPone is a Diva, there's no getting around that fact. As a result, the respect I have for isn't huge, but it's still there. So I'm glad that she still hasn't seen this movie because it undermines everything that makes the stage show such a hit.Visually, it is stunning. As soon as the music starts, however, and Antonio Banderas begins his mediocre version of Oh, What a Circus, you'll thank God that you didn't pay what you would to see it on stage. Madonna's lack of talent is highlighted miserably - every song was transposed for her to sing it more comfortably, and she still sounds weak. Her acting is awful as well. If anyone bothers to listen to the lyrics of the songs, they will realise that the intention of the show is not to make Eva Peron seem like a saint as is occasionally the assumption. Yet, this seems to be the central theme of Madonna's portrayal and as a result there is a contradiction between the acting and music, when in actuality they should be enhancing each other. This makes the film difficult to watch at the best of times.Antonio Banderas is also disappointing. He can carry a tune, certainly, but anyone who has heard David Essex sing the role, or even Michael Ball singing some of it in concert, will realise that carrying a tune does not mean carrying an audience's attention. Che is one of the greatest male parts Lloyd Webber has written, and is hardly done justice here. Speaking of not doing justice, I was also saddened by Jonathan Pryce. He is an amazing performer usually, so I don't know what wrong here. Watch Hey, Mr Producer! if you want to see Pryce doing great musical theatre.All in all, this is not a movie you want to watch if you love the stage show, or films in general. **/*****, solely for the visuals. "},{"Title":"An Unfortunately Empty Spectacle","Date":"9 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Evita is my favorite Lloyd-Weber/Rice collaboration, a great rags-to-riches story filled with many memorable songs and scenes. I remember my anticipation when I heard of plans a decade ago to film the musical with Alan Parker, an accomplished director, at the helm. I was intrigued with the casting of Madonna as Eva Peron, in some ways a real-life analogue. Despite my interest at that time, I only recently saw the film for the first time.This review is written from the above standpoint. For those not familiar with the show, this movie may offer a better experience. But, while not dreadful, the film is quite a disappointment to me. Production values are very high, with wonderful cinematography, great ensemble scenes, and polished direction. However, the proceedings are brought down by the weakness of the three leads and the musical arrangement changes and cuts that result from the inability of the leads to drive the material into the stratosphere where it belongs.Madonna's performance integrally weakens the film. Despite her pre-eminence as a pop diva, she just can't sing and act well. She is particularly out of her element here, lacking the emotional depth and vocal prowess to fill the role of Eva Peron. The subtlety and canniness in phrasing and voice required to pull off a torch song like Good For You and an anthem like Don't Cry for Me, Argentina are replaced by a blandness that decapitates the songs - at the high point of Don't Cry, Madonna, lacking the vocal power to carry it, starts to belt the lyrics like Ethel Merman! Visually, she's adequate and maintains interest, but this is more Parker's doing than through her own charisma.Antonio Banderas flounders in the role of Che, the guardian spirit of the people. While possessing a great physical presence, his countenance is almost always of repressed anger, and he is unable to provide the wittily sarcastic counterpoint required to follow and comment on Eva's rise and downfall. The chemistry between Eva and Che is lackluster, with the exception of their final dance number, which is dynamite. Like the others, he simply can't sing, and certain sections are cut or are spoken to maintain the integrity of the script. In the process, a number of songs are brought down, particularly Let's Hear It For the Rainbow Tour.Jonathan Pryce is unable to provide the physicality and oily menace of Juan Peron. He doesn't command the speech scenes and his chemistry with Eva is as weak as that of Che. Singing is not as important in this role, but Pryce, an excellent actor, is simply miscast in a role that doesn't justice to his silky, erudite qualities as a villain.The trouble with the leads seems to carry down to the chorus scenes, which almost resemble sprechstimme, and in the arrangements, which tend to be over the top (with loud rock guitar) as if to compensate for what is lacking. The cutting of What Happens Now? is a great disappointment, the song being a sensitive examination of a character tossed aside by Evita in her upward climb. The humor is drained from Let's Hear It... without Che's mocking commentary and impersonations of foreign dignitaries.Aside from the dynamite dance number near the end (referred to above) which provides self-examination for Che and Evita, this movie is best left on the shelf for lovers of this musical. I'd be generous to give it a 4. "},{"Title":"It Fails","Date":"20 September 2004","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Madonna is born to play Evita Peron/Duarte , a poor girl who became a megastar with a guaranteed place in history . A woman who many people worshiped , the lives of Evita and Madonna are very similar in many ways . Alan Parker ? This guy directed PINK FLOYDS - THE WALL my all time favourite musical and a movie that perhaps more than any other explains what grief , loneliness and alienation feels like . With these two people involved how can EVITA fail ? I'm not sure but failed it did . I have very little knowledge of the original stage musical apart from knowing that the songs Oh What A Circus and Don't Cry For Me Argentina are from it . Maybe it's the songs themselves that failed to impress me ? I'm more of a guitar orientated music fan rather than a stage musical liker . Maybe Parker is past his best as a director ? Yeah it's loud and big budget but also very empty . The only part of the movie that impressed me was the new Argentina sequence which showed a montage of counter coups which passed for Latin American democracy in those days but compare these scenes to In The Flesh , Run Like Hell and Waiting For The Worms from THE WALL and tell me what one has more spark involving fascism ? No contest is it ? It should also be remembered that Madonna herself was in something of a creative hole in the mid 1990s and it almost certainly comes across on screen . Though thankfully she made a huge creative comeback later on with the albums Ray Of Light and Music .Sorry that I didn't like it but I've never been keen on musicals and EVITA did absolutely nothing to impress me  "}{"Title":"Ouch","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This was the most painfully terrible film I've ever had the mis-fortune of paying to see. It's too bad two very poor actors (Madonna and Antonio Banderas) were chosen to star in what really is a compelling story. Neither of these two should ever be allowed to be in any film that considers itself serious as their shallow emoting will do a disservice to any deep subject matter. "},{"Title":"Rubbish!","Date":"16 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" this is the worse musical in history, there is way too much singing, the acting is awful and the script is out of the window, wheres the dialogue. this musical should not be famous, and even the rhymes in the songs are awful especially talking badly about the pope and when she sings about Christian dior....Sad or what. does everyone actually like this? i rate this a massive one because of its appalling everything. Madonna should not be in anything that requires acting, she can sing but certainly cannot act. the music is so standard that there is a lot of repetitive riffs and basic, rhythms and melodies that even a two year old could of done better. "},{"Title":"How did I get dragged to this movie?","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  First off, let me say I hate musicals and don't blame me for hating this one as well.  I somehow got talked into seeing this one by a friend so if you don't like what I have to say blame him and his ex girlfriend.  I just thought this was one of the most boring flicks ever, the songs stunk and the story did as well too.  It of course focuses on Eva Peron who the movie makes out to be a saint, I won't go into it since there may be those who are offended by the truth, let's just say she wasn't.  Banderos character was sort of the narrator, and he does a lousy job at it as I found myself wondering what the heck was happening.  Let's just say I wasn't crying for her at the end as I would have walked out of the theater an hour and a half earlier if my friends weren't my ride.  Though it taught me a lesson, don't go to a film you don't want to go to cause you won't enjoy yourself. "}]