[{"Title":"One of the most underrated movies of the last ten years! Very subtle and intelligent with some unforgettable  performances.","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"27 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Abel Ferrara is one of the most original and interesting directors in America movies. He is also one of the most uneven. The guy has made some garbage and some near masterpieces in his time, so you really have to judge each one of his movies on an individual basis. 'The Funeral' is an excellent movie, easily Ferrara's most overlooked effort,  and one which doesn't deserve the obscurity it's been doomed to. It's almost as impressive as 'Bad Lieutenant' and 'The King Of New York', yet I very rarely hear it even mentioned. I really don't know why! The movie has one major stumbling block that the viewer must accept before they can begin to get on with watching. That is the casting of Christopher Walken ('The Dead Zone'), Chris Penn ('Reservoir Dogs') and Vincent Gallo ('Buffalo '66'). Three great actors sure, but playing blood brothers?! Also we see that the youngest brother Johnny (Gallo) is supposedly 22(!), and via flashback his two older siblings look only three, maybe four years older. This would make Ray (Walken) in his late twenties, which is absolutely ludicrous. However, if you can put this all to one side and not let it worry you then you will be pleasantly surprised. Some viewers complain that the movie is slow, boring and that nothing happens. I totally disagree. Of course if you think it's going to be a Mafia thriller or some kind of action movie you will be disappointed. But I thought it was fascinating and very involving. Walken is excellent as usual, Gallo doesn't have an awful lot of screen time but shows why he is one of the most charismatic and exciting actors around, and Chris Penn gives the best performance of his career. Penn alone is worth watching the movie for, he is just so damn good. The supporting cast is one of the best you'll see anywhere. The brother's women are played by Annabella Sciorra ('Cop Land'), Gretchen Moll ('Rounders') and Isabella Rossellini ('Blue Velvet'), and other familiar faces include the wonderful Benicio Del Toro ('The Usual Suspects'), The Sopranos' John Ventimiglia and (very briefly!) Edie Falco, and Ferrara regulars Victor Argo ('Taxi Driver') and Paul Hipp ('Teenage Caveman'). Also keep an eye out for David Patrick Kelly ('The Crow') as a left wing agitator. Every time I watch 'The Funeral' I appreciate it a little more. It's a very subtle and intelligent film that doesn't serve things up to you on a plate. I think it's one of the most underrated movies of the last ten years and I wholeheartedly recommend it. If this is your first experience of Abel Ferrara and you enjoy it, I suggest the moody 'The King Of New York' (also with Christopher Walken) next, then his powerful 'Bad Lieutenant' (Harvey Keitel) and his difficult but rewarding 'The Addiction' (Walken again). Those four movies are his best to date, and not to be missed. "},{"Title":"beautifully and intelligently made","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"23 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have always been impressed by the dramatic intensity of Abel Ferrara's films and 'The Funeral' does not fall short of any of them.  The true beauty of this film lies in its characters and their emotions and relationships. The plot takes second stage but, honestly, the incredible acting performances will make you feel that a more complicated plot would be absolutely unnecessary.  All the important bases of small-time mob life are covered here - God, family, revenge, lies, anger, etc.  If you can sit down and watch a movie that chooses atmosphere and character over action, then I highly recommend this movie.  You will be blown away. "},{"Title":"Bury Our Sins?","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"18 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The Funeral is a dark and gritty story that plumbs the characters in a New York band of criminal brothers. It doesn't have the romantic sweep of a Godfather movie, nor the rawness of Scarface. But it does have great acting the cold, sinister aloofness of the leader-brother(Christopher Walken); the raging insanity of the bartender-brother(Chris Penn); and, the cockiness of the younger communist-influenced brother. Annabella Scioria as the wife with a tortured psyche who had two years of college, and Bennissio del Toro, as the suave and slick rival mobster round out the terrific cast.But the movie does have some problems. The abrupt, surprise ending is consistent with the arcs in the movie, and is supported by trends in the characters' developments, but seems unsatisfying. Also, long philosophical conversations between killer and victims seems unrealistic. While these conversations(and flashback sequences) give insight into characters, it just doesn't seem likely.Watch this movie if you are a fan of crime/Mafia films, and you can enjoy a thoughtful introspection of characters and relationships between characters. Don't watch it if you want to see a thrill-a-minute, or explosions every other scene. "},{"Title":"Another interesting piece from Ferrara who goes for the mind and leaves you silent.","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Once again Ferrara attracts big star names to a small picture with large ambitions. This film would have made a great gangster saga but Ferrara and writer St. John are more interested about the characters than the story. What occurs on the surface may be minimal and very uncreative but deep within you enter the souls of each character who question their values as they mourn the death of a family member. Each one carrying a dilemma to the very surprising ending. This film could have been set in any era as it deals with intelligent issues such as the complex male macho image as questioned by Sciorra's character.  "},{"Title":"Another flawed Ferrara masterpiece","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  All of director Abel Ferrara's movies are deeply flawed, but he is willing to take you into darker places than almost any contemporary filmmaker. His best movies are the bleakest kind of cinematic art, and The Funeral is one of the best.To complain about the lack of action in this gangster movie is to miss the entire point. This is a character study of people who have made choices in their lives that have left them without hope, in much the same way as Ferrara's Bad Lieutenant. Although it is often pretentious and a little boring, it also contains many potent, unforgettable scenes, most notably those featuring Chris Penn, who I frankly didn't think could act until I saw this movie.The Funeral is an unremittingly dark film that at times achieves a terrible beauty. I'm not sure that I would recommend it, but I am extremely glad to have seen it. "},{"Title":"Solid Ferrara movie that takes the glamour out of gangsters","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The lives of gangster brothers Ray, Chet and Johnny are changed forever when Johnny is killed.  His funeral acts as a time to look back at the past but also to look inwardly and to the future.  The story is told in flashbacks that mix the past and present to see a gangster life style in all it's glory. The story here is straightforward &#150; however it's multi-layered flashbacks and subplots make it too confusing at times.  In simple terms it is two stories &#150; Johnny before he is killed, and the lives of his brothers afterwards.  The characters make it come to life but the drama inherent in the subject matter helps as well.  The story mixes `real' lives, violence and some black humour to good effect &#150; the overall point being the point made by Sciorra when she says `there's nothing romantic about it at all'.The cast are good &#150; in particular the Ferrara regulars.  Walken gives a more emotional version of his King of New York character and carries much of the moral debate with himself and others.  Penn is also good as the self destructive brother and gives a powerful performance without becoming OTT (a la Nice Guy Eddie).  Gallo is good although his character is not fully explained &#150; why did he look for trouble, why the interest in worker's rights? Rossellini, Argo and Soprano's Ventimiglia are all good and del Toro does yet another quiet cool role.Overall this is a good film &#150; it is graphic and dark, but not as much as some of his other films.  The subject matter will appeal to the mass audience (most people seem to like mobster movies) and his unromantic spin on the genre makes up for the occasionally bitty storyline.  "},{"Title":"Interesting, if Uneven Gangster Drama","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" When it comes to cult film-maker Abel Ferrara, people seem to either love his work or hate it. I think some of his films are great but some are just rubbish. Fortunately The Funeral is far from being rubbish, but then it's not great either.Set in New York in the 1930s, the film centres on an organised crime family, headed by brothers Ray (Christopher Walken) and Chezz (Chris Penn) who are set to bury their younger brother Johnny (Vincent Gallo). As Johnny's wake progresses the two remaining brothers reflect on his life and try to track down his killer.The film is pretty well made, and benefits from strong performances all round. It's main defect is that the film tends to lose focus and go off at tangents (scenes where Johnny attends a Communist rally were pretty pointless). Also, as in many Ferrara films, there is a very blatant religious subtext which sometimes gets in the way of the drama. Also, be warned that there is a lot of pretty brutal violence in this film.If you like gangster films (and obviously if you're a Ferrara fan) give this a go. It's worth trying anyway just for the quality of the performances. "},{"Title":"Mafia's Hearts of Darkness ...","Date":"22 October 2011","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The Funeral is a mind-blowing experience that demands a particular patience.In fact, you don't need the patience to 'get' it, but to try to put yourself in the shoes of men who're nothing but criminals. But as criminals as they are, they are stuck with this last ounce of humanity giving a meaning to their lives. So let's get this straight, if you're among the kind of cinematic fans with a particular revulsion towards gangsters, this film is not for you, all it will inspire is the kind of demagogic comments such as good riddance, all these low-life bastards deserve their fate. But if you're interested by the torments invading the souls of these underworld humans, prepare yourself for a disturbing and dark journey into Mafia's hearts of darkness.It's interesting that the central character is played by Christopher Walken, the actor had always an extraordinary combination of mental instability and charismatic aura in his eyes, the kind of man you don't know if it's safe to approach or to avoid him, in both cases, you respect and fear him. But now, we're in this man's soul at a pivotal moment in his life, when he's trying to determine, during the funeral of his brother Johny (Vincent Gallo), not what the meaning of his life is, but how he can live with himself with his personal idea of justice and the satisfaction to do something ethical. Yeah, I see where you're coming from, how can I ever use the word 'ethic' for criminals? Well, ethics refers to a code, to some behavior that doesn't necessarily take the law as a reference, and from that point, anything is debatable. And when the movie says anything, it sure means it, as even God is concerned.Although the movie is set during Catholic funerals, the first thing that strikes is the amount of blasphemous rants during the discussions. These men don't believe in God, but they don't sound atheists, it's just as if they had a proud reaction over a religion that casted them out anyway. So if they haven't been touched by the divine grace, which could have inspired them to be good people, so why do they have to blame themselves? If everything is due to God, why should they feel guilty? And now, if it all is a matter of free will, and decision, then what makes their acts more condemnable? Any idea of justice is no better or no worse than another &#x85; the thought-provoking script invites us to feel an existential empathy toward these men, as if it tried to explicit all the dilemmas that fill the heart of criminals. After all, they have hearts, haven't they? To label them as only cold-blooded murders is another trick to avoid questioning our own approach to evil.But whatever rationalization it tried to inspire, the counterpart of this thinking relies on the female characters, the wives, who endure the machismo of their husbands and try to figure what the purpose of all this is. Why and how have criminals, killers, fooled them? Some scenes between Annabella Sciorra and Isabella Rosselini suggest a sort of female bonding, as a reactive defensive process from the kind of fusional relationship between the brothers Christopher Walken, Vincent Gallo and Chris Penn -Rest in Peace, Chris, this was your finest performance as the most mentally instable of the three brothers- Never voyeuristic, these scenes of female intimacy where the discussions are intelligently combined with great metaphysic references, translate the lack of morality and belief innate to that cruel male world, and how it can hardly be expressed except in the confinement of a little bedroom. The whole confinement of The Funeral, in its setting, is crucial here. There is a cloud of lucidity floating in the air, as if the film trusted our intelligence, by not showing men trying to find excuses, but on the contrary, men extremely lucid about their fate. This is what the whole claustrophobic setting of the film is about, it's an extrapolation of the coffin, symbolizing the whole fate of the family in microcosm. These men are in a dead-end, and they know it damn well. During a heart-breaking scene between Chris Penn and a young prostitute, refusing to deprive her from her innocence, he pays her for not having sex, she asks for the double to have sex with him, provoking an incredible outburst of rage. She'll get paid twice the price then pushed against the wall and assaulted as a punishment for having sold her soul to the devil. This scene brutally reflects these men's understanding of their own conditions  they sold their soul, they know they'll never see the paradise. In other words their lives are only a suspended sentence to hell. They don't believe in God, but they don't deny His existence either.So, when it can't get any better, the best you can do is to make it better according to your own codes. And this is the constant disturbing feel of the film, men trying to act according to their sense of justice, their morals, trapped between their humanity and their evilness. Again, Abel Ferrara doesn't invite us to feel empathetic toward gangsters, as sometimes, the movie indecently flirts with some stereotypes to better remind us, the world lying beneath that sober and familial atmosphere. The Funeral reflects the affection of true funerals  a profound introspection in order to understand the value of goodness and humanity, because once you put your foot in the dark side, you can't go back, and it doesn't try to fool you with a sort of quest of redemption bullshit. They're grown-up men, and their life IS dead-end. To a point you wonder if the title Funeral refers to one man or three souls. The Funeral is an extraordinary, dark and disturbing journey, that will simply wow you at the end &#x85; so you better get ready. "},{"Title":"Interesting movie but the sound was awful...","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I found this an interesting movie, admittedly a bit slow at points, but if you're out for another crime gone wrong or gangster crime war film, forget it.  Several reviews complain about a lack of action.  It's not an action film.  Several reviews complain about a lack of plot.  It's more an examination of characters than a story.  The movie would have been much better had I been able to hear more of it.  The sound editing is truly abysmal.  People's shoes make more noise than their raised voices do.  I actually stopped and rewound a few times to try and catch what people said.  It's not the fault of the actors.  It's simply a bad mix job.7/10 "},{"Title":"Communist mobsters? Now I've seen everything!","Date":"8 May 2004","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Though he was the director of that awful thriller, 'Fear City,' Abel Ferrer offers a movie about mobsters that distinguishes it from a decade of far too many mobster-themed movies in that it does not glorify mob life. Though slow in the introduction and sometimes confusing in structure, 'The Funeral' offers good acting and an intelligent plot.Ray (Christopher Walken), Chez (Chris Penn), and Johnny (Vincent Gallo) are brothers and members of the same crime family. I suspect that of the small crime unit, the eldest, Ray, is the leader. The film is centered around the funeral of the youngest, Johnny, who was mysteriously shot to death. And the mobsters, especially his brothers, want revenge. Johnny was an unusual part of such a violent family, too intelligent and often passive. He seemed to be drifting from his destined life of crime, handed down to him from his father to his brothers to him. It is not the role he seeks to fulfill, and it one he often questions, much to the resentment of his brothers, Ray and Chez. Ray is a much different character than Johnny. As the oldest, he was the first to kill a man when his father offered him a gun to shoot someone he didn't even know. Ray also absconds from any responsibility for what he does, consistenly justifying his actions as something that God forces him to do. Jean (Annabella Sciorra), his wife, asks whether he thinks it is suitable to blame God for his actions. He apparently blinds himself to any reality, and basks in the idea that he is only carrying out someone else's plan. That this is what he has to do. Jean even remarks to Johnny's wife, Helen (Gretchen Mol), that Ray and Chez and everyone else involved just keep perpetrating this one-sided, illiterate way of life. Chez is yet another counterweight caught in the middle. He is a very sadistic character and one who soon realizes what damage is being done. With Johnny dead and Ray eager for revenge, it is up to him to determine with the cycle continues. The nature of these characters are particularly interesting in a story that points out the realities of mafia life (for both the mobsters and their wives) as violence begets violence, making for a very intriguing story. Director Abel Ferrer did a good job with this movie. Despite being slow and sometime scattered in focus, it is worth watching. "}{"Title":"Walken & Penn","Date":"7 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This was one DIFFERENT gangster picture, brought to you by Abel Ferarra. I first came to know the rather unique director from his infamous DRILLER KILLER... Which is really 90 minutes of my life I'd like to have back. It's the one DVD I own that I'd love to not own. The one DVD I don't even CONSIDER rewatching. And with good reason. It's a jackass of a film. I can't go into it any more without swearing, and then my review won't get put up. Anyway, years after watching that...movie, I began to wonder how Ferarra is so known among film fans. Nobody likes The Driller Killer, so that can't be it. I looked him up here, and saw that such noted actors as Christopher Walken and Harvey Keitel have worked with him!! I was quite surprised and then I came across this one rather cheap. And I love gangster films so maybe I'm being a bit biased here.But this one was rather interesting. These aren't Scorsese style gangsters. They're guys in black suits but their life is much less glamarous. There is much rape and violence and little laughs or friendship. The film focuses on three brothers.. Christopher Walken is legendary in his role as wise but aging family head Ray. Chris Penn plays his rather temperamental (surprise surprise, it being Chris Penn) brother, and Vincent Gallo plays young foolish brother Johnny.The film opens with the recently deceased Johnny lying in his coffin and everyone gathered around crying. How did he get to be there? The film tells this through flashbacks which occur every few minutes throughout the film, and we also see a part from Ray's youth. Very skilfully done! The time switching happens without us noticing, the film flows so well that we're not in the least bit distracted.Christopher Walken is Christopher Walken in a Christopher Walken role, Ray... He's taking the Michael Corleone route here, the wise guy, the darker older brother who makes all the decisions for the family. And he's great at it... Chris Penn is Chris Penn in another Chris Penn role. He's completely insane. A brutal, angry man who loses it over nothing and spends his time on screen shouting and swearing at those around him. Chris Penn is really good at this, but I'd like to see him take on an emotional character... He's just doing Nice Guy Eddie over and over again. Vincent Gallo does the Freddie Corleone of the family well, but he's a bit unbelievable as a gangster and the camera has too many close ups on him. Also present in a supporting role is John Ventimiglia, who plays Artie Bucco from The Sopranos! Just thought I'd mention him, brilliant man. There's Benicio Del Toro as the rival gangster boss. He's pretty creepy but doesn't have a big enough part to do the character justice. Overall, the acting out of the two leads - Walken and Penn - is excellent. Typical, but excellent.Ferarra's been known to be violent and disturbing. Maybe if I'd watched this film a few years back it might have affected me, but it didn't in the least. I am now immune to offense by violence. Some of the film's violent highlights, though, include a stabbing in the heart with a butcher knife, shooting two innocent truck drivers with a shotgun, raping a teenage prostitute (who sold her soul) and an ending pistol massacre.Despite all this, however, it's an excellent if depressing picture, with many deep and dark performances. The violence is not over the top compared to the likes of De Palma or Scorsese, and it is not disturbing, or maybe that's just me.I will definitely be seeing more Ferarra movies! "},{"Title":"More able than interesting","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Abel Ferrera's gangster film 'The Funeral' resembles a pared-down version of Scorcese's 'Goodfellas', or a truer version of 'The Sopranos'. Utterly unsentimental and chilling, it refuses to add the faintest shine of glamour to its protagonists' lives, and the cast, headed by the vampirish Christopher Walkern, are universally excellent. And yet for all this, it's not actually that interesting. The movie industry is fascinated with violence as a subject; yet the freakishly horrible behaviour of the mafia may be a sad fact of life, but it's also an oddity. This is a good film, but it belongs to an over-exposed genre, with little to say about how ordinary people live. If I have to watch a gangster film, I'd rather chose Jim Jarmusch's hilarious 'Ghost Dog' than a movie that takes its subject so seriously. "},{"Title":"a light that shines from imperfection","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  How does one sum up this film?  Disturbing, vague, annoying, unoriginal in theme and in many of its scenes yet......  it is one of those films that haunts one simply by getting under one's skin for those very reasons.  If you've seen Goodfellas or any other number of Mafia-type films, this will all seem to be familiar territory.  There's the typical hot-tempered Italian family complete with the screwed-up brother with low self-esteem, and the wives who acquiesce to their station in life as Madonnas who must bear the weight of their husbands' inner turmoil and support them unquestioningly.  And there's the endless scenes of slice-of-life goomba-chatter, where one feels like they're watching a film of acting exercises rather than something that gives us a sense that we're watching people and not characters. Yet sprinkled in between are moments that one never forgets.  Most of them revolve around Christopher Walken.  He is a man who is almost at the edge of enlightenment.  But he has no belief in God (stated beautifully and eloquently in one stirring scene) and thus he has in a sense made himself God.  He passes judgment on who shall live or die.  You can see he hates killing but he must anyway,  and he shows the whole intellectual and emotional process that he goes through in making and passing such judgments.  In a striking climax scene, he tells the man who killed his brother that he must die because he is a danger to society.  A danger because he can't control his anger.  Yet Walken can't even see that he is everything that he accuses this man of.  He is a walking tragedy, haunted by that supreme moment in his life when he became a man at the age of thirteen (an initiation ritual when his father ordered him to perform his first execution).  The loss of innocence was the loss of faith.  He knows he's going to hell and chooses it as punishment rather than choosing the possibility of redemption by changing his ways.  He even plays God on himself.Walken delivers a smashing performance that makes the film.  Nicholas Cage was originally cast in the role and had he played it, I think the film would have been a disaster.  You feel the heat inside Walken AND the solid chill that covers it so that he keeps the illusion of being in control to himself as well as to others.  Annabella Scioria does a magnificent job in what is usually a thankless role as the emotionally-wrought wife.  Vincent Gallo as the good brother is exciting as always.  As for Chris Penn, yes he can sing but his acting is way over the top and I was constantly wishing I was watching a George Dzunda who could add the touch of subtlety and pathos that the role required.The film is incoherent in its use of flashbacks and in some of its  muddled character motivations.  And a number of times it falls into the familiar cliches of its genre.  But it is an original, from-the-heart muddle.  It's not a great film by far, but I am grateful to it because it dares to peel under the surfaces of Italian gangsters to show us the wound that is left where faith and innocence had been seared away.   Good little film. "},{"Title":"Ferrara's Last Great Film?","Date":"4 February 2016","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" New York City, the 1930s. A powerful crime family is caught in a lethal crossfire between union organizers and brutal corporate bosses. Against this turbulent backdrop, the family's three street-hardened brothers and the women they love are about to be plunged into a deadly confrontation with their enemies, with each other, and with their own dark heritage of violence, madness and murder.Although Abel Ferrara is still making films, this might be his last big one. All the titles he is known for, from Ms. 45 to The Addiction seem to taper off after this title. Why? Certainly he did not start making bad movies, did he? (But, who knows? Even Francis Ford Coppola deteriorated.) What makes this better than the average Mafia movie is that it focuses less on the violence (though that happens), and much more on the psychology. We see these men as they see themselves, and we see that the women in their lives do not always see them in as glamorous of a light. This makes for an interesting comparison. "},{"Title":"Brothers in Arms","Date":"18 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Possibly psychotic mobster brothers Christopher Walken (as Raimundo Ray Tempio) and Chris Penn (as Cesarino Chez Tempio) gather with family for The Funeral of brother Vincent Gallo (Giovanni Johnny Tempio). Like good gangsters, they want to kill the mysterious, dark-clothed figure who shot Mr. Gallo. They pin the hit on rival crime lord Benicio del Toro (as Gaspare Spoglia); brother Gallo has been copulating with his wife three times a week. A nasty character, Mr. Walken wants to chop off Mr. del Toro's legs and slit his throat. And, Mr. Penn begins losing his marbles. But, while the hunt is on, we get to know the three brothers through flashbacks...While the performances are all fine, the young actors in the early flashback do not match the present day brothers, who do not even remotely resemble each other. Moreover, at his brother's casket, Penn states Johnny died at age 22, which would put Walken, Penn, and Gallo in their early to mid-twenties. The storyline takes time to decipher, which is fine; but, it does leave a few questions unanswered. Director Abel Ferrara and Ken Kelsch contribute great style. It's a man's movie, with memorable bookend roles for Paul Hipp (as Ghouly) and Patrick McGaw (in the cooler); but, wives Isabella Rossellini (as Clara) and Annabella Sciorra (as Jean) also hit the mark.****** The Funeral (8/28/96) Abel Ferrara ~ Christopher Walken, Chris Penn, Vincent Gallo, Benicio del Toro "},{"Title":"Filmed theatre...","Date":"16 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I remember going to see 'The Funeral' when it first came out. It stirred me as a film featuring extremely compelling -- and extremely non-compelling elements alike. The acting is fabulous, and each scene in that sense and taken from that perspective is a gem. It's filmed theater, though, not really traditional film acting per se. Every actor does their spiel at one point or the other. Chris Penn might be the most memorable in his boisterous impersonation of a psychotic mobster, but really it's probably Annabella Sciorra and Chris Walken who deliver the most impressive performances. Apart from that, the film truly feels half baked (not always without charm, though) Ferrara is notorious for not being always on top of his storyboard, and one can tell here, definitely, especially since the cinematography is rather ugly and uninspired. The script feels more like a play, really (and save for a few outdoor scenes, the film could have been a play, perhaps with greater success), with long, overwrought dialogue which linger in mind nevertheless. So, all in all, 'The Funeral' might not be a very good film (it actually features a few very weak scenes), but at its best, it is truly memorable, and I guess that's why we like Abel Ferrara regardless of how bad his films can be, they always have something to deliver. "},{"Title":"A Moving drama","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm a little unhappy that it took me so long to hear of this movie. It is truly a movie drama. Some people when they hear about this probably relate it to the Godfather before even seeing it, and they are wrong for doing this. It is dark and gritty which makes it overall realistic. There is a very dark feel to the entire thing and there is basically no comedy, but the character development and emotion make up for it. The performances in this movie are also very good and add to the gritty atmosphere. Christopher Walken gives an unusually serious performance as the head brother of the family. I did not think that he could pull of such a part due to his naturally funny demeanor, but he did, and he did it very well. I also feel that Benicio Del Toro, as always, did a very good part in his role. I did not think that he could do the role of a gangster either, but he was extremely realistic and made the viewer hate him and feel bad for him at the same time. But, I think of all the people in this movie, Chris Penn stole this movie acting wise. To me, he was utterly spectacular in his part as the hot head brother out for revenge. The movie does get slow at some points and does seem choppy, but all in all this is a very good film and if you like gangster dramas and character development, it's for you. "},{"Title":"An under rated movie well worth a look.","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I think this is a very good film with a lot of values.  It's another gangster movie, but one with a story I've never seen before and really enjoyed.  Walken and Penn are terrific, and Del Toro shows his screen potential.  See it, but not with your mother.  You will definitely stay awake. "},{"Title":"All the ingredients for a masterpiece are present...yet, Ferrara fails.","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The starting point of the movie is very promising. A family gathers around in the house where the body of a murdered young mobster is placed. His two brothers seek revenge, while their wives want to forget the past and end violence. The two brothers are marked by their lifestyle and the dramas they experienced in their youth. While the oldest brother is pretty severe and quiet, the other one is just plain nuts. The movie manoeuvres between flash-backs and present time. A lot of scenes give away what a masterpiece this movie could have been.Could have...because despite the strong moments, the intense atmosphere and some good acting performances, this movie has too many gaps. The plot is just not coherent enough. Most characters are not worked out properly Ferrara introduces important information regarding the character and mentality of especially the dead brother, but he doesn't do anything with it.Some scenes seem to be superfluous, while on the other hand you get the feeling that some vital scenes are missing.Not once Ferrara manages to get the viewer really involved in the madness of the disturbed brother... and in this respect, the way the movie ends is really a disappointment. It seems like Ferrara realised he almost ran out of pelicule and needed to end the movie quickly. The final scene is brought without any dramatic construction or real logic.All the ingredients for a masterpiece are present, except a proper working out...and that's a shame. "},{"Title":"The Funeral","Date":"20 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This dusty, low key, low budget gangster film manages to hold the attention for the most part despite being very derivative and rather dull.For a character piece it's fatally flawed. The acting is strictly from the shout-and-then-repeat-with-added-F-words school of Italian-American gangster performances and very quickly gets tiresome. In fact it appears that much of it has been improvised, with director Abel Ferrara seemingly content that if the actors shout enough, get suitably red-faced and spittly, and repeat the same question enough times they'll qualify as intense. They don't.Chris Penn is the worst offender, turning in an awful performance that wants to be Harvey Keitel in Bad Lieutenant but emerges more like Christopher Lloyd in Who Framed Roger Rabbit.Christopher Walken plays himself but even that seems to disinterest him unless he's being given the chance to indulge in some painful I'm an ac-tor! moments - best demonstrated in the scene where he cries and shouts at his brother's corpse - and it's left to Gretchen Mol and Isabella Rossellini to deliver the only decent performances.Considering the budget the period feel is quite good, there's some occasional gratuitous violence to keep things interesting, and the generally depressing mood of the whole piece is quite effective, but those are small compensations for having to sit through all that repetitive shouting and those horribly self-indulgent performances. "}{"Title":"Average at Best","Date":"24 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The Funeral is about gangsters Christopher Walken and Chris Penn burying their younger brother, on the evening of his wake (before his funeral) through flashbacks we see their brother and his involvement with crime and criminals. He is having an affair with Benicio Del Torro's wife and so Del Torro is placed in the frame for his murder, as the movie gradually ends, Chris Penn shoots his brothers and the people that work for him.Apart from two good performances from Walken and Penn, this movie lacks character detail, plot and lacks contemporary quality of the 1930's. There is unconvincing atmosphere between the characters and it is just disappointing.The highlight of the movie comes from Christopher Walken who whips out some good sayings and seeks his revenge.I got this film on a three DVD box set with Road to Perdition and Miller's Crossing. I'd already seen Miller's Crossing. I don't think it can be classed in the way that Miller's Crossing can.Its worth watching but I doubt anyone will watch it for a second time.PEACE. "},{"Title":"Gangsters Christopher Walken and Chris Penn react to the killing of their brother","Date":"30 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The Funeral is consistently interesting, depicting incidents and flashbacks that surround the shooting death of the 22-year old Vincent Gallo. His brothers, Christopher Walken and Chris Penn, are in the rackets, doing union shakedowns and protection, where they cross paths with Benicio Del Toro. Walken's wife is Annabella Sciorra and Penn's wife is Isabella Rossellini. Sciorra tries to stop Walken from taking revenge, while Rossellini has her hands full with Penn, who has spells of derangement.The photography is quite dark and nothing special. While the scenes are individually interesting and produce some sparks, the story still doesn't connect all the dots theme-wise. It doesn't build to anything with all that much impact. The acting helps carry the movie. Del Toro is impressive in a smaller role as is Penn in a larger role. Walken is engaging, but is not always in character. One never knows just how his character is going to go. Rossellini projects her character well, Sciorra less so.I felt that the film came off looking rough and not put together smoothly or that effectively. While interesting, scenes didn't always add up or add to the story, and their sequence didn't help any. I felt that the casting was off too. The three brothers didn't resemble in the least. Walken didn't seem like an Italian wise guy. The writing brought in some philosophy about free will, grace, afterlife and hell that was of interest but didn't seem to come out of the characters' mouths that realistically or convincingly. As with New Rose Hotel by Ferrara, I felt as if Walken was improvising. And that movie and Body Snatchers by Ferrara show a creative talent at work with novel ideas, but somehow not quite getting a really strong result out of it. Strong, though and commendable. Work that has merit among its imperfection. "},{"Title":"I would go so far as saying that it is of the greatest underrated gangster films of all time, it truly is that good!","Date":"5 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The Funeral takes place in New York City, in the 1930s. A powerful crime family is caught in a lethal crossfire between union organizers and brutal corporate bosses. Against this turbulent backdrop, the family's three street-hardened brothers and the women they love are about to be plunged into a deadly confrontation with their enemies, with each other, and with their own dark heritage of violence, madness and murder. The Funeral is an extraordinary is one of the greatest underrated movies of all time. It is extremely powerful and intelligent with some unforgettable performances from Chris Penn in particular. Abel Ferrara is a gifted film maker who makes unforgettable and captivating films that will last the test of time. I would go so far as saying that it is of the greatest underrated gangster films of all time, it truly is that good! "},{"Title":"Only goes to show that you don't need bucks to make great movies. Superb","Date":"20 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Ain't nothing divides the good folk who write a review for IMDb like a good film. And the better the film, the more extreme their views are. The Funeral is described by some who, like me, enjoy adding their two ha'porth worth to the User Review pages as 'a waste of time', 'pointless' and 'abysmal'. Don't believe a word of it. Abel Ferrara might not have the technical skills of Spielberg or his fellow New York director Scorsese, but what he does almost peerlessly is to get brilliant performances from his players who obviously relish the screenplays he and his scriptwriter conjure up for them. There is something almost magical about the films this guy comes up with, and The Funeral is a sparkling example. Set in Depression-era America, it tells a simple tale of death and revenge. But there is so much more to it than that. It is not an 'action film', which some believe Mafia drama should be, but a superb character study in the lives of three brothers. One of them is bright, though ruthless, one insane and ruthless, and the third subscribes to Communist ideas but is equally ruthless. None is nice. Their wives suffer badly. But the 'story' is only the half of it. What is outstanding is how Ferrara builds a world out of nothing. This is low-budget stuff - the sound quality is at times a little dicky - but what that tells you is that you don't need big bucks to make great films. In fact, considering some of the dreck which is churned out on multi-million dollar budgets, there might even be a rule that the bigger the budget, the more likely the film will be a clunker. The Funeral is in the same stable of The Conversation it misses popular acclaim by a country mile but that is because your average flick viewer wouldn't know class from an empty tub of popcorn. The Funeral is the real deal if you like films. But don't take my word for how good it is, watch it and see for yourself. "},{"Title":"Well-Acted Low-Budget Art-House Gangster Picture","Date":"22 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" In depression-era New York, when one of three gangster brothers is killed, his family gather at the wake to ponder their lives together and their revenge, with tragic consequences.Despite its low budget, this manages to be quite an impressive period piece of mafia melodrama, but primarily it is designed as a showcase for the first-rate cast to explore their characters. All acquit themselves well, but all are familiar types from the genre - Walken and Penn as the bereaved brothers and Sciorra (who also co-produced) and Rossellini (who looks just as amazing without makeup) as the long-suffering Mob wives. The best roles are Del Toro's as a sharp-suited cognac-drinking player modelling himself on movie tough-guys and Kelly's scene as a zealous communist agitator. It's an impressive piece (though the photography is ludicrously dark), but the script is too thin and only Ferrara's trademark forays into religious philosophy and an extremely grim finale spark a little energy into the picture. Well made and well acted, but a movie must have a great script to begin with to be a great movie. "},{"Title":"Angst by the bucketfull  spoilers","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well I caight up with this film on late night TV .Its a strange movie,set in the 1930s all the gangsters were smart clothes and have great looking women with them,but this film makes them a miserable bunch no one enjoys them selves.The overiding message of the film is the guilt people feel at a funeral of a ypunger family member.This younger family member a gangster believes in socialism ,this hard to swallow as gangsters are hardly socialists.Well acted with Walken and Penn playing the sort of people you would not ever want to meet,the ending is bizarre and shocking.I only hope the undertaker gave the family a special rate for providing him with so  much work.5/10 "},{"Title":"Holy Cow, Chris Penn Can SING!","Date":"24 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I tuned in when the movie was more than half over.  In a scene in a speakeasy, Chris Penn was singing -- singing so well that I sat through the rest of the movie without a clue as to what was going on, just to find out from the credits if that was his own voice or not (and in hopes he'd sing some more).  Yep, that was his own voice, all right.  DANG, he's good.  I'd buy a whole CD of him doing 30's hits or Squirrel-Nut-Zippers-type material without hesitation.  He was THAT GOOD.  I'd buy a concert ticket, and I hate going to concerts.  I'd buy tickets for my friends.  I don't know beans about him as an actor, nor anything else about this movie, but I am glad I had the chance to hear him sing and hope some director has the sense to exploit this gift of his at length soon. "},{"Title":"Walken saves it!","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is no masterpiece at all! In fact it's a little boring for most of the time. It's something like a low-budget Godfather. But the last 15 minutes are O.K. And Christopher Walken saves the whole movie in one of the last scenes, when he has to decide whether or not kill his brother's murderer. "},{"Title":"The best hops and barley don't mean much if the beer is flat.","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Funeral tells of the aftermath of mourning and revenge which transpires following the murder of one of three brothers and mobsters. An excellent showcase for some good acting talent, The Funeral is woefully in need of a story. A pointless, plotless, slice-of-mob-life flick is just more of the same old Godfather mob stuff which goes down like so much flat beer. "},{"Title":"Sometimes the most disappointing films are those with the most potential . . .","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sometimes the most disappointing films are those with the most potential. I really expected a lot of The Funeral, especially given its cast and director, but unfortunately it failed to keep me interested for its full ninety minutes.  The three male leads (Christopher Walken, Chris Penn, and Vincent Gallo) turn in rather solid performances, but once again, as in most gangster films, the women characters are relegated to the role of powerless, grieving widow.The Funeral is not entirely an exercise in Italian gangster stereotypes, however. It begins promisingly enough, approaching several new topics (including the way socialism might have impacted a gangster with a heart for the working man), but meanders in its second act, causing its powerful conclusion to seem tacked-on and non-sequitur.5 of 10. "}{"Title":"It sure ain't a gangster flick","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Funny. It has Christopher Walken on the cover, it sure looked like a gangster movie. Check out the cast - it looks like the cast of a gangster movie. But brother, if you want to watch a fun gangster flick, rent Harlem Nights, because this is a character study that would be disturbing if it wasn't so dull. There were several disturbing scenes, but not disturbing in a good way (e.g. Casino You made me put your head in advice for that piece of ....?) but disturbing in a bad way, e.g. Chris Penn's character Chez basically raping a teenage prostitute. Nobody needs to see that unless it's part of a really good film. which it ain't. On the plus side Chris Penn can really sing! Hot damn! "},{"Title":"Once again Ferrara attracts big star names to a small picture with large ambitions.","Date":"9 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film would have made a great gangster saga but Ferrara and writer St. John are more interested about the characters then the story. What occurs on the surface may be minimal and very uncreative but deep within you enter the souls of each character who question their values as they mourn the death of a family member. Each one carrying a dilemma to the very surprising ending. This film could have been set in any era as it deals with intelligent issues such as the complex male macho image as questioned by Sciorra's character. Another interesting piece from Ferrara who goes for the mind and leaves you silent. "},{"Title":"Flawed but underrated and unusual Gangster movie.","Date":"6 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Giovanni Johnny Tempio (Vincent Gallo) is murder in front of a movie theater, since he is the youngest of the three brothers. His older brother Raimundo Ray Tempio (Oscar-WinnerChristopher Walken) and his second brother Cesarino Chez Tempio (The late Chris Penn) are powerful gangsters. While the funeral is done at Ray's home. Both Ray and Chez are having flashbacks of their late brother and their troubled past. While Ray is trying to find Johnny's killer and finding an reason, why he was murder. While Chez is going through his own personal hell.Directed by Abel Ferrara (Bad Lieutenant, Body Snatchers 1994, King of New York) made an fascinating, moody, gangster drama with fascinating performances by Walken, Gallo, Annabella Sciorra as Ray's Wife, Isabella Rossellini as Chez's wife, Oscar-WinnerBencino Del Toro as Gaspare Spoglia and especially Penn as a deeply troubled and ill-tempered Chez. Although The Funeral is flawed in places. I hate to admit this but Gallo certainly has an tough time playing the corpse at the funeral. Especially when Ferrara uses close-up of the actor... his eye-lids moves! Also towards the ending, there's another actor, who has an tough time playing an corpse as well! DVD has an decent Pan & Scan (1.331) transfer but the DVD has some digital images problems. DVD has an good Dolby Stereo 2.0 Surround Sound. The DVD is from Three Films Gangster Collector's Set. Abel Farrara's The Funeral is with two another movies on the DVD. Which they are The Last Days of Frankie the Fly with the late Dennis Hopper, Daryl Hannah, Kiefer Sutherland and Michael Madson. The other film is The Immortals with Eric Roberts, Tia Carrere and the late Tony Curtis.Abel Farrara's The Funeral is close to being an great movie but i will admit it, it's a very good movie, despite some flaws keeping this picture from being an masterpiece. The late Penn gives the strongest impression on the film with his impressive performance, it is certainly the best i seen from him. Other cast members like Walken, Sciorra, Rossellini, Gallo and Del Toro have their moments. If you haven't seen Abel Farrara's The Funeral, don't miss it. Written by Nicolas St. John (The Addiction, China Girl, Ms. 45). Which St. John has written some of Farrara's best work as a filmmaker. Sciorra is one of the associate producers of the feature. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"More effective than Sominex","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  As others have stated, this film had the potential to knock an audience off its feet. Consider the stable of talented actors on the cast list. That's what got me to rent it in the first place. With Christopher Walken, Chris Penn, Benicio Del Torro and Isabella Rosellini at the helm, what could go wrong? Plenty.The youngest of a trio of mob brothers is dead, thus the title of the film. Walken and Penn play the older brothers Ray and Chez, who are seeking little brother Johnny's killer. But the process is slower than watching paint dry. The long-suffering wives (Sciorra and Rosellini) are pretty much a waste of space. They scream, cry and smoke a lot. Little tenderness exists between them and their spouses. Whilst looking for the killer, the brothers drink, carouse and swear a lot.The movie explores how Johnny got killed in the first place, with an strange plot twist involving communism. Johnny is basically a womanizing jerk that his brothers don't seem to care about much until he's dead. I guess it's the a la famiglia thing. Walken's about the only worthwhile part of this film, when you're not suppressing a yawn. He tries to breathe life into a fairly lifeless film.Do yourself a favor. If you're longing for sleep and are out of Sominex, watch this film. It'll have you in dreamland in a matter of minutes. "},{"Title":"I give you a fuk1ng choice!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"9 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Great, and a unusual mafia/gangster movie. Full of excellent actors, like Christopher Walken, Vicent Gallo, Anabella Sciorra, Isabella Rossellini and the phenomenal Chris Penn, with a monstrous performance which make him win Best Actor Venice great prize. Once again this film is about limits and the madness of the human mind, the character Chez (Chris Penn), it an ambiguous, and unbalanced persona, that it explode in fury and anger, crying all the time, in total despair. Once more, Abel Ferrara shows us an unexpected and brutal film climax. A must see, for all Ferrara's fans. If you like this one, i recommend Godfather part- 1 and 2. "},{"Title":"THE FUNERAL (Abel Ferrara, 1996) ***","Date":"27 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" From what little I've watched of Ferrara's work up till now - 6 films including the one under review - this emerges as easily the most substantial (I liked his BODY SNATCHERS 1993 but have always deemed it an unnecessary update).It's generally compelling and filled with typically intense performances - Christopher Walken and Annabella Sciorra from Ferrara's THE ADDICTION (1995), Chris Penn, Vincent Gallo and Benicio Del Toro (though some of the over-the-top histrionics, usually involving Penn's bad-tempered character, do raise the occasional unintended chuckle). The plot, adopting a flashback structure which leads up to the titular occasion, deals with the director's favorite themes - honor, faith, violence - and, as such draws parallels with the gangster films of Coppola, Scorsese and even Tarantino.On the strength of this, I rented two more Ferrara titles - FEAR CITY (1984) and KING OF NEW YORK (1990; again, with Walken) - to go along with BAD LIEUTENANT (1992; which I just recorded off late-night Italian TV, where it was presented in the original language); the latter two, in particular, are films that I've been meaning to check out for years (I just hope it'll be worth it).By the way, though I rented THE FUNERAL from my local DVD outlet as part of a 2-Disc Set with THE ADDICTION, I was actually the one to have brought it over to him from London! "},{"Title":"One of the best gangster movies around","Date":"10 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I didn't rate this movie higher only because of what I considered flaws in pacing and continuity--as others have noted, the ages of the brothers and their physical dissimilarities seemed peculiar and it seemed to drag at times, but the actors were so good and played their roles with such intensity and skill, and the intelligence and insight of the movie was so sharp that I feel guilty for not giving it another star. It seems like my own problem rather than the film's.If you haven't seen this movie, you are missing one of the most powerful essays on the corrosive, self-destructive effects of lives addicted to criminality ever made, and if you have I'd be happy to hear you agree or disagree with my assessment. "},{"Title":"Whoah, this movie almost put me to fall asleep","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Being sincere, I didnt really like it. the only good point on this film for me is the excellent acting of most of the cast. But it lacks action, violence, emotion present in other Gangster movies and also a more interesting plot. Some of the artists on this worked on *The Last Don* which is a far better production, both in terms of plot and in terms of action. This is not a bad movie as one would think by my comments. It only lacks lots more action indispensable to gangster movies, so if you watch it expecting to see only a drama, maybe youll be satisfied, but if you watch it to see gangster wars, families, bosses, etc youll be dissapointed. "},{"Title":"Needed a faster pace. Good period piece","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The problem with this film is that it is a mob movie without the mob. Slightly boring and at times overly pretentious, the portrayal of CHRIS PENN and CHRISTOPHER WALKEN are noteworthy. This film was missing something...like a PLOT. From the maker of the BAD LT. (about police corruption) this film is a DAYS OF OUR LIVES look at the REAL lives of mobsters. i might have to watch it again to enjoy it more but the acting was superb, and Gretchen moll and Anabella Sciorra were excellent in this film. One thing this film does convey well was emotion and period look. I am a big fan of the ADDICTION (a commentary on demon possession done as a vampire drug allegory) but I'm sure with time I will enjoy this more...true arthouse does this. The film succeeds on the level that the mobsters are portrayed as 3D human beings and not DICK TRACY villains out of a comic strip. I sense the film was edited profuseley diminishing it's power, nonew the less a good look at a disfunctional mob family set in early 1900's NEW YORK. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Funeral is one of Abel Ferrara's best movies, not to say his best work besides the instant classic King of New York. The cast is superb, and all the big names (Christopher Walken, Chris Penn, Isabella Rossellini etc.) give breathtaking performances that you'll never forget. The story is intense and absolutely plausible, one can imagine that it happened right as Ferrara tells it back in the 1930's. The climax will knock you right out of your seats and will leave you gasping for breath. an undeniable masterpiece undoubtedly 10 out of 10. "}{"Title":"not bad i guess","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a weird movie if you ask me. Basically, a gangster(del Toro) *supposedly* killed Christopher Walken's communist brother for reasons i didn't really pay attention to.  So Walken alongside with his friends decide to kill him.  .  The other subplot is that Chris Penn's character slowly goes insane for some reason. There  isn't a lot of violence, which i expected alot more.  But if there is violence, it usually was very disturbing and nerve rattling.  The direction was very artistic, little different from the other Abel Ferarra film's i've seen (Bad LT., Body Snatchers).  Acting wasn't too bad.  The funeral has some stunning images too.  But i guess the only thing about the film is the story.  The story is a little bit imcomplete, and i feel that there could've been more to it.  And it was a little slow at times.  But overall, i liked it.  But i was expecting al ot more. "},{"Title":"The perfect cure for insomnia...","Date":"11 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" One would expect a film all about mobsters and hit men to at least be mildly interesting. Why not? The Godfather did it. Married to the Mob did it. Heck, even the spoof flick Mafia! managed to do it. All The Funeral will do is put your to sleep. It's unfortunate in many ways -- there is an excellent cast in this film, and normally the actors are more than able to keep my interest, but the characters had no redeeming qualities.Although many of the characters are well-written and very believable, there are too many holes in the plot and inconsistencies throughout the movie to save it from the hangman's noose. Wake me when it's over. "},{"Title":"There`s One Scene That Sticks In My Mind","Date":"13 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Abel Ferrara ? Not a movie maker that will appeal to everyone . He`s best known for making DRILLER KILLER a movie far better than it`s given credit for and his only mainstream film is BODY SNATCHERS which is a rather unnecessary remake THE FUNERAL hints that it wants to be mainstream because everyone loves movies about gangsters don`t they ? , and there are a couple of well known actors in it too . Alas there`s an irritating aspect to the screenplay that wants to make certain characters leftists . Why do movies seem to be under the impression that gangsters have socialist ideals ? The British small budget production FACE had this as did the classic ONCE UPON A TIME IN AMERICA . It`s often been said that the mafia are the most sucessful capitalist concept and I`m inclined to believe that There`s other audience unfriendly concepts to the movie , most of them being the fault of the director like graphic sex scenes , some serious violence especially at the downbeat conclusion , but the one scene that can`t fade from my mind is the scene where some of the male characters are watching a porn movie in a brothel . Young Johnny turns to the woman sitting beside him and they begin some serious french kissing . Did I mention this woman must be about 70 years old ? YUCK It`s hardly Ferrara`s best work and it`s probably recommended that potential audience members should familarise themselves with the director`s work before watching it Four out of ten   "},{"Title":"Painfully Slow Gangster movie, don't be fooled by the big name actors !  4/10","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is movie is so slow its unbelievable, There's not enough action to make up for this and makes the whole viewing experience very disappointing. It's got all your favourite gangster faces in it but sadly the film gives them nothing to do.  "},{"Title":"Don't waste your money or time.","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the worst movies of all time. It is slower than watching hair grow on your dog -nothing happens for the first 45min. The story is terrible and the characters are weak, contrived, unimaginative, unoriginal, and uninspired. And the actors playing them are not better.Chris Penn yells the whole time and the others are mumbling most of their lines (probably because they are embarrassed by them) so you can't understand a thing, which is probably good because one would realize even more how stupid the story is. Most of the performances are terrible, but the worst among them is Annabella Sciorra - who just happens to be a producer on this atrocious piece of junk. >  "},{"Title":"Abel Ferrara misfire","Date":"15 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I am of the opinion that Abel Ferrara's movies have been steadily declining since Ms45. Way too much symbolism, religious guilt, and boredom have invaded efforts like The Funeral. Might as well add a good dose of confusion on top of everything else. This one drifts back and forth in time almost as randomly as a doodlebug puddles about on a pond. The cast is excellent, Walken, Del Toro, Penn, give it their all, but the script is so muddled the whole thing just sort of collapses into a void of smoke and mirrors. The ending especially is less than satisfying. I mean an innocent Del Toro is killed, only to end with a crazed Penn lighting up the family and then blowing his brains out? Who cares? I certainly didn't. - MERK "},{"Title":"Darkness for the sake of darkness.","Date":"4 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Pointless. Abysmal in every respect in my view. Looking at the cast I was really excited to see this film. What I saw was a story so pointless, acting so intense yet superficial, disjointed continuity, extremely poor, choppy editing, over-crowded effects, pointless and gratuitous violence. A truck filled with radios explodes? From what? This film assassinates the character of Italians. While Chris Penn has center stage, his character in now way had the depth of soul to be the character he depicted with excessive boredom. Aside from Artificial Intelligence which I view as the worst film ever, this one almost ties it. The director and the editors as well failed. Darkness for the sake of darkness,murder for film dollars. Just a terrible film. "},{"Title":"Slow start, slow content, pointless end.","Date":"23 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Not often I say at the end of a movie what a waste of time. My time is not precious. I have a wealth of time. So actually it doesn't really matter what I do with it. At night I like to watch films sitting on my sofa next to my lovely wife who crumbles into my arms and sleeps most of the time. Usually we see good and very good films this way. But this time it was different. I give most films a chance. When nothing really special happens or when something really strange happens, I'm curious and want to see what the maker of the film is trying to say. No difference on that part, looking at this movie.I have one positive thing to say about this film great acting.For the rest, it is a boring film. I hated the little brother who was dead. I couldn't stand his moron face. He didn't fit in the 'family' to my opinion. The two other brothers, Walken and Penn, they were great!The entire film I was waiting for something to really happen. But nothing happened. Only very boring intros and some stupid dialogs that have no meaning and in the understanding of the film have no meaning at all. When you've seen the film, you could forget like 60% of the dialogs and still understand it. I liked what they did with Del Torro. And after that, the actual killer just didn't fit in the rest of the scenario of this Johnny, nor did it fit in the entire film. The killer had nothing to do with the business, the communist thing. Then why these boring dialogs?The end of the movie did it. I got a bad mood over it. This is what made me conclude a waste of time. All dead. ...Come on! "}]