[{"Title":"I screamed in pain, and other people joined me...","Date":"22 October 2003","Score":"50 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Dear lord.  I went to see this movie in the theater only because my S.O. at the time dragged me along.  Normally, even when a movie isn't great, I remain respectful of others and remain silent.  Not so here.  It was so bad, I was actually SCREAMING Dear God, Why?!?!?  Instead of getting shushed or having people get angry, I actually had people JOIN me in the sentiment. It was like we had to support each other to survive the blasted thing.See it only to abuse it.  It pained me. "},{"Title":"Wash Out your eyes","Date":"10 June 2004","Score":"37 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  For anybody else who has sat and watched this, I urge you all to write and complain. I thought the Titanic was bad, so bad that I was routing for the iceberg, but this, this is beyond the limits.92 minutes of 'What is going on', or 'what is the point 'questions. The truth, no point what so ever.At least I did not pay to watch this at the cinema; I made the mistake of getting it out on video.I can honestly say without fear or contradiction, that this film is the worst that I have ever EVER seen, and I have seen a lot.a complete waste of video tape & time  "},{"Title":"The Abortion That Somehow Survived...","Date":"14 June 2004","Score":"26 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  An epic of unbounded worthlessness...I always hate it when the sequel ignores the ending of the previous film and come up with a nonsensical way to continue the series on(Escape from the Planet of the Apes was the first to do that, though there was some redeeming value to continuing that particular series).Anyway, dreadful as a descriptive term is not really enough. Abomination is more apt. Somehow the future has become a rainy Blade-Runner-esqe culture with lots of orphan kids banding together in subterranean hovels hacking the net and using words like cool a lot while fighting the Big Evil Fascist Programming Corporation. And becoming allied to Neo-Navaho Chip designers who've moved in to the Unibomber's cabin.Enough with trying to describe this spam on film. It's main star, like the plot, has no legs to stand on right from the outset. The Computer animation was far inferior to the first film, like low-grade hamburger is to prime-rib. Hamburger left out on the counter overnight. Phew!A list of the faults and problems with this film could fill volumes and I'd just like to say AVOID THIS TORTURE, especially if you halfway liked the first film. This one completely ruins the first and even complaining about it won't help the sour taste left in your mouth after you swallow back your own bile.Really, really ghastly...  "},{"Title":"Is this the end of the world? No, its Lawnmower Man 2!","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"27 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Oh, God, this film is bad, oh so bad. I think I must have had too many beers in the pub prior to renting this pile of pants!I do remember looking at the clock on the video and noticed 15 minutes of the film had passed. I don't remember the first 14 minutes, and by the time we got to 20, I realised I had better things to do, like inspect the innards of the toilet or cleanout the attic with a toothbrush & tweezers.Its true when they say getting slightly drunk has an inverse affect on a person's ability to sort the wheat from the chaff. I must have had my drinks severely spiked to end up with something like this. But another good thing about alcohol, it makes you sleepy, and the following morning you tend to forget all those minor indescretions from the night before.I like the original Lawnmower Man, and even though most sequels generally suck, this just gets blown away. I just don't have it in me to comment on the acting, directing etc, since they are all tended to blur into each other to form one big blob of Hmmm!Not a good film, although if you have irritating guests in your home that you simply can't get rid of, put this on and I guarantee their coats will be on and the car keys ajingling before the opening credits finish!Bad!   (blank)/***** "},{"Title":"This was made by someone who hates everyone.","Date":"21 December 2009","Score":"14 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" My brother has repressed the memory of this film. I remain traumatized. Why would anyone make a movie like this and release it? Do they hate people? What are they going to do for an encore? Kick the homeless? Steal from the food shelves?This movie is terrible. Not in the so bad it is good way. This movie should not be viewed by anyone - ever. The plot is incoherent - acting wooden and has more holes in the plot than swiss cheese. I think this film can kill puppies, club seals, slash the rain forest, throw kittens in the river, oils penguins.I'm going to get a roofalate and see if I can forget this movie. "},{"Title":"Worst movie I've ever seen.","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"24 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  After suffering through this pitiful excuse for a movie.  My girlfriend and I just looked at each other as if to say, What the hell was that??.If you feel like wasting a few bucks, give it to the poor!  If you haven't seen this embarrassment yet, don't let your curiosity get the best of you. No matter how you look at it, you'll be very disappointed.  "},{"Title":"Why did they do this?","Date":"21 April 2004","Score":"18 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  God help me, but I actually liked the first movie.  When I heard this movie was coming out, I rushed to the theater on the opening day.At first I was confused, then upset, and finally insanely depressed.  This movie was absolutely horrid.  Bad acting, horrible plot, and mediocre effects.  The first movie was definitely focused on adults/teens.  This movie was either meant for young children or retarded monkeys (no offense intended to monkeys).I should have seen it coming as there are no actors in common with both movies.  This would not have been such a big deal if the story had not revolved around the original characters. "},{"Title":"Rare is a movie this bad!!!!!","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  All effects, no plot, acting that puts a shame on Hollywood and makes us have to rethink this whole movie business, directing that could better be handled by a six year old, horible horrible writing, and a lame computer dork of a plot. Matt Frewer couldn't be worse as an actor. As an actor he makes a pretty good janitor. Just the Hacker's like plot alone is enough to nausiate me. This movie is so bad it rolls over and plagues the first one which was good. The only good part about this movie is using the tape as a coaster for your drink when watching something more entertaining like, infomertials. "},{"Title":"So bad it's unbelievable","Date":"10 June 2000","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Talk about a disgraceful waste of film.  Sequels have a reputation for being bad and this was certainly no exception.  The original Lawnmower Man kept me entertained and had something that its sequel lacked...namely, a plot.  It was also missing the good acting, nifty special effects and everything else the original had to offer.  Can we say regression in action?  If it ever comes out on DVD you'll have a lovely decorative coaster.  Or if you want to break up with your significant other then rent this movie to watch with them..they might be gone before the opening credits finish rolling. "},{"Title":"So bad it's funny","Date":"4 April 2008","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" First of all I think Matt Frewer is a good actor. His role in Star Trek Next Generation as a bogus time travelling scientist was excellent and reminded me of James Jim Carrey. In this he tries very hard but the script and directing is not there at all. This sequel seems to contradict the ending of the first film completely and so I ended up watching it for the hilarious clichéd moments. Here's a listThe tag line is laughable God made him simple, science made him a god, now he wants revenge. What the hell is that about? He wants revenge? For what? On whom?Accessing secret files What computer would ever say that?We have to make Jobe so angry he destroys himself. That part had me in hysterics. Trace's ludicrous explanation why that would work.The fact that Jobe is somehow alive despite in the previous film he was practically incinerated.That weird bit in the middle where they try to find out who wrote a computer program by looking at a 3D image of a word.The bit where Jobe start to use bad language was really unexpected and very unnecessary.The over the top and pointless sword fight at the end. I thought Jobe had to destroy himself? Why the sword fight?That scary looking blonde woman. What was her role in the film exactly?The cliché of Trace the old computer master is now living a simple life in the desert.Homeless kids somehow have ganged together, taught themselves computer science to the degree that they know more than the average adult and have expensive equipment that WORKS in an old train.The Chiron chip. That thing really confused me. What was it and what was that talk of Egypt? How can everyone live in cyberspace? Their bodies would die. The whole idea is ridiculous.Trace's weird and annoying shaped mouth.That fight where Trace picks up a TV and smashes it on someone's head. It was clearly fake it looked like it weighed as much as a cardboard box.The whole film made absolutely NO SENSE.Still it made me laugh. "}{"Title":"What the hell happened???","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"14 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I'm sorry, but halfway through this movie, I realized I didn't know just what the Samuel B. Hell was going on! This movie does not deserve a long review so I will sum it up in two wordsIt stinks! "},{"Title":"I didn't want it for free!","Date":"1 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is not so much a review as it is to the confession of a crime; a tale of theft, an unreturned VHS-tape, left at the rental-return but not properly shoved into the slot and having taking said film home to be watched for free.See, it was the middle of the night, the shop long closed and the label of said videotape said Lawnmover Man 2. Having been a huge fan of the first part, I couldn't resist grabbing the tape, dragging it home and shoving it into the player. Even acquired a litre of plonk wine (back then favoured by impoverished students) to celebrate the joyous occasion of finally seeing a sequel.The plonk didn't help it, the bottle empty before the second half of the film, upon which I ended this farce and pressed first the stop, then the eject bottom. Returned the VHS to said return-slot the same night, not wanting to have it at home and fearing that a trash bin would reject the tape.And, if whoever had to pay late-fees for this tape happens to read this review consider this the price of an education. One doesn't rent crap like that! No points from me and the obligatory one point that IMDb gives it. "},{"Title":"This film is rather brainless...","Date":"12 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" In the 1980s and 90s, two huge problems were big in films. The first I would like to call the Spielberg cliché. That's where the world is saved by sensitive and all-knowing children. While governments, scientists and the like do their thing, the REAL geniuses (kids with a home computer in this case) save humanity! Ugghhh!! Second, there is the film makers' notion that says special effects can take the place of plot. However, rarely have I seen a film with such a bizarre and incomprehensible plot and such wonderful graphics--it's like a story wasn't even important to the film. What WAS important was lots and lots and lots of computer tricks and explosions--with graphics that were brilliant for 1996--but did nothing to create a movie worth seeing or understanding. It's as if they were making a film for people too dumb to want any plot! The plot, such as it is, is about some smart disabled guy who is using his über-brain to tie into all the world computers and mess with people--killing them in various ways that are super-graphics intensive. And, of course, it's up to a bunch of kids (and a down-and-out Patrick Bergen who must have been desperate for work) to save everyone. Is this really the best they could do?! Well it's obvious that I think this is a bad and vacuous film. However, is it bad enough to merit the inclusion on IMDb's Bottom 100 list? Well, that's not an easy answer and I should talk about the confusion in putting any film on the list. I guess it all depends on how you personally would interpret a bad film and what should be on the list. For example, the films of Ed Wood and Al Adamson are abysmal low-budget messes and yet they are not on the list. Perhaps this is because in their own weird way, they are so bad that they are funny. Or, perhaps because they are so low-budget they shouldn't be taken seriously. Lawnmower Man 2 is clearly nothing like these films--with a relatively large budget (despite some bargain basement actors) and wider release than an Ed Wood film, it clearly is in a different league. And, sadly, while bad, it isn't what I would consider fun viewing. And, considering the sheer waste of money (i.e., bang for the buck) and unwatchability, I would consider putting it on this infamous list. Pretty too look at mindless brain-rotting mush--that's MY interpretation of what should be on the list--and this clearly is brain-rotting mush!! "},{"Title":"Not a pretty picture!","Date":"3 November 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I walked out of this movie initially and only barely got through the rented copy my roommate brought home. Unfortunately, I cannot say this movie was so bad it was good. The acting was sub-par and the plot was riddled with dead-ends and useless one-liners. Though the original is definitely a must see cult classic, this sequel is a waste of fi "},{"Title":"I liked it.","Date":"10 August 2005","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Dr. Bejamin Trace creates a brilliant device which allows unhindered access to all sources of electronic information banks, hospitals, etc. When he questions their motives, the corporation that funded his research take him to court and claim the device as their own. Since Trace -- the only man who can make it work -- takes off to who-knows-where, the corporation pulls a crippled Jobe from the wreckage of the first movie and offer him a job.Several years down the road, Jobe's secret work has lead to a future that's advanced on the surface, but hides a sad underbelly of poverty and unemployment. Jobe's nearly cracked the networking device, but needs to find Trace for the last crucial bits, so he contacts his old friend Pete, who's working the streets with a gang of homeless hackers. Pete's overjoyed that Jobe is alive and tracks the nomadic Trace down in a desert home free of modern convenience, only to learn that Jobe has plans of his own for the networking device. Plans that go far beyond the sharing or stealing of information.First off, this film is cheap. It was made on a nonexistent budget and skipped out of the theaters before people even knew it existed. But, that aside, it works.The sets and costumes brilliantly portray a Blade Runner-style future clearly divided between the haves and have-nots. The casting is perfect, from Patrick Bergan's portrayal of Trace as a man shoved around so long he finally ran away from the world, and Eli Pouget as Jobe's doctor who falls for her patient's seeming innocence. But the rowdy gang of kids steal the show. Heck, even Frewer, who I normally don't enjoy, does a decent job.Farhad Mann deserves credit for a well constructed story with plenty of twists and turns that moves at a perfect pace. And more credit for bringing that script to life on such a meager budget.There's really only two problems I have with the film.First, Jobe doesn't gel with the original movie. Frewer's portrayal is of an anarchistic goof along the lines of Batman's Joker (especially the animated version), whereas Fahey played him as a twisted Buddha, one who thinks on a level beyond those around him. The performance works, though, if you just approach it as a different character.Secondly, the VR scenes with actors in front of blue screen suffer when compared to the dated but beautiful cgi of the original. They still look fairly good, superimposing the actors over sprawling cybernetic vistas, but I guess I just miss the gimmick from the first one.I like this movie. I know many out there don't, but I do. It's a rare sequel that tries to take the story off in a new direction. "},{"Title":"Garbage","Date":"2 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The original film is awful and so is this obnoxious sequel, which scores points for improving ever so slightly on its predecessor but loses them again for being so devoid of potential that even Jeff Fahey said no thanks - and look at some of the rubbish he's made. (How great was he in 'Lost', though?) Matt Frewer replaces him as the computer-enhanced genius who's now floating around in cyberspace with a desire to take over the real world. Trying to stop him are Austin O'Brien, forgotten child actor returning from the first movie, and Patrick Bergin, whose career's seen better days. With a trashy script, a story which barely fills the eighty-five minute running time and performances which rarely rise above the level of shite, the movie's left with nothing to wow you bar its beloved VR segments, and they're nothing special. The plot jumps ahead of itself so often it soon becomes clear that huge chunks of the movie have been hacked out, so there's something to be thankful for. "},{"Title":"More entertainment in cracking egg shell then watching this movie","Date":"15 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Oh deal, just when we though Hollywood was recently going down the tube, this movie popped up in the Comcast on-demand option. Nothing beats watching movies free or for a fraction of buying the disc or renting it on netflick.This movie is basically followup to the first Lawn Mower movie. The kid that we see in the first movie is now grown up, a hacker, and a kid whose life went downhill. Where is Pierce Bronson's character? Well guess the first movie sucks, why bother being in it then.As for the Jobe guy, wasn't he all stretched out thin in the first one? Well, anyways, this movie is like the terrible Robocop 3 where our future is bleak, corporate has their own little military and its a dirty homeless city setting of a movie.Be warn, this movie is just a time filler if you're looking to waste time or as someone said earlier, a movie to scare your inlaws out the door. Its on comcast now if those who have an account can watch it. "},{"Title":"Shame on you, Matthew Frewer!","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is certainly the worst thing I have ever seen Matt Frewer in, and I am honestly surprised that he accepted the part.  The plot is hackneyed and holds no real surprises for veteran sci-fi fans, and the film's main premise is just... stupid.  Worst of all, it's not Ed Wood bad... not even bad enough to be fun to sit at home with beer and popcorn and laugh at.  Pass it by. "},{"Title":"What happened to VR anyway?","Date":"29 January 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Virtual Reality never went that far. There was some people who thought that it could become like real where you can have your own world and make it your way. And then they of course had what they called cyber sex so people would think that it was a way to have free love. Now the idea of VR is just silly and that is why the lawnmower man movies where funny. Of course 1 was better then 2. I think 2 was more like a kids movie because it had a group of kids as the main caractures up against a super villain trying to take over that world how childish is that. I think it is a movie for some depressed people who probably listen to Tool way too much. "},{"Title":"Almost No Relation to the First Movie","Date":"10 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The first Lawnmover Man was a decent movie, at least for the first half.I liked the movie, and was really hoping to see Lawnmower Man 2 in the theater. There is a good reason it is one of the precursor movie to Matrix, Existenz, Dark City, 13th Floor which deals with concept of virtual reality. Despite the good showing of the first lawnmower man the theaters here in Thailand refused to be shown. So I had to wait until it came out in video stores. Strangely enough, the first time it went on sale, they were selling at a deep discount. I thought it was a bargain, so I bought it. It was the one of biggest mistake I have ever made in my life. Stephen King is no longer active. Actors are totally changed. I cannot see any resemblance at all to the first movie. At least hiring Pierce Brosnan would have helped a lot to the continuity. The characters looked like paper doll. The story line just did not fit with the first movie at all. You can watch this movie in itself without any knowledge whatsoever to the first film. The ending of the first Lawnmower man was he is now in Cyberspace. In the second part, he is back and still alive as a human and no longer in cyberspace. Total contradiction. I completely forgot the entire movie minutes after watching it and had to forced watch THREE TIMES because I could not understand it. The PLOTS for the entire movie are so complicated and if you bothered analyzing them, made no sense at all. The technology that the Evil Company offered made no sense and the public looked far too gullible and the government is as mindless as ever. The religion that people joined looked like zombies. If you pretend you are in a video game playing Lawnmower Man 2, then it looks just that, a video game not a movie, but lacking of action sequences. Movie is somewhat similar to the lame Matrix 3. This has got to be the worse movie I ever watched, besides Super Babies Baby Geniuses 2. Oh yes, I forgot, my pet dog died while watching this movie.Score 2/10 "}{"Title":"It works for me!","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Lawnmowerman 2 is visually dazzling cyber-escapism, jam packed with synergistic energy that redefines the nature of reality even more than it's predecessor. It interested me so much I wanted to be challenged even more. I got my wish. What follows is an audacious conclusion, arriving at not simply victory but at revelation. Coming out of a sensational action sequence, the ending was subtly transformational.It's a film that likely to transfix fans of computer gamesmanship as well as dazzle those with quaintly humanistic notions of life for the computer-generated characters that jack in Virtual Reality.   Farhad Mann has synthesized a savvy visual vocabulary and stylishly captures the duality of real vs. VR. LM2 is great fun; on another level altogether, it causes us to take a look at our responsibilities to the/our real world. "},{"Title":"Sucks big time","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I actually enjoyed the first movie, (one of the few who did), So I grabbed the opportunity to watch this on video..What can I say - The acting is terrible, There's no plot and The effects are terrible, putting it bluntly it totally sucks, I can't think of one positive thing to say about it.. (Except perhaps the bit where jobe kills a good guy starting with the words a little nosy aren't ya?? - There is a quite nice effect there)Pants with a capital p.  "},{"Title":"Yeah, it's bad. Really bad...","Date":"9 November 2015","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" LAWNMOWER MAN 2 BEYOND CYBERSPACE currently holds a ranking as one of the IMDb's bottom 100 films, so as you'd expect it's pretty bad. It's not the worst I've seen, not by a long shot, but it is a wasted opportunity for all involved, and it has very little to do with the first film.In fact, the only thing this really has in common is a sinister villain who lives in a virtual reality world. Unfortunately, the viewer is treated to a grinning, gurning Matt Frewer going way over the top and hamming it up as the cyber-creation. I know Frewer was an obvious choice for the role with MAX HEADROOM and everything, but his acting here stinks.The rest of the film isn't much better. The virtual reality scenes of characters flying around a fantasy world are really embarrassing and awful to behold. Patrick Bergin (ROBIN HOOD) comes in to pick up his pay cheque but tries to keep his head down for the most part. Can you blame him? Austin O'Brien (LAST ACTION HERO) is back from the original but can do nothing with a stock one-dimensional character. I can't describe the plot to you as I haven't got a clue what was meant to be going on, only that the budget was bigger than I was expecting and it still managed to be awful regardless. "},{"Title":"If It Looks Like Canadian Television And Stinks Like Canadian Television...","Date":"28 September 2014","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" ...Ferhad Mann must have directed it. Mann, best known for episodes of Murdock Mysteries and Diagnosis Murder helmed this unnecessary sequel to The Lawnmower Man which is set in a depressing future earth where citizens jack into cyberspace to escape the miseries of their existence. Meanwhile, scientists discover Jobe (now played by Max Headroom's Matt Frewer) and decide to use him to take over the cyber world with something called a Chiron Chip. Only a team of teenage urchins with mad skills in the cyber world can stop Jobe's evil scheme. The Lawnmower Man 2 Jobe's War STINKS! It looks like a cheesy episode of some late 80s Canadian sci fi TV show. Producers ultimately locked director Mann out of the set and tried to salvage the film with drastic re-editing to no avail. "},{"Title":"I've become the chip....","Date":"1 September 2013","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Jobe is resuscitated by Jonathan Walker, and he wants Jobe to create a special computer chip that would connect all the computers in the world into one network.Walker would control and use the system, But he doesn't realise a group of teenage hackers, and Patrick Bergin, are on to him and out to stop his plan. He also doesn't realise that Jobe is now the bloke from The Taking Of Beverly Hills and not Jeff Fahey......What is there to say? Yes the film is bad, there is no real explanation as to why Jobe is a I've, but he is, and when he's in cyber world, he turns into some strange Jim Carrey wannabe hybrid. The plot is silly, narrative is all over the place, and the cast know its ridiculous, but blimey Charlie, its a lot of fun to watch. The effects are really bad, even worse than Spawn, and Bergin looks totally bemused to be in this, its long way from the time he starred in that Robin Hood movie that didn't star Kevin Costner.Fewer really overacts, and despite his attempts to be menacing, he's just too camp, and becomes the reason why the film is so funny.Its rubbish, but its entertaining rubbish, but I cannot give it a rather higher than a four, because it is a fundamentally bad film, but not bottom 100 worthy.Plus its the best film ever to come as a special feature on the originals DVD. "},{"Title":"Take the information super highway to the 90's","Date":"20 September 2012","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The first 15 minutes or so of Lawnmowerman 2 were just utterly confusing. There is a man caught in cyberspace, an exploding building, paraplegic undergoing rehab and sudden jump to the future, all in a confused jumble. At this point I actually went online to check that I got the right movie, I was surprised to learn that I did.Once the initial confusion has settled down a bit you can get into the story proper which is only slight more watchable than the messed up intro. We have a bunch of kids in the future fighting against a crippled evil genius trying to control cyberspace, and all of it is clad in a super cheesy mid 90's aesthetic. It's kind of like The Matrix but for kids; with jargon like 'information super highway' and a dumb plot it feels both dated and inane. And it's not even cheesy enough to be funny.There is no point in commenting on acting, directing and so on, none of it matters with a film like this. "},{"Title":"Horrid","Date":"13 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Lawnmower Man 2 (1996) * (out of 4) 1992's The Lawnmower Man was a disastrous film that somehow gained a cult following. Perhaps it was the special effects or perhaps it was the wicked performance of Jeff Fahey as the dimwitted Jobe that made people enjoy the movie. For some unknown reason four years later we got Lawnmower Man 2 Jobe's War, which fell into theaters in January and was on video within months. The first film was bad but this one here is something far worse.This sequel starts off where the previous film ended. The dimwit turned genius by virtual reality training Jobe (Matt Frewer) has been blown up but when special agents check out the building they find him still breathing. Jobe, missing his legs must undergo plastic surgery to save his face (and to bring a new actor in) and then the scientists try to figure out more about him. The evil Jonathan Walker (Kevin Conway) wants Jobe to teach him about the Chiron chip, which would be able to let Walker into any computer throughout the world. By doing this Walker could overtake the world and end it as we know it (God knows he isn't the first to try this).Due to the explosion and various other mental problems, Jobe has plans of his own, which included taking over the world himself. Jobe goes cyber surfing to a futuristic Los Angeles where he discovers his old friend Peter (Austin O'Brien), the same kid who gave him Twinkies in the first film (he's aged a lot for one day). Jobe tries to get Peter to help him but when the kid discovers what Jobe's plans are here turns to Dr. Trace (Patrick Bergin) who might be able to stop the maniac from taking over the world and saving us all. Are you on the edge of your seat yet? Lawnmower Man 2 is one of those films that's so bad I'd recommend you stick needles in your eyes instead of watching the film. I love bad movies like Plan 9 From Outer Space and Reefer Madness but this here is just so bad that I dare you not to hit the FF button or return it to the video store after the first five minutes. I'm really not sure why sequels like these are made. I'm really not sure who'd want to watch the film but I guess producers are hoping fans of the original will flock to this over the title.I'm really at a loss of words on talking about this film. I did a little research on the film and learned that it's number twenty on the worst films list over at the IMDb. To think there are people out there who think nineteen other movies are worst than this really blows my mind to no point. The media wants to mock and make fun of a recent Ben and Jen flick yet I bet none of them sat through this film. The acting makes Lopez seem like Bette Davis. The screenplay here makes Ed Wood look like Woody Allen.Another thing missing from this film is just a person choice of mine but I've always enjoyed Jeff Fahey as an actor. I enjoyed him in the first film and other horror films like Psycho 3 and Body Parts. I'm sure he wasn't too busy when this movie was made and the fact he turned it down says a lot about it. I always hate it when sequels come along with the same characters being played by different actors. The most mind blowing thing however is that the studio opened this in over fifteen-hundred theaters, which is a shame considering how many better films never get into one. "},{"Title":"Traumatized me","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I liked the original.  This film however was horrible.  I would have walked out but I was paralyzed with horror.  I kept watching hoping beyond hope that the plot would somehow begin make sense and somewhat redeem the film. But it did not come to pass and I had to go home and take a shower. "},{"Title":"Made my teeth hurt!","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Seriously, I think a tooth ache would have been more welcome than this cheap hack.  This is a typical case of terrible sequel.  I did not watch the whole movie, rewound the tape about halfway thru and brought it straight back to the video rental store, where I got an apologetic look from the clerk.The acting was poor, the story went nowhere, and it's not even one of those movies that are so bad they are entertaining.  This was so bad it made you cry you spent $3 on a rental. "},{"Title":"No prize winner, but not deserving of the bottom 100","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I didn't have high expectations for this movie, as I didn't think the first Lawnmower man was great and this was after all a sequel.  I can't say I thought the film was good.  However, I didn't walk away.  I have seen some really BAD movies in my day, and while this was no prize winner, I wouldn't put it on my all time s*** list.  Bottom line  If you're really bored and you can see this for free on cable, its worth a look.  Otherwise, forget it. "}{"Title":"Not as bad as a lot of the reviews for this movie would have you believe.","Date":"21 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" JOBE is back & this time he attempts to rule both our world & cyberspace, unless a scientist & a group of young adults can stop him. In my opinion (Though like always, I seem to be one of many in a very small race of people who likes films most people hate) LAWNMOWER MAN 2 JOBE'S WAR or BEYOND CYBERSPACE as it was advertised, was a tad better than LAWNMOWER MAN 1, sure the acting wasn't as good & there's perhaps too much CGI, but the story had more going for it than the original, there was more at stake in this film & the film never takes that long to get going. MATT FREWER was pretty good as Jobe I thought, & the direction was a bit better than the last time out. Worth a look, just don't expect to much out of it, or you'll be disappointed.**1/2 stars "},{"Title":"Why, oh why was this piece of crap made?","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  To get an idea of how bad this movie is, the stars of the original, Pierce Brosnan and Jeff Fahey, wouldn't even return to reprise their roles. And its no wonder why they refused the whole thing is a disgrace to movies everywhere. For starters, it contradicts the ending of the first film, and since Fahey wouldn't return, they had to make up some dumb story about Jobe having plastic surgery. I had the misfortune of seeing this movie in the theaters, and I was truly in awe of what I was seeing on the screen. It was like a nightmare. You know, the one where you're trapped someplace and you can't move, then you wake up. Only I couldn't wake up. I was frozen in terror at this...this excrement of films. Let me detail the more ridiculous points of the film1. When all of the people of the world are flocking in herds to worship, through cyberspace, a bald, crippled goof who talks mumbo-jumbo.2. When the young kid and some woman track down the scientist from the first film to help them find Jobe, only to realize that he has become some wigged out crackpot who looks like an indian. 3. A ridiculous chase scene in the middle of the film, as an evil tycoon and his guards race our heroes to find some chip or something.The first Lawnmower Man was an okay film with great special effects. This sequel is a bad film with bad special effects, characters, visuals, etc. etc. etc. I could go on, but that would simply be wasting your time, just like, coincidentally, this movie.  "},{"Title":"This movie isn't even funny bad.","Date":"14 August 2004","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I may be one of the few people who loved the first Lawnmower Man, but I did.I've watched it over a dozen times and still look forward to my next viewing.The horrible piece of tripe that LM2, however, is something that I wish I could erase from my brain.There is no continuity from the first movie. There are none of the interesting themes from the first movie, like the awe-inspiring wonders of technology and their dangers, or the well-executed power corrupts motif.Just don't do it.  "},{"Title":"One of the few times the sequel ruined the original","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Having watched the original Lawnmower Man a few times as a reasonably enjoyable (albeit far-fetched) movie which had a nice gradual change in mood from start to end of the movie, I originally looked forward to this sequel. When I saw the sequel in the theaters, I was not prepared for the big disappointment I was to be hit with.  I have to say, that this sequel is one of the few times that a sequel ruined a relatively-good original.  I now don't think I would be able to enjoy watching the original Lawnmower Man movie, after having some details forced into my mind from a really awful sequel. "},{"Title":"A resounding Meh.","Date":"12 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I am rather amused at all the people here, who seem to hate on this movie just because its not exactly the same to Lawnmower man, or bash on it for the Barely there plot. Well, growing up on horror flicks like I did, I can honestly say this HAS A plot, its just everyone's looking for some schlocky sci-fi plot and missing the real one.In a nutshell the plot is pretty simplistic, Jobe is a cripple, def and Dumb, who's brain has been hardwired to every computer in the world, after spending a life time crippled, and helpless he now has COMPLETE control, and absolute power, or near it. Jobe now wants to take over the world, and keep every single person in his cyber-world, and its up to the two Scientist doctors, and the male leads hacker minions, to try and stop them. Its a fairly schlocky, straight forward plot.A big turn on about this movie, is the Special Effects, a lot of people seem to be saying their Bad but considering the era this movie was made in, their decent. Tron it is not. But it's not on par with plan 9 from outer space either.The actors deliver a variable performance, nothing really stands out, or draws away. The actor playing Jobe is rather creepy, and genuinely gives off that off his nut, power hungry personification up until the end.All in all, this movie was a fairly straight forward run, more about the special effects then the plot, and simply didn't hold up well to the tests of time. The only bit that confused me in the least, was the Pyramid or Egypt analogy. "},{"Title":"Still Green","Date":"30 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Yes, it may be one of the worst films ever made, yes its incredibly dated, but it still has the futurama appeal of the 1st movie however, unlike the first this is far less intellectual (not to say V1 was), but since a couple things in this wont come to pass for a couple years now, i reaken the best time to watch this would be somewhere around 2011 on a computer hooked up to a pair of those $1000 glasses with a projector built in while using something like the emotive headset (google it before you cry n00b)instead of a mouse.But then again, since it's more of a cheap CGI/blue screen version of the Die Hard series rather than an intelligent forerunner to the Matrix like the first, i'm inclined to say this is more akin to a 1996 vinegar than to the 1992 port-noir the original was. "},{"Title":"Makes a train wreck look good","Date":"2 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Where to begin? The shoddy acting is a good start. Patrick Bergin is tolerable, but everyone else is seemingly doing the cue card shuffle. Matt Frewer does a Jim Carrey impression with a character that should, by all means be serious. People accuse Star Wars of wooden acting, yet this makes all the star wars films actors look like scholars. Next, on a movie that should be touted for special effects, this movie has none. When you can clearly see cardboard burning and made to look like a hallway you have a problem. Speaking of train wrecks, this film has one, and it looks terrible. There are plot holes galore as this movie's main focus is on this Cairon chip (whatever that is) which is never fully explained. Somehow the main character, Jobe, is able to coexist in both the real world and cyberspace at the same time. If anyone can find anything positive to say about this movie I would love to hear it. I will then gladly put that person into an insane asylum. "},{"Title":"no connection to the first one","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" When I saw Lawnmower Man, I thought that it was one of the most interesting movies that I'd ever seen. When I saw Lawnmower Man 2 Beyond Cyberspace a few weeks later, I couldn't understand how it was supposed to be related to the first one. Containing a plot too confusing to discuss, not only did they not bring back Pierce Brosnan, it didn't even have the decency to bring back Jeff Fahey to play Jobe - although Matt Frewer isn't a bad actor otherwise. But the rest of the movie seems to be a series of randomly strung-together special effects.So anyway, if you watch the first one, you'll have seen all that you need to; there's no reason to waste your money on this one. "},{"Title":"dreadful,dreadful,and even more dreadful(did i mention it was dreadful?)","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" absolutely dreadful.who could have imagined such a disgraceful follow up to the first Lawnmower Man.i am almost stunned beyond words,but IMDb requires a minimum amount of lines,so here goes.very low budget and it looked it.horrible casting in the case of Matt Frewer,who this time around is supposed to be the title character.i can not take this guy seriously as an actor.he would be out of his depth in an elementary school play.the guy has no screen presence whatsoever.this a bad thing when the movie might possibly hinge on your performance.(although there is no fear of that happening in this dog,but still-Matt Frewer?)Jeff Fahey may not be the best actor,but he was perfectly cast for the original movie,and compared to Matt Frewer,he's Olivier.it is possibly that Olivier himself couldn't have saved this vomit,as it looked like it was a made with the change from a 20 dollar bill.less than 0* "},{"Title":"There's bad films, then there's BAD films.","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is yet another lesson in just how unecessary a sequel can be. Granted, the Lawnmower Man was far from perfect, but it was an average fairly entertaining sci-fi with some nice visuals; this, on the other hand, is drivel. Not a redeeming feature shows through this pile of rubbish. If you love bad films, you'll vote this one a ten. Otherwise avoid it like the plague, it's surpassed by few as one of the worst I've ever seen. "}{"Title":"Let me think...","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Let me go back to the first film, Lawnmower man, and let me also look back at the tagline. God made him simple. Science made him a God.This is actually quite clever, showing how dangerous technology can be in the wrong hands.Now let's look at the tagline for Lawnmower man 2. God made him simple. Science made him a God. Now, he wants revenge.What the hell is that about? This tagline is a complete copy of the first film's, and shows just how simple the writers were to come up with it. I mean every single bad guy in b-movie sequels seem to want revenge.In fact the only bit of intelligence and irony in the script is how similar it is to the tagline. Crap.  "},{"Title":"Mindbuggeringly bad","Date":"18 November 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It's a kinda Matrix for the recently lobotomised. Life's just too short to waste even one precious moment on excremental tosh like this. If they had an iota of shame, the entire cast and crew would have committed mass hara-kiri at the premiere. OK, perhaps we might let off the CGI drones who were presumably acting under orders but that's it.If you're offered the choice between watching Lawnmower Man 2 and french kissing a recently deceased tramp I recommend taking the least shameful option. Pucker up... "},{"Title":"Not just ONE single good word","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is such a bad movie, I never saw the end of it. The first Lawnmower Man, based upon the story by Stephen King (Which was later not true, nothing to do with the story he said). The first one was a regular good movie. I can't tell what this movie is about, because there is no storyline in this film. Don't rent this one, don't buy this one, only if you have more than enough money you don't use.(02/10) "},{"Title":"Bad","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The cute gang of kids schtick has never been a good plot device, and it still holds true for this film. Cheap video bluescreening in place of high tech computer graphics only add to the amateur feel. The acting is bad. The direction is bad. The cinematography is adequate but hardly enough to haul this movie out of it's pit of pathetic mediocrity.  "},{"Title":"The emptiest movie ever","Date":"7 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Scenario the good of the first movie has become bad His friends are coming to take him back. That's all. Because they didn't have more ideas, they took some scenes from Star Wars and put them in (the sabres fight, the old man that live in the desert I never heard this name for a long long time...,...). Maybe they thought nobody would see it. I did.  "},{"Title":"Entertaining if not taken seriously","Date":"29 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The LawnMower man was a great sci-fi movie, the effects may look dated now but at the time they were groundbreaking. The CG effects reminded me of a video game and I still find they kind of cool to watch. LawnMower Man 2 Beyond Cyberspace (Renamed LawnMower Man 2 Jobe's War for the video release.) isn't too bad, it may not be has good as the first LawnMower Man but it is an entertaining sci-fi movie. The effects are good, the Virtual Reality effects are not has video game looking as the first LawnMower Man but still alight. Instead of using 3D most of the Virtual Reailty effects are just real locations. The acting in this film is so-so since some of the performances are okay and some are bad, LawnMower Man 2 does have a few plot holes that messes up the ending of the first film, one is that in the first film Jobe destroyed his psychical body to create a virtual body but in this film Jobe's body is still intact. Another thing is that the world has turned into a futuristic world in just a few years, how did the city become so high-tech that quickly? These plot holes made the film more entertaining since it's so bad it's good.The film sees the base being destroyed and a group of people searching the wreckage, they find Jobe and rescue him. After being revived Jobe is sent into cyberspace again to help create a new project called Virtual Light which is a huge virtual world. Some years later and the programme is slowly becoming more complete, Jobe's friend Peter is now a teenager and lives with his friends in the subway. After going into Virtual Reality Peter meets Jobe who asks him to find a man who helped start the Virtual Light programme since he needs to understand how to use the Computer Chip, the device that makes the Virtual Light work. Peter finds him and takes him to their hideout, there Peter discovers that Jobe has became more ruthless and different then when he first met him. Soon they learn that Jobe is planning on using the Virtual Light world to make a new society, he plans on making the real world chaotic so people will have no choice but to enter Virtual Light and Jobe will be the ruler of it all. They then try to stop Jobe before he completes Virtual Light and carries out his plan.LawnMower Man 2 Beyond Cyberspace isn't too bad, it may not be for everyone's taste but if you're a fan of cheesy sci-fi movies then this film may be worth a look. Check this out. 10/10 "},{"Title":"The Suffering Children Of Man's Desire For Morebetter Technology","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I believe that the genius who wrote this film is so far ahead of us, that our brains have no choice but to reject the complex storyline and beautiful cinematography that is Lawnmower Man 2Beyond Cyberspace.  The saga of Job continues, and once again, hilarious hi-jinks ensue.  I would consider this movie a mix of Flowers For Algernon and Indecent Proposal.  Without revealing TOO much of the plot, an evil corporation proposes that Job (who used to be stupid) do something evil; this is indecent.  Job kind of flies around, and tells jokes, and the jokes he tells are funny.  This part is REALLY rewarding.  In conclusion, I voted with my conscience and gave this film a 1 out of 10.  It was really really rad. "},{"Title":"the worst one yet","Date":"13 August 1998","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is hands down the worst movie I have seen in my entire life. It is the only one I have ever walked out of. Not a single thing was good about it. Terrible acting, filming, story and directing. It was so bad it made my head hurt. Have I made my point? "},{"Title":"the worst movie ever made","Date":"18 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Bad. Not so bad it's good. So bad it makes you want to join the Peace Corps to make up for the fact that you just wasted an hour and a half of your life watching this movie. I'm one of those people who reads comments and says it can't be that bad, I'll see for myself. It's that bad. In fact, it's worse. It's so bad, not only should you never ever ever pay money to see it, but you shouldn't even channel surf while it is on TV for fear of accidentally watching parts of it. This movie is one of the only movies ever that I have considered walking out of and demanding a refund. I didn't because I kept thinking it has to get better. It just can't be this bad. It was that bad. It never ever gets better. Ever. If someone had pulled the fire alarm in the middle of this movie and caused an evacuation, no one would have ever returned to see the second half. In fact, it's been years since I saw this movie and the experience still haunts me. If you paid money to see this movie you should ask for a refund. Even if you saw it years ago, you still deserve a refund. Go get it. and then join the Peace Corps. "},{"Title":"Stupidly underrated","Date":"18 November 2003","Score":"10 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie may not be good and seem slightly 80's but it certainly doesn't deserve to be in the bottom 100. Some of the effects are pretty impressive despite what you read here and the acting is really not bad at all. There are far, far worse flicks out there.I'd give it a 6/10. "}{"Title":"The worst film of the 20th century","Date":"30 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Because i really loved the first movie, i bought the sequel on DVD. It was the biggest mistake i've ever made in my life.The sequel really does not have *ANYTHING* in common with the first movie. The entire plot is an accumulation of trash elements. The whole movie is ridiculous, it's a shame for the original first and it's more than predictable. Really, this is like the perfect example of how to ruin a movie. There are no words to describe the dumbness of this movie. Even the cast is not the same as in the prequel.If this movie could be described in one word, it would be disgusting. Avoid this movie under any circumstances - except you want to hurt yourself.Disgusting. "},{"Title":"Like being punched in the face.","Date":"4 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Oh Lord. Matt Frewer, how could you? I had very nearly forgotten about this movie, until I took a look at the bottom 100. What can I say? I like Matt Frewer, I did not dislike the first movie, had some pocket change, and it was one of the few movies I hadn't seen yet at the local video store.I vaguely recall a group of kids running around in... hell. What was it anyway? The future? It looked like a modern subway to me. And I think they used a lot of technobabble. Also, there was cyberspace. Yes, let's not forget that. Or was there? Isn't this movie Beyond Cyberspace? Oh, just forget it.  "},{"Title":"What a disaster.","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Watching films like this, I wonder how the directors of these films get to where they are. Why aren't I doing sequals? I know I'd be a bad director, but I'd do far better than this tripe.The plot is nonsensical, the incidental music totally innapropriate among the many other negative attributes. Infact it would be far easier to list what is good about this movie, as it would be far shorter.So on the bright side, if you like the idea of drowning in viscera, watch this movie. That is the sensation I had when I did. "},{"Title":"How did this movie ever get two stars?","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I don't know who voted on this movie, but there are two stars too many in this rating.  There were so many holes in the plot and so much bad acting, this deserves to be on the top 5 worst movies of all time list.  I've seen Mentos commercials that had more complex thought in it than this Lawnmower Man 2. Matt Frewer had better acting parts in Max Headroom, for goodness' sake.  I think this movie deserves to be watched BECAUSE it is so horrible... it will make you appreciate every other movie ever made so much more.  I felt nauseated coming out of the theater. "},{"Title":"A big, steaming, pile of...","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is probably the worst movie I have ever seen (I thought that until I saw fear & loathing in las vegas which makes it a dead even tie for 'worst movie of all time').  The acting was horrible, the story made absolutely no sense, and about 90% of the audience left before the ending. See the first lawnmower man but AVOID this piece of CRAP!!!! "},{"Title":"Surpasses the original on all levels (keep your vomit bag at hand)","Date":"25 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Hollywood must make the final installation of the franchise immediately. It will be the trilogy then. The plot outline for the final part is the following.Our planet is being attacked by invaders from the outer space, but little do they know about Jobe. Jobe cheats the extraterrestrial creatures into cyberspace and kills them one by one. It all ends with one extraterrestrial mutant left alive - it flees in a flying saucer to another galaxy. Of course there is a personal computer inside the flying saucer and it is infected with Jobe's spy-ware. Soon, the whole universe falls victim to the dehumanized Jobe. The final shots of the movie show the stars that become dim one by one. A tragic black screen in the end. This feature is to be called Lawnmower Man the Final Conquest. The extraterrestrial race must be CGI generated green mean creatures with big plasma guns while the main character (Jobe) must be played by Eddie Murphy. It will be the phenomenal no-happy-end blockbuster (PG certificate inevitable) of this millennium and will earn tons of money.Of course my review is irrelevant but what do you expect? It's not a movie, it's a joke. There is nothing more to say.Therefore, a solid 1 as a mark (even a good sequel potential cannot save it). Thanks for attention. "},{"Title":"Could have Been Better","Date":"21 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Here we have a sequel that as usual doesn't measure up to the first. The good thing about this film is the computer graphic animation(which we got a good dose of in the first one). It still needed better actors instead of no-name people and the couple of actors it did have just seemed as they were not into the movie itself and it was more of a Jr. High school play for them. The story well it didn't have the backing of Stephen King as we could tell. It must have been thrown together just for the sake of having a sequel to the original Lawnmower Man. If you are a die hard collector like myself and want to make sure you get all the sequels then my suggestion is spend as less money as possible on it. Anything over $5.00 would be looney. If you can tape it off of television when it comes on that would be best then you only out a blank videotape.  "},{"Title":"Do me a lemon (oh, New Line Cinema already have!)","Date":"18 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Oh dear.Oh dear oh dear.Leading onward from a mediocre start of series (though I pray there will NEVER be a third), this film slips off the scale of watchability as fast as a fat bloke down a waterslide...Despite the significant CGI advances which took place in the years between 1 and 2, the budget must have shrunk to such an extent that the FX crew had to wire a dozen ZX81s together.As everyone before me has stated; Bad story, Bad acting, Bad FX, TERRIBLE FILM.Its less than 1/10th the film Johnny Pnemonic is and I considered that to be poor at best.They better invent a coffin on a turntable because at some point, Stephen King (author of the short story on which Lawnmower Man is based - kinda) will be turning in his grave.At least there was ONE shot of a mower...T_P_O "},{"Title":"It is so bad, that it hurts","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  What the heck is this?  I knew that it would be a mistake when I picked up this movie, given that I didn't like the first one that much either, and this is a sequel!Boy, was I right!!!  The plot is absolutely stupid.  Acting is non-existent. Even the CG effect sucks.  There is no saving grace for this movie at all.0 out of 10. "},{"Title":"My gawd!","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Truly abysmal. The worst of the worst. Really, really bad. And the thing is that people actually thought the first instalment was worth a look. I do not agree. And this one is totally redundant. The first Lawnmower man should not  have been made in the first place, so we wouldn't have had this TURKEY.   "}{"Title":"lawnmower this film 2","Date":"1 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" yes as the title clearly states, it is awful. please for your sanity do not watch!!!! please for your sanity do not watch!!!! please for your sanity do not watch!!!! please for your sanity do not watch!!!! please for your sanity do not watch!!!! please for your sanity do not watch!!!! please for your sanity do not watch!!!! please for your sanity do not watch!!!! please for your sanity do not watch!!!! please for your sanity do not watch!!!! please for your sanity do not watch!!!! please for your sanity do not watch!!!! please for your sanity do not watch!!!! please for your sanity do not watch!!!! please for your sanity do not watch!!!! "},{"Title":"awesome movie! great effects!  superb acting!  4 STARS!!!!","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie was amazing!!!! One of the few times the sequel was actually better than the original and BY FAR. This movie had so many twists and turns, I never knew what was going to happen next. I was at the edge of my seat the whole movie even though I was the only one in the theater. Matt Frewer was great in this movie. He just gives an Oscar worthy performance!! I can go on and on about how fantastic this movie was!! I just can't wait until part three comes out. I'll be the first person in the theater and hopefully not the only the one this time. Although it was nice to be able to enjoy the movie not having to worry about people talking and blocking my view. "},{"Title":"why people hate diz movie???","Date":"19 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" i don't believe it!!! people are cursing this great action sci fi movie!!! i know,and i admit that this movie does not follow the original movie...as a sequel, it should have been a horror movie, not action...but the movie has every good elements in it!!!! the acting is superb!!!i just really don't get it!!!worse movie in history?? come on...people are rating stupid idiot movie like blade runner, the matrix, iron man and many others 10 out of 10 stars...and this movie which contain great sci fi action with 1 stars???this movie is superbly great!!! come on...watch it again!!!!! then only you decide!!!! you idiot voters!!!!10/10**** "},{"Title":"Ooh...","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Man, does this film seem exciting or what? I've seen so many movies in my lifetime that, as I am writing this, I can't think of a sweet, not short (or long, duh!), very decent opinion for Lawnmower Man 2 Beyond Cyberspace! However, all I can say is that this sequel to Lawnmower Man has, as the title says - Twice The Action! - Twice The Adventure! - Twice The Excitement! - And Twice The Horror! Plus, there's twice the fun, twice the spookiness, well, twice the everything! Now that I am just about done writing this review, what I can say about this movie is that if you haven't seen this already, then go to the video store now and rent it! It'll have you going beyond cyberspace! "}]