[{"Title":"Cut little comedy","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I don't know why a lot of critics attacked this movie. What is there to attack? That's the problem with critics, they're always way too serious. Lighten up! No one said this would be Saving Private Ryan. It's not even Honey I Shrunk The Kids, but it's still cute. I mean think about it, at one point (well, more than one) in our lives we all just wish we could lock our parents in the basement. The acting is not superb but it's cute and the kind you would expect from a movie like this. The one person I will hand it to is Jennifer Tilly, who really stole the show as Jennifer Love Hewitt's teen-like mother. Not bad at all, though not near to becoming one of the best. This movie will soon be forgotten but if it ever comes on TV watch it.   "},{"Title":"good actors make it worthwhile","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" After learning that his parents are getting separated, a sensitive, idealistic teenage boy is so shocked and distraught that he recruits his younger sister to help lock them in the basement in the desperate hope that they'll actually talk out their problems and come to a rational solution. It starts out as a good idea, until his friends bring over their parents and lock them into the basement as well. Film's premise is far-fetched and protracted, to be sure, but it benefits from a talented cast (especially Howard), believable characters, and a good sense of family values. Not easy to take seriously, but meaningful and not bad for what it is. **½ "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Family Movie!","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  After Grover(Kyle Howard) and his younger sister Stacy(Amy Sakasitz) find out that their parents, Janet(Jamie Lee Curtis)and Ned Beindorf(Kevin Pollak) are getting separated and maybe divorced they decide to lock them in the basement so that they can figure things out. But during school, Grover tells his friend Matt(Mooky Arizona)what he did to his parents and the school bully T.J.(Russel Harper)hears them and decides to lock his parents in Grover's basement too, along with Matt's parents and Brooke's mother too. Brooke is played by Jennifer Love Hewitt and she plays a popular girl in school on who Grover has a big crush on. I thought this was a wonderful family movie. It was very funny and I think it can be enjoyed by both kids and adults. All the actors do a good job and it's just a very entertaining movie. A lot of people have complained and said that this movie was very unrealistic and things like that would never happen in real life but c'mon, what movie is really realistic and things that happen in movies usually don't happen in real life but you should enjoy movies such as these while you still can. Anyways, I would give House Arrest 9/10. "},{"Title":"Good flick","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" 'House Arrest' is a really cute movie and hopefully will influence parents to think about things before just getting a divorce. This movie may not be the most realistic portrayal of how a kid would act when he found out his parents were thinking about splitting (ie locking your parents in the basement) but the reactions are pretty genuine in the fact that just about all kids have problems with their parents. Some things were def. over-exaggerated though, like when Grover (Kyle Howard) finds divorce papers in the mail and then 'flips' out by shoving a bunch of papers around and knocking stuff over. No kid, well usually, would be that mad about their parents divorcing (I'm sure they would be upset, maybe cry, but like wrecking stuff in some sort of manner, yea right). The acting wasn't bad, I thought it was pretty good all around. The story was funny and if your parents aren't like any of the ones in the movie, you probably will appreciate your own family more. I recommend seeing this if you can, it's on HBO a lot. "},{"Title":"Funny with a useful lesson","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" This comedy, about a teenager and his younger sister who lock their parents in the basement until they work out their marital problems, is not as bad as it sounds. We wind up with a bunch of kids upstairs who know how to relate to one another but gradually have to work out how to keep practical things running, and a bunch of adults downstairs who are just the opposite. In truth, neither side does very well, but at least this is not the tired condescension of the kids screwing up and needing to be rescued by the adults both groups are portrayed with a mix of severity and sympathy. Throw in a meddling retired chief of police across the street, and make him Ray Walston whom I think everybody loved most in Picket Fences, and you have a film that is very entertaining, and also carries across some deeper meaning about what contributions young people and older ones can make to each other's ongoing development. Kyle Howard was 18 trying to play 14, which took a good deal of suspension of disbelief, but that miscasting seems to be an obsession Hollywood just can't seem to grow out of. "},{"Title":"Ask yourself a few questions during watching?","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" The Calibre of the actors is not in question but what they did with the material was nothing short of a miracle. As Actors you have to make a living so please don't blame them, although I would say that the one that didn't fit was kevin pollack. He gave no reason for us to either empathise or sympathise with his character. Jennifer Tilly stole the show in this instance but I will have to admit Her daughter played by Jennifer Love Hewitt showed signs that her acting ability in comedic roles suits her better than he more serious roles she has been given. Admittedly she doesn't have a gutsy enough part for the film. In fact the characters were all too shallow to be taken seriously in any respect although the storyline was entertaining there is no real depth to it. The film needed more background to each of the families involved to succeed. As it happened the only redemption was Jenifer Tilly whom not seen until almost all the parents were kidnapped, made the best of a bad situation and became a catalyst for the the other characters to play off of. Verdict Most of the actors made the best of a bad script. But not a bad film I felt the Director could have done better. "},{"Title":"Its Good","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" No matter how you beat around the bush this movie is still a good movie. Even though at times it can be sappy, like when Grover has his temper tantrum (which was absolutely funny) its still cute. My favorite part would have to be when the parents are dancing, it was so cute. But then you want to wonder what was going on with Mark's folks I mean at one point I was trying to understand why they were looking like they had sex the that night. When TJ started playing  Its Not Unusual you see their heads pop out. Why would they be having sex when other people were around, thats kind of weird. Another thing it was kind of grimy how the fist thing that Mrs. Beindorf notices about her husband is his car. what was up with the nosy behind neighbor? These scenes really made you really want to go hmmmmmm? I love the part when Mr. Beindorf tells his wife that Mr. Krump would be his attorney. Krump looks at the wife and turns to Beindorf and say  I can get you the house, but kids might be a problem All in all this movie is still good. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, could have been better, and cleaner","Date":"13 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" This is a fantasy for kids, though it's not quite clean enough for kids. I think the version I saw had been cleaned up for TV, but still not enough to satisfy some parents. So let's say it's a fantasy for older kids.Never in real life would parents have given in and stayed in the basement like that, though most of the time they were plotting to get out. What keeps this movie from being completely formula is that at times, the parents seemed content with their situation and tried to live with it. Some characters were just silly, but others had some substance. Jamie Lee Curtis gave her usual good performance and at times went beyond just the angry parent who wants out. And she was willing to humiliate herself for our enjoyment, as were many of the cast members involved in hilarious pratfalls and bizarre situations.Even the kids weren't always just what one might expect. Our hero Greg had regrets about doing this to his parents. I think it was T.J. who started as the bully but ended up as so much more. There were a couple of scenes I could have done without, because it would have been better just to keep this movie light and funny. I won't say what happened, although this development gave the movie somewhat more substance.Jennifer Love Hewitt was so cute back then, and she showed potential here. Jennifer Tilly was also quite adorable, driving her poor daughter crazy by trying to be just like her.Ray Walston wasn't necessarily at his best as the crazy neighbor, but only people such as this would have allowed the kids to get away with what they did, since he couldn't be taken seriously. Or did the kids get away with it? I won't say.Even Patrika Darbo was here! How many times have I seen her in the past month? Though I don't even remember her performance here now.Some good music, but most of the music wasn't my taste.It wasn't a bad movie but just could have done more. "},{"Title":"House Arrest for the Filmmakers.","Date":"3 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" House Arrest (1996) Dir Harry Winer / Cast Jamie Lee Curtis, Kevin Pollack, Jennifer Tilly, Jennifer Love Hewitt, Ray Walston Pathetic excuse for a comedy let alone family entertainment. Two children lock their bickering parents in the basement to work out their marriage problems but when word gets around, more parents are brought to the same basement. While the parents continue to bicker, the kids wreck the house and invade the liquor cabinet. Why is this suppose to be funny? The children are in deep hurt and director Harry Winer seems to indicate that viewers will be humored by it. Story is predictable and it praises the deviance in the conclusion. Jamie Lee Curtis and Kevin Pollack are at the mercy of bad writing. The yell and blame at each other but will get back together in the conclusion because the screenwriter prefers happy endings as oppose to realistic ones. Jennifer Tilly plays a drunken idiot whose daughter, played by Jennifer Love Hewitt whines about it. They are the kind of mother daughter combo usually separated in the court system because responsibility is not amongst their code of ethics. Ray Walston plays a spying neighbor who is likely hiding out on his agent for having him cast in this junk. Instead of the damage of parental separation it advertises lewd behavior. It should be locked in a basement and never seen again. Score 0 / 10 "},{"Title":"It's unlikely that the events in 'House Arrest' would ever happen, but the film is still frothy and fun...","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" House Arrest Two kids are shocked when their parents announce that they are separating. As a last resort, the siblings decide to lock them in the basement and not let them out until their marital problems are solved. However, the friends of the children soon find out about what they are up to, and force their parents into the basement as well. Will the group of couples be able to sort out their relationships, or is this just one really bad plan gone wrong? Okay, first of all, it's unlikely that the events in 'House Arrest' would ever happen, but the film is still frothy and fun. Even though some of the acting is highly irritating, the children (apart from the main guy) are very funny, as is Jamie Lee Curtis. While everything about the film is far too predictable and safe (even for a family film), there's an energy about the production that is impossible to resist. A guilty pleasure.~ 6/10 ~ "}{"Title":"Jamie Lee at her best","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Now this movie was a good one seeing as though it did not reach the big screen. Jamie Lee Curtis leads an all star cast in this hilarious comedy about love, Hope and a little bit of luck.House arrest a must see holiday flick.  "},{"Title":"This isn't that bad of a movie","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Ok, I know this isn't the greatest movie but it is a good movie if you are from the younger generation. It's about some kids who are frustrated at their parents for fighting all the time. They lock them up in their basement. At school some bullies overheard Grover talking to his friend about what he did and he wants part of it. I liked the actors and the acting all together. "},{"Title":"Stupid premise...At least it was entertaining","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" This film has quite possibly one of the most unrealistic premises on the face of the earth. Two kids lock up their parents in the basement and when other kids hear of it they too lock their parents in the same basement. Stupid. The film is rancid with clichés of the worst kind. For example the main kid is picked on unmercifully by a bully who then becomes a good friend or the neighbor who thinks of himself as the mayor interferes with the kids' plan.The thing that bugs me the most is the kids, after kidnapping their parents, spend one count 'em one day in juvenile hall and then get off Scot free. In fact two of them get to go to Hawaii. The police in the film are as unrealistic as a car with wings.Nevertheless I find myself continuing to watch it when it comes on TV. It's entertaining at best.I give it ** out of **** "},{"Title":"House Arrrrrrest!","Date":"24 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" House Arrest is one of the only movies I can remember from when I was younger. The thing that stands out most in my mind is the songs (soundtrack). It really complimented the story, which was very funny and thoughtful, and made the whole experience worthwhile. The main character, Grover, is a picturesque hero... always trying so hard to do what he thinks is right, and not always successful. Grover's parents and little sister are people that I think a majority of us viewers can relate to. Every family has problems, and the way that those problems are addressed in this movie is unique and memorable. All of the quirky characters really make this movie a delightful experience. I would recommend it to anyone, its a wholesome good time. "},{"Title":"It's a kids movie, people!","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Frankly I don't understand why people like to say this wouldn't happen in real life to put down a movie. If all we saw movies about were things that happened, it would be very dull indeed. Imagine it Harry Goes To The Mailbox, Discovers Bills! But I digress. For a kid's movie, especially one that never made it to the silver screen as another commenter noted, I think House Arrest is quite good. It's cute, it's warmfuzzy, pretty funny at times (if you can pretend to be the 8-year-old that you once were); it has well-spoken kids and an emotional message and plot, unlike a lot of trash that poses as good family entertainment (read Home > Alone! Spy Kids!). To put it bluntly, it's good, wholesome entertainment and if you have kids you won't find it a mental sacrifice to watch it with them. If I ever have kids, I will put this on my shelf. "},{"Title":"Avoid at all costs","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I watched this movie on TV, because I saw in the opening credits that it starred Jamie Lee Curtis, Jennifer Tilly, and Jennifer Love Hewitt. I thought it would be a cute little family comedy, and also a good way to pass the time. Boy, was I wrong! A horrible plot, terrible acting, and the music! Ughhh...OK...Grover and Stacey's parents (Curtis & Pollak) are divorcing, so they lock them in the basement, so they can work things out. Soon, other kids learn about this, and they bring their parents to be locked away too. So...yada yada yada, bla bla bla...And at the end, Curtis & Pollak get back together (just like in real life) and they take their kids on their 2nd honeymoon with them. Oh, come on! This is a unfunny family comedy that you should avoid at all costs. Grade D- (the only reason it didn't get an F is because there were one or two semi-enjoyable scenes involving the parents) "},{"Title":"Underrated Film","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  A lot of critics really hated this film, I don't know why. The concept- About a group of friends who's parents have martial troubles and lock their parents in a basement, sounds stupid at first, but it's funny, true and teaches the all important factor how children should listen to their kids and their feelings. If this movie has turned you off, please give it a second chance, it's actually a very good film. "},{"Title":"Fun, and Jennifer Love Hewitt too","Date":"25 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" This wasn't the best movie I've seen in recent times but it was a fun movie. I liked the concept of holding the oldies hostage while they sort their affairs out.The bonus I guess is that if your're a fan of Jennifer Love Hewitt as I am she's in this movie and her role though minor is good, and hey she's kinda hot you know so that's a bonus.I can't really fault the film and yes there's an awful lot of bad reviews around about it but I think it's well worth the 6/10 I gave it. It's a fun film for everyone, without being too over sentimental or sugar filled. I was surprised to see Jennifer Tilly in this as I felt it too lightweight for her, but there you go guess she needed the work. "},{"Title":"A tempting story for kids.","Date":"1 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I loved House Arrest as a kid. The idea of a bunch of kids being able to lock their parents in the basement and party till they die is one thing that crosses a kid's mind every now and then. Kyle Howard and Amy Sakasitz are Grover and Stacey Beindorf, two kids who have just been told by their parents (Jamie Lee Curtis and Kevin Pollak) that they're getting a divorce. Like most kids, the Grover and Stacey don't want their parents to separate, and can't understand why they can't just try to work things out. So, they come up with a new kind of anarchist therapy--they decide to lock their parents in the basement and force them to work out their problems. A plan like that is pretty incredible, especially when some of Grover's friends get wind of it and decide to add their parents to the mix. And they don't get along too well. Grover's bully-turned-buddy, TJ Krupp, doesn't get along well with his father (Christopher McDonald) a loud mouth obnoxious attorney who cheats on his timid wife. Mr. Krupp consistently berates those around him, even while the parents are in their brief moments of enjoying themselves in the basement. Brooke's (Jennifer Love Hewitt) trying to reform her mom (Jennifer Tilly) so that she won't keep acting like a teenager. And Matt (Mooky Arizona) is using preventative therapy because his dad (Wallace Shawn), who has been divorced twice before on the second anniversary of each marriage, is coming up on his second year again. And, Beindorf's parents just can't seem to talk out their problems without getting into a fight. While the parents are stuck downstairs in a cleverly assembled cage (sort of), the kids take advantage of their independence. A house party, a dinner party, etc, until Grover sees that things are getting out of control and their losing sight of their objective--to get the parents to fix their problems. They eventually wise up, and behave like adults, in a well-meaning, but wholly naive way to get the parents to sort things out.The funniest moments arise when Roy Walston shows up as the former police chief and nosey next door neighbor. He suspects something's up at the Beindorf house, and the kids find themselves going to great lengths after a while trying to keep their therapy plans a secret. Russell Harper as the wild and crazy TJ is also a load of laughs, because once the bully, the other kids aren't sure how to behave around one another. Also, too, the kids start to confront their own problems with each other, which are normal problems that arise in the High School caste system. Grover, for example, likes Brooke but never admits to her how he feels. TJ accuses Brooke of being an obnoxious princess who never paid much attention to anyone considered below her status as the Ice Queen. And so forth. And finally, whenever Christopher MacDonald blows his top as the irritable Mr. Krupp, you get some pretty funny sequences. There's just so much of Mr. Krupp one can take without acting out violently (but kid-safe violence...after all, it's a family movie). It's a pretty good movie for kids. They'll likely enjoy the cast, though older ones could be old enough to appreciate the family problems that arise. "},{"Title":"Worst Movie I have Ever Seen","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This has to be the worst movie i have ever seen. The plot sucked  no kid would ever do this. It wasn't funny the jokes sucked. I couldn't believe that anyone would have ever thought up this movie. The acting was just terrible. The only bright spot was Jennifer Love Hewitt she could act much in this movie either. I give this move 1 star out of 10 and 2 thumbs down. I DON'T i repeat I DON'T recommend it. "}{"Title":"So-So","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  A lightweight family comedy that also tries to impart some halfway serious messages about the dynamics of parents and children and keeping the family together. While the movie has its heart in the right place, it's also far-fetched and not terribly funny and at times too talky.  Still, a passable time-killer (especially for kids), with a most agreeable cast. "},{"Title":"A fun ride, from beginning to end.","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Although it's not the best movie ever made, it is fun from the beginning to the end. It's funny, fast-paced, and never dull. Jamie Lee and the cast are great. 7 out of 10. See it for fun.  "},{"Title":"ALL of these characters should be in lockdown, and not in any basement","Date":"16 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" These people's awful kids included.Just to be clear on where I'm coming from, I booed when Janet and Ned sucked face at the end. And that stupid, stupidstupidstupid Brooke-Grover cliché, come on. I hate movies set in the suburbs because I despise the suburbs. I hate movies about screeching, arguing, suburban married people who hate each other, because I hate screeching suburban married conventionalist dumbasses who hate each other. House Arrest was a 90 minute reminder of why I don't understand and ultimately don't care why these types of people marry each other, and hope they ALL get divorced and give the world some much needed peace.So I guess we're back to Carmenjonze's First Law of Unwatchable Movies...a telling overabundance of violins, flutes and pianos in the score was the first and enduring indicator of just how bad House Arrest is going to get. The fact that it oh-so-self-consciously opens with Captain and Tenille's Love Will Keep Us Together -- and KEEPS PLAYING IT EVEN AFTER THAT STUPID KEY MODULATION -- is the final straw, and that's only about 4 minutes in.Happily, I love JLC and Jennifer Tilly (who had the only interesting part in the entire flick), as well as Wallace Shawn. But what was Wallace Shawn doing in this movie?? Bad concept, bad script, bad acting, bad characters, bad, bad, bad people raising more brats to perpetuate the badness of the suburbs.I wish they would have just f'n gotten divorced already. Then, we all could have sidestepped this exercise in vicarious misery, altogether. The ONLY thing that merited even a 1 was JLC doing a silly hula over the credits. Well, give it perhaps a 1 and a half. The relief brought by seeing the credits alone made this cranky critic very, very happy.Alright, a very begrudging 2. Jennifer Love Hewitt's singing voice on It's Good to Know That I'm Alive sounds sufficiently like the fantastic Maria McKee of Lone Justice to make me look. Who knew? Right on. I guess. "},{"Title":"JENNIFER LOVE HEWITT IS THE ONLY REASON WHY I WATCHED THIS MOVIE.","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  The only reason why I watched this movie was because of Jennifer Love Hewitt, but I found this movie very entertaining. This would be great family movie, with a lot eye candy. JENNIFER LOVE HEWITT RULES!!!! "},{"Title":"Gives a nice message","Date":"31 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" It's true House Arrest did not do well in the critics' minds, and also did not do well at the box office, but the quality of a movie is not always easy to determine by either. We all know of movies which are either lauded by the critics, or do well at the box office, and we end up wondering why. You are the best critic in any case.One thing about House Arrest is that it has a good message. Not that locking your parents up will solve problems. That is a bad message, but consider the song at the end of the movie Do What You Gotta Do For Love. It opens with the line Change the world. We all have in our power the ability to change the world.Nobody can solve all the worlds' problems. Even if you have the money of Bill Gates, or the power of President Bush (and a lot of problems can't be solved by either), you can't Jove every problem, but there are ones you can solve, so we all need to focus in on them. The world has thousands of problems. It requires thousands of solutions, and thousands of different people. Sometimes, a better world starts with voting carefully.One thing, what has become of Mooky Arizona. I liked him in House Arrest. What is he doing now. You can email me at bfithern@yahoo.co.uk "},{"Title":"Great! (for kids) just about OK (for adults)","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is a kid's movie. What else could it be, with this story?A young boy (and his sister) begin top suspect that their parents' marriage is going down the drain. As things keep getting worse, and the words temporary separation begin to crawl into conversations, the kids decide to stage the ultimate trick They invite their parents into a party in the cellar, celebrating their anniversary of marriage, and at the end of the evening, they nail the door shut and lock them in. To solve their problems. Things start getting out of hand pretty quickly when a friend and the school bully get wind of this, and decide to dump their own parents (with their own problems) into the same cellar, as well. Soon, three sets of parents and one stepmother are all locked in, while the kids begin to party upstairs....See? Not exactly a mature plot, is it? This is a kids' movie, and as such it is great. Adults will probably find it bearable - at least I did. It's harmless fun... "},{"Title":"Wonderful, liked Russel Harper (T.J.) best","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie is really an excellent feel-good comedy. Brooke's mothers is funny when she tries to act like a twelve-year old, but overall all performances are very funny. I liked T.J. (R. Harper) best, because I liked his character and the actor is very sexy. "},{"Title":"fun with a hint of lessons to parents","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  The title suits well to this light and sometimes touchy comedy. It was thoroughly fun to watch, and scattered with bits and pieces of advice to parents from their offspring. The cast is precisely picked, and the kids are great. A perfect Sunday night movie. "},{"Title":"Very hilarious and touching comedy about how kids are affected when their parents announce they're going to separate","Date":"28 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" HOUSE ARREST, in my opinion, is a very hilarious and touching comedy about how kids are affected when their parents announce they're going to separate. Anytime Ned (Kevin Pollak) and Katie (Jamie Lee Curtis) bickered, I felt really touched. It's hard for me to explain why. When Matt (Mooky Arizona), T.J. (Russel Harper), and Brooke (Jennifer Love Hewitt) decided to do what Grover (Kyle Howard) and Stacy (Amy Sakasitz) did, I really began to enjoy this film. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say, If you ask me, THE STORY OF US really shows you how kids can be affected by their parents announcing they're going to separate. Now, in conclusion, I recommend this very hilarious and touching comedy about how kids are affected when their parents announce they're going to separate to all you Kevin Pollak or Jamie Lee Curtis fans who have not seen it. You're in for some tears and a good time, so, go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it. "}]