[{"Title":"Classic Seagal at its best!!!","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"24 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Truly my favorite Seagal movie.  Akido, one liners, arrogance, and humor all provided by the action star the critics love to hate.  The Lento's scene is probably the best of Seagal's troubled career and is sorely missed in his latest films.  An action vehicle that played perfectly to his talents and probably the last of the finest when it comes to the Seagal collection with the exception of Exit Wounds.  Although unappreciated at the box office, this is what made Seagal Seagal and belongs in any Seagal fans DVD collection.   "},{"Title":"Top marks for effort","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Neatly crafted action thriller, with Seagal on top wrist-snapping form as a Buddhist cop from New York, with a shadowy past, teamed with Wayans' wisecracking LA cop to investigate the gruesome murders of a serial killer, known as the `Family Man'. The two leads work well together; in typical buddy cop fashion which provides the film with the comic relief it needs to give the audience a break from the serious themes involved.The script is competently composed; trying to surprise us as best it can with several twists and turns, however, the story is so fully packed with things going on that it's easy for the audience to get lost along the way. However, that is not a problem as Seagal is on the case with his usual array of impressive martial arts and likeable personality, encased in an interesting character. To me, Seagal represents, in a way, a modern day John Wayne, always playing the same out for justice, good guy role and taking no crap from anyone along the way. He is a screen presence that can carry even the most brainless of films, but this film has both brains and brawn. Wayans does very well here too, managing to avoid the typical stereotype of the African-American cop who is simply there for laughs.The direction is standard but competent in keeping a relaxed balance between the hectic action (entwined with the tense build-ups) and the comedic peace-time goings on. The gorier parts of the film, like the murders, are handled with skill and successfully manage to create an eerie atmosphere rather than simply a gory head-turning occasion.The Glimmer Man is not a masterpiece by any means but it serves its purpose well as a tense action thriller. It tries hard to be more than it is, but its lack of originality is its biggest flaw but it gets top marks for trying. You can't take anything away with you afterwards, but you can enjoy yourself along the way. "},{"Title":"Seagal and Keenan Ivory Wayans make a good team","Date":"8 June 2010","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" in my opinion this is one of Steven Seagal's better films,due in large part to having Keenan Ivory Wayans as a co star.they have good chemistry together.it's also one of his darkest films,at least of those i have seen to date.but there some funny moments to balance things out,comic relief,if you will.the fighting scenes are pretty are good,and as brutal as usual for a Seagal flick.you won't really find much new here,but if you're a Seagal fan,or a fan of the genre,this should keep you satisfied for the most part.by now,with Steven Seagal,you know what you're getting,or at least you should know.i was entertained for around 90 minutes or so.for me,The Glimmer Man is a 7/10 "},{"Title":"This was a good Segal/Wayans flick","Date":"24 January 2001","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This was a very good action thriller that kept me interested throughout. If you like Segal or Keenan Ivory Wayans, you are guaranteed to love this movie.  Keenan Ivory Wayans provided the comedy while Segal added the martial arts and fighting to create a great movie.  I strongly recommend that you see thins movie if you like the cast or the genre! "},{"Title":"Seagal's best buddy action flick","Date":"25 May 2010","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Seagal who had become famous as a one man wrecking crew teams up in this to do a two fisted action movie. If you liked 48 Hours or any of the Lethal Weapon movies this is for you. This is not some fruity drama or foreign romance&#x85;this is a fighting shooting DUDE movie.The story is clean and full of action with clever bits of comedy and well placed explosions. This is a kind of movie that can be watched over and over again in the company of dudes who love dude movies. Seagal plays his Asian holy man role, that for peace and harmony likes to beat the living crap out of bad guys. For a partner there is the wise cracking Keenen Wayans who perfectly compliments Seagal. And there are plenty of smaller role bad guys that meet their demise. But the parts played by Brian Cox and John Jackson were great.Well worth owning. "},{"Title":"Standard Segal Fare, Average Action Formula","Date":"31 December 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is another Segal formula flick.  Thankfully, unlike some of his more recent movies, he's in much better physical shape (i.e. he's not fat).  Segal plays yet another former government operative, now a local police officer/detective, trying to live out his life out of the business.Shrouded in mystery and controversy, Segal, once again, become a one man wrecking crew taking out everyone and everything, while maintaining his clam, Buddhist/Art of War philosophies in the process.Why on earth they dragged, Keenan Ivory Wayans into a Segal formula movie is beyond me.  I mean not say I didn't like him in the flick, but why him?  Better yet, why anyone?  As far as I can tell Segal usually does his better movies running solo, as he is the bona fide martial artist.  One would figure if you were going to pair him up with someone, make it another action hero or another martial artist.Either way, if you're a Segal, action movie fan this movie is a good way to kill a couple of hours.  If you're not into that, then skip this flick. "},{"Title":"Steven Seagal gets in touch with his feelings and touches a number of people with his fists and feet in this movie.","Date":"14 October 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** The years since Steven Seagal burst upon the screen as Det. Nico Toscani in the movie Above The Law back in 1988 have been like the seven fat years in the book of Genesis. By the time he made The Glimmer Man, some seven years later, Seagal had to wear extra baggy clothes to hide the extra weight that he put on his frame from all the success he had since then. Steven Seagal, Det. Jack Cole and his partner Det. Jim Campall(Keenen Ivory Wayans), who only seems to be in the movie for comedy relief, are put on the Family Man murder case in L.A. The Family Man murdered some half dozen families and had them crucified in some weird ritual after they were dead. Seagal here plays a cop who who cracked up back in the early 1980's from the guilt that he felt about his service in Vietnam where he was known as The Glimmer Man; a hard as nails killer who the enemy only saw a glimmer of before he did them in. Det. Cole, or Seagal, later went to Thailand and took up Buddhism and became a sweet and peaceful man who wouldn't hurt a fly! Even though the movie The Glimmer Man is one of the most violent films that Seagal ever made. The Glimmer Man is an almost incomprehensible movie to understand and follow. It starts off with a serial murder and then goes to what seems like a weirdo psychiatrist Frank Deverell, Bob Gunton, who thinks that he's the Godfather and uses a gang of thugs to smuggle arms from the now defunct Soviet Union to a Serbian freedom fighting organization. This whole racket is run Det. Jack Cole's former boss in Vietnam Mr. Smith, Brian Cox, who's working together with the Russian Mafia. That's about the best way I can describe the plot in the movie. Early in the film Det. Cole's ex-wife Helen and her husband Andrew Dunleavy are murdered by the Family Man killer and it's made to look like it was Det. Cole who was the killer. This makes Cole realize that the killings are a cover for something more sinister. After breaking a number of heads and arms and legs of Russian gangsters and Deverell thugs Det. Cole finally gets to the bottom of what is really behind all these killings.The movie is so violent it made me wonder what Seagal, who had a lot of control of the material in the film, was trying to tell his audience, love your fellow man? Since it went against everything that Buddhism stands for which I at first thought that the movie was advocating!The Glimmer Man builds itself up to it's inevitable bloody conclusion at the Overington Hotel in downtown L.A where Det. Cole has the Deverell mob turn on each other. This all happened when Det. Cole had a tape recording of Deverell played back on the phone to his top henchmen Donald Cunningham, John M. Jackson. The tape said that his boss was going to turn Cunningham in to save his own behind. That lead to a shootout between the two at the hotel where they were supposed to find both Det. Cole and Campell,the C&C boys , as Cunningham trapped Deverell there without knowing that he knew about his plans to double-cross him.The hoods ended up killing themselves with, of course, the help of Cole & Campbell. Only Cunningham is left for Cole to do in at the end of the movie who after almost beating him almost to death ends up crucifying him! Steven Seagal seems to really enjoy working people over in the movie, he does it with such relish and enthusiasm, despite his non-violent Buddhist beliefs. Seagal does it to the point where he beats them in some cases to death even when their no longer a threat to him at all! when all he had to do is just put the cuffs on them and have them locked up behind bars! This isn't by a long shot going to make too many people watching the movie get turned on to Buddhism which I assume the film wanted them to do. "},{"Title":"Seagal and Wayans, fight the red in 'Russian' rain...","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I heard a bunch of scuttlebutt about The Glimmerman, none of it was true. I heard that Seagal was 'beefing' up for the part and that Wayans was in a real serious role, all this crap! I went and saw it with all in mind and I really could care less at someone else's take on it anymore. Sitting watching the film, I got into the characters, I don't know about anyone else, but I believe thats what it's all about. No Keenan was not totally serious in fact he was mostly comedic, although there were moments of serious but it was not over the top, as I had previously been told. So really, I was going in with a lot of expectations. In all fairness I can say this one was a fun and furious ride (at times). The surrounding cast including Mr. Smith an agency 'spook' employer for the C.I.A. (Brian Cox) was low-level emotion and cynically-balanced. He made the dark side more interesting along with (Bob Gunton) Mr. Deverell and (John) his right arm man, that executes hits and reckon clean-up. In L.A. where I used to live it was fun seeing the old stomping ground, where they filmed it.. Interesting premise of a thriller-story on top of it all. Christopher, the hit-man added a 'whispful' and fatalistic element to the program, played by actor Stephen Tobolowski, he plays psychotic intensely well. Thumbs up!! This was very pleasing for me, I admit you disconnect your reality beliefs with some of it as movies go these days, and some are so much more unbelievable than this. I say this is one of Seagal's greats along with Keenan as an awesome partner in crime-clean up, they stole the show. I recommend for interesting 'plot' twisted stories with good, good casting and interesting characters/scenery.Recommended highly (****)Thx--IMDb.com "},{"Title":"Seagal does some of his best fighting, and some of his worst acting as well!","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Steven Seagal certainly knows how to fight, and in some of his fight scenes in The Glimmer Man he comes across as a forceful, don't-mess-with-me presence. What he doesn't know is how to act he's so wooden he's almost funny, especially when he has to show disgust at the horrible crimes he's witnessing, or when he's whispering his lines in an attempt to come off as menacing. Keenen Ivory Wayans is likably unaggressive as his partner, and the director does his best to emulate the style of Seven (minus the intelligence), but (SPOILERS FOLLOW) the whole serial-killer business is actually a big red herring, and the film ultimately turns out to be the typical Seagal actioner. At least there are some good action sequences.       (**) "},{"Title":"SEVEN Meets A Whole Pile Of Crap","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Imagine if you will an alternative universe where someone has made SEVEN where instead of a talented cast and crew they've cast a politically conscious environmentalist and a stand up comedian as the leads . If your imagination can't stretch that far just watch THE GLIMMER MAN as it's the next worse thing !!!! MILD SPOILERS !!!!Jack Cole is a cop with a hidden past and it's very ironic that he's played by Steven Seagal since he's also someone witrh a hidden past , but don't tell anyone because it's top secret . Perhaps the biggest secret is how someone like Seagal became a movie star in the first place since THE GLIMMER MAN continues in the vein of all of Seagal's other movies in that it's utter , utter crap . Look at the way he's introduced as his partner walks into his office  Yoi love beads man . In you're in the wrong office  Steven replies with something that is side splittingly witty , or he would if anyone was able to understand a bloody word he said because for much of the movie he just mumbles away . In fact the only time I could make out his dialogue was the scene at the school where he bursts in on the gunman holding the class hostage  Don't make me kill you  Is this what a cop would say to a suicidal gunman ? I'm just thinking that in another movie where Steven isn't the hero ( ie A good movie ) the cop would say something along the lines of  Don't kill me , I've got a wife and a couple of kids waiting at home  . So anyway suicidal gunman goes to blow his head off but Steven saves his life by hurtling them both through two sets of windows . It goes without saying that you shouldn't try this at homeAs the story progresses Steven ( I've given up on calling him Jack though credit to the screen writer for giving Steven a sensible name ) becomes involved in a case a plagiarism where someone has been stealing bits out of other superior movies featuring serial killers . As Steven finds more victims you can see him thinking  What was that movie that starred Morgan Freeman as a cop ?  as he inspects the bodies , oh and the action keeps switching back to the hero's domestic life just so we know that this guy's good as a family man , this guy's very good as a family man such a pity he's so bad as a movie star  "}{"Title":"Good entertainment","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Well, maybe I am going against the trend of voting, but sometimes we forget that there is such a thing as a capital 'E' meaning Entertainment value involved in film making. I have just viewed this film on DVD, and I thoroughly enjoyed it. Possibly doesn't rate an 'A' or 'B' rating, for artistic value, but let's face it, not all the ones that do are entertaining to a general audience. I have always felt that Stephen seems to portray the characters he plays quite strongly without overstating the obvious. The action seems very realistic to me. And many of his films has a moral attached. Mr Cool personified. And he is rather good looking too, so nice to see a tall man on the screen as the action hero.Pat "},{"Title":"Could easily have been better","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Spoiler Alert The beginning of this movie starts out nicely, laying the basic plot, but it's in the possibilities that arouse that the movie fails to deliver. It would have been great to see that Seagal was actually the killer. Man, what a great bad guy he would make, but instead we are left with the usual unfolding of the recycled story that just doesn't seen to work anymore. The buddy buddy cop story that has some nice moments with the main actors is therefore nothing more than any previous Seagal cop movie, but it still possesses some bright moments. 6/10 "},{"Title":"one big pile of cliché's","Date":"15 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is actually the proof that all you need to make a movie in Hollywood is a lot of unnecessary stupid action and a good ending story about 2 cops lynching bad guys. All 2 women in this movie that have a line other than 'aaaah', are dumb and over-sensitive. A few scenes that illustrate the originality of the script writers bad guys in a car chase end up underneath a fuel truck, which explodes in a sea of fire... good guy falls out of a window, but can hold on to a ridge... cop'do you know the doctor?' - girl 'I don't need a shrink' - cop'I never said he was a psychiater'...Another aspect is the morality in this flick. On the one hand smokers are being prevented from lighting a cigarette, but on the other hand a cop can shoot someone in foot and hand during an interrogation. Of course this reflects the all-american point of view on the world if you think someone is bad, you can beat the hell out of that person, without thinking twice.Anyway, I know this movie might be fun for 80% of the American population, but I'm pretty sure this movie went 'straight to video' in Europe! "},{"Title":"As a Seagal fan and follower this will NOT be in my video collection.","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Maybe it was the excessive weight gain Seagal had put on.  Or maybe it was the horrible acting of Wayans in an action flick.  Or was it the total lack of chemistry between the two leading characters?  These and other considerations lead me to conclude that Seagal should have never made this acting nightmare.  True, the story line was good.  Yet, as an avid follower of Seagal's career and background, his physical appearance was inconsistent with his genre of clean, pure, healthy Zen Buddhist living, notably in his on screen discussions with Wayans.    (Then again his real life affair with the nanny was inconsistent also!)If Seagal wants to become a more diversified actor, then he should do what a fellow action figure did in Kindergarten Cop...put humorous material or situations in the script where the actor has no choice but to react in a comical way.  Otherwise, leave the wise-cracks and the futile attempts at humor out of it while chasing a serial killer.  Seagal is not a natural humor type of guy.  It did not work. "},{"Title":"Not even a glimmer of hope...","Date":"23 May 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Two L.A cops track down a serial killer nicknamed The family man who has wiped out whole families and when one of the police officer's wife takes the deep six, questions are raised and it turns out that a serial killer isn't responsible but rather mobsters. The idea of Seagal in a serial killer movie is an interesting concept, indeed one could see Seagal play a good serial killer however making him a cop who has a ridiculous penchant for prayer beads and razor sharp credit cards comes off more stupid than likably ridiculous. Also a running joke involves Wayon's enjoyment of eating powdered deer penis and well this raunchy material is utterly out of place. Not to mention the beginning of a school being taken hostage, due to a boy's breakup with his girlfriend. After Seagal neutralizes him, the girlfriend tells the young lad that she loves him. Now there is a lesson to be learned from all of this, if you want your girlfriend back, taking the school hostage may get you back on her good side. I myself would think flowers or the old fashioned phone call might work, then again though, i'm old fashioned. Besides who am I to put a damper on somebody else's brilliant reconciliation plan.* out of 4-(Bad) "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Fun","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Amusing Seagal vehicle has him as a cop (partnered with Keenan Ivory Wayans as The Hip Urban Guy) investigating a serial killer in LA, only to discover that a professional killer is using the serial killer's m.o. to hide his own hits. Seagal shows a knack for light comedy here that's rather winning, and although the movie makes absolutely no sense whatsoever it's hard to hate something that's so intent on delivering the goods. Lots of explosions, lots of fights, most of them pretty good, and a ridiculous amount of over-the-top Catholic imagery which is exploitative as all hell but will still keep your attention. With a guy from JAG as the bad guy and Brian Cox as Snidely Whiplash. "},{"Title":"Try the powdered deer penis","Date":"17 March 2007","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie has three things going for it one is Steven Seagal as a mystical character with a shadowy past who does magical things; two Keenan Ivory Wayans as his partner, a man who cries while watching Casablanca; and three John M. Jackson(Adm. Chegwidden from JAG)as the bad guy.Wayans spends his time trying to figure out Seagal, while Segal is going after Jackson for killing his ex-wife. Anyone who has see Seagal knows that killing his wife is bad move, and we see here that he holds his ex just as dear.This is typical Segal martial arts action. The addition of Wayans gives it some comedy to made the ride more enjoyable. Don't think, just sit back and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Weak, unimaginative plot with poor performances but just enough action to be watchable","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A cop with an attitude is partnered up with a new-age cop with a shady past and amazing martial arts skills, to investigate a serial killer who crucifies his victims. Campbell sees it as a fairly straightforward case of a religious nut obeying orders from God; but Cole sees something else in some of the murders&#150; a sense of purpose and order that hints at a bigger plot. Going back to his handler at the CIA gets him nowhere but brings him to the attention of Frank Deverell and the Russian mafia. With so many people gunning for them, can Campbell and Cole stay alive long enough to get to the bottom of it? Although any film that contains both Seagal and a Wayans brother will hardly be an easy sell to me, I still decided to give this film a stab because I do like a solid action movie every now and again. Plot wise this film is about as weak as I had expected with a messy narrative that never really convinces and just seems like a couple of half-baked ideas crammed into one story with little concern with logical linkage or development. The hope seems to have been that enough action and energy would stop us seeing the holes &#150; sadly this doesn't work. The film has enough action to be worth watching but it isn't really anything special, although fans of Seagal will be used to this consistent standard.The cast are just as average as you would expect. Seagal delivers everything with a total lack of emotion that is explained away by him being a totally calm Buddhist, as opposed to him just not being a very good actor. Physically he is pretty good here and his fight scenes do actually show a man with skill (as opposed to the out of shape man we have been shown almost waddling recently). Wayans tries to be a tough comic relief but his performances just reinforces the feeling of this being a formulaic mismatched cop movie; even if he is impressive in some of his action scenes as well. Neither of them are that good but they are certainly no worse than a lot of the reluctant buddy cops movies out there. The support cast should have been better but people like Gunton, Cox and Tobolowsky just sink into the mess rather than helping to raise it.Overall this is a watchable Friday night style thriller that you will quite enjoy if all you want is watchable action surrounded by messy and clichéd plotting and delivery with par for the course acting. If you are after anything more than this then you'll be sorely disappointed as this is a weak film with an unimaginative plot, poor performances and only just enough action to be watchable if you're in an undemanding mood. "},{"Title":"A bit different from Seagal's other films","Date":"26 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Glimmer Man is probably Seagal's darkest film.His other films were action packed and very entertaining.The Glimmer Man is more of a mystery/thriller.There is still quite a bit of action, as well as more comedy than the average Seagal film.Also Seagal and Keenan Ivory Wayans had fairly good chemistry.The plot has Seagal and Wayans trying to catch a serial killer.After the killer murders Seagal's ex-wife they think he did it.So now he has to prove his innocence while trying to catch the real killer, with the help of his partney played by Keenan Ivory Wayans.Now, Glimmer Man is not very original, it's sort of like the movie Seven mixed with your average action/cop/buddy film.But I enjoyed it.It was a bit different from Seagal's other films. It was funnier and also darker, but fans will still probably enjoy it. "},{"Title":"His best movie!!!","Date":"8 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is Steven Seagals best movie absolutely. A lot of great action, and Steven and Keenen Ivory put together a great team in this movie with some great humour as well.It really was a joy to watch... There was not a second where you feel bored or cant focus on the movie. Everybody says Steven needs to lose the weight and get back in shape. The thing is he was not exactly skinny in this movie either and it was his best film. He needs to start making films again like this.Out of Seagal movies this gets a 10 without a doubt.If you think about it Kill Switch could have been the next Glimmer Man if it had half decent camera work and producers. "}{"Title":"In Living Color meets Lethal Weapon 3","Date":"22 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is a well-done venture into the buddy-cop venue, by Seagal. With the help of Kennan Ivory Wayans, Seagal pulls off a decent attempt at this new line.As a Buddhist cop from New York, Jack Cole (Seagal) has a very dark past. Transferred from his last assignment to assist in the capture of the latest social disease known as the Family Man, he is teamed up with Detective Jim Campbell (Wayans), in the task force assigned to that feat.As a psychological thriller, this movie was not nearly as good as Se7en, Identity, Fallen, or Silence of the Lambs...as it appears these movies are what this one attempts to compete with; however, it still has a strong psychological edge to it. It does not contain the level of suspense associated with Copycat or even Red Dragon. The socio-religious implications are almost classic Stephen King in that it beats you over the head with Christian dogma, yet it fails to ascend to the stigmata achieved in Exorcist or even...Stigmata.As an action movie, it is top row. The action is some of the best of Steven Seagal's style, demonstrated effectively with that fluid style and grace that we have come to expect from Seagal's characters.Bone-crunching, blood eliciting non-stop quality action.As a buddy cop venture, this is not Lethal Weapon quality (they even used a character named Rouso from internal affairs, see LW3 for the reference), but surpasses Tango and Cash in that there are no clichés throughout aside from the fact that Seagal himself is a walking cliché.Outside that, there are no glibly-delivered puns and precious few one-liners, making this a more serious, more intelligent action/comedy.The plot demonstrated within this endeavor is quite well written, nicely-paced, and exhibits a fluid control which I found quite enjoyable. Its elements, while not remotely original, are creative, intelligent, and well presented. The sets are average. The soundtrack is average. Neither lend anything creative to this production though, strangely enough, these shortcomings did not manage to lessen the finished product.As the plot unfolds, things are not looking good for our Detective Cole. From that point on, the action and intrigue begins and carries us quickly through to a satisfying end.All in all, this is not a bad attempt, but in my opinion, Seagal works best when working alone. I enjoyed the comedic aspects and intensity contributed to this work by Wayans, but I prefer Seagal a la carte. I still thoroughly enjoyed this production and found it to be highly entertaining. The final product is greater, it seems, than the sum of its mere parts.This movie rates an 7.6/10 from...the Fiend .. "},{"Title":"Not as funny as predicted","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Kennan Ivory Wayans was so funny in Low Down Dirty Shame that I had to see this one and it was one of the worst he has done and Steven Seagal didn't help much.  It starts off with some odd religious killings that don't make much sense to Jim Campbell (Keenan). He is surprised to see a new partner waiting for him to work by his side to crack the case but Jack Cole doesn't seem to be who everyone thinks he is until Jack's ex wife is killed in one of those ritual killings that end up making him the suspect as well.  It's the same thing as all of his other movies Smoke past, CIA involvement and now trying to be a normal cop. Why does Steven dress up like he is from a Western movie? And the prayer beeds on top of that make things a little confusing. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Film","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film is a decent Steven Seagal film. I don't think that it is as good as Under Siege 1 or 2 or some of his earlier films, but it is still better than most recent action films. "},{"Title":"The beginning of the end for Seagal?","Date":"11 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Glimmer Man is set in Los Angeles where ex New York Buddhist homicide detective Jack Cole (producer Steven Seagal) joins a task force lead by detective Jim Campbell (Keenan Ivory Wayans) who are hunting an active serial killer dubbed 'The Family Man' because of his ritualistic slaying's of entire families. The Family Man has killed eight families in six months & Campbell & Cole are told that he has struck again, two people in a seedy motel room bear all the hallmarks of the serial killer but super cop Cole knows that something is not right. As Campbell & Cole investigate the killings they find themselves under threat from from the Russian mafia, hit-men & the all round general scum of Los Angeles as they stumble across a plot in import chemical weapon's into the states...Directed by John Gray one has to say that I like a good over-the-top Steven Seagal action flick, unfortunately The Glimmer Man is nothing like a good over-the-top Steven Seagal action flick. The script by Kevin Brodbin takes itself very seriously & one feels it tries to marry a dark serial killer thriller storyline not too dissimilar to the excellent Se7en (1995) which was a big box-office success the previous year together with the brutal violent action & martial arts of some of Seagal's previous better films like Out for Justice (1992), Under Siege (1992) it's sequel Under Siege 2 Dark Territory (1995) in particular which is an uneasy combination The Glimmer Man fails at spectacularly. The serial killer plot is there just for the hell of it & is totally abandoned by the halfway mark in favour of a buddy buddy mismatched partner cop action thriller like Lethal Weapon (1987), in fact The Glimmer Man feels like little bits & pieces, themes & ideas from various similar (much better) films all strung together in a rather lazy, routine & predictable narrative. As usual for Seagal there are some unintentionally funny scenes here the best being when Seagal's character is talking to a pathologist discussing a dead woman's body & Seagal proceeds to pick up a nearby scalpel, slice open the corpses breast & pull out a silicon implant so they can check the serial number on it! Yes, the scene really is as daft, dumb & silly as it sounds & that's not the only one. For instance when Campbell is hanging from the hotel window ledge at the end where did Seagal suddenly find all that professional abseiling gear to rescue him with?Director Gray has to take a large chunk of responsibility here, the film drags badly especially at the start & it's surprisingly boring despite a few reasonable fight scenes. This is filmed in a functional if forgettable way & the constant gloomy whether & rain pouring from the sky is a direct & obvious rip-off from Se7en only it doesn't work here. In The Glimmer Man you can really see Seagal starting to put some weight on after having a string of financially successful flicks, maybe he became too complacent but as far as most people are concerned your only as good as your last film & it's this point Seagal's career took a nose-dive into the crapper to the point where he's staring these days in low budget action films opposite has-been rappers in Eastern Europeon countries. There are some trademark violent action scenes with Seagal slicing bad guy's throats with razor blades hidden in credit cards, breaking arms, shooting people to gain information, throwing them into steel posts, & generally causing lots of people lots of pain in a variety of entertaining ways. Unfortunately those scenes don't stop The Glimmer Man from being crap. There's an OK car crash sequence as a car crashes into a gas tanker conveniently parked diagonally across a road but a bit more could have been done with it & doesn't linger in the memory that long.With a supposed budget of about $45,000,000 The Glimmer Man opened with under $8,000,000 & to very bad reviews. While I don't think The Glimmer Man lost much money I doubt it made much for Warner Bros. either which is why they probably went off Seagal a bit & only made two more films with him each one decreasing in budget. I have to mention Seagal's coat & Buddhist bead necklace here, it's awful & worth a few laughs all on it's own. I suspect Keenan Ivory Wayans was maybe trying to imitate his brother Damon Wayans who starred in a similar sort of action flick The Last Boy Scout (1991) along side Bruce Willis, the only difference being The Last Boy Scout is a terrific action film & The Glimmer Man isn't. As usual Seagal mumbles his way through the film & has become pretty lazy during the fight scenes not really moving or seemingly putting much effort into them.The Glimmer Man is terrible, apart from one or two half decent & violent fight scenes this is just a jumbled mess of ideas stolen from better films. The Glimmer Man was the beginning of the end for Seagal in my opinion. "},{"Title":"The Glimmer Man","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I believe this entire film has been devoured into something more than what it really is. You cannot sit there and tell me that this movie has no basis. So what if Mr.Seagal has the practice of Buddhism or how the hell ever you spell it. When it is time for self defense, he kicks total ass. In all of his movies, he has portrayed nothing more than the proper defense against the enemy when necessary. How many of you tightwads have had the privilege of being a movie star when he was, or before that, or after that? Anyone should be anytime as fortunate. I enjoy his films, always have, always will. Good night, and good byyyyyye. "},{"Title":"Seagal's Best...","Date":"22 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is the epitomy of Steven Seagal's persona...I am not sure why this wasn't a bigger hit with Seagal fans. The Lento's restaurant scene is classic Seagal...the mixture of humor and action is very well done. I love how people rip apart Seagal's films-look ...he isn't trying for an Oscar-he is an action star trying to entertain...of course its formulaic, and of course most of it is predictable-that's not why you see a Seagal film-the one-liner's and watching Seagal F**k somebody up is. The last of the finest (wit the exception of Exit Wounds for Mr. Seagal-I wish he would have made more like this one. **** **** ****  "},{"Title":"The Glimmer Man! Second Comment!","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" In this comment I wanted to say that I just love the feel of this movie! How it starts with the WB logo and that awesome music playing! The score is tremendous! The movie is perfect in My opinion.I love the direction and editing. The action is very paced and the movie is as well.It goes by so fast because of the uniqueness it delivers! This I feel is Steven Seagal's best film.With his good acting and the emotion he shows during the scenes when he goes to his deceased wife's house and when he is in the church. What also makes this movie good is the villain play by John M. Jackson. He is very colorful. Also the appearances by Michelle Johnson, Bob Gunton, Brian Cox, Richard Gant, Stephen Tobolowsky, Peter Jason, Ryan Cutrona, and Dennis Cockrum!Awesome music by Trevor Rabin too! I really love The Glimmer Man. It has many exciting fights and just very good moments.In My opinion I think it one of if not the best movies around!That's all I can explain about it.I love Seagal and The Glimmer Man!Movie Nuttball's NOTEIf you are big Steven Seagal fan like Me then I strongly recommend you to check out these other great movies! Above the Law, Hard to Kill, Marked for Death (Must see because it great!), Out for Justice (Great!), Under Siege, On Deadly Ground (Really good!), Under Siege 2 Dark Territory (Very good!),Fire Down Below (Excellent!), The Patriot, Ticker, The Foreigner (Surprising great!), Out for a Kill, Belly of the Beast, and Into the Sun (Great sword fighting)! "},{"Title":"Coincidence, conspiracy, and continuity errors!","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Typical Steven Seagal fare that is, it's crap. The plot relies on a series of incredibly improbable coincidences; there's a hefty dose of conspiracy theory which would be much more palatable if we didn't know that Seagal takes it all literally; and once again, bad-movie multi-millionaire Seagal tells us all about the evils of The Rich.Seagal's survival relies, as usual, on the fact that Bad Guys never fire their guns from out of arm's reach, and always like to give a little I'm gonna kill you speech before blowing a man's head off.Watch this one right after the even-worse *Fire Down Below* and note how the carpet in Keenen Ivory Wayans's apartment is more flammable than a big puddle of gasoline.Oh, and watch in the final fight scene for the Incredible Disappearing Forehead Wound, which is probably the most entertaining thing in the film. "},{"Title":"You can't please everyone all the time.","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  In Viet Nam they called him The Glimmer Man. As a homicide cop they all tend to think of him as trouble. A renegade New York cop(Steven Seagal) with a not so perfect background is transferred to L.A., where his actions make him a prime suspect in a series of murders. It takes time for the soft spoken, new age cop to get the respect of his partner(Kennen Ivory Wayans).Typical strong violence with well paced martial arts displayed. Not much different from any other Seagal movie, but not as good as some.  "},{"Title":"Foolish excuse for lots of violence and Steven Seagal mumbo-jumbo","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  My Age 13James Cole, played by Steven Seagal, is sent to help Detective Jim Campbell, played by Keenen Ivory Wayans, solve a series of killings in which the victims are crucified.  Since Cole has arrived on the spot, he notices that the killings have changed a little, and thinks there is a different killer.  It becomes personal when his ex-wife is murdered, and Campbell finds his fingerprints on the body.  Campbell investigates the mysterious Cole, and finds out about a very shady past.I am not a fan of Steven Seagal.  I enjoy action movies, but he is the worst actor I have ever seen.  This film is not much fun to watch at all, incredibly dumb, and, obviously, Steven Seagal's acting performance is absolutely horrid.  Keenen Ivory Wayans isn't too bad, though.  The only redeeming thing in this film is the occasional good action scene, although most come round because of insanely stupid reasons.  The plot in this film is absolute gibberish.  I didn't care for it at all.  The whole glimmer man past of Seagal's character was stupid, all the Mafia fights and fights in the restaurant were there for almost no reason.  Give this film a miss.Australian Classification MA 15+ High Level ViolenceRating 35 out of 100 (quite generous) "}{"Title":"take it with a pinch of salt...!","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  well i was over at a friend's house with some other folks and he gave us the choice to see a ninja movie, some sappy love story and glimmer man.a good steven seagal comedy would do us all well.and that's all it is. do NOT try and look for a plot. it's just a weak justification for some of the funniest action comedy around. most people (if they've seen will sasso's MADTV sketches of seagal) will know exactly what to expect from him in his illegal justice movies.PURE COMEDY.the atomic slap of the restaurant manager was pure gold. so if you're looking for some hilarious over the top action comedy (and it's even better cause a lot of the time you're pretty sure that seagal is trying to be serious) then really consider watching glimmer man. "},{"Title":"the rot festers","Date":"26 May 2004","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" It's all been said already... this is crud from start to finish. You get all the Seagalistic touchstones the pudgy, stone-faced megalith with a Mysterious Past who's way smarter (in this movie, his character speaks Russian, Chinese, and Japanese) and more all-around-perfect than anyone else; the bad guys who can't fight their way out of a paper bag; the This guy is really good speech at the two-thirds point of the film; and a climactic fight that's just as one-sided as the ones that came before. You get messages about Non-Violence and Inner Peace sandwiched between scenes of henchmen being impaled on construction equipment and having their gonads crushed and limbs broken. You get good actors (in this case, Brian Cox, Bob Gunton, and Stephen Toblowsky) phoning it in for a quick paycheck.I did want to point something out that nobody's mentioned here. Halfway through, the cops come to believe that Seagal is the serial killer they're pursuing (which would have been a neat idea). He is subjected to a polygraph test, which he passes. Then we are subjected to another ego-stroking scene wherein the awed polygraph tech says something like, Someone would have to have amazing reflexes and total control of their emotions to trick this machine.Ya know, standard Seagal boilerplate. But of course, he isn't the killer, and he really was telling the truth... but I guess the point is that they stuck in a few extra lines of dialogue about how great/perfect/wonderful Seagal is anyway. Oy vey!My other favorite scene Deverall's son has accidentally overheard the details of his father's nefarious (if ill-explained) plan. Seagal & Wayans ask who his accomplice is. Deverall's son remembers that he's an older guy with a Texan accent, but can't remember his name. Smith? says Seagal. Yeah, that's it! exclaims the son. Come on, maybe if the guy's name was Myxlplyzmyx or Huffuruhhurr I could accept the kid having trouble remembering it, but Smith?The only thing that could have saved this trash is if they'd been daring enough to make Seagal the killer after all. That would have been one hell of a third act Seagal the Unstoppable Killing Machine, but this time he's the villain, and Wayans and the LAPD have a heck of a time bringing him down.My advice skip it in favor of any of Seagal's first four. They're just as bad, but they're more entertaining. "},{"Title":"Not one of Seagal's Best","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A not so good action thriller because it unsuccessfully trends the same water as early Steven Seagal films because there is not a very good set piece.  Steven Seagal plays the same kind of character that he has played since Above the Law.  In my opinion the performance of Keenen Ivory Wayans is wasted in such an average film and belongs in a much better film.  Bob Gunton is okay as the main heavy.  The best acting in the entire film belongs to Brian Cox who is very frightening in the role of the murderer.  My favorite scenes are the fight scenes with the Russian mafia.  One of the film reasons to see The Glimmer Man(1996) is for the brief appearence of the beautiful and voluptupus Nikki Cox.  Its too bad that there were not more scenes with her in them. "},{"Title":"...we gotta have compassion for the dead, the dying, the could be dead and the about to be dead.","Date":"25 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I probably mentioned it in a review of another Stephen Seagal film, but just in case I didn't I'll state it here - his movies are a guilty pleasure that I don't mind admitting. There's just something about the soft spoken persona that explodes into fists and fury when up against the bad guys that appeals to me. That's really about the only reason I need to tune into one of his pictures, seeing Seagal's no-nonsense martial arts style lay them out without prolonging the agony.I guess you could say this is one of those films. Teamed with Keenan Ivory Wayans as a pair of Los Angeles detectives, it didn't strike me that there was a lot of chemistry between the two as partners but they made it work anyway. I liked the way Jack Cole (Seagal) brought Campbell (Wayans) around to his way of thinking - Young warriors used to like to fight head on. Old warriors like to wait... That plus the Tibetan prayer beads and powdered deer penis, a keen way to clear the mind and purify one's thoughts.I read a few of the comments of confused viewers here and I didn't think the story was all that complicated if one pays attention. The surprising element in the story for me was when Smith (Bryan Cox) told Deverell (Bob Gunton) that his son would have to be one of three victims to get done away with, and Deverell didn't object. The crucifixion ending for henchman Donald (John M. Jackson) was pretty much telegraphed by the story line, but after all was said and done, did anyone else notice? The Family Man serial killer, who's murders opened the story, was still on the loose. "},{"Title":"Average Seagal movie...","Date":"20 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" While The Glimmer Man isn't any outstanding action movie, I will say that it is still worth watching if you enjoy Steven Seagal movies. That being said, then it should also be said that it is a fairly average Seagal movie in every sense of the phrase. It is one of those mass produced action movies that most action stars tend to settle into doing, you know finding a formula that works and milking it beyond dry.Story-wise then The Glimmer Man is your stereotypical Seagal movie. Yep, he is an ex-something-something now turned law man and taking on the seedy underworld singlehandedly.You know what you get here; the usual Seagal martial arts, wits and punchlines. Yes, it is all here, and the obligatory broken arm as well. And true to most other Seagal movies he is untouchable, except for a single blow that gets through and strikes him. Indeed, business as usual.Having Seagal act opposite Keenen Ivory Wayans, well I had some initial reservation to this, as I thought it would be comedy in the trademark Wayans fashion. But luckily Keenen proved to surprise and did actual acting and no do comedy.The Glimmer Man is enjoyable enough for what it is, and bear in mind that it is a Seagal movie after all. "},{"Title":"Not A Glimmer of Value.","Date":"1 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Glimmer Man (1996) Dir John Gray / Cast Steven Seagal, Keenan Ivory Wayans, Michelle Johnson, Brian Cox, Stephen Tobolowsky Pointless bag of trash that uses creative expressions of violence as entertainment. One particular gruesome scene regards someone's throat being slashed with a credit card. That is about the height of creativity in this piece of sh*t. Steven Seagal stars as a bead wearing Buddhist cop called the Glimmer Man, and Keenan Ivory Wayans is his partner. They investigate murders where victims are hung upside down in crucifix fashion. I guess posters are not a decent enough decorating tip. Seagal is relieved of his badge when his ex- wife and boyfriend are murdered. Wayans gets back together with him after he is nearly torched in his apartment. Director John Gray does his best but Seagal is embarrassing. He should take those beads door to door selling arts and crafts. He spends the whole film fighting with bad guys and inventing methods of killing people. Wayans, Michelle Johnson, and Brian Cox&#x85;well&#x85;forget them. Wayans is the standard unlikely partner that we have seen in countless other action films even though few are as stupid as this one. What this film needs is to be placed on a slab of concrete and bashed repeatedly with a sledge hammer. It is about as exciting as watching your neighbor's vacation slides. Score 1 / 10 "},{"Title":"Seagal and Wayans in Los Angeles buddy cop thriller","Date":"24 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Released in 1996, The Glimmer Man is a cop thriller starring Steven Seagal and Keenen Ivory Wayans as a detective team in Los Angeles, the former recently transferring from New York City. As they get to know each other they're simultaneously tracking a serial killer called the family man who kills whole families and crucifies his (or her) victims on the walls. Will they catch the killer and who is it? This is a competent buddy cop thriller in the mold of the Dirty Harry flicks, the Lethal Weapon films and even Se7en, but with Seagal and Wayans. If you like those films and Seagal or Wayans you might want to check this out. The movie's decent with a few quality Seagal fight sequences, but something holds it back from greatness, like the Dirty Harry flicks. The serial killer who crucifies his victims on the walls seriously stretches realism. How exactly does he lift the victims up on the wall to stake their hands into it? Wouldn't that take a lot of extra time after murdering a family? What about the noise? Would a killer seriously stick around to do this? I just didn't like the complexities and contrivances of the serial killer subplot, particularly as it developed in the final act. Moreover, the constantly raining weather of dead-of-Winter Los Angeles makes for a gloomy cinematic palate. However, everything else clicks for a quality cop thriller, except that there are no prominent female roles.The movie runs 91 minutes and was shot in Los Angeles.GRADE C+ "},{"Title":"Just bad.","Date":"30 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Bad bad movie. Just another performance where Segal had to put in no effort other than flail around like a martial artist and Wayans was not funny (even though he is supposedly a comedian). This movie sounded like The Last Boy Scout (TLBS) when the character Maynard was mentioned (even more so when Wayans said it while sounding like his brother who was in TLBS). Except in TLBS the Wayan brother was a comic sidekick and the lead actor was sympathetic and funny unlike Segal's character in this who just seems to be fighting against everyone (even himself) for illogical reasons.Why does Segal's character always have to come from some eastern roots or be linked with some eastern philosophy (e.g. Buddhism in this case)? Doesn't make me believe he is the invincible fighter when seeing him un-co-ordinated and floundering around like someone in a sumo costume would move. His character always has their badge taken away by a yelling police officer and you know it's going to happen before it happens. NB. Steven Segal also had so much fake tan that he looked like a Halloween pumpkin. Watch at Halloween and you might enjoy seeing a pumpkin partially come to life. "},{"Title":"Kick off 97 with the man","Date":"19 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Glimmer Man is a little gem, and it's unlike, any other film our bad lead has done. And that's a cool quality about this must see action action vehicle, with a much interesting plot set around the more than one killer scenario, though it's Steve, again doing more physical damage to other humans. Seagal, a cop of course, is assigned to a a great sidekick and co star, Keenon Ivory Wayans (really, you couldn't got a better duo and they work off each other) where they investigate these ritualistic murders, where there's more to it, but I'm not gonna spoil it. Seagal's past just comes back to haunt him, and when his ex wife are killed. Of course, here it becomes personal, but Seagal's character shows much more restraint, somehow, until the revenge finale at the end, where Seagal squaring off, with that tall lanky, bad dude, provides one of the best revenge moments ever encountered, where I'd probably say it's my favorite. If you're a Seagal action fan, and you haven't seen this, you need a good walloping. It has thrilling action and humor. In the acting stakes, Seagal is really surpassed this time by real thespians, (Brian Cox and Bob Gunton) where Wayons is pretty good too. Don't miss this one on any account. I wish they'd really make credit/bank cards like that. Robberies would really go down. "},{"Title":"It's... not bad","Date":"14 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Possibly the brownest film ever made, this Steven Seagal actioner is, in a stunningly atypical way, kind of enjoyable. Seagal is a cop who wears beads and crystals and spouts Buddhist philosophies (which I'm assuming was him shoehorning in his real life interests) while solving a series of murders with new partner Keenan Ivory Wayans.The script seems like it was fished out of a bin round the back of Shane Black's office and never makes use of the idea of a hit man killing people in the style of a serial killer the police are hunting, but it's not that bad, breezing by in a mildly engaging kind of way. It's certainly the least poor film I've ever seen Seagal appear in. "}{"Title":"More Like a Dimmer","Date":"7 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Imagine Lethal Weapon and all your other favorite buddy cop movies, but without the humor, charisma, heart, originality, big-budget, huge action scenes and actors that have chemistry together&#x85; Oh, wait, you've seen The Glimmer Man, too?There is a plot here, a straight line, something that was originally pitched, but I failed to see any of that. I guess this was an excuse to get a man (Seagal) who was mere inches away from blowing up (and not in a good way) before he involuntarily retired from acting to pair with the least famous Wayans brother as his zany sidekick.Only, he really wasn't that zany, and Seagal wasn't that action packed. Or so he would tell us. Repeatedly.Let's dive into what they called a plot There's this serial killer on the loose and another group who, I guess pretend to be him, or something like that and there's corrupt cops and some testicle-dust that helps one of our heroes&#x85;I'll be honest it's been about a month and a half since I've seen this for the one and only time. I only watched it as it's my mission to conquer all the movies I haven't seen that the How Did This Get Made? podcast reviewed. I'll be further honest I didn't hate on this movie. Sure, it wasn't perfect, but maybe there was a good movie somewhere in this mess and the action by just-on-the-edge Seagal was somewhat fun. Wayans not so much, but I've enjoyed his other (behind-the-camera) films a ton more. So, he's forgiven.This movie was truly a mess and not recommended. Only if you wanna partake in the same challenge I gave myself watching all the How Did This Get Made? podcast films so you can enjoy their take.* * * Final thoughts Casablanca deserves better homage. "},{"Title":"How about some powdered deer penis?","Date":"19 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie has three things going for it one is Steven Seagal as a mystical character with a shadowy past who does magical things; two Keenan Ivory Wayans as his partner, a man who cries while watching Casablanca; and three John M. Jackson(Adm. Chegwidden from JAG)as the bad guy.Wayans spends his time trying to figure out Seagal, while Seagal is going after Jackson for killing his ex-wife. Anyone who has see Seagal knows that killing his wife is bad move, and we see here that he holds his ex just as dear.This is typical Segal martial arts action. The addition of Wayans gives it some comedy to made the ride more enjoyable. Don't think, just sit back and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Fairly Entertaining!","Date":"18 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" 'The Glimmer Man' is a fairly entertaining film, that works till it lasts. You can enjoy this one, only if you get in with limited expectations.Two cops, played by Seagal and Wayans, are forced to work together to solve a chain of mysterious killings by a killer nicknamed The Family Man.'The Glimmer Man' isn't pretentious. Its meant to be a pop-corn entertainer & it works in its own way. The Screenplay by Kevin Brodbin is interesting & crisp. John Gray's Direction is passable. Cinematography credits a mention. Action-Sequences are super.Performance-Wise Seagal portrays his part like a bad-ass, which he is. Wayans supports well. Brain Cox is first-rate.On the whole, 'The Glimmer Man' works. "},{"Title":"The Glimmer Man","Date":"29 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A practicing-Buddhist detective (Steven Seagal) joins forces with a wise-cracking, LA cop (Damon Wayans) on the cases of a serial killer called The Family Man who intrudes on the homes of families, shooting them in the foreheads point blank (the gun, equipped with silencer), then displaying them in the ritualistic form of the Crucifix, spiked to their bedroom walls. Soon, however, Seagal realizes that certain murders might be imitations, meant to resemble those of The Family Man, in actuality tied to chemical weapons smuggled and meant for sale to terrorists. Wayans loses his home, and suffers great harm to his person, thanks to his association with Seagal. I did think I would like this a little more than I did. Sure, Seagal has the requisite fight scene where he hurls men through tables, across the bar, through windows, and crashing into displays and walls, with broken bottles and faces as a result. There's a treasure of villainy, including Brian Cox as a CIA government man from Seagal's past, Bob Gunton (Shawshank Redemption) as the one responsible for negotiating the weapons trade with the Russian mob, Stephen Tobolowsky as The Family Man (who Seagal must kill in a Catholic Church much to his dismay after repeated warnings), and John M Jackson as Gunton's enforcer soon turning on his boss. Jackson is the unfortunate final bad guy and the eventual recipient of a major ass-whooping. I honestly think the feeling of familiarity with the plot and action scenes (the serial killing subplot shows us some grisly crime scenes but the approach to solving them is uninspired; this is more about the--yawn-- weapons smuggling uncovering than removing a serial killer from the streets) hurts The Glimmer Man. Yes, faces are beaten to a bloody and battered pulp, and Seagal's hands still move at warp speed when he destroys his foes, but I found myself just wanting more this time around. Wayans tries to use his sense of humor to save the day, and Seagal looks as relaxed and comfortable as I have ever seen him; but, the film simply lacks grit and intensity (there's also that energy missing) needed considering what the heroes are up against. This is a good example of the beginnings in Seagal's action hero decline. This was also a glaring example of Seagal's continuing chunky physique; I'm not one to harp on this as some do, but his limited movement does deter from the authenticity of his fight scenes...that said, at least he can absorb extra punishment and move more than one man around without it seeming less realistic. "},{"Title":"Better Than Average Seagal Saga","Date":"29 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The latest Steven Seagal crime movie The Glimmer Man takes its title from the hero's dexterity and cunning at eliminating his foes before they can retaliate. Devoted fans of the real-life Aikido master will cheer their pony-tail hero as he demolishes his usual quota of thuggish villains who richly deserve every slap, smack, punch, and crackle they receive from Seagal as a way of atonement. What might upset them are the many variations that embellish this saga. No, The Glimmer Man isn't a message-laden, ecological nightmare that Seagal's earlier epic On Deadly Ground was. This Seagal vehicle grafts a creepy, whodunit, serial killer plot reminiscent of the 1995 Brad Pitt chiller Se7en onto a standard-issue police procedural. This time out we're allowed to laugh a little at the antics of Seagal and his newest sidekick, LAPD Detective Jim Campbell (Keenen Ivory Wayans of A Lone Down Dirty Shame), who gets to be the butt of our protagonist's pranks. The script allows Wayans to behave in a fashion that would appear inappropriate for the screen persona of Seagal's indestructible character. For instance, we get to see Wayans cry like a baby as he watches Casablanca in a downtown movie palace. Seagal's recent pictures have been overshadowed by his 1992 box office smash Under Siege. The Glimmer Man represents an appeal to a more broadly defined audience, but nevertheless, it is more a watchable than most of his far-fetched fare.Steven Seagal's Glimmer Man character Jack Cole replicates the cop that he played in his cinematic debut Hard to Kill 9(1988) who had a hazy background as a CIA agent. Here, Seagal plays an ex-CIA assassin who plied his trade during the Vietnam War. As usual, Cole suffered from the lone wolf, Dirty Harry, syndrome. Mystery cloaks Cole so thoroughly that Campbell (Wayans) cannot decide whether to trust him or arrest him. Gradually, our detective heroes discover that their suspicions about the serial murders are correct. They uncover an elaborate CIA/Russian Mafia plot to smuggle chemical weapons into the U.S. in a most interesting and original manner. Complicating matters is the actual serial slayer, Christopher Maynard (Stephen Tobolowsky of Momento), who lives up to his weirdness. Frank Deverell (Bob Gunton of The Shawshank Redemption) is Seagal's chief adversary who masterminds the chemical weapons smuggling operation. As a CIA honcho, Mr. Smith (Brian Cox of The Long Kiss Goodnight) brings urbanity and a touch of Dixie to his duplicitous dastard. Cox makes such a impassive but slimy villain that he deserves the abuse that Seagal delivers with glee.The real fun in any Seagal epic is the incredible way that he crushes his adversaries without suffering any payback. Nothing in The Glimmer Man matches the far-fetched scene where he escapes the hoodlums right after he emerged from a coma and pushes his own gurney out of the hospital. Another change here is the joke-swapping rapport between Seabal and the impeccably tailored Wayans. Seagal characters aren't known for either their levity or their pranks. They are typically a humorless, moribund breed of hero. Keenen Ivory Wayans' presence helps to lighten things up in this bizarre thriller. He gets shot at, his apartment blown up, and he falls out of a high-rise motel window. Wayans looks and dresses ultra-cool but he gets no more respects and twice the number of bruises than Seagal.Underlying the complicated plot is the budding relationship between Cole and Campbell as they pursue their investigation in its bl00dsplattered, pyrotechnical explosive finale. The humor and antics that develop between these two make The Glimmer Man more interesting than the usual Seagal opus. The Glimmer Man is a vast improvement over On Deadly Ground and Under Siege 2 Dark Territory, but it is just another potboiler, albeit a polished one. The powdered deer penis scene is hilarious. "},{"Title":"More of Seagal's sadistic humour.","Date":"2 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Film Synopsis Los Angeles is rocked by a serial killer known as the Family Man, slaughtering entire families & placing their bodies in crucifixion poses. Jim Campbell, the investigating detective on the case, is paired with Jack Cole, a mysterious detective who wears Tibetan prayer beads, has formidable martial arts skills & acts a bit weird. When the Family Man's latest victim turns out to be Cole's ex-wife, Campbell faces the possibility that Cole might be the killer.The Review When David Fincher's dark masterpiece SE7EN came out in the mid-1990s, it spawned a number of films featuring fiendishly clever serial killers trying to highlight the flaws of society by killing people. The Glimmer Man owes a fair amount to Se7en with its killer trying to save people by turning them into martyrs.At least for the first hour, anyway. What we have here is a film that is actually a routine action film disguised as a buddy cop flick disguised as a serial killer film. This dishonesty is really quite insulting to the intelligence of the viewers & fans of Fincher's film. The Glimmer Man uses the serial killer angle of the plot to mask a standard CIA conspiracy plot with an arms dealer sending his top assassin to terminate some witnesses to his latest arms deal, covering his tracks by disguising the executions as the work of the serial killer.The other main problem with The Glimmer Man is the fact that it is a Steven Seagal film. Steven Seagal is a martial artist who came to fame in the late 80s actioner ABOVE THE LAW, starring in films such as HARD TO KILL, MARKED FOR DEATH, OUT FOR JUSTICE & his all-time best work, UNDER SIEGE. Seagal's films are almost always extremely violent action films with really sadistic aikido moves courtesy of Seagal. Here he engages in some of his famed aikido skills, catapulting CIA goons through walls in a restaurant; as well as displaying a good dose of sadism &#x96; he takes on Russian gangsters with a knife disguised as a credit card; interrogates his old boss by shooting him in his hands & feet; & propels the arms dealer's son through a window.The Glimmer Man tries to balance the sadism with some humour, most notably in the partnership between Seagal & Keenen Ivory Wayans. But this fails mainly due to the fact that they obviously can't stand each other &#x96; Wayans' idea of comedy is to make unwholesome remarks about people behind their backs & inserting a running joke about him quaffing some powdered deer genitals, which is quite painful to watch. Seagal fares better in the comedy stakes, delivering some amusing one-liners.As far as acting goes, the cast are mostly competent. Besides Wayans, the only other actor to stumble is Brian Cox, who goes through the film with a campy performance that doesn't suit him. "},{"Title":"Don't expect too much from this film","Date":"3 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Not really a very insightful movie that one can study for hours and think about a lot. Rather this is more of a typical Hollywood action movie. Cops are partnered in regards to opposing personalities (which I love because when done properly, especially in this movie, it creates a really relaxed atmosphere), cars blow up at the sightest touch, and the hero runs around killing heaps of people and blowing up heaps of buildings and the captain at the end says, Cole, I owe you an apology. Cole (Steven Segal) is playing his usual ex-special forces come cop or something role. Almost the same role that he played in Under Siege and On Deadly Ground (and no doubt numerous other movies before and after). As is typical, Steven Segal will encounter a horde of bad guys and he will typically beat them all up single handedly, and then walk out of the room dusting himself off.The plot is interesting though. Segal is a cop that hunts down serial killers, but has a rather sordid past not only is it somewhat unknown, his recent past in regards to tracking down serial killers is tainted for he shot one when on a roof of a building in New York and there were no witnesses. Now he is in Los Angeles and a serial killer is attacking again, but this time there some one is going around killing people and using the serial killer to cover his tracks. As one delves in deeper, one uncovers a plot involving the Russian mafia.Once again, as it typical of a Steven Segal movie, there is lots of action and lots of martial arts. That alone would have been quite boring; one sees cars and petrol tankers blowing up every time one turns on the television. What made this movie cool was the backchat between the partners. "},{"Title":"The beginning of Seagal's decline -- dumb but fun!!","Date":"30 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A curious Seagal/Keenan Ivory Wayans team-up we have here. I'm not sure these two even have chemistry but they are such an odd couple that somehow I couldn't help but be entertained. Wayans does his usual smart-alec schtick while Seagal is some ex-CIA mystery man who walks around in some sort of nehru outfit with beads around his neck. He proceeds to tell some gangsters that fighting is against his religion. After which he then proceeds to kick their asses to a bloody pulp and even uses a credit card to slice a dude's throat. Haha! Yep, that sounds like our Zen-Buddhist Mr. Non-Violence himself.Seagal is clearly putting on some weight here. But at least his movies are still hitting theaters at this point. Though it's clear that 1996 was the beginning of Seagal's decline. UNDER SIEGE 2 in 1995 was his last great film. Heck, that was his best film. But starting with 1996 his films began to flounder. Heck, that same year he basically had a cameo in Stuart Baird's exceptional EXECUTIVE DECISION - where he got sucked out into thin air during a botched plane-to-plane transfer. Kurt Russell ended up saving the day in that one.Anyway it wasn't long before Seagal began to team up with washed-up rappers/wanna-be actors in his films. Then he just went straight do DVD. I guess teaming up with dudes like DMX and Ja Rule is not a good career move. But here in this film this odd combo of Seagal and Wayans somehow works. The story is pretty crap. Heck, it's very crap. Something about some Russian mob tied to some rich businessman and the C.I.A. and then some stupid subplot about some religious fanatic killing families. So yes, very crap story.But Seagal and Wayans entertained me. And the way Seagal folds his hands across his chest (like some Dalai Lama) only to then beat a bunch of dudes into a bloody pulp is just a joy to witness. Haha! And the way he beats up these guys is pure comedy! He just tosses them around into walls, sharp objects, windows, etc. without even breaking a sweat. I guess by 1996 Seagal didn't need to use actual aikido skills. He was just in this zen-like state where he could just push a dude and that was enough to maim him. And if that wasn't enough then he would just smack him across the face a few times and that would most certainly kill the sucker. Hilarious!! "},{"Title":"Showdown on Sesame Street....","Date":"2 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Jack Cole is a soft spoken, mystical, new age New York cop with a checkered past.He is transferred to Los Angeles to help Los Angeles cop Jim Campbell solve a series of brutal murders in which the victims are crucified.The murders that have happened since Jack arrived in Los Angeles just don't sit right with him. When the killer, known as the Family Man, kills Ellen DunLeavy, who happens to be Jack's ex wife and the mother of his two kids, and Ellen's husband Andrew DunLeavy, it becomes personal - especially when Jack's prints are found on Ellen's body.Jack meets with his military mentor Smith, not knowing that Smith is in cahoots with local crime boss Frank Deverell.....This is probably the last prolific film Seagal released in the nineties, and it's a wonderful oddity of a movie.Mixing Se7en, with Lethal weapon is a strange combo, but the film makers and the two leads make this work very well, with the mixture of action and darkness just about balanced.Seagal and Wayans seem awkward as partners at first, but the humour is surprisingly intimate between the two, which makes them more believable as eventual friends.The story is exactly what you'd expect from a Seagal film, playing somebody with a shady past and a silly nickname (Seagal is the titular character), but it doesn't really need any attention, so it's best just to concentrate on the action scenes, which are very well choreographed, and very violent.he film has a very Gothic feel to it, which might deter other action fans, as it doesn't feel like a typical Seagal movie.With good support from Gunton and Cox (who was in every film in 1996) the Glimmer Man is a refreshing action movie, which deserved to do a little better at the box office. "},{"Title":"From the new Buster Keaton to the new Woody Allen.............","Date":"3 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Aw,Steve,I love you,man.Ever since I saw Under SiegeI have recommended your work to friends(some of whom,oddly,no longer call)and await each new addition to the canon with breathless eagerness. With The Glimmer ManYou have truly blossomed out as a multi - lingual polymath. And you can kick arse and take names.That fight in the restaurant was quite exquisitely choreographed and brilliantly funny. No longer are you satisfied with being the new Buster Keaton(see my review of Under Siege),my guess is Woody Allen had better be looking over his shoulder real soon. You don't need a plot,just point the camera and give both your facial expressions,man.And kick arse and take names,obviously. My friend went to your Country and Western show in Worthing and said you were great.Unfortunately I couldn't make it 'cos I'm still considered a danger to the public. Bummer,man. "}{"Title":"Seagal's ego is bigger than elephant","Date":"11 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The only reason this movie was made is probably to satisfy Seagal's huge ego . THE WHOLE MOVIE is basically a non stop marathon about how Seagal's character is awesome , tough , smart , handsome and bla bla bla bla . Someone here needs a therapy &#x85; Anyway , that's the biggest problem of the movie . I quickly became annoyed with all this Seagal worship that doesn't end until the ending credits appear.Even sticking to well liked by audiences formula of buddy cop movie isn't able to save the movie . Maybe because Wayans isn't one bit funny. The Glimmer man tries to have a dark atmosphere like Se7en , but fails . Not to mention that the whole movie feels low budget made &#x96;for &#x96; TV movie . In the end the movie makers tried desperately to impress the audience at least with violence , yet it comes out like a cheap shock. Story ? What story ? Action ? Typical unimpressive Seagal style.Avoid it . I give it 1/10. "},{"Title":"Another poor Seagal film.","Date":"21 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I was told that this film was an action comedy, the blurb on the back specifically made reference to 'punches mixed with punchlines' and the Pulitzer Prize winning 'the wit hits the fan'.What I actually got was a very large, rusted nail heavily thumped into Seagal's credibility. This coming from the guy who'd watch Under Siege 2 several days earlier.The Glimmer Man is ACTUALLY an action-thriller film about two cops trying to find a serial killer called the Family Man because he kills and crucifies whole families, what a hoot! Add in a dash of political intrigued, Vietnam veterans and conspiracy and you have a flop.The problem with this film is that the gunfights are handled relatively well but the fist fights (Seagal's selling point) is so rapidly edited that you only ever see about two kick strung together before the footage cuts elsewhere. Watching classics martial arts films (I'm thinking Bruce Lee/Donnie Yen films here) is that the editing and filming actually shows off the skills of the fighters on display. That is not present in the Glimmer Man, So what you eventually have with this action comedy is a film that has very little comedy and the action is badly done. Not all is bad however, the plot is actually fairly reasonable and there are plenty of twists and turns that somehow command your attention and there is quite a lot of potential there but you somehow end up with a hugely forgettable film. "},{"Title":"Great Seagal film","Date":"18 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is Seagal at his best, the movie is kick-ass funny, and for the first time, he does not hog the spotlight and in shares the screen with someone who can kick butt almost as well as he does, and deliver one liners equally well (if not better).LAPD officer Jack Cole, and his new parter detective Campbell, are going after a family killer who crucifies his victims and paints religious art on the walls with there blood. The latest kill turns out to be Coles ex, and when his finger prints are discovered at the crime scene, suspicion is put on him. Cole may have to go rogue to prove his innocence, but not entirely, Campbell trust him even thought, he is getting into lots of trouble around Cole, (and his allergies to Cole Buddist incense, have forced him to purchase lots of herbal medicine made from animal parts).The Glimmer man has a pretty good sense of humour on top of everything else, and there is actually something moderately legitimate in the way of a plot, (this and Under Siege) Nothing feels too gratuitous or unintentionally funny, So if you are gonna pick one Seagal film to see, this might be your best choose "},{"Title":"great buddy movie starring steven seagal and keenon ivory wayans","Date":"10 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The glimmerman is a buddy movie about two mismatched cops who are partner'd up for a case dealing with a serial killer, although the story is dark, it still has the humour you would expect from a buddy movie, and you also the get the martial arts you would get from a steven seagal movie, and it all works to bring us one kick ass action flick that delivers the action and the humour. the rest of the cast are good, and brian cox does his thing. steven seagal has some fantastic fights in the glimmerman and its probably the last movie he was this badaaas. after this movie he started putting a lot of weight on and his movies kept getting poorer and poorer with each one, but the glimmerman remains a solid buddy flick "},{"Title":"Seagal goes Farrelly","Date":"21 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Forget the Psycho killings (no doubt a freudian outcome of the writer's having spent some time in a nun's school), the whole crime plot is just a McGuffin, as the film is a buddy movie comedy disguised -with extraordinary skill- as an action thriller/chiller.Wayans and Seagal engage in funny shenanigans, all the while kicking in sensible body parts to anyone crossing their path. Seagal's comedy actually goes Farrelly when he presents his resignation as police officer.One sadly regrets that the film's casting director was bitten by a tsetse fly... let's hope that the next time he is wide awake and doesn't commit the slight mistake of giving Seagal a long role and Bob Gunton just a few sentences. "},{"Title":"Good Fight Sequences","Date":"3 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The fight sequences in this film were up to the usual, Segal standard even though he is carrying a few extra pounds, I did think though that the Serial Killer plot had promise, it was completely wasted and could have been an a movie plot in itself. The main plot which was hardly referenced and as the film only runs for 88 minutes, the writers and Director could have stretched it another half an hour to make it as fuller product.This film is neither up to the standard of Under Siege or Under Siege 2What I do find strange about Segal's films is a times he seems to go off on one, You know you can't take a Hard Man if you are into mystic religion or environmental issues, it doesn't work. "},{"Title":"Seagal does it again","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  What a movie!  Keanan was Seagal's best on-screen partner in a movie thus far!  8 out of 10!  I would love to see them make a sequel to this film and have the two of them team up again to solve another crime.  This movie really makes you hang on the edge of your seat and still wanting more at the end! "},{"Title":"SEAGAL GOING BACK TO WHAT HE DOES BEST","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  After the dodgy On Deadly Ground Seagal goes back to doing what made him famous, kicking bad guys backside . I enjoyed Seagal's on screen relationship with Keenan Ivory Wayans which gave the movie a Lethal Weapon feel to it.It was back to the days of Hard To Kill and Marked For Death, although the action was spread a little, it is certainly Mr Seagal's best offering since the under seige movies, best fight scene was in the restaurant and with the hope of a decent story and a good script we might see Seagal doing these kind of movies again.As for the comment I read about why it was called The Glimmer Man, well the line in the movie goes They called him the glimmer man, all you would see was jungle then a glimmer, then you would be dead. "},{"Title":"Seagal gives a best shot!!!","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This Steven Seagal film has more punches and kicks than in any other of his films. When I saw John M. Jackson (the admiral from JAG 1995), he was so unbelievable; you've got to see him movin' and movin'. Now, about Keenan Ivory Wayans, he was also a dynamic fellow in action, and funny too. Just remember next time, if you like strong physical action, this is the movie that has to do with it. "},{"Title":"SEAGAL kinda´ brutal and coool !","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I have seen all SEAGAL-movies and no doubt about that, GLIMMER MAN continues the SEAGAL-Style, which is his quick bone-breaking actions and definitely his silence and coolness. The scene where he raised some havoc in this hotel-lobby is the hammer, ending the scene where he answers this telephone call is real fun stuff. Unfortunately Keenen Ivory WAYANS didn´t really impress me, as it was in A LOW DOWN DIRTY SHAME, he was in the shadow of SEAGAL all the time. Well kinda´ brutal scenes, so check it out if you don´t find any other street-action flick in your video-store shelves.  "}{"Title":"Not as bad as the crummy title suggests, but could have been better.","Date":"22 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  In this se7en-styled knock-off, Steven Seagal and Keenen Ivory Wayans are teamed up together to track down a typically vicious serial killer.Along the way they encounter Russian Mafia who, we learn from this movie, all have tattoos on their forearms, but Seagal, can beat them quite easily.  He also has a mysterious past and was called The Glimmer Man... ugh!The mysterious past thing is just so lame in this movie. They call him the Glimmer man because you only see a glimmer before he kills you.  This sub-plot point is actually irrelevant to the whole movie. Why can't he just be a cop who just happens to be very good at martial arts? Why isn't the serial killer called the glimmer man?  It's actually quite annoying when you think about it.There's also a sub-plot about the smuggling of chemical warfare from Russia - but where the heck is it?  It never appears in the movie.  The heroes don't even try to go to the docks to try and find the container shipment, or use SWAT to storm warehouses that belong to the Russian Mafia.This movie is filled with sub-plots that are, to all ends and purposes, totally irrelevant to the movie.The acting and chemistry between Seagal and Wayans feels forced - but I didn't mind because the action and story kept this movie moving.One of the things I liked about this movie is that half way through Seagal himself is considered a suspect.  I thought this actually be a sign of intelligent writing in the movie, and I was expecting a shock ending or twist with Wayans discovering he's been working with and helping the serial killer... It'd be far more intelligent than this drek of an action movie.Anyway, by the end we're treated with a quite good action/martial art sequence with the lead henchman who dies quite grissly.Overall, this movie has a crummy title and can't decide if it wants to be intelligent or just another brutal action movie. It chooses option 2.Rating 4/10 "},{"Title":"Ste7en","Date":"8 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I regard this movie as the beginning of the first downward spiral of Seagal's career. After the epic action of Under Siege 2 and Executive Decision it was a bad mistake to sign-up for The Glimmer Man. When I went to the cinema to see this film on November 2nd 1996 they didn't even tear my ticket stub. Of the thousands of cinema tickets I've kept it's the only one that hasn't been torn. Not even the employees of the long-gone ABC Cinema could be bothered keeping tabs on the audience. Needless to say that the film wasn't screened for critics and every review in the papers that week was nothing but waffling on presumptions of what a typical Seagal film would be. I am making up for that now with a proper review.The fundamental flaw in The Glimmer Man is that it's just far too contrived. The 80s 'mis-matched cops' cliché didn't help either. Plus, the film was yet another Se7en wannabe, a sub-genre that flooded cinemas post October 1995.Seagal plays Jack Cole, a weirdo New York cop transferred to Los Angeles for reasons that are never clearly defined. He's teamed-up with wisecracking Detective Jim Campbell (Keenan Ivory Wayans, who did not like Seagal) to catch 'The Family Man'; a serial killer who crucifies families (actually just the parents). But things get a little too personal for Cole when his ex-wife is killed by a Family Man copycat because she was the psychiatrist of the high school kid he saved who had discovered his evil step-dad's plan to sell chemical weapons sold by the Russian Mafia and brokered by the CIA, who Cole used to work for.It's very poorly written by Kevin Brodbin, himself a former film critic, so he ought to have known better. This wouldn't be so bad if the fight scenes were remotely impressive. There are a couple of good action moments, like Campbell's apartment fight, but the rest are very quickly edited to compensate for Seagal's decreasing suppleness and rapidly expanding waistline. And after the high adventure of his previous movies, going back to low-wattage bar fights and gun play just isn't exciting.Unknown director John Gray (who?) shoots the film like a TV movie. You'd be forgiven for thinking that this was an average episode of CSINew York. He tries to mimic the retro-noir look of Se7en with lots of gloomy locations and rain but it just gives the film a really oppressive feel.It's obvious that Seagal's influence on the script made it to the screen. As usual there's mumbo-jumbo about Cole's mysterious past (something Seagal both pretends AND denies he has). The mystical Buddhist stuff really adds nothing, you can see right through it to Seagal's unnecessary pandering, and what exactly is the deal with those jackets? Definitely from Seagal's own wardrobe and strategically chosen to conceal the Belly the of the Beast.There's some decent acting to be had outside of Seagal's non-effort. Wayans proves he's more capable of being an action than the rest of his family (and Seagal too) and Brian Cox (a last-minute replacement for Tommy Lee Jones who probably said 'oh no, not Seagal again' and fled) plays the same old dodgy CIA buffoon he's built half his career on.If you can get around the uninspired, gibberish title and if you are suffering a serious deficit in better action movies then give it a go. Just don't bother with the horribly censored UK cut, butchered by the BBFC. "},{"Title":"Worth watching for Brian Cox","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" New Year 2006, and I'm watching Glimmer Man again. Say what you like, I find Steven Seagal's movies amusing. Like many comments, good fight sequences - I particularly liked his answering of the phone at the restaurant saying how long it would be closed for restoration. Bit like Schwarzenegger's humour in the earlier action films - although that tended to be self-deprecating.But the one I like here is Brian Cox. One of the most versatile actors around. Pity about his hand and foot, but so much for withstanding extended interrogation - must have flunked that class at the farm.As the films went on I wonder just how the ever thickening girth of Seagal affected his movement?. Never mind, it's entertainment!. "},{"Title":"This wasn't Seagal's best, but it's still rip roarin entertainment!","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I have to admit, once I saw the trailer to this movie I knew it was going to be good!  The only question I had was where did they get the title from? But it still sounds tight.  Anyway, this movie deserves a B because it had good action and a good action plot.  First I thought this movie was a B- movie, but then I saw it again and saw how it was even better.  The first fight scene with Seagal and Wayans was so unexpected that I would pay $4.50 for it.  The credit card with the hidden knife was cool.  I didn't like some of the editing though just like in FIRE DOWN BELOW, but hey Seagal was upset too! The cool thing is having Seagal be an ex-assassin who moves so fast, that all you see is a jungle, then a glimmer, then you'd be dead!!!!  "},{"Title":"Typical Steven Seagal outing, but The Glimmer Man is undoubtedly one of his better movies","Date":"16 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Glimmer Man, directed in 1996 by John Gray, is yet another typical Steven Seagal martial arts-action/crime-thriller, but it is undoubtedly one of his better movies from his heyday. Under Siege was not perfect by any means upon its blockbuster release in 1992, but it is unquestionably Seagal's best movie to date (which unfortunately doesn't say much about his wildly hit-and-miss career as a whole).By '96, when The Glimmer Man was released, Seagal had become something of a walking parody of himself and a rather formulaic action star; the stoic Aikido martial arts master with a shady government-agent background was quickly wearing itself out. A worthy addition to the formula in The Glimmer Man had Seagal sharing screen-time with another star performer, comedian Keenen Ivory Wayans.In The Glimmer Man, Seagal is Jack Cole, a former black ops mercenary who received his nickname because in the darkest jungles of Vietnam during the war, all you saw was a glimmer of a man (or so we're told), and then you'd be dead. Cole has since become a homicide detective with strong spiritual leanings (he wears Buddhist prayer beads throughout the film and is quite keen on Eastern religion and philosophy), first in New York and now in Los Angeles, where he's first partnered up with Det. Jim Campbell (Wayans).From the beginning, this movie takes a few pages from the Se7en (1995) play-book with trippy editing/cinematography and a serial killer called The Family Man (so-called because he murders entire households) with religious motivations behind his serial killings; Se7en was still quite popular around this time, hence the reference. Their investigation leads to a confrontation with shady businessman Frank Deverell (Bob Gunton), and a plot involving both The Family Man and murderous Russian mobsters. Another wrinkle comes from the fact that Cole's ex-wife is one of the most recent victims of The Family Man, and he is now a suspect.The reason I feel that The Glimmer Man is one of Seagal's better vehicles is because 1) there's a believable dynamic between himself and Keenen Ivory Wayans, which makes the movie feel a bit different from his usual stuff because of the added bits of humorous dialogue, and 2) it has some of his best fight/action sequences, despite the fact that it is one of his lesser-regarded films overall. The fights here are quite brutal (Wayans's Campbell character even gets a few punches in, too, including a battle with an intruder in his apartment) and Seagal finally has an opponent in the end who can actually match him in hand-to-hand combat scenes.The Glimmer Man is a Steven Seagal movie post-Under Siege that is worthy of a glimmer of honorable mention amongst his catalog of films.7/10 "},{"Title":"Action film with fights and explosions and very bad jokes...","Date":"21 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I'm not a massive fan of the action genre but when I feel like watching something that is going to apply no pressure on my brain whatsoever, I turn to a film like this. Maybe that's why I'm more forgiving of their shortcomings than some other reviewers I don't want these films to be particularly intelligent...Well, I certainly get my wish here. Big Steve plays a kick-ass Buddhist cop called Jack Cole who has a hidden past and bad taste in clothes and who sports a puny pony-tail and a fledgling paunch. Cole is assigned to a serial killer case in a rainy Los Angeles and teamed up with Keenan Ivory Wayans, a buttoned-down cop with no personal life. Of course it's not long before this odd couple is bonding as they break Russian bones. The story isn't anything special, and if Seagal's fighting was as bad as his acting my mum could beat him up easily, but there is a decent fight every ten minutes or so and a couple of good explosions. Funny though, how hardly anybody manages to actually hit Seagal; he spends most of his fights fending off flying feet and fists until he decides to deliver a couple of kicks or chops of his own that instantly render his opponent unconscious.What is really lame about this film, is the sporadic attempts at humour. Some of the 'humourous' scenes are toe-curlingly bad. Powdered deer penis? Please... "},{"Title":"Seagal bleeds his own blood for the first time!","Date":"27 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" OK, so the IMDb plot synopsis describes Seagal's character Jack Cole as a soft spoken, mystical, new age New York cop with a checkered past.So basically that's Seagal playing himself again, except for the New York cop part&#133;He's been transferred from New York to LA to help the LAPD with the case of a serial killer who has been dubbed the family man, due to the fact that he has a tendency to kill whole families. Generally the killer has a very specific method, and the killings that have taken place since Cole came to LA have seemed a little different to him. And since he's Steven Seagal, of course it needs to be personal. Because like it or not, ole' Steve's just good at revenge, man.The latest murder is Cole's ex-wife and her new husband, so he is brought almost miraculously into a personal involvement in the case (that he came from New York to help find a serial killer and then that killer managed to kill his ex-wife is what I call a Movie Miracle), but luckily his partnership with LA Detective Jim Campbell is interesting an amusing enough to carry us past such small snags.Ad by the way, Campbell is played by Keenan Ivory Wayans who, you may have noticed, is one of the Wayans brothers, but don't let that deter you. He does manage to give a less impressive performance that Seagal in the movie but is leaps and bounds better than his idiot brothers tend to be. At the very least, when he's involved with train wreck movies like White Chicks and Little Man, at least he has the good sense to hide his face.If you ever see Marlon's name anywhere, however, run for the hills!Of course, in The Glimmer Man, Detective Campbell's only role is to make the LAPD seem at first to be the hardcore precinct, and then immediately afterwards he transforms into nothing but comic relief. And not that he's bad at it. It was moderately amusing when he stumbled across powdered deer penis in a Chinese herb store while Taft was at the counter stumbling through some broken Chinese with the store clerks, but I've lived here in China for two years now and I've never seen anyone eat nor have heard anything about anyone eating deer penis, powdered or otherwise.On the other hand, sheep penis is a different story. I've had that myself. It was one of my Chinese friends who explained to me that the Chinese eat everything that runs along the ground except cars, and everything that flies in the sky except airplanes. In fact, by far my favorite late night food (meaning around 4am after a long night of bar-hopping) is barbecued sheep testicles and eyeballs at a location that my friends and I have lovingly dubbed the dirty street. I know it sounds frightening but trust me, those eyeballs are DELICIOUS.Can I just make one suggestion though? If you ever find yourself with the opportunity to eat sparrow, make sure to eat the head first. It's a small bird, so they serve it with everything but the feathers, and you eat everything, too. Claws, bones, beak, everything. But if you save the head for last, like I did, then by the time you bite into the skull you get cold brains squirting into your mouth, and trust me, that's even a little worse than it sounds&#133;So anyway, while tracking the serial killer, it seems that Cole's old boss, played with satisfactory menace by Michael Cox (who you may remember as the movie world's first Hannibal Lecter) is attempting to enter into a shady deal with the Russians to get super-rich off the black market sales of chemical weapons. Needless to say, Cole comes off as a little nuts when he, the new guy, starts trying to convince people that there is a high-level conspiracy going on involving the Russians. Not a good way to make a first impression.There are some good action sequences (if not exactly original) and enough fight scenes to satisfy the Seagal fans (who will admittedly make up most of the audience, except the film critics who warn everyone else away), although it's all made a little goofy by the fact that Lieutenant Cole, at one point, explains that violence is against his religion. Yeah, right.The buddy-cop angle is a clever addition to the Seagal formula and has spotty success here, but the majority of people of course are going to find it a disappointing action movie unless they're a die-hard Seagal fan. Personally, I happen to believe that movies from people like Steven Seagal and Jean Claude Van-Damme speak to a certain adolescent childishness in us that should never really be completely forgotten. No, they're not Oscar winners, nor will they ever be. But if you can't find at least a little fun in some of them, you might think about lightening up a little bit! "},{"Title":"Segal's forary into the buddy picture","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Glimmer Man is Steven Segal's first forary into a buddy movie. Kennan Ivory Wayana gives some good one liners in the film and he even gets beat up a few times. The film has some nice action sequences and some chemsitry between Segal and Wayans. I give *** out of ****. "},{"Title":"Classic seagal","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Seagal doesn't try anything he shouldn't here. Just another action-packed 90 minutes of excitement. The story has some plot holes in it unfortunately, but seeing Seagal in his original, non-preachy style makes this worth it and easy to overlook the flaws. Recommended to fans who were disappointed by THE PATRIOT.  "},{"Title":"Some Humor","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" One thing about this film is the economy of characters; none is wasted. Near the beginning, Jack Cole helps disarm a distraught kid, and later that kid becomes a key element in a larger investigation.Cole, an unorthodox cop, is asked to testify about the kid's troubled behavior by his stepfather, but the request is by proxy, and Cole declines. So naturally, this displeases the powerful and influential stepfather, and what do you know! Cole becomes of interest in the murder of somebody he'd be a logical suspect of killing.So Cole has to clear his name, and drags his reluctant (and new) partner, Jim Campbell, along for the ride.As with many Seagal films, there's a lot of violent action, with corpses scattered in the wake of Jack Cole's progress. For the observant viewer, there are holes one could drive a 16-wheeler through, but that doesn't detract from the film's perverse charm.Not his best, but not bad "}{"Title":"Very Cool Buddy Buddy FIlm! Seagal And Keenan Wayans Were Great Together!","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is a very cool Buddy Buddy film!, Seagal and Keenan Wayans were great together!.All the characters are awesome, and the villains are great, plus i really liked the story!. Seagal is always fantastic, but he actually shows a bit of emotion here, which pleased me quite a bit, and i liked it's gritty feel, plus the chemistry between Wayans and Seagal is awesome!. There is lots of action, and the plot is very interesting, plus the ending is very funny, as Keenan Wayans had me on the floor!. This movie isn't very popular, however i enjoyed it very much, as it's exciting, at times suspenseful, and it had great comic relief from Keenan Ivory Wayans!. The Direction is very good. John Gray does a very good job here, with good camera shots and angles, and he kept the film at a good pace!. There is quite a bit of violence. We get tons of very bloody gunshot wounds, a few bloody gunshot wounds to the head, 3 gory imapling's,3 bloody slit throats,corpses crucified on walls,and harsh bloody beatings. The Acting is great!> Steven Seagal is AMAZING as always, and is fantastic here, he is very good in the acting department,very likable, had awesome chemistry with Wayans, kicked that ass, actually showed some emotion!, and was tons of fun to watch!. Keenan Ivory Wayans is hilarious here, he is also very likable, interesting, provided some great comic relief, and i just dug him!. Bob Gunton and Brian Cox both do good as the villains. Rest of the cast is fine. Overall highly recommended! ***1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Don't underestimate the Seagal!","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Until I seen this movie, I thought Steven Seagal was a bad action movie star. This movie hasn't totally changed my opinion but it has forced me to reevaluate Mr. Seagal's movies. This movie was not bad at all, considering I'm anti-Steven Seagal's movies. This was actually quite enjoyable. The fighting was excellent and made me think that Steven Seagal might be a bad boy when it comes to throwing down against villains. Even though I had only seen two movies of his before this one, I think this is his best one of all. As far as renting it, I don't know but I highly recommend you watch it the next time it comes on HBO or Cinemax. I learned never to underestimate Seagal's prowess ever again. Now I think I will watch more of his movies after seeing this rock 'em, sock 'em action flick! "},{"Title":"My fave Seagal vehicle, with the help of a Wayans brother!","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Steven Seagal finally reaches my tastes in this enjoyable buddy/cop drama THE GLIMMER. Seagal plays Jack, a New York cop sent to helpin a serial killer case in Los Angeles. Keenan Ivory Wayans alsostars as Jim, the L.A. detective that resents having forced to work with an outsider. But the two quickly blends as the going gets really tough as the investigation takes an even more slippy turn. At long last Seagal seemed less brooding and more human as he bonds with Wayans, who is smooth as ice as ever before. Watch for the scene where Seagal questions how Wayans feels about the movie CASABLANCA. "},{"Title":"Solid action!!!","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Steven Seagal returns as a cop for the fifth time.  Seagal goes back to his roots after having made Under Siege 1&2 and On Deadly Ground.  The Glimmerman has got far more in common with Seagal`s Out For Justice, Hard To Kill, Marked For Death and Above The Law. Steven Seagal plays Jack Cole, a New York cop, who ends up as Jim Campbell`s partner.  A serial killer is running amuck in the town, and the police-force begin to think that the killer is Jack Cole, after they discover his mysterious past....... The Glimmerman is an actionthriller with excellent action-scenes.  Seagal destroys a bar as usual and he has a cool final battle with the villain.  Steven Seagal is one of my favorite actors, but this is sadly his last good film. Excellent score for top fight-scenes and cool action! 9,5/10   "},{"Title":"This movie was Seagal's best.","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I thought that Steven Seagal was at his best in this movie. He was a lot funnier than he was in his previous movies and his fight scenes were more realistic than in some of his other movies. Wayans was also a great actor. I thought the cast was excellent and the plot was interesting. This movie was a lot of action and fun, and I'd recommend this movie to those who liked Seagal in other movies. "},{"Title":"Top notch Seagal action film","Date":"28 March 2003","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is one of Seagal's last good films.  It has lots of good action scene's and Seagal and Wayans make a solid team.  The shootout at the end was solid and the fight scene's were cool too.  This movie ranks with UNDER SIEGE, ABOVE THE LAW, OUT FOR JUSTICE, and MARKED FOR DEATH as Seagal's best film's.  FIRE DOWN BELOW was decent too and that was officially Seagal's last watchable film, but this one ranks up there with his best.  Its no LETHAL WEAPON or 48 HRS when it comes to cop buddy thrillers, but its still solid.  4/5 "},{"Title":"Seagal's descent began here","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It was here the trend of Seagal starring in more economically budgeted movies with drab scripts that seriously lacked action. (And that were never screened for the critics!) Though the fight sequences here aren't has badly done as in his subsequent movies (the editing is less frenzic), they are few and far between. As a result, action fans will really be bored, especially since the story is so drab, despite it involving a serial killer who's especially sadistic. New twists to the story only occasionally come, and they are usually so murky that eventually the viewers will be confused as to who is doing what (and why.)Seagal and Wayans never quite generate the necessary chemistry, despite the fact that their characters are opposed in their views and practices. Although they occasionally have some mildly amusing dialogue, the level of dialogue is generally bad, sometimes mind-bogglingly so.It's easy to see why this didn't do much at the box office, and why Seagal increasingly became frustrated with Warner Brothers, eventually leaving them. (Though he returned for EXIT WOUNDS for some reason.) Seagal needs to not only stop playing the same basic character in each of his movies, but stop choosing scripts that recycle the same basic elements we see in almost every one of his movies. If he does that, there is a possibility he could remove the stigma of being a glorified B movie actor.  "},{"Title":"Fair Din !","Date":"5 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" _From an old point of view  this is atrocious. Steven Seagal does nothing but hitting everybody. Keenen Ivory Wayans is so unfunny. There are just explosions, Aikido, blood, and tons of silliness. This is a harsh waste of time. I forgot it like a glimmer ! _From a recent point of view  after 10 years of the first viewing, I saw that Seagal did worse, much much worse, along the next years. Keenen Ivory Wayans, compared to his other movies, was never droller ! The unceasing explosions and thrilling moments can pay off the presence of the blood and the silliness. It is a harsh waste of time, however its harshness is nicer than real wastes (done by the same leads or else). And yes, these movies are useful if they could verge on being as fast and dazzling as the glamour ! _From a historical point of view  here you can read the development of the formula so right. After the good maverick cowboy..sorry cop became so violent (Dirty Harry), he learned some marital arts (Bruce Lee), then teamed up with another more merry &#x96; mostly black &#x96; cop (Lethal Weapon), and finally the dual have to chase now one so intelligent serial killer (The Silence of the Lambs). So (The Glimmer Man) is the natural evolution. Although it's without the huge success, the strong influence or the sequels. But it approached the same entertaining level.In the same year, the buddy action movies were living a tragedy. It was obvious that the popular trend went slightly down, with movies like Fled and Bulletproof that looked like bad shadows of more good movies. Hence believe it or not (The Glimmer Man) can be real distinct. It served all the new formula's elements (the maverick cop, the marital arts, the buddy comedy, and the hunt of serial killer) but in straight way, without much funniness, and close to the V movies yet in big budget._From temperate point of view  Along with being invaluable antique among Seagal's later movies, it looks like a gaudy nosiness that hits its mark; THE ENTERTAINMENT cleverly. The movie's biggest achievement is remaining hot and suspenseful. The cinematography and the editing did a great job to present many action sequences brightly and non-stop yet not in ugly or hyped way. You can say a lot about the violence, the plot that got secondary conflicts, or the Hollywood ending, but ladies and gentlemen these are the goods, and simply this one delivers. True that it's the usual of the era, and Seagal at this era. But according to 1996's production I rank it after the best buddy action of the year The Rock._From here to eternity  It's a din. A good amusing one. "},{"Title":"Seven meets Above the Law","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The buddy-cop genre gets chop-socky with Steven Seagal as a mystical-heavy cop teaming up with street-smart detective Keenan Ivory Wayans (whose as much as a smart-alec as his younger brother Damon!!) to nab a ruthless serial killer in this cool action flick. It borrows the dark elements of atmosheric movies like Se7en and blends it with the raw street material of Seagal's previous smash Above the Law. Other than the good production values, the chemistry between Seagal and Wayans is awesome. Their characters got along really well and quick, compared to the relationship of Mel Gibson's Riggs and Danny Glover's Murtaugh, which took quite awhile for them to blend together!! Wayans was funny and slick as usual, and it was great  to see Seagal's own sense of humor. I thought I would never see that guy smile!! "}]