[{"Title":"Genuinely amusing","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"29 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Okay it's not exactly the biggest stretch of casting to have Robin Williams playing a ten year old in the body of an adult.  However, Jack is a pretty decent and funny movie. Jack Powell is born and he ages at four times the normal rate. For the first ten years of his life he is tutored at home and sheltered by his parents. Bill Cosby plays his tutor Mr. Woodruff. Diane Lane and Brian Kerwin play his parents who are reluctant to send Jack to public school because they fear the other children's reactions to him. When he does go to school, his teacher, played by Jennifer Lopez, welcomes him with open arms while, predictably the kids are both awed and afraid, and teasing soon follows. Jack gains acceptance when the boys realize that he is a natural for basketball, and he soon is running with a whole group of new friends.The rest of the movie is basically about Jack and how his body is just naturally slowing down, leading to his withdrawal from school, his eventual return, and the epilogue at his high school graduation.Jack was a pretty charming film and I liked the way that Robin Williams acted in his scenes with Diane Lane as the 10 year old with a strong bond with his mother, and her feelings of longing when he shows that he is pulling away when he gains friends his own physical age. "},{"Title":"One of those rare movies with a real message","Date":"23 November 2005","Score":"34 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This movie has something very important attached to it a message of life. This is due to the underlying themes as well as to Robin Williams' touching performance which is saddening and inspirational at the same time. He is able to transform the sheer hopelessness of his fate which subjects him to an early death with such outstanding and sincere skills that are deeply moving. Apart from that his entire character - as it is designed - demands substantial acting throughout the whole plot. He delivers a performance that many other actors would simply not have been able to accomplish. It takes a special kind of actor to portray such a character just as Jack here. The message is that despite a fate that destines us to be exposed to tremendous agonies and blank despair, there is always a light of hope, and this light burns in our hearts. It's up to us only what we do with the time that we're granted with. In Jack's case time is even more precious than for normal people. Despite the sadness and despair that is ultimately caused thereby, we still have the chance to make the best out of every minute. All we have to do is value the little things, such as friendship and love, and thus escape the shades of darkness. The movie itself is funny and sincere, it has important dialogues and, as stated above, a real massage, which makes it special. Watch out for it. "},{"Title":"Not Original, But Sweet, Sentimental, and Entertaining.","Date":"2 May 2007","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Many reviewers have compared this work to Tom Hanks's Big, wherein a young boy wishes he were big, and the wish is granted. However, this work is the anti-thesis of that work, as an adult portrays a young child, physically, which thrusts Jack into the same venue as Martin Short's Clifford, which was done some two years prior to this work.That not withstanding, Clifford was a holy terror, while Jack is a mother's dream. While both works require a total suspension of belief in order to enjoy them, Jack is endearing, sweet, sentimental, and entertaining. There is nothing endearing, sweet, or sentimental about Clifford.Jack is born with a genetic disorder which causes him to age 4 years for every 10, thereby causing him to appear as a 40 year old man at the age of 10.Many have bludgeoned Coppola's involvement in such a scheme, citing his prior masterpiece works while bemoaning this one. The fans seem to forget that artistic people who do not spread their wings, and plant their feet on strange ground, never grow as individuals and artists.Some found this work insulting due to the premise. It is called unintelligent. But not all films are based on intellect, and not all movie-goers care to have to think in order to enjoy a movie. And there is the added benefit of the heartwarming sentiment carried by this work. It did well in the box office, nearly doubling its budget, worldwide, and is generally under-rated here at IMDb (if only mildly so), which says that word of mouth (that this film wasn't as bad as the critics said) carried this film further than the negative reviews would have liked. It rates a 6.2/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Unbelievaly well acted","Date":"27 June 2006","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I'm sorry, but just having read a few of the comments on here I am absolutely astounded! The problem is that what people seem to be doing here is reviewing the film as one whole pot, where as that is not how it works. I film has so many layers that it is impossible to tell how great it is without reviewing them all. Everyone seems to look at the plot and disregard it straight away when the acting in it is so unbelievable. Robin Williams may well be a very childish man but this went so beyond anything that can even come close to a normal personality, he is completely convincing 100% of the time, at no point in the movie do you ever doubt his being only 10 years old. This film may have a strange plot and weirdly written but the acting is phenomenal and William's is, of course, the star in the show. I actually feel very sorry for the actors around him in this, how can they possibly shine when with him and they were all great as well so that just heightens Williams' ability. This is a fantastic film simply because of Robin Williams! "},{"Title":"Excellent acting of Robin Williams in a Touching movie!","Date":"7 April 2007","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" When you see a shooting star... Robin Williams makes a really great acting as a 10 year old boy!, it's amazing how he can represent the feelings of a boy of this age!; the only role almost similar that i saw was Tom Hanks in Big (1988); but Tom act as a totally shy boy; Williams combines here innocence with happiness and a funny life!. The message of the movie is touching and with a beautiful message! In this touching and really good story you will surely have an important message for life live everyday as it was your last, and always maintain that child that you'll always have inside you (as Mr. Woodruff). The role of Fran Drescher as Miss Dolores is also great too!ABOUT THE MOVIE Robin Williams plays here Jack Powell, a child who has a medical disorder that makes him grow four times faster than any other boy, because of this, he, at the age of 10 looks like a man of 40 years, only that his brain and behavior maintains like the child he really is. Only this makes this role a total challenge for any actor. Jack's fathers (Diane Lane as Karen and Brian Kerwin as Brian) don't put him on a regular school afraid of what his classmates or other people will say; but at the age of 10, and after an excellent and touchable education of Mr. Woodruff (Bill Cosby), they decide to put him on a normal school where he finds difficulties but also great friends, specially Louis and Eddie (Adam Zolotin and Todd Bosley), he finds also an amazing teacher, Miss Marquez (Jennifer Lopez).Good movie,..Worth to watch 8/10 "},{"Title":"An extraordinary movie","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"17 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Robin Williams is great as a ten year old, who looks like 40. When he plays with his mother (Diane Lane), explores the world or has a rendez-vous with the mother of his best friend - that is more than well-played. Williams as Jack his best role after playing Adrian Cronauer in Good Morning,Vietnam.Supported by the lovely, warm performances of Jennifer Lopez and Bill Cosby, Williams makes Jack a wonder. You can either love or hate this movie, depending on your RQ (=Romance quotient). "},{"Title":"I don't think there is a spoiler, but I might have one without relizing it, so look put for one!","Date":"27 December 2003","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  There was aomething a bit off about this film, but I, for some reason still liked it.I think it has many possible meanins depending on how you look at the story, I remebered seeing it when I was quite young... I thought that Jacks parents would have to see their child die and that was sad. I saw it when I was older and thought maybe it was about not taking life for granted and living life to its fullest, but that still didn't really seem quite right...And then I thought maybe it is about always being a kid even when your an adult, but that makes absolutely no sense with the story.......... and maybe I was right when I was a younger and I thought that it was about loosing a child... not only to death but to friends.... perhaps the aging thing was added to show a different form of somebody being picked on, as Jack was in the movie, even if they may look tougher.I thought the relationship between jack and His mother was brillant, I really felt that, however I thought parts of the story digressed whoch gave the story multiple meanings....which is interesting to ponder, but in some cases makes the story jump around to much, adn I am the kind of person who likes movies to jump around a bit if you can not tell y my writting style.... I loved the chracters though...please forgive me for my randomness and at the moment tired-ness....overall, it was thought provoking, sweet,and just a little bit off.... "},{"Title":"Interesting Coppola movie","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Jack is a silly, genial and charming story about a little boy who ages four times faster than he should. It's a tragedy disguised as comedy. It has some comic elements but who couldn't admit the basic idea is rather sad. Jack is the kind of a film you least expect from the man who directed violent crime, war and horror masterpieces The Godfather -trilogy, Apocalypse Now and Dracula. Nevertheless it's one of the most personal projects of Francis Ford Coppola since his own son died at an early age. Even though this is not a classic Coppola movie it's definitely classic role from Robin Williams.It's hard to think of another actor to play the part of a ten year old boy who looks like a man of middle age. Williams really relieved the child inside of him. Bill Cosby is also splendid as Jack's sympathetic teacher Woodruff. For the sake of comparison I might mention that Penny Marshall's Big starring Tom Hanks is an outstanding, heart-warming classic and I've seen it many, many, many times but it's hard to get tired of a movie that's simply so enjoyable and entertaining. Jack is watchable once or probably even twice but unfortunately it doesn't come even close to Big's glamour. Jack has a good idea and yet another excellent performance from Williams but it's a movie that just might have been even better. "},{"Title":"Extremely poor, manipulative comedy - full of problems","Date":"1 February 2005","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I had looked forward to JACK when it first came out back in 1996. I remember renting it when it reached video and being severely disappointed. Williams, first of all, is good at channeling a child - we all know that already. The problem lies in the film's schmaltzy, good-natured, sugar-coated outer layer that is sickeningly fake and annoying.Coppola hasn't really made a good movie I can think of (or, a good movie worth remembering at least) since THE GODFATHER PART III (and not many will even agree with me on that choice! Some might go as far back as APOCALYPSE NOW in '79). It's disappointing to see him resorting to the hack-job he does here - ANYONE could have directed this movie. I never, ever - in a million years - would have suspected it was the product of Francis Ford Coppola.The movie's ending is feel-good - but not in a good way. Instead, when it's over, you feel as if you've just watched a 2-hour soap opera spliced with moments of awkward comedy. The plot would be great for a silly comedy; unfortunately, Coppola turns his movie into some sort of half-cocked drama/epic-wannabe. Simply put, it isn't. "},{"Title":"From the director of The Godfather comes this mockery of a film","Date":"25 April 2011","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Watching this movie is absolutely stunning. Not because it is a good movie, but because this immature, idiotic, brainless mess was directed by the same person who directed The Godfather! How does that happen? How can a man have such an incredible run in the 70's, making literally some of the greatest movies ever made, and then go on to make Jack? But I digress. Jack is the story about a boy who ages four times faster than a normal human being. He lives in his house with his two loving parents and his tutor, played by Bill Cosby. Why Cosby subjected himself to this schlock I don't know, but that's beside the point. After ten years of seclusion Jack realizes he wants to go to school, so his parents reluctantly enter him in public school. It seems the smarter thing to do would have been to put him in private school, but let's face it, there's nothing smart about this film. But anyways, Jack begins to make friends and meet all kinds of new people, his age and older. What is supposed to be a heartwarming tale of friendship and acceptance really just turns into a silly and jumbled mess with a boring story fueled by a poor script.You know your film is set for disaster when it starts with a dumb premise. There's only so many places a premise like this can go, but the film doesn't even make the most out of what little it has to work with. Every situation is predictable, and nothing elicits a laugh, at least not from me. I could blame this on Jack being a kids film, but the problem is, Jack is not a kids film. It's rated PG-13 and has all sorts of innuendo and adult situations. Jack gets his friends adult magazines and they sit in their treehouse talking about erections and women. So I feel like the humor here is supposed to be adult, but I didn't enjoy it at all, but I hardly think a child would either. It's just too stupid and ridiculous to the point where instead of anything being funny, it is all just sort of awkward and forced.By the end of this film it takes a turn towards the serious, but fails just as much here as it did when it was a comedy. This is probably due to the fact that I just had no interest in the characters or their story by this point in the film. Everything that had happened up to this point was just so pathetic and forgettable that it built a wall between me and the films emotion. Maybe under different circumstances in which the first half of the film had been engaging, the last half would have really pulled at me heart strings. But in this case it didn't at all and I could have cared less what happened to Jack and all his friends. Nothing about this film seems real. It all feels like actors delivering a mediocre script, all the while wondering what the hell they are doing on this set for such a bad movie. Then they remember, oh right! I'm getting to work with the genius behind The Godfather and Apocalypse Now. Only now he's lost his mind and is directing horrible dramadies.Watching a film like this just makes you want to go back and watch the Coppola classics, just to remind yourself that this man is a genius. And that's the thing. With so many incredible films under his belt, Jack can be easily forgotten and we can all pretend like it never happened. Hell, Coppola could direct Smokey and the Bandit sequels for the rest of his life, but he would still go down in history as one of the greatest directors who ever lived. But even if you take Coppola out of the equation, Jack is still an awful movie with no motivation and no heart behind it. Spare yourself the two hours and avoid this film at all costs. "}{"Title":"Robin Williams acts like a child","Date":"5 August 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Karen Powell (Diane Lane) gives birth 7 months early but it looks like a full term pregnancy. The boy Jack (Robin Williams) is aging rapidly about 4 times the normal rate. The doctors have never seen anything like it. For 10 years, he's been hidden away at home. He's home-schooled with tutor Lawrence Woodruff (Bill Cosby). On his advise, Jack is sent to public school. Miss Marquez (Jennifer Lopez) is his new teacher.Director Francis Ford Coppola is making this fantasy. He needs the style to match but he doesn't have it. This is simply made to allow Robin Williams to act like a child. He's not given something more compelling to do. It's not funny enough to be a comedy. It's like an after school special. It misses an opportunity to be fanciful. This plays like a bad weird kid's movie. I do have to say that it's weird to see Robin Williams playing around with a bunch of little kids. The good thing about 'Big' was that Tom Hanks acted childish around a bunch of adults. That's much funnier. Even in the adult world, this doesn't have any fun. This is obvious not Coppola's finest moment. He just doesn't have the comedic touch. "},{"Title":"Coppola's valentine to childhood; maudlin, yes...but forgivably so","Date":"31 May 2008","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" A curiosity coming from Francis Ford Coppola (who also co-produced for Zoetrope) has pregnant Diane Lane going into labor after only two months, delivering a healthy-seeming baby boy (when she pleads to her husband in the delivery room, It's too soon!, it's rather an understatement). Doctors have never seen another child like this, yet quickly determine the boy has an internal clock which is ahead of itself by four times the average rate, meaning that when Jack is ten-years old he'll look like a man of forty. This peculiar movie gimmick aside, what we really have here is Robin Williams back in grade school. Although this may sound perfectly inexcusable, not to mention somewhat derivative, it isn't a silly movie (at least, not at its core) and has good acting. Williams manages to hold back a bit from his usual barrage of vocal effects and facial expressions, and a few of his scenes are peddled quite softly (as they were in Awakenings). Also quite fine are Bill Cosby as Jack's initial tutor and Jennifer Lopez as his schoolteacher. The little boys are way over-the-top, and some of their gross-out talk is just stupid (they hole up in a tree house, equipped with TV, looking at nudie magazines--probably an attempt to mirror grown-ups but it plays sour). Oddly, Coppola can't stop himself from ultimately tugging at the old heartstrings, and not just once but for an entire sequence and an epilogue! I could have done without the seven years later bit, but for the most part this is a warm family comedy with a bigger heart than it knows what to do with. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Quite charming, but Coppola????????","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"15 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This could have been an absolutely wonderful film, but due to a one big criticism it remains a nice film, in all the bog-standard sense of the word.Robin Williams plays the part of a 10-year old trapped in a 40-year old's body, but the big problem is that we can't help but see Robin Williams himself. Anyone that has seen his stand-up comedy will know that Williams is exactly that (10 years old trapped in a body 30 years senior). Whilst his performance would have been quite believable, the film would have worked much better with a lesser-known actor (even one not known for comedy) in the role. I still cannot believe that the great FFC directed this film - it defies all movie sense. However he has done a fine job, and the cast work well together. Miss Lopez makes a very appealing schoolteacher (only in Hollywood!!), and the child actors work hard.Good fun, but you may find yourself frustrated. "},{"Title":"Jack is confused...so are we!","Date":"30 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" 'Jack' as a film is almost as confused as the central character. Although touted on the back of the DVD box as being a 'family comedy', its humour sometimes means it's anything but.It's shining light without doubt is Robin Williams. I can't imagine anyone else playing the role really. He manages to capture the childish side of Jack perfectly,while also portraying the inner struggle well too. Sadly the film never seems to know what it wants to be (Comedy? Drama?)and a fine performance gets lost in the middle.My big flaw with the film apart from the tone is the length. It does go on a bit. There's a whole 20 minute section in which nothing really happens to drive the plot.But then, just as you're about to give up on it, the ending is great. Funny, moving, not overly sentimental,it's a lovely moment.With sharper editing and a sense of focus 'Jack' could be up there with Robin Williams' best work but sadly it never quite lives up to potential. "},{"Title":"Jack","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Spielberg directing Hook seemed a very odd choice, and this is a very odd choice for director Francis Ford Coppola (The Godfather, Apocalypse Now). Imagine if you will a twist on the Big format, a boy in the body of a man, well, this film has him born like it and unable to escape it. Anyway, basically Jack Charles Powell is born with a most unusual ageing disorder which makes him four times faster than a regular boy, so by the time he is ten years old, he looks forty odd. Jack (Robin Williams) is longing to be like a normal ten year old boy, even when his parents Karen (Diane Lane) and Brian (Brian Kerwin) worry about what everyone will think. Obviously when he first arrives, Jack is picked on by the kids for looking like an older man, with only teacher Miss Marquez (Jennifer Lopez) as his friend, but he eventually wins them over with his basketball skills and true child within nature. There comes a point when Jack has some sort of heart attack and his parents decide he would be much safer at home, and Jack can't face seeing his friends getting older. But he does eventually come out of his room and back to school, and a few years later, in his teens, he is looking like an old man, graduating college. Also starring Bill Cosby as Lawrence Woodruff, Fran Drescher as Dolores 'D.D.' Durante, Adam Zolotin as Louis 'Louie' Durante, Todd Bosley as Eddie and Michael McKean as Paulie. I can see what the critics mean by Williams overacting the child in a man's body thing, but you can't imagine the film without him, and Lopez is nice as his teacher. Even if it's a very, very lame film you probably wouldn't bother with again, it does have some heart, and it is worth watching, at least once in a while. Okay! "},{"Title":"so bad that it's offensive and depressing","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  What happened? Coppola. The man made The Godfather One and Two (we'll just ignore Three), Apocalypse Now, and The Conversation. Now? The Rainmaker? The Outsiders? Jack? Jack? What in God's name could he been thinking? And Robin Williams? He had so much promise! Did you see The World Accoriding to Garp? He's brilliant and subtle and touching. Now there is Jack. It nearly depresses me too much to type. I don't know if I can actually do this. You read the synopsis. How could this bit be turned into something interesting? Don't show him at the innocent and dewey part of his life! Show him in his adolescent rage as a teenager while stuck in an elderly body! Show his adolescent hormone shift when he is a toddler! My God! The possibilities! The waste! The pity and pathos! It makes me want to cry! Instead they serve us saccharine dreck as if they are doing us a favor! The nerve! The gall!  "},{"Title":"Better than expected!","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"16 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  If you give this movie a chance, let your imagination go and you will believe (if you WANT to) that Robin Williams *is* a ten year old boy.  I was surprised at how much I actually liked it.  The premise sounds weak, but they did a fairly good job with it.  The kids in the movie are great....... and the term boys will be boys is never as true as in the 'treehouse' scene.  Watch it if you have boys !  You'll know what I mean!  There is little if any 'language' in this movie ;  no shoot-em-ups; no sex...the family can watch this together safely. Enjoy and let your imagination go... be a kid again! "},{"Title":"It's a good movie, but it's not a masterpiece. A 'Jack of all trades, but master of none,' type of a film.","Date":"6 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" First off, let me address the 'elephant in the room'. Yes, it's true! One of the most influential directors of all time, indeed directed this movie! Don't believe it!? I don't really care, but it's true! Francis Ford Coppola, the director of 1972 The Godfather, & 1979's 'Apocalypse Now', indeed directed a movie where Robin Williams plays a ten-year-old kid in a man's body. Do you want to hear the crazy part? I kinda like this movie. Yes, this movie might have a lot of flaws, but for me, it's a guilty pleasure of mine. I'm not kidding! This movie isn't that bad. It's a very well-shot, emotional driven, funny yet somewhat entertaining. I really have to give, some credit, to the director, for making this kid movie's somewhat watchable with its insane crazy exaggerated aging disease plot line. Without spoiling the movie, too much, I have to say, one of the weakest part of the film, has to be Robin Williams's performance as ten year old, Jack Powell. Yes, he can act in some of the more emotional scenes, but there is something off, with most of his performance here. Some moments in the film, he acts like a kid, right out of preschool. Other moments in the film, he acts like a teenager. I know, that his character is mostly home-school and socially awkward, but there is just something not right with Jack. He doesn't come across, as believable in his 10 year old behavior. I would know, I was around 10 years old in 1996 and socially awkward! His look is also a bit off, if we trying to brutality real, here. Shouldn't Jack, at this young age, look more like Benjamin Button at his age in 2008's Curious Case of Benjamin Button? You know, like an old face with a kid body, having more serious health problem!? I'm asking this, because I really doubt, this movie knows, how Werner progeria syndrome, honestly works. Even, in the end, with all that awful, fake-looking old man make up; he still doesn't act like a person that age! Despite, that, I have to say, while this movie might be seen as one of his weaker Robin Williams's performances; his presence here, wasn't too much of a turn-off. Like, I said, before, he really scores in pulling heart-strings. The final scene, alone, with Jack talking about not worrying about how much time you have and enjoying every moment is absolutely heartbreaking. It's harder in hindsight now, when taking into account, what happen to Robin Williams in 2014. If there were any real turn-off performances from this film, it would be, for me, the supporting cast of Fran Drescher & Bill Cosby. Why, because of Fran Drescher's annoying her nasal thick New York accent & Bill Cosby's over the top mumblings, weren't inspiring. It's barely tolerance, here. Plus, both of their characters, Dr. Lawrence Woodruff (Bill Cosby) & Dolores 'D.D.' Durante (Fran Drescher) really don't help push the plot, along. A lot of time-wasting filler scenes is spent with both of them. Scenes like the bar & treehouse sequence could had been cut out; and you wouldn't miss a thing. Trust me! These two, really weren't needed. However, there were two supporting actresses in this film that really got me, liking them. The first one is Jennifer Lopez as Jack's teacher, Miss Marquez. Not only was, this film, one of the first films that got Jennifer Lopez's name out there, but seeing her, in this movie, made me a longtime fan of her work. She's so charming in this film. The other, stand out, performance in this film is Diane Lane as Jack's mother, Karen Powell. Wow! She really able to show, her motherly love, so well, in this. Some of the best scenes in the film is, Jack and Karen playing games, around the house and her being stern to changes. What a great authoritative mother figure! One thing, I really didn't like, about this movie is the music by composer Michael Kamen and Bryan Adams. Most of background music like 'Star', was too whimsical, clichés & cheesy. I also didn't like how the tone of the movie moves from slapstick comedy to tragic melodramatic, so unevenly. It was a bit too jarring to take. I would think the movie would had work better, if it took the same ideas, that work with 1988's film, Big and expanse it, rather than acting so kid friendly. Despite some big flaws, Jack is essentially a family film with a moral message about living life to the fullest. I think, anybody with a soul would appreciate that message. It's worth-checking out, just for that, alone. I do recommended seeing it. "},{"Title":"Robin Williams shines in an otherwise obvious and childish dramedy","Date":"13 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" JACK is directed by Francis Ford Coppola and stars Robin Williams in the title role of a boy who ages at four times the natural rate. While somewhat of an oddball choice for Coppola, known especially for the Godfather trilogy, this material is rather characteristic for Williams in this period of his career.Basically, it's a sentimental dramedy that elicits laughter and tugs at the heartstrings. However, this is clearly one of Williams' lesser films. The situation felt contrived and silly, merely an excuse for Williams to engage in puerile antics. What was more astonishing is that this entire film was played straight by everyone. I did laugh some, particularly at a couple scenes involving the physical comedy of Robin Williams playing a 10-year-old in a 40-year-old man's body, but I didn't laugh as much as I would have liked. The moments where they go for poignancy also fell flat a lot of the time, again mostly because of the contrived situation.However, the film is generally well-acted. Of course Robin Williams does a fine job, but Diane Lane and Bill Cosby in particular turn in good performances as well. Jennifer Lopez and Fran Drescher also show up, but more as eye candy for horny boys than anything. Looking at recent cases involving teachers sleeping with their students, the implications of the scenes involving Jack and those two characters might come off as irresponsible, the subject matter is handled as tastefully as possible (as opposed to something like THAT'S MY BOY, in which Adam Sandler plays a man-child of sorts). I did find one scene between Fran Drescher and Robin Williams as tender, but nothing more.Given the circumstances surrounding Jack's life, you might think that the film goes for a tearjerker of an ending, but it doesn't. Still, I do feel like the closing speech, which sums up the message of the movie, was tacked on and unnecessary to a degree. It was a sentiment better expressed in Williams' earlier movies, such as DEAD POETS SOCIETY. Overall, while still funny and touching in mostly equal measure, the direction was flat and the story was about as inspiring as a Lifetime movie. For die-hard Robin Williams fans (or of Francis Ford Coppola) only. Everyone else would do well to skip it. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"23 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Sounds corny? It's meant to be goofy. Filled with charm, innocence and drama. Heartfelt and riveting from the first frame to the last! Because of an unusual aging disorder that has aged him four times faster than a normal human being, a boy enters the fifth grade for the first time with the appearance of a 40 year old man. Williams does a good job of playing a weirdo.Never in my life have I laughed so hard. Characters start to make bad decisions and one thing leads to another and so on. You get the idea. If you can find it on DVD or Bluray for under $5, buy it, but it won't be worth much more than that to you because it's a bit outdated according to my personal tastes. "}{"Title":"My review of Jack starring the late Robin Williams","Date":"13 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Jack is like Brad Pitt's The Curious Case Of Benjamin Button,as it tells the story about a 10 year old boy who looks like a 40 year old due to some genetic condition he has ever since he was born. He goes to school like normal kids and one of his teachers is Jennifer Lopez. The film revolves from Jack as a kid looking like a 40 year old to him being 18 when he looks about 90 years old. If you are a big kid at heart than check it out. I haven't seen this film since 11 or 12 years ago so I have most parts of it forgotten. Diane Lane co stars as Robin Williams mother who is trying to let her son fit in school even though he is sorta having a bad time. 5/10RIP Robin Williams "},{"Title":"Funny and touching movie by Robin Williams.","Date":"11 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" A movie with a important underlying outlook on life. This really comes out with a touching performance that is sad and enlightening at the same time. The way he is able to change from a fate of hopelessness that subjects him to a early death. It really takes a extraordinary actor to accomplish what he was able to portray in this movie. When you have a fate that we are destined to agonize over, there is always hope that burns in all our hearts. We need to choose what we do with the precious time we are given. With Jack (Robin Williams) his time is more cherished. Although with the sadness and despair that will be caused, we can always have a chance to make the best of our time. When we are faced with this tragedy we need to make sure we value the small things, like friendships and love so we can escape any dark futures. This funny and sincere more shows important dialogues and a message that makes this a special movie. Jack has a disorder that makes him grow for times faster then a normal person, his brain behaves the same as a child. Having a role as this is very challenging and Robin does well playing it. Jacks parents are afraid of how his classmates will treat him so they home school him. When there is a scene with a great and positive moment from Bill Cosby's character, they decide to put him in school where he makes great friends along with some difficulties. After he makes friends life is going well for him when he has a heartbreak he clutches his heart almost like a heart attack, as we find out his time is running out. He gets to go back to school and seven years later he is 17 which in his time is 68. This was a great Robin Williams movie entertaining and moving. If you enjoy comedy even Robin Williams this should be a must see on your list. "},{"Title":"The worst film of Robin Williams","Date":"1 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Don't get me wrong I love Robin Williams. And I thought he gave a great performance in this movie like he always does. The film's charters and story are terrible. Here's the story. Jack Powell played Robin Williams is a 10 year-old trapped in the body of a 40 year-old. Because he has a rare disease that is never explained. It's just Mentioned when he's born that he has it. They should of went in to that more. He also gets sent to school even though he is a giant. And crushes on his teacher played by Jennifer Lopez. Diane Lane plays his mom and she does a great job. But the is just a bad movie. And can't believe this was directed by the one and only Francis Ford Coppola. If you people out have the option to see this. And the option to not see this movie. Take the option not to. "},{"Title":"Has its heart in the right place, but flawed","Date":"24 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I do not think Jack is as bad as it is made out to be, but it is one of my least favourite Francis Ford Coppola films. The film is overlong, has some weak spots in the script and drags a bit at times. However, it does look decent, with the cinematography and sceneries nicely done, the soundtrack is credible enough, Coppola directs admirably and I loved the concept(reminded me a bit of Big). Robin Williams also gives an exuberant turn in the lead, while Diane Lane and Brian Kerwin are subtle and Jennifer Lopez is surprisingly sweet and believable. Overall, Jack is a decent enough film. It is lacking a bit and one of the weaker films of a truly great director, but it is worth seeing for Williams and the concept. 6/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"A different fish out of water role for Robin Williams.","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" While there are certified medical phenomena which cause premature aging, the condition presented in this movie is a fictional one. However, it presents a good premise to examine some key traits of human nature, like acceptance of people who are different, and confronting our mortality.Jack (Robin Williams) at conception experienced a genetic mutation (like the 'X-Men'??) which results in his physical growth and aging four times the normal rate. That means his gestation period was only 10 weeks, and by the time he was really 10, looked like a man of 40. Bill Cosby played his tutor for his early schooling at home, but his parents Karen (Diane Lane) and Brian (Brian Kerwin) eventually sent him to a regular school. The situations that arise from his looking much older form much of the humor in this movie. At graduation, when he was 18, he looked like an old man of 72. While other students hoping for various careers, he was simply hoping to be alive for a few more years. Robin Williams is perfect for the role of Jack. Jennifer Lopez was good as Jack's teacher who had to delicately handle Jack's natural attraction towards her. A very nice movie. "},{"Title":"Big","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Francis Ford Coppola achieves what many other directors didn't he tamed Robin Williams! Mr. Coppola has restrained his star into giving a performance, that while exaggerated, at times, in comparison with other Robin Williams' vehicles is an exercise in economy.This is a film for young children, but since we never saw it in its commercial run, we decided to take a look. It paid off because, as a comedy, Mr. Coppola, showed affection to the subject matter, the boy with a rare disease that seems much older than what his young years indicate. In fact, Jack, is a sort of freak to the school kids when they first meet him. After all, he is only ten, but seems to be about forty! Why, he even shaves. Jack will teach all his class mates a lesson in acceptance and an understanding to take people for what they are, not for the way they look like, which is something that most of us don't' seem to get.Robin Williams can be a disarming actor, given the direction and a strong hand behind his appearances, as he tends to run amok with his own sense of fun, which can be too much to take, at times. That said, Mr. Williams does an amazing job in bringing Jack to life. This is perhaps one of his best screen appearances lately.As the parents, Diane Lane and Brian Kerwin are fine. They try to protect their young son from the outside cruelty, but little do they know he will do it on his own, by being himself. Ms. Lane also gives a good performance. Bill Cosby is also seen as the tutor Mr. Woodruff and has some funny moments. Fran Drescher is good on her small role of Dolores. Adam Zolotin is a great Louis, the boy that befriends Jack is a charming little actor that does excellent work opposite Mr. Williams.Mr. Coppola shows he is a good director, which is clearly demonstrated in this film. "},{"Title":"EXCELLANT MOVIE!!!!!","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I thought Jack was a very touching and at the same time funny movie.I think everyone should see this movie.It is about a kid who grows up 4 times faster than everybody else.I think its great to show people especially kids how you should treat different people the same as anybody else. "},{"Title":"Robin Williams as Jack Powell, once again, teaches us things about life that we frequently forget","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Once again, Robin Williams teaches us valuable lessons of importance of simplicity in life.  He stars in this movie as a ten-year-old in a forty-year-old's body.  His life goes by as a shooting star--quickly, brightly, but leaving a trace behind.  Jack tries his hand with hairy knuckles in the fifth grade after having been tutored by Dr. Woodruff (Cosby).  He encounters obstacles in fitting in with the boys, and after a game of basketball, finally does.  Jack helped his new friends win the game while he wins the hearts of those around him.  In an essay that Louie (Zolotin) writes for the semester's assignment, Jack is described as free, willing to learn, and full of life--a way that all of us should be.  Robin Williams embodies the spirit that most adults lose on the path of aging; perhaps Jack ran that path so fast that his child-like heart never got a chance to let go. Coppola, DeMonaco, and Nadeau remind us in this movie what it's like to be a child and tell us how to return to that--visit a treehouse, play a friendly-competitive game of basketball, and always learn. I have to say that I love this movie for the lessons we learn. "},{"Title":"Touching","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The Good This movie is an excellent comedy/drama.  Robin Williams does a heart warming performance as Jack, a boy who grows 4 times as fast as a regular boy.  There were many funny parts, and many sad parts with a good mix of both.  The acting is very good; Robin Williams did a great job of playing a 10 year-old boy.The Bad There were a few missing ends to this movie.  Some things didn't fit together right.  One thing was when he went to jail for getting in a fight at the bar.  If he's only 10 years old, aren't the police going to figure it out?!Overall Overall, this is a touching movie that I encourage everyone to see.  It may not be an Oscar nominee, but all in all it is a good show.*** 1/2  out of *****  "},{"Title":"Excellent, heart-warming and rare movie I loved!","Date":"24 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I have always loved all of Robin Williams movies and this is an awesome movie that many people take for granted and misunderstand. If you really see this through the eyes of depth and love and truth then you will see that we often forget and are afraid to believe in what is real and true. jack is a symbol of all innocence and kindness, not meaning to hurt anyone and only being human dealing with something that is not his fault. I cry in this movie every time and can totally relate to what is being said. The feelings of love, friendship and emotion as well as deep thinking and feeling is often lost. Sad because that is what makes us a better person and a more caring person.Jack, you'll never be regular. You're spectacular.--Mr. Woodruff (Bill Cosby) Cosby asks Jack if he's ever sat and looked at the stars in the night sky. The sky is filled with regular stars. They burn slowly and faintly and their light lasts a long time. But, if you're lucky and you're looking in the right direction at just the right moment you'll see a shooting star. You almost never see them. They're rare. He tells him he's a shooting star amongst regular stars. A shooting star is wonderful, but passes quickly. It's only here for a moment but while it's here the other stars stop and watch.When a shooting star streaks through the blackness turning night into day, make a wish and think of me and make your life spectacular. I know I did.--Jack (Robin Williams) "}{"Title":"Happily married parents will love this....","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" ...but it's not for kids.  There IS indeed a handful of sexual innuendo as well as some actual groping.  The fact that the groper is Williams' ten-year-old character and that the gropee is his friend's MOTHER makes it border on the disgusting.  Thank goodness the scene is over with quickly. The rest of the movie is delightful, albeit sappy.  I like good sap.  All of the characters are likeable - a huge plus in my book. "},{"Title":"A film that's larger than life! (Geddit?)","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"14 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  An all-star cast are recruited together to tell the tale of a 10-year old boy whose body grows 4 times that of a normal kid his age.Robin Williams ('Hook') is great as the title role, while Fran Drescher ('The Nanny') and Jennifer Lopez ('Money Train') are also fantastic. Bill Cosby is also here, as good as ever.The storyline and scripting is good (nothing great) and the acting is first-class... even the kids have some talent!A feel-good family film that has some very funny moments and some very sad moments, but all-in-all a really good film. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Williams's Boyish Charm.","Date":"1 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Jack (1996) Dir Frances Ford Coppola / Cast Robin Williams, Diane Lane, Brian Kerwin, Jennifer Lopez, Bill Cosby Intriguing concept aimed at the wrong audience. Jack is a kid inside a man's body after an age process four times the average person his age. He is forty years old in a ten year span. He faces much anguish when he learns that his ageing will shorten his life span. He informs his tutor that he wishes to attend school and make an attempt at normality. Other children are overwhelmed with his size but he comes to realize his fate. Billed as a comedy yet it is too depressing. It is detailed in presenting Jack's everyday struggles for acceptance and opportunities. Interesting choice for director Frances Ford Coppola who made an earlier film with similar themes called Peggy Sue Got Married. Great performance by Robin Williams as Jack who will eventually accept his fate and live for the moment. Diane Lane plays his mother who tries to surround him with love, while Brian Kerwin plays his father. These roles are more standard as is Jennifer Lopez as Jack's teacher that he crushes on but it works due too how Lopez handles being asked to the dance by Jack. Bill Cosby plays a tutor who sympathizes with Jack's desire to have a normal childhood despite his physical drawbacks. Strong message regards how short life is and that we should never take it for granted. Score 7 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"Importance of this film","Date":"28 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Robin plays a boy with Werner syndrome, a condition which causes him to age at four times the rate of 'normal' children. By the time he reaches the age of 10, although he speaks, thinks and acts like a boy of his age, his physical appearance reflects that of a fully developed 40-year-old man. His home-schooling tutor suggests that Jack make the transition to state school, and so his life as an 'ordinary' child begins. The film follows his journey from this point until his graduation many years later, covering the difficulties he faced along the way.This is a film I watched repeatedly when I was much younger, and again following his death. It's one of the few films that triggers a deep sense of happiness within me. The reason being that the theme throughout is one of compassion. From Jack's parents. From his classmates. From his teacher.His first few days at school are difficult for him. He is not used to being around children, much less children who continually stare and ogle and make fun of what they deem to be someone who ''looks like my dad''. Although Jack's inclusion leaves the children in a quandary, he soon becomes accepted following a game of basketball in which he makes full use of his considerable height advantage. Thereafter, his relationship with the boys slowly blossoms and leads to tree-house sleepovers, the purchase of adult magazines, and him posing as the principle in order to get one of them out of trouble. Most importantly, it gives Jack a sense of belonging.His confidence gradually grows and he asks his teacher to be his date at the school prom, citing obvious differences between himself and girls his age as the reason. Touched, but remaining professional, she politely tells him why it cannot be. Jack's feeling of rejection manifests into one of devastation, causing him to suffer great strain to what is already a frail heart, crushing all confidence and resulting in his parents withdrawing him from school indefinitely.For a few weeks, Jack remains locked away in his bedroom. Feeling shamed by his teacher. Distant from his friends. Embarrassed of his condition. Wishing only that he was like everyone else. During this time, he constantly hears shouts of JACK'S MOM, CAN JACK COME OUT AND PLAY?, but remains hidden behind his curtains.Jack's tutor is called upon as a last resort in an attempt to circumvent his state of mind. Their dialogue is brief, yet captures the essence of the story beautifully.The next morning, as his parents are sipping their coffee and reading the Wall Street Journal, Jack surprises them. He appears, clean-shaven, with a radiant smile as he asks if it would be okay to return to school. When he arrives at class, everyone - including his teacher - is overjoyed. One of his friends is reading a homework assignment aloud to the class. The task given was to write what they want to be when they are older, but Jack's friend gives a heartfelt speech about Jack himself, the person who he wishes to be like when he grows up.The story concludes with a seven-year fast-forward to the graduation ceremony.Jack's appearance is now similar to that of a man in his late sixties. He's very weak and softly spoken, but delivers a moving speech to his peers, reminding them that life is short and encourages them to Make your life spectacular. I urge you to watch this film for yourselves, and not merely rely on my few paragraphs of summation to convey what I think is a remarkably important message embedded in the narrative. It captures perfectly the innate, good nature of human beings. In this case, predominantly that of children.The children in this story wasted no time picking on the grown man in the corner of the playground, yet they soon realised that he was one of them. They changed their opinion of him from 'freak' to 'best friend', only by spending time with him. The importance of this is that it transcended Jack's lonely, ignominious life into a life filled with hope, love, and friendship. Of course, there are times when we, ourselves, are quick to judge. Of course, there are times when we form harsh opinions and unfair criticisms based on gut-reactions alone. Of course, many of us on occasion suffer from ignorance. Yet, there is something within every single one of us which assists in distinguishing right from wrong. It allows us to be kind and considerate. It paves the way for Compassion.For one reason or another, some of us simply don't adhere to this innate kindness consistently, or at all. Some actively eschew it. And it may well stem from our childhood. It may be some extraneous influence that shapes our reactions to people. Whatever it may be, very rarely will you be in a position, so far removed, so as to not be able to do anything about it. Understanding how fragile one's life is, yet how easily you can change another's with simple acts of kindness is a great step forward in our developments. Each of us has this power to exercise, so why don't we do it more often? If you are quick to form a negative opinion regarding anyone or anything, immediately ask yourselves why? Why is it that I think that? It is really necessary to think that? Will there be any difference if I don't think that? Would it be fairer to wait a little longer to see if there's anything to suggest thinking that would be unreasonable? In any case, we must be willing to accept others. We must understand our differences. We must teach first, ourselves, and second, others, the importance of human solidarity. To not do so would be a severe mistake. "},{"Title":"Expected Much More from Francis Ford Coppola and Robin Williams, has its Moments,","Date":"25 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Jack is a mediocre movie with a good storyline and a great cast.The script at times felt like it was trying too hard to be both a comedy and a drama,by having one scene with really goofy humour and the next being really depressing,and it made the movie feel messy because neither the comedy or the drama was subtle.I certainly expected a lot more from a movie directed by Francis Ford Coppola,one of the greatest directors of all time who has given us classics such as the Godfather and Apocalypse Now,this movie was not something you'd expect him to make.I wasn't surprised to see Robin Williams in the title role,he really suited his character because he always has had a childlike sensibility,and was certainly the movies highlight,the best part was his emotional speech at the end.It upsets me that they got Robin Williams and Bill Cosby to be in several scenes together but didn't let them improvise any of their lines,they are both comedy legends and allowing them to do this would have been so perfect,but sadly they only got to go by the script.Jack has some funny moments and for Robin Williams sake you should check it out if it's ever on television and you have some time to kill. Since this is the first Robin Williams film I have reviewed since his death I'd just like to address it.He is one of the greatest actors of both comedy and drama,which he has proved with the awards he's won such as an Oscar and Golden Globes.Every role he ever did he gave it all of his heart,you could see it in his eyes and in the way he spoke,he loved his job.The world lost a true legend that day,but he will never be forgotten.His memory will live on.Forever.Rest in Peace Robin Williams. A ten year old boy who ages four times quicker than an average human being,finally convinces his overprotective parents to let him go to school,however,he has trouble fitting in because of his unusual condition. Best Performance Robin Williams Worst Performance Fran Drescher "},{"Title":"Jack Is A Cinematic Snack!","Date":"25 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" If you have ever experienced the paranoia that comes with the dread of fitting in with others, you may identify with the adolescent character that actor Robin Williams plays in Godfather director Francis Ford Coppola's imaginative comedy drama Jack, a sensitive, sweet-spirited, feel-good film that costars Bill Cosby. Don't let the inevitable comparisons with the brilliant Tom Hanks comedy Big diminish your opinion about Jack. Both movies manage to complement each other without competing in their chronicles about growing up. Neither should you let the memories of Robin Williams as a rollicking Brunhilda in Mrs. Doubtfire mislead you into thinking that Jack is all clown-beat without being downbeat.Jack opens during a Halloween costume party. Karen Powell (Diana Lane of Streets of Fire) has not been pregnant long enough to attend child-birth classes when she feels her future son kicking to get out. Brian Powell (Brian Kerwin) and a couple of their friends, all variously garbed as the Tin Man, a cigarette pack and a champagne class, rush Karen (dressed as a witch) off to the hospital. In the delivery room, everybody tries to convince Karen that it's a false alert until the doctor realizes that she is indeed about to give birth to a premature baby.Later, during a check-up, the Powells learn that Jack's inner clock ticks considerably faster than most clocks. The doctors guardedly explain to them that a condition that accelerates his growth afflicts poor Jack. When Jack reaches age 10, the doctors predict that he will resemble a 40-year old man. Otherwise, Jack is healthy and normal. Not! The Powells grow so protective of their cute baby with his beanstalk growth that they imprison him in his turret-like room. They hire tutor Lawrence Woodruff (Bill Cosby in a minor but masterly performance) to tech him. Brian and Karen keep Jack out of public school because they fear he would suffer the slings and arrows of outrageous ridicule. Woodruff disagrees with them. He thinks that Jack should not be deprived of the experience of going to school with kids his own age. Jack feels the same way. He chomps at the bit to attend public school. Reluctantly, Brian and Karen cave and escort Jack to school.So off goes Jack&#x97;all twinkle-eyed&#x97;to school. And not just any school, but an elementary school named after novelist Nathaniel Hawthorne. Initially, Jack's towering hirsute presence makes him an outcast. Although the physical act of growing up may come easily to Jack, mastering the mental feats of maturation pose more difficulties to him than he could ever imagine. Jack experiences many of the problems that the Great Dane who hung out with the dachshunds encountered in the 1966 Dean Jones farce The Ugly Dachshund.Just when you think that Robin Williams has worn out his welcome, the inventive actor manages to plumb new depths. His funny yet restrained performance of a 10-year old trapped in a the body of a 40-year old negotiating the obstacle course of adolescence probably would garner him an Oscar, but his Jack emerges as more of a character than a clown. Although Jack qualifies as a comedy, the film contains enough sharp dramatic turns to hoist it above similar slickly produced but synthetic kid ventures such as Dudley Moore's Like Father, Like Son and the 1988 Judge Reinhold movie Vice Versa.In Jack, Williams radiates best during those scenes when he discovers that life's silver the silver lining can just as easily turn to lead. A particularly poignant moment occurs when Jack struggles to persuade his fifth-grade teacher, Ms. Marquez (winningly enacted by Jennifer Lopez), to escort him to the school dance. Not only does Jack have a crush on her, but she is also the only person with whom he could dance who was his own height. When she reluctantly rejects him, prepare to be plunged headlong into your handkerchief. Although Robin Williams deserves praise for his charismatic performance, the real genius looking over the shoulders of Jack is Coppola. Several critics have savaged Coppola for helming what in their hallowed estimation is a far cry from Apocalypse Now. Obviously, they forgot that Coppola cranked out his first comedy in 1966 with You're A Big Boy Now, so the famous director is no stranger to high jinks. Coppola gives Jack an artsy-fartsy sophistication. Whenever possible, he presents the adult world from Jack's perspective, so we get a number of interesting shots, such as the instant of birth, the view from a turret window onto the outside world, or a glimpse through a slot in a box at Jack's mother trying to get him to come out and play. Coppola has cleverly crafted every minute of Jack for maximum dramatic impact. Coppola fleshes out Williams' superb performance with product references that enhance the juvenile facets of Jack's character. The blinking lights on the heels of Jack's sneakers, for example, are a splendid touch to Williams' shenanigans. Another amusing episode has Williams begging his parents to let him bed down with them, then asking if his Stimpy doll can crowd in with them. As Jack's overprotective mom, Diana Lane excels in showing the struggles to deal with a person as fragile as Jack. Of course, Bill Cosby strikes high notes every time he appears without having to steal scenes from Williams. Fran Drescher exudes sexuality but provides more than window dressing as party girl Dolores Durante, the mother of Jack's closest school yard chum, Louis (Adam Zolotin). The bickering duo of girls who harass Jack on the playground are fun to watch, too. Jack boasts many wonderful touches. Some touches you may overlook because Coppola so skillfully and invisibly integrates them without appreciating their underlying significance.If the concluding scenes of Jack do not move you to tears, you're obviously watching the wrong kind of movie. Ultimately, Jack proves that there are more important things in life than size. "},{"Title":"Williams is a great Big boy Jack.","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Heart warming tale of little boy Jack who grows four times the normal rate. What makes it worth the while is Robin Williams playing ten year-old Jack. The humanity and sincerity oozes out of Williams who makes an effort in bringing a tear to our eyes. Apart from that the film hammers away at your emotions, hoping to squeeze that last drop of tear out of you. There was no need for that because the situation itself is strong enough. What could have been an interesting observation turns to over-drive melodrama.   "},{"Title":"The kids liked it","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Robin Williams is doing a pretty good job as a mentally 10-year old kid, trapped in the body of a 40-year old man.The main reason my kids wanted to watch is because the movie featured Jennifer Lopez (and she is hot right now with kids!). But this movie was clearly before her break through and her role is small. This movie really is about Robin Williams, Robin Williams and Robin Williams.It's a pretty amusing story, with some funny moments. So if you're looking for a harmless movie to please your kids I can recommend it. "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  At first I thought this was going to be yet another silly-yet-fun comedy, and that's what KI wanted to watch, at the time. But this movie caught me off guard and really thrilled me. Robin Williams gives a wonderful performance and this movie can really touch you if you let it. I thought it was a beautiful film. Watch it. "},{"Title":"A riot of all insights, it's funny, dramatic, touching, and sad. Youll wanna cheer.","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  What an achievement for Robin Williams, this movie was all of the above and more. If you want pure entertainment, along with drama, see this movie. Youll love it! 8 out of 10. Rated PG-13 for crude and sexual humor. "}{"Title":"Robin Williams in a Story About a Child Trapped in a Man's Body","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS         Meet Jack Powell. A normal healthy 10-year-old boy. Except there's one thing different about him he's in the body of a 40-year- old man. How did it happen?          Let's go back in time to the year 1986. Brian and Karen Powell are at a costume party. Suddenly, Karen has to be rushed to the hospital. She's ready to have her baby, even though she's only two months pregant. Soon Jack is born, but the doctors have identified a problem his internal clock is running very fast, so he will age by four times, like when he reaches 10, he will appear to be a 40-year- old man. (Robin Williams was 44 when he made this movie).         Ten years later Jack wants to go to school, his tutor Mr. Woodruff (played to perfection by Bill Cosby) even thinks so, but Jack's parents don't feel it's a good idea, because the other kids could make fun of Jack, but they soon change their minds and Jack is off to school. He meets his beautiful teacher, Miss Marques (Jennifer Lopez), and the kids laugh at him when he sits in his desk and breaks it. Jack can play a mean basketball game and earns respect fromthe kids on his team. He also plays principal to his new friend Louie's mom. He's even invited to a sleepover in the kids' treehouse. They do all sorts of things, including look at a Penthouse magazine Jack bought without any trouble. Jack invites Mr. Woodruff to hang out with him and the kids in the treehouse and it ends in a big catastrophe.         Life is going great for Jack, until one afternoon Jack asked Miss Marques if she would go to the dance with him because he looks so much older than the girls his age. She declines and he get's very upset, but then clutches his heart and falls down the stairs. It wasn't a heart attack but according to the doctor, Jack's internal clock is running out; Jack escapes home and goes to a bar where he meets Dolores, Louie's mom there and get's in a fight with a tough.        Jack eventually get's to go back to school. Seven years later The year 2003 Jack is 17 and in a 68-year-old body. He gives a motivational speech.          This movie is okay, not great. It's entertaining. It seems that in Robin Williams' movies, there's a character named Jack. Like In Hook, his son is named Jack. In Fathers' Day, his friend is named Jack Lawrence (Billy Crystal), and in this movie he plays a character named Jack. Each actor has a trademark. I do recommend this movie. See it when you can.-- "},{"Title":"FAMILY FRIENDLY FLICK","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Robin Williams gives a credible performance as a ten year old boy. Unlike the subhuman CLIFFORD, which features Martin Short as, you guessed it-a ten year old boy, JACK is a comedy drama about a child born with a rare disease which causes premature aging. Of course this is not science fiction. I happen to know of someone with this affliction. Still, this is a film that doesn't take the subject matter too seriously. I would personally recommend it for all ages. Also, Bill Cosby adds a nice touch as Jack's tutor. I guess LEONARD PART 6 hasn't killed his movie career after all.Rating ***1/2 out of ***** "},{"Title":"Very hilarious and touching movie with a moral to it","Date":"28 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" JACK, in my opinion, is a very hilarious and touching movie with a moral to it. When Jack (Robin Williams) had to devour that stuff to become a member of that tree house club, I was really grossed out. On the other hand, I really hated Phoebe (Jurnee Smollett) and Jane (Dani Faith). This was because they were really snobby girls. Also, I thought that Karen (Diane Lane) was a very beautiful woman. All in all, this was a very good movie. In conclusion, if you're a fan of Robin Williams, and you haven't seen this very hilarious and touching movie with a moral to it, I highly recommend it! You're in for a real treat and lots of laughs, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it. "},{"Title":"One Good Funny Family Movie","Date":"7 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  When I saw this movie, I thought to myself what a good funny family movie.  Robin Williams is excellent in this movie and in all other movies that he's done.  He's funny, and overall great.  I couldn't see anybody else doing this part.  I would love it if they did more movies like this because we all need a good laugh and entertainment from time to time.  I own this movie on vhs but do plan to buy it on dvd sometime in the near future.  I own quite a bit of Robin Williams movies, for example  (Patch Adams) (Mrs. Doubtfire) and as long as he keeps making movies, I will continue buying them but then it depends on the storyline because I don't like all types of movies. "},{"Title":"Great All-Around","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This film uses so many elements that make itself one of the best all around films that we rarely see come out in theaters. It has mostly comedy and drama in it. Which is what makes it so truthful in bringing out its point. It's a very truthful example of life in general and how we should not only be appreciative for what we have, but also make the best of them. This film is completely underrated. However great and convincing performances are given by its actors. This film should not be missed by anyone who wants a true movie that will make them laugh, cry and look at life with more joy and appreciation.  For example, it shows very realistically how school can be a tough burden when it comes to the social life of a new comer while bringing a little comedy of how naturally Jack's character is portrayed as. It brings out the possibilities one can make other people's lives change significantly while a few comedial subjects such as how Louis wanted Jack to buy him a Playboy magazine. "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"7 March 2010","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I watched ten minutes of this and felt pretty sick.There have been documentaries on this subject on television of real children that are actually interesting, sad and happy by turns in the real world. What got into people to make such a thing is beyond me. This is the worst kind of sentimental mawkishness and a thoroughly sick and bad idea irrespective of the intentions. I think if we can have a film about marching penguins, or more seriously the columbine massacres shown at the cinema its about time we were able to face an actual documentary about a child with this condition instead of this horrible, horrible proxy for one.By the way... The central conceit that children with this syndrome look like Robin Williams is so very far off beam. In actuality they are the same height as normal children with an adult facial appearance and other attributes. (I know from a made for TV documentary that did this whole thing PROPERLY) This film is a total travesty. Only in America! If you are a buyer for a TV company I am sure you can find the documentary I watched instead if you really try. Show that instead. "},{"Title":"Talented Williams And A Sorry Script","Date":"2 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" JACK *** Robin Williams, who has the versatility as an actor to portray a wide range of characters, handles himself admirably as Jack, a 10-year-old boy trapped inside of a 40-year-old man's body - through some happenstance, he is born into an unusual aging process where he grows four times as quickly as normal humans. With the support from his ultra-nurturing parents (Brian Kerwin and Diane Lane), he manages to deal with his strange make-up; that is, until he decides to tackle public school for the first time for an enlightening journey. Williams does fine but the script lets him down.Rating System ***** Excellent **** Good *** Fair ** Poor * Bad "},{"Title":"Inconceivable","Date":"6 November 2007","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" You would have thought after HOOK that no one would ever hire Robin Williams again, least of all to play a man child, which in effect is what he also played in HOOK. This time around, Williams plays a boy who suffers from a disease that rapidly ages him, so that by the time he turns 10, he looks 40. And by the time he turns 20, he looks like John Carpenter. No, that's not right. He looks dead. Anyhow, Jack goes to school with the kiddies, and as he ages (in terrible aging makeup), he grows weaker and weaker. It is simply inconceivable that JACK was ever made. Williams is horrible. There is nothing appealing about watching a middle-aged hairy guy sitting behind a kids' classroom desk. And this was made by the director of THE GODFATHER, no less! "},{"Title":"funny as a child, poignant as an adult.","Date":"27 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I used to love this movie as a child, i can remember renting it weekly at my local video shop. the fart scene in the cubby house always had me in stitches. now as a 22 year old, having sadly forgotten about this underrated gem, until i remembered it a few weeks ago and hunted for it on DVD. when hunting for some old videos i found a copy that must have somehow snuck into my video collection and i dusted off the old vcr player sat back and watched it. i laughed, i cried, i remembered my childhood. i think what Francis Ford Copella has done is an amazing achievement, it is truly hard for a movie to achieve what Jack does, it's fun for children, and adults who are young at heart.but it also reached me on another level, it reached me on a level of meaning and emotion, it taught me life is short, in a way no other movie has reached me. "},{"Title":"Due to a weird disease a little boy is aging so fast...","Date":"24 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I saw this movie a few years ago, and had the opportunity of see it again this week, I think is an excellent option in order to enjoy with the family. The story, performance of each character, and the complete movie keeps you interested (even me after 8 years!!!!) through the different things that happened.An of course something I consider very important in a movie like this... the moral, that message you can obtain that will do appreciate each second in your live. But I really prefer recommend you to see this movie just in order to judge it by yourself.Definitely if you have the chance of view it, please... DO IT!!!.You won't waste your time!!!. "}{"Title":"only Robin Williams could play a 10-year-old","Date":"6 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" It seems like when Jack came out, many critics found it absurd if not insulting. I admit that the idea of someone aging at four times the normal rate is a little outlandish, but I still wish to assert that the movie is worth seeing. True, Robin Williams is more subdued than usual, but some of his antics are pretty funny, as he tries to find his place in a world younger than he looks. I really liked the part about Zack problem.Seeing Jennifer Lopez here, it's weird to think that she once starred in watchable movies. Also starring are Diane Lane, Brian Kerwin, Bill Cosby and Fran Drescher. Francis Ford Coppola pulled off another interesting one here. "},{"Title":"The greatest director ever does it again!","Date":"4 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The director of epics such as The Godfather, Apocalypse Now and The Conversation has made another wonderful film, just like the aforementioned.Robin Williams is fabulous as the eponymous character, and his Jack has echoes of Martin Sheen in Apocalypse, Brando in Godfather and Hackman in Conversation. All these characters are in a deep, intellectual soul-searching mission, and Williams delivers a wonderfully nuanced performance, as the lonely boy who has to deal with manhood all too soon.Funny that Coppola keeps talking about how Hollywood is just about money, but then he makes lovely films like Jack, The Rainmaker or Youth without Youth. Way to go, Francis.See you next time. "},{"Title":"How Much I Loved This Fab Film!!","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Throughout watching this film i was next to crying...it also made me laugh, and really care for the character!i think the hole idea of being accepted as a person when you have disabilities is an amazing story line ....Robin Williams really captures the essence of Jack and plays him really well!!!And on scenes when Jacks face lights up with excitement because he has new friends,i,felt sooo happy for him(even though he isn't real!)It just shows you how much life is really worth and that it is to short...we should live life like we only have a few months left.....just like Jack did and even though he just made it to graduate, he gave a fantastic speech and still had his friends beside him all the way.So i gave this moving film a 10/10 because it made me laugh, cry and wont to give Jack a hug to show him that he is NOT alone!!! "},{"Title":"A boy at 40 years old?","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Jack is diffrent from all the kids in his school. How can he, you ask? As the movie opens, a couple named Karen Powell and Brain Powell (Diane Lane and Brain Kerwin) are at a costume party, and unexpectly thier baby is ready to be born. But the baby is not due for another 7 months. So Karen is taken to the hospital. And gives birth to a boy which gets named Jack. And later doctors break the news to Brain and Karen that the baby was born early because his cells are grwoing 4 times the normal rate, and if this goes on by the time Jack is 10 years old, he will be a full-grown 40 year old man. So 10 years later, it does happen, Jack (Robin Williams) is a 40 years old man, when he is supposed to be 10 years old. And Karen and Brain has hired a tutor (Bill Cosby) for Jack instead of sending him to school. But one day the tutor decides that Jack should go to school and tells Jack's parents.(I give this 10 out of 10 stars)     "},{"Title":"Another Mess From Robin Williams","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Robin Williams plays a 10-year-old boy who ages four times quicker than everyone else so he actually looks like he is 40. An interesting premise is destroyed though as the film is so corny in spots and then it tries to be dramatic by showing that Williams just does not have as much time to live as others do. Williams is enthusiastic and does a fair job, but the film's screenplay is disappointing and Francis Ford Coppola's direction is never quite clear. Diane Lane, Bill Cosby, Fran Drescher, and Jennifer Lopez make up the under-achieving cast that just cannot help this dud of a picture. 2 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"I couldn't turn it off because I was on a plane.","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I think I'm cursed. On every bus trip where they show a movie, it's always a child-bonds-with-dog movie like Balto or Iron Will. And on every plane trip it's always something from the god-awful canon of saccharine, maudlin, oh-please-when-will-it-end Robin Williams ham-fests. Just when I thought I had seen every last one of these stinkers, along comes Jack.Stay away from Jack! Stay away! Why is this man so determined to make us laugh and make us cry? He hasn't successfully done the former since Good Morning Vietnam, or the latter since Dead Poets Society. It's schmaltzy, it's stupid, it's worthless. And Frances Ford Coppola! For shame! Godfather parts 1 and 2 are my favorite movies ever, and twenty years later you're making Jack? You should be officially reprimanded and demoted in front of a jury of your peers, like Captain Kirk after he saved the whales.My recommendation only see this film if you are a) a masochist, or b) curious to see the result of the collaboration of the two people in showbusiness with the most body hair. "},{"Title":"I don't give a 1 very often, but...","Date":"1 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" When you've won as many Oscars as Francis Ford Coppola has, Jack is not the type of movie that you make. Coppola, whose resume includes The Godfather trilogy, Apocalypse Now, Bram Stoker's Dracula, and Peggy Sue Got Married, has won five Oscars, and if you look back to all of those films mentioned,it just proves what a gift he has. But God only knows what went through his mind as he directed Jack.Robin Williams plays the title character, a 10 year old who ages 4 times faster than usual, so he looks like Robin Williams. After being home schooled for 10 years, he finally persuades his parents (Diane Lane and Brain Kerwin) to let him go to public school. Of course, he is judged, but with the help of his teacher (Jennifer Lopez), he tries to win them over.It seems as if after Coppola directed Apocalypse Now, he had become possessed by some sort of film demon. Sure, he directed good movies after that, but for every Peggy Sue Got Married there was The Outsiders. Watching this movie feels like you're waiting for a flight that is never going to arrive.Clocking in at nearly 2 hours, Jack is a monstrosity of many proportions. All of the actors here feel trapped. The premise alone is sort of creepy, and you can't tell whether or not this movie is trying to be My Left Foot or a Robin Williams comedy. Williams has way too much talent for this. It's a movie that never really lets him spread his wings. He's bored, and we are too.Also, the movie is just plain gross, and in ways that I would rather not release to others. The dialogue is head-achingly corny, and it doesn't stop. There's also no real purpose here. all this movie wants from us is to feel pity for this guy. I feel pity for him all right... but his name is not Jack. His name is Robin, and I also pity someone named Diane, someone named Jennifer, and someone named Francis at the root of all evil. This is one of the strangest, nastiest, and flat out worst movies of all time.F "},{"Title":"lack of laughs for a comedy, and lack of emotion for drama","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was tolerable the first time I watched it, which is a credit to the direction of  FFC and Williams, however after being forced to view it again while babysitting a relative the film became painful.  In my opinion a comedy should stay on track with material that is funny and not digress into drama and events of emotional weight.  FFC is not a director suited for comedy; he cannot tell a story without delving into the darkness that reality would hold for its characters.  In the end the film felt like a less funny Shallow Hal in that the plot turns away from comedy and forgets what the movie is supposed to be.  "},{"Title":"Creepy","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Who comes up with these creepy movies , and how do they make it into the theaters I just don't know. I especially don't agree with a ten year old trapped in a 40 year old body! Almost insulting. Jack is to be one of those movies that appear to be a little off. Don't you think?  Stuart Little is also one of those creepy movies but hey it sure beats Jack. To this *1/2/**** stars.  "},{"Title":"Utterly horrible","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Jack could be one of the most horrible movies I've ever seen. I'm not quite sure if this was due to the bad acting, bad directing, bad writing, bad filming, or due to its nauseating story line but whatever it was, I wish this movie on to no one. You would think that with a great actor such as Robin Williams whose acting career has showing nothing but a pure genius (Bicentennial Man, Flubber, Patch Adams, etc.) that the film would somehow be able to overcome it. I don't think so. However, I will say one positive thing about this movie. After exiting the theater and remembering that killing myself isn't the last resort in life, I felt a hell of a lot better. "}{"Title":"They LIED!","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  this Movie wasn't funny! It was Horrible! It was Tragic! It was Dark! one of it's main themes was mortality! There were a few laughs, but not enough to cover the fact that this kid is aging at warp speed and will die 4 times sooner then everyone else. This movie got ratings like A barrel full of laughs or two thumbs up I can't think of any movie that was more falsely advertised then this piece of c***. steer clear of this one.  "},{"Title":"Probably the greatest movie of all time.","Date":"25 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is better than The Shawshank Redemption and The Godfather combined. It really does belong in the Top 250, because I think this is the best movie I have ever watched. It combines heartfelt drama with childish comedy. It's about a guy named Jack with a disorder that makes him look 4 times his actual age. The acting is phenomenal, and the movie is just great overall and makes you think about life. It is an imaginative, wonderful movie that I recommend to anyone and everyone, if your 6 years old or 60 years old. Don't listen to the low rating. Watch this incredible movie no matter what any critic says.10/10 or A+ "},{"Title":"Great Film!","Date":"31 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This film was really enjoyable. I think Robin Williams is a great actor and played to role of a 10 year old kid very well. I think that the kids who play Louis, Eddie and that lot are really good. The film was very emotional. I'd advise that family's and all ages watch this film. It was very funny especially when the children where calling on Jack constantly. I like the way Jack can do adult things when he is only 10. I also find it funny the way Jack has romantic moments with his best friend's mum. I also like it when all the boys give Bill Cosby skin, it shows he's down to earth with the kids. Also children will find it funny when they eat the disgusting mixture in the tree house. Overall i loved this film and advise you watch it. "},{"Title":"illogical references","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I find that this movie was stupid and illogical. To tell the truth, watching it gave me the sensation of my brain matter melting. I sincerely thought that I was growing more stupid. I was about to say stupider, but some people realize that the aforementioned word is not really a word. I also realize that I did not capitalize the summary title. This is because in that font, the capital I appears identical to the l. I apologize for having digressed. Moving on, this movie has a good point because it points out the shortness of life and it portrays the protection, shelter, and understanding our society is capable of. However, there are points in this movie that appear to me as illogical. For example, in the scene where he has a bad dream, he asks to sleep with his parents. When the allow it, he immediately jumps on the bed. Now, even he is mentally a ten year old, one must allow for the reasoning that he knows his motor skills well. This being said, it is apparent that anyone over five feet in height would not do something such as jumping on the bed. This scene shows the flaw and inattentiveness of the writers, however, if this movie were a fantasy story, the aforementioned scene would have more weight because it shows the mentality of a ten year old. If you liked the movie, I apologize for wasting your time with my analytical mind, however, everything I state is true, no matter how you look at it. "},{"Title":"What In The World Was This?","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this movie and said to my self did Francis Ford Coppola actually make this... Maybe he should have asked Alan Smithee to take the bullet, This movie was just out of this world and very cheezey and made me wanna burn the video tape and then throw the ashes in the toilet but i would have ended up paying for it at the video store. "},{"Title":"Robin Williams' Worst movie ever","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie stinks. I didn't laugh at all. One word BORING!Rated F "},{"Title":"After watching this, lets just say I was thinking of changing MY name","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" How could Francis Ford Coppolla, a man who has brought a plethora of awesome movies (Godfather trilogy, Apocalypse, Dracula, Rainmaker even) stoop to this? Even when I first saw this movie years ago (before I saw Coppolla's good movies) something was off. Here, Coppolla brings Williams to the role of Jack Powell, a boy who at the age of 10 looks like he's 40 from an age disorder he had at birth. True, Williams isn't a bad choice for the movie, but the big mistake is the direction (and then some) the script takes. This movie might've been even more interesting if they showed Jack perhaps at 5 looking 20 or younger, or in-between. It is too sitcomish to have the character at exactly 10 and 40 since these are ages that are set ups in themselves. In all, Jack is not worth the watch, unless you want to see Bill Cosby blowing farts into a can. "},{"Title":"A kids movie that is rated PG-13","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Now you have seen a lot of child actors playing kids in movies, but what about a grownup actor playing a child. Sounds like this movie. And Robin Williams is the grownup actor to do it. As the movie opens, Karen and Brain Powell (Diane Lane and Brain Kerwin) are at a party, when Karen's child is ready to be born. But the baby is not due for another 7 months. The child is born healthy and two doctors (Allan Rich, Keone Young) them, thier baby was born early, because the baby's body is wroking 4 times the normal rate. And if goes on for the rest of his life, at age 10 Jack will be a full gown 40 old man. 10 years later Jack (Robin Williams) is in a man's body and is home-schooled. Until his teacher (Billy Cosby) tells his parents to send him to school. Theb school's principal (Al Nalbandian) shows him to his classroom, Jack's teacher is Miss Marquez (Jennfier Lopez). Jack becomes friends with a boy about his age named Louis Durante (Adam Zolotin). Is this a kid's movie, I doubt it. 10/10                "},{"Title":"Absurd emotional concept","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  There are various things about this movie I don't understand. One is Why was it made? Then What is it supposed to be? And What attracted Francis Ford Coppola to the project? Im not sure, but I think `Jack' was the movie that started Robin Williams's series of movies, which are a little funny and very sentimental (`Patch Adams', `What dreams May Come...' and `Bicentennial Man' followed). So one more question is Why did Robin Williams, yet being rather a comedian, accept the role of Jack, except for money?I found this movie incomparably dumb. It is too little funny for being a comedy, but what else could it be? Jack's illness is fictitious and may produce a bunch of gags, but it is absurd to take it seriously and be touched by a problem no real person in the world has. The emotional concept of this story failed completely, and I don't see why Coppola didn't notice that.  "},{"Title":"bad bad bad bad bad bad bad","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The highlight of this movie is how accurately Robin Williams learned to play a 10-year-old; I heard he worked with 10-year-olds for a few weeks to learn their mannerisms.The downside of this movie? Everything else.Lemme start by saying I hate when people say things like It couldn't decide whether to be a comedy or a drama. Couldn't this be said of all comedy-drama movies? So let me put it this way It could've been a decent comedy about a 40-year-old 10-year-old man, or it could've been a decent drama about this man's coping with life. However, it isn't really much of either. It's just crap. Films need to give us something to relate to, and I don't think many of us can relate to a man who ages 4 times as fast as we do. However, there are many examples of something we could relate to about this plot, and yet the writers manage to avoid every example.Bottom line Don't see it unless you age 4 times as fast as most humans. "}{"Title":"Jack was Whack!","Date":"18 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I've seen worse movies. Of course, they were black screens dubbed in languages I couldn't understand, broadcast on the concrete walls on my prison cell...and reversed. Jack was the kind of movie that makes you contemplate suicide. While it would be a permanent solution to a temporary problem, at least you would have died knowing you'd done something with your life...like avoiding this movie. My favorite part? When Robin Williams, in his star turn as the title character Jack, purchases pornography, alcohol and tobacco for his ten-year-old comrades. I laughed myself silly thinking about Jack Palance doing one-armed push-ups at the Academy Awards(TM); at least that Jack didn't make me want to put a cigarette out on my eyeball. I would rather be a republican at a Barbara Streisand concert than ever see this movie again. I think, as Americans, we should urge our president to use this film at Gitmo, defending freedom and fightin' terra'. Don't mess with Texas! "},{"Title":"Ummmm...?","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Well this is a good movie to insult. I mean good because it isn't really that bad of a movie, it has a heart, good story decent acting. But we are talking about Francis Ford Coppola! I don't understand what happened. What promted him to make this movie, this would of been a good movie for a rookie director or a bored director but no a great director like FFC. I mean it was sloppy, corny, boring and just not a FFC movie, I might be a little harsh i dunno, you might not even read this whole thing anyway, I will never watch this movie again nor would i recommend anybody to watch this. If you want to see a big separation between movies go watch the godfather and then jack and tell me if its the same director, alrighty. "}]