[{"Title":"I have lost the will to spell and have no idea what just transpired.","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  While the acting gets a little corny at times, the vibe is definitely prevalent in this movie.  It's got a good feeling.  Simple plot, easy to follow, and while some of the time I found myself looking at my shoes, I was drawn into it.  By the time Frankie meets David, I was hooked.  The beginning is a little slow, and that's lethal for those out there with ADD. But I know for sure that myself as well as most of my friends have wished for the type of relationship Frankie and David have in this flick.  You have seen the physical dramas where the girl is kidnapped and needs rescuing, and you've seen the emotional dramas where the girl is in the abusive relationship and he saves her from it and you've seen the really far-fetched movies where there's some kind of Monster/ Cyborg/ Evil Psycho trying to Kill/ Maim/ Eat her and the lead male saves her from it, but rarely, if ever, do you see one of these well-written, not so surreal movies wherein the girl wears real clothes, people make mistakes, and things are sometimes awkward.  On purpose.It's refreshing to see, even if it means getting corny at times.  There are few ways around cornball moments in life.  Making life into film or even the dream of life and avoiding them is near impossible.Personally, I'd recommend this movie to anyone looking for a serious, rewarding, real-life type fictional romance.  Give it a chance.  See the whole thing.  And don't you DARE look at your shoes. "},{"Title":"A surprisingly sweet movie!","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'll admit that amongst my rabid obsession with horror films and morbid dramas, lies a deep love for witty romance films.I loved this one.The dialogue and characterization was surprisingly well done, and the story, although old, was played out well.The cast was excellent, too. Ione Skye is so beautiful, and very talented. She played the lonely girl perfectly. I cannot imagine a better actress for her part...her eyes said something to me while watching, as did her heart and soul she put into this role. Jennifer Aniston, whom I'm not a big fan of, was actually well written, and her knack for switching accents though out the film was quite funny. The standout character was David, played by Mackenzie Astin.He's a nice guy, plain and simple. His dialogue was witty, charming, and never went over the pretentious mark. His character actually meant something to me, and for once, I agreed with his role. I think he has a bright future ahead of him, and I even think he is a better actor than his older sibling, Sean.I loved the romance that built between David and Frankie. Even though we have seen this kind of mushy clap trap on screen several times before, it just seemed to work differently here.Overall, this is a surprisingly sweet, well acted and non-pretentious romance film that deserves more recognition.I loved it, very much. "},{"Title":"Nothing Less Than Extraordinary...","Date":"23 April 2004","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Captivating from beginning to end, this romantic comedy will woo language-lovers everywhere. A swift kick to the intellect, with a sugary-sweet story on the side. Quick dialogue, a solid cast, an almost surrealistic atmosphere and one of the most fitting soundtracks of the decade. There's little to complain about, maybe a few lines here and there that I believe could've been excluded from the script, but nothing detrimental to the over-all feel of the film.What I love most about the movie (aside from the obvious eye-candy of it being filmed both in black & white and color) was its undeniable originality. Of all the romance I've seen, this remains one of my absolute favorites. And it was the tiny little details that made it so. This woman did her homework, and she's delivered it with style.Favorite LinesMy grandmother used to call it a fi-fi. I mean, isn't that nice? A fi-fi?Never settle for anything less than extraordinary. Because, if you do, life will suck...Come on, would you want to do it with someone whose last name is the worst day of the week? "},{"Title":"Charming","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A charming little movie, made just around the time Friends (and Jennifer Aniston) were becoming huge.Jennifer Aniston, sporting her then famous 'The Rachel' haircut, is good in a supporting role; but it is Ione Skye that really shines.A lovely, independent little romantic comedy drama, that managed to find a place in my heart (I know - aw shucks and all that).Favourite line, issued by Ione Skye after the guy of her dreams has given her a cup of hot milk to help her slip (paraphrase) You're not going to make me drink any more warm white fluids ... are you?!WICKED! "},{"Title":"Lovely, funny, intelligent film","Date":"10 September 1998","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a great film  witty, charming, well-acted and wonderfully written.  The characters are all played to perfection by an array of very talented young actors (especially MacKenzie Astin, who plays David).  It has the perfect mixture of laughter and sorrow, sweetness and elegance.  I particularly like this film because it relies on dialogue, characterization , and  cinematography, three primary elements in filmmaking which have recently hidden themselves behind special effects, poor attempts at acting by egotistical actors, and weak plotlines like those of a dimestore romance novel.  However, this film has a tight, entertaining plot, a cast of excellent actors, a wonderful cinematographer, and last but not least, heart. "},{"Title":"A perfect precious little movie.","Date":"26 November 1998","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One of the sweetest movies I've ever seen.  It was a perfect, sweet, different kind-of feel good movie. "},{"Title":"Obviously a first attempt","Date":"4 June 1999","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Dream for an Insomniac is not a bad movie, nor is it a particularly good one.  Writer/Director DeBartolo in her first attempt at doing either produces a film that has bright moments, a few good ideas, very little meaningful dialogue, and some moderately entertaining scenes.The black-and-white to color transition when Frankie first meets David Schrader is perhaps the most metaphorical and artistic achievement this movie makes. It is unfortunate that it is neither touching as a metaphor nor very artistic.The majority of the film centers around the interplay between Frankie and David.  The interaction between the characters is labored and unbelievable, the dialogue being little more than witty banter and archaic quotes swapped back and forth.  If DeBartolo had any intentions of the audience empathizing with the characters she failed to write them in such a way to elicit such empathy.  Frankie remains reminiscent of a love-struck schoolgirl throughout the film, a glutton for punishment, while David Schrader feels two-faced, reluctant to leave his girlfriend but quite friendly and flirtatious with Frankie, who is quite obviously in love with him.  If these characters existed in the real world, they would both seem too neurotic, emotionally unstable, needy, and self-centered to spend time getting to know.  And yet in spite of this, DeBartolo manages to put together a film that is not terrible. Aniston's character, an aspiring actress who speaks in false accents during conversations to become believable in them, provides a solid supporting character that is much needed throughout the film.  Juice, the slacker musician, finds his way on screen just about exactly when some comic relief is due.  Some of the conversations, especially the one concerning the Holy Trinity of rock and roll, seem similar to something that could actually be heard in the real world, or at least the world of Generation X.  And the subplot of Rob, the coffee-shop waiter reluctant to tell his father that he is a practicing homosexual, is actually quite endearing and entertaining.Dream for an Insomniac would have been a much better film had DeBartolo stepped down the massive intellectual undertones running rampant in the dialogue, given both main characters a healthy dose of Prozac, and focused on the basic but meaningful theme of romance in the 90s instead of showing off her obviously impressive knowledge of memorable quotes through her characters.  If anything less than extraordinary is a waste of your time, then so is Dream for an Insomniac.  If, however, you are willing to settle for a decent first attempt at a movie by a newcomer to writing and directing, lay down a couple of bucks for this film at your local video store. "},{"Title":"Wonderful film.","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Unlike the other review for this film, I completely enjoyed this movie. From it's wonderful dialog to it's wonderful storyline. It's very rare to find an Indie Romantic Comedy that is this good, and I'd consider myself a pro on romantic comedies. It's my favorite genre, and Dream For An Insomniac is easily in my top 10 favorite Romantic Comedies of all time. "},{"Title":"Honestly Funny","Date":"5 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  OK - I agree Jennifer's accents were not that funny. But she did a convincing job as the friend who is in reality. She contrasts and complements the lead. now ione (i think thats her name )she plays Frankie - sometimes recites her lines perfectly, other times she strains to get them out w/o making it seem forced. but her positives outweigh the negatives, and when she needs to be on target she is. The guys were outstanding, though BJ was too gay. Roberto was played brillantly, i'm glad the guy has gotten past union square. but the award if i had one should be given to Mackenzie Astin, who was fabulous as David. He was just simply outstanding doing everything right! Good movie - got  a different view of love - from the quirky side. it was fun, and gave hope to all that the perfect guy is out there.  "},{"Title":"Great date movie - awesome first effort","Date":"21 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I get the impression that this is the director/writer's first film, and I have to say I was impressed.  I like the script, although some of the characters seem to be a little exaggerated, particularly Leo. However, for the most part, it was well-written - I'm amazed this was a first try.  My friends and I talk like the dialogue in this film so it really rang true to us.  I hope she gets to make more films - we'll be waiting for them.  The soundtrack rocks, too. "}{"Title":"Gotta be one of the best romantic comedies ever made!!","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I admit I was a bit worried about seeing this film...lets face it, the cast alone sent out warning flares...An 80's teen movie star, Rachel from 'Friends' and some guy who happened to be the brother of another 80's teen movie star!! I cringed at the thought when a friend wanted to hire the movie, but I thought 'what the hey, you only live once'. And am I glad I hired it or what?? Ione Skye was perfect as Frankie, Mackenzie Astin is gorgeous as David, and don't let me forget their chemistry - they're perfect together....and I'm not forgetting Jennifer Aniston, who proved she could shake off her Rachel stigma and become someone completely different. But it's not just the cast, the story is completely fresh, the music is fabulous and I got enough memorable quotes to last me a lifetime!! This movie is a must see, for anybody who believes in love, destiny and waiting for Mr Right.  "},{"Title":"Just Wow","Date":"7 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":" OK fine, it is not absolutely great direction and closure, But what a wow film, really 10 out of 10 on an effort. It a an amazingly great film, especially for a lot of people who were young in the 90s, The thoughts, the changes, the culture, the alternative rock, the next way of life. The lead lady, cannot sleep, does her laundry in the night, has a cool set of friends, finds love in her life, and the movie turns color, till then it is black and white. The love piece is complicated, but everyone keeps it simple, nothing melodramatic at all.......It is like some wise men say, accept life as it is, everyone in the movie does that n till the end. Its really about how life should be lived, and taken on....A must watch for every movie buff, lots to take home....Enjoy "},{"Title":"Talk is underrated","Date":"10 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Although not an attentive Sinatra fan, I loved this movie for its dialogue, its perception on life and the other, and the cinematography.  Mackensie Astin was charming and innocent and the chemistry between David and Frankie was real. "},{"Title":"no spoiler, just comments","Date":"20 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is one of the best 5 romance/comedies I've seen in my life. Ione Skye is perfect as Frankie, and Jennifer Anniston surpasses her role in the TV series Friends (a show I never liked much, despite her great acting.Another IMDb user mentioned that this film was right up there with Chasing Amy and I agree 110%!!! In a similar but yet different way Ione Skye plays strange roles in the same way that Hilary Swank has done. Pamela Anderson BE GONE! I'll vote for the actresses who can portray interesting, intellectual characters and who are not silicone enhanced bombshells with only two or three working brain cells.Ione and Hilary will probably never make many covers of the Sports Illustrated swimsuit issue, or Playboy, but they CAN ACT! (I could name a bunch of other actresses who do do not get by on just their looks, but Ione and Hilary seem to be almost akin in many ways. Go figure.bambi, own thousands of movies, seen lots multiple times deer "},{"Title":"Something Lacking","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  All the actors seemed to be their character except for the leading lady and leading man.  These 2 did not seem to be 100% their characters at all times.  There was a superficial element about them; somehow they weren't quite believable.  Perhaps it was their chemistry which seemed to be lacking.  I liked Rob the best.  Jennifer Aniston was pretty good too...her accents were impressive.  All in all, not a bad flick.  The ending was very sweet. "},{"Title":"Some scenes were good. Others weren't.","Date":"5 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Dream for an Insomniac is a not-too-bad romantic comedy. I love romantic comedies, and this one is not exactly brilliant. Still this is the first movie for director/writer Tiffanie DeBartolo. I liked the way they mixed the black and white scenes with the colour scenes in the movie. Some of the cinematography wasn't that good though. The cast here, Including, Jennifer Aniston and Ione Skye are both okay too. If you like romantic comedies, then you may just enjoy this. Saying that though, there are much better ones out there.  "},{"Title":"One of the most romantic movies ever made","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie made me cry. If you are a romantic realist this movie will strike you at your core. The way the characters interacted was amazing. The writer/director DaBartalo is amazing. It shows she has a fantastic philosophy of life. Thank you for making one of my all time favorite movies, ever. "},{"Title":"It's all in the eyes...","Date":"25 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie made me feel all warm inside ... made me want to be with my perfect one ... filled me with longing ... I loved it!  The script was natural (I know people like this!), the acting was wonderful, the plot (although inconceivable) was charming, touching, and makes me happy for one long night of my insomnia.Sweet Dreams. "},{"Title":"weak lead, amateur style for 1st time director","Date":"11 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Mackenzie Astin and Ione Skye star in a standard rom-com. Also noteworthy for co-starring role for Jennifer Aniston as the best friend. The writing had some interesting lines from Tiffanie DeBartolo. This is her first and apparently only work which is interesting in itself. It certainly had potential. Although she needed help with the directing.Frankie (Ione Skye) is picky and can't find a good guy. She has trouble sleeping since she lost her parents. She works at her uncle Leo (Seymour Cassel)'s coffee shop. His son Rob (Michael Landes) can't come out of the closet to him, and tells him he's dating Frankie's friend Allison (Jennifer Aniston). The movie starts in black and white until Frankie meets the new guy David (Mackenzie Astin). He's an aspiring writing but he also has a girlfriend.The biggest problem is the male lead Mackenzie Astin. He's not compelling enough to lead a rom-com. Ione Skye is fine. Her biggest contribution is her giant smile. Jennifer Aniston did a good job, but her star power almost overshadows everybody. Good first try for DeBartolo but sadly no second try. "},{"Title":"Sparkling Effort","Date":"18 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I agree with what one other person said...Ione Skye took some weird roles. I guess her dad Donovan was a bit of a hippy, so it follows that she would be attracted to alternative projects. The Rachel Papers and Say Anything are just a couple, in addition to this one.I was blown away by her performance. That smile is magical! She breathed life into her quirky character with perfect execution. The only modern day actress who might be able to do that with this role, would be Rachel McAdams.I loved the setting and envied her life. Despite losing her parents, (not in the movie), Frankie, our female protagonist, has an adoring uncle (played by Seymour Cassell with genuine sweetness, but an awkwardly forced Italian accent), an equally loving male cousin her age, a free room, a built-in job with flexible hours, two best friends, and all the free espresso she can drink. Her support circle is always there for her, and they have fun nights playing scrabble and discussing life.Aside from the primary plot revolving around Frankie's search and yearning for old-school romantic love, there is a subplot involving her gay cousin's reticence about coming out of the closet. It seems no story set in San Francisco would be complete without a gay subtext, but this one does not slam you over the head with it. Michael Landes plays it with subtle beauty, by giving his character a laid- back, slightly wry sense of humor, blended with his earnest desire not to disappoint his doting dad.For me, the handling of this topic could have made or broke the whole film. Congrats. to our first time Writer/Director for treading lightly. The characters don't make any grandstanding proclamations about how great it is to be gay. They just tell their friend to face the music and get on with his life, and not to prejudge his dad's reaction. Frankie delivers a key line about her cousin's value as a human being and a son, without waving the gay flag. Great scene.Most of the characters in this movie seem to care deeply about others. When they misbehave, they apologize. I practically never meet anyone like them, but I am that way myself, so I know such types exist. That's what was really endearing about the film. The people are flawed and nuanced, but at their core, they are sensitive and giving souls. How many modern films depict this ethos? Much has been said about the use of famous quotes in the initial witty and flirtatious banter between our two lovebirds. I don't have a problem with it, because I can picture two hopeless romantics being heavily influenced by literature and pop culture. That's believable to me. A lot of reviewers here criticized that, as if the film maker was showing off. But I think her point was to create a bonding mechanism for the sweethearts.Jennifer Anniston was adequate as the supporting character. Not a huge stretch from her simultaneously developing Friends character, but she delivered the requisite compassion at the right moments, with her trademark ability to convey empathy. She spoke in some cute accents that her aspiring actress character was practicing for potential roles. I'm guessing that the Director gave her some leeway with this, and she used it wisely.Enter McKenzie Astin. I had no idea who he was, other than his relation to the guy who played Rudy. Wow. What an amazingly intuitive performance by a relative unknown. He exposed his character's soul and portrayed the anguish of tortured love in a way that most guys would not be able to pull off. You can see the wheel's spinning in his head as he becomes intoxicated by Frankie's magnetism.The best scene is set on a beach in S.F., while the conflicted couple discuss their dilemma, which I will not spoil. Astin shines here. This dialog is perhaps more natural and true to life than all the other scenes. Wonderful writing and direction.A classic, by definition is something that stays with you. I carry this film in my soul on a daily basis, year after year. I cannot say that about many artistic projects.If you are not a romantic, you will probably be bored to tears. I should have mentioned that earlier. There is no action and no sex. If you are a romantic, or just like good writing and acting, sit back and enjoy. "}{"Title":"Anything less than mad, passionate, extraordinary love is a waste of your time.","Date":"9 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I just watched About a Boy; a movie about a man living off his father's singular hit. Do we have the same thing here? Writer/director Tiffanie DeBartolo only did this one film. It is a good one, and I can't understand why there has been no followup.It may have been a little corny at times - a search for a may with the eyes and soul of Sinatra, but Ione Skye (Girls in Prison, Guncrazy, A Night in the Life of Jimmy Reardon) does a really great job as the dreamer that doesn't want to settle. As she says, Pussy, pussy, pussy. pussy. We're all pussies. It's what we have to overcome in life, our pussiness. So true! It was also the best performance I have seen by Jennifer Aniston outside of Friends. Maybe it was because she did it during the Friends period.It was a cute movie, a little corny at times, but well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Simply adorable.","Date":"17 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I must say that this is my favourite kind of movie so the chances of this comment to be biased is very high.I love the script, and especially the quotes mentioned in this film. I love how Frankie and David talk in quotes the first time they met. It's chemistry of a different kind. Almost geek-talk without any of them being geeks. (Am I making sense here? If I'm not, sorry.) I love how most lines could mean more than just what it seemed. I think it's a good, enlightening flick.If you like this film, you'd probably like Before Sunrise and Before Sunset. ) "},{"Title":"Another indie gem","Date":"3 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":" When I saw this movie 10 years ago on video, I was captivated by the story and the acting, but turned off by Frankie's blathering. When I watched it again last night, I had the same reaction.The acting-especially the adorable Mackenzie Astin (who was such a cute kid on Facts of Life, nice to see he grew up so well)-more than make up for the sometimes awful lines that the luminous Ione Skye has to mutter. She's such a good actress that I actually cringed at some of her dialogue. It's the earnestness in which she says it that made me not laugh out loud though. Instead of coming off as a pompous, pretentious poser, Skye portrays Frankie as a hopeless romantic. She's a lonely dreamer who finds her soul mate at just about the time she's given up on the notion that he is out there. So when she meets David (Astin), her world is rocked. Love at first sight happens for both, but there is one glitch-he has a live in girlfriend. Of course, David is so sensitive and sweet that one has to wonder what he's doing with a cold, pragmatic law student named Molly Monday. Of course, he just has to give in to his desire to be with Frankie, even if it means relocating yet again to another city.The fact that David spends loads of time with Frankie and leads her cousin (Michael Landes in what should have been a break out role)and friends to think that he has a thing for her despite hiding his relationship means nothing to her though. Instead of seeing him as someone who can't be trusted, Frankie is determined to break up his relationship and claim him for herself. She doesn't want to hear her friend Allison (played brilliantly by Jennifer Aniston) tell her that there are other fish in the sea. She only wants the David Shrader fish. Who could blame her? Astin plays this role with grace and sensitivity, even when David acts like a weasel. It's hard to dislike his character-he's captivating and brilliant. No one is perfect, and neither is this movie. Silly dialogue aside, it's close to it. I give it an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Almost amazing","Date":"1 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I thought the first half of the movie was fantastic; the use of color, the eccentricity of Frankie, the main character, and just the general way in which this conventional romantic comedy added its own ticks and quirks (with an infusion of Frank Sinatra) held so much promise.From this first half I was prepared to absolutely fall in love with this movie. The leads were charismatic and the chemistry was good and everything seemed in place. But everything starts unraveling in the second half; things happen too fast, things seem too absolute, emotions are strange and constantly changing (telling someone that you don't want a relationship with her... and then sleeping with your head in her lap and kissing her/holding her hand on the way home...) and things generally don't seem to progress rationally.still, it was worth watching just for the artistic novelty and the amazing first half. "},{"Title":"Anything less than extraordinary is a waste of time.","Date":"17 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Anything less than extraordinary is a waste of time. We should all be so lucky as to live our lives according to this phrase, which is the theme of this film. I know that by many peoples standards this movie is not up to par, but how can a simple love story that reminds its viewers to live life to the fullest be all that bad. I found the main character, Frankie, to be charming and witty. Some may call her a little over the top but I am here to report that there is a woman in this world who is the living, breathing equivalent of the character, Frankie, and she happens to be my best friend...lucky me ) This movie, with all of its little quirks, is one of my favorites and I urge anyone interested to give it a chance. "},{"Title":"Promising romantic comedy that doesn't quite deliver...","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":" 1st watched 1/8/2006, 5 out of 10(Dir-Tiffanie Debartolo) Promising romantic comedy that doesn't quite deliver. It's hard for me to put a finger on why this movie stopped working for me about the time it changed from black&white to color when the heroine, Frankie(played by Ione Skye)meets her hopeful blue-eyed knight in shining armor, David(played by Mackenzie Austin), but in the next few sentences I'm going to try and explain. The players don't do a bad job but you get the feeling that the Hollywood happy ending is going to transpire too early on, and the interest in the rest of the movie becomes lacking. Ione plays a woman who hasn't got a good night's sleep since her parents died in a car crash at age six, and I think her hope in life has been diminishing from that point in time as well. Jennifer Anniston plays her happy-go-lucky actor friend who plays her comforter and tries to cheer her up as well as her gay cousin but neither are very successful. Frankie is looking for the blue-eyed Frank Sinatra-type to whisk her off her feet as Frank S. had done in real life with her father by giving him a break in the music business a long time ago. That man comes along in David Shrader(or at least she thinks so) but he's been dragging along a girlfriend for a few years and we're all waiting for him to wake-up, smell the coffee and go for Frankie. I won't give away the ending, although I've hinted at it already, but you know what eventually happens. The supporting cast is very good in this movie, but the main characters don't quite pull it off in this hopeful, but in-the-end flat, romantic flick. "},{"Title":"All simply, I love this very sweet movie... excellent.","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":" It is such a movie that gets you fell good. Maybe mostly a movie for girls, but yet a great and excellent movie. Ione Skye plays Frankie, who is about to leave in one week for her acting dreams in L.A., who wants to meet the man with blue eyes. And in comes David, new in town and who happens to be employed in the Café Blue Eyes which Frankie's uncle Leo runs. It becomes a crazy week together with Frankie's best friend Allison (Jennifer Aniston), Frankie's gay cousin and uncle Leo. Fixed by the decision to catch David, Frankie does everything for trying to get David to fall in her... but it is really a hard task as he has a girlfriend. A fine story of love, meaningful quotes, insomnia, dreams and true friendship. In addition, this movie also have excellent acting, beautiful ending and as a result, this movie gives hope. "},{"Title":"I found this movie okish!!!","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I bought this Movie on VHS recently over here in England, i usually buy dvd's, but sometimes find cheap movies on vhs hard to resist sometimes!!! Anyway when i first started to watch this movie, it was in black & white & my first thoughts were OH NO MY TAPE IS BUGGERED!!! But luckily about 15 minutes in or so it changed to colour, i had no idea that this movie started out in black & white, maybe it should have said colour & black & white on the box!!! I found this movie a bit hard to get into at first, then i got a little more into it eventually!!! This movie had a lot of VERY annoying jazz music on the soundtrack early on & this nearly put me off completely, it seemed too loud too, i found it way too distracting, it was nearly as loud as the dialogue!!!Apart from those glitches the story was ok, a bit different to other Romantic Comedies, it almost felt like this was based on a play, as there's very little in the way of action!!! It's all set mainly indoors too, apart from a scene on the beach, where Ione Skye is walking & talking with the guy she has a thing for (In a big way) i forget his name right this second!!! Basically though you no the way it's gonna end up before the conclusion!!! But since it's pretty different to other Romantic Movies, it's worth a watch, but it ain't exactly fast paced either, so it takes a bit of patience!!! It's best if you watch it in bed late at night, otherwise if your anything like me, you will not be able to keep still for the 90 minutes or so running time!!! "},{"Title":"Wonderfully written, beautifully directed film","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Applause to Tiffanie DeBartolo for this well written and directed film. I rarely get to see many movies twice but I just had a chance to see this film again and I was glued to the TV from the opening credits to the very end! The actors become the characters so easily, it is almost as though you are a customer in the shop eavesdropping. I really enjoy watching Mackenzie Astin and I enjoyed the great acting from the other actors in this film. The way the Frank Sinatra memorabilia is used and displayed is beautiful. If you ever had one of those love at first sight kind of meetings (even if you haven't) you will really enjoy this film. "},{"Title":"Allusions","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was a sweet, simple romantic comedy.  I enjoyed all the allusions to musicians, authors and literary works.  I thought the transition from black and white to color was effective--especially because it focused on David's blue eyes first . . .thus alluding to Frank Sinatra who is present throughout the film in a variety of ways.  Jennifer Aniston played a fun, interesting character.  Just what accent would she use next?  All in all it was a fun, entertaining movie! "}{"Title":"great little movie","Date":"5 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This a truly fine romantic comedy about a girl who has given up on finding Mr right just as he enters her life in a marvelous scene where the movie (and her life) changes from grey to color. it doesn't have side splitting laughs, and at some points it gets to be a little talky, but those moments pass fast. It makes you smile all the way through and feel good, seeing true romance happen in front of you, with interesting characters, good acting, mostly engaging dialogue, and a fine direction from a first time director. cynics and people who over analyze films won't like this movie, but for all the rest, for the romantics, for the dreamers, and for those who believe that a story doesn't have to be 100 percent realistic but good, this film is recommended. try and watch it with someone you love. "},{"Title":"Well written and presented well","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is perfect for a generation that has grown up surrounded by the media.  It is filled with quotes from books, songs, and movies!  The movie even opens with Skye dressed as if she had stepped out of the opening scene of Breakfast at Tiffany's.  Each character is unique and quirky but is written so well that you feel as though you are hanging out with them. The movie has a slow moment here and there, but no slower than a brief bored moment you might spend with friends.  This movie is also perfect for you if you love Frank Sinatra, because of the continual references to him and because some of his best songs are played in the movie.  I think the transition from black and white was artistic and pulls you into the moment. It also shows you the hope Frankie feels in that moment which draws you further into the characters personality and emotions.  Overall I think the movie is a classic that too few people have heard of or seen. "},{"Title":"Lacks Cohesion","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie fails horribly.  The writer/director tries to fill the movie with witty dialogue, but lacks the skill to make it successful.  Dialogue should flow effortlessly, but the actors in this film obviously struggle to regurgitate their lines.  A novice attempt. "},{"Title":"Good Clean Fun","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is worth watching at least several times.The characters are all very likeable, intelligent, worth listening to, aside from being mentally, emotionally (maybe semi), & physically attractive. Being a human being ain't so bad.The movie's writer does an excellent job writing an interesting movie with some great, quotable, laugh real loud oneliners.  It is a variation of the standard boy meets girl love story depicted well enough to be entertaining throughout.  The ending is slightly weak but passes quickly enough to do no damage.At at its end, you (i.e. me) are left with a feel good feeling, a little buzz, & overall happier.  It's a throwback to movies in the old days that were watchable & a viewing pleasure.    "},{"Title":"Jennifer's Hair","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The real star of this movie is Jennifer Aniston's hair. This is the famous hairdo that first made Jennifer famous on Friends. In every scene Jennifer's hair upstages the action & dialogue. She also makes the nominal star Ione Skye look positively mousey. Jennifer's hair is BIG & she shakes it, fingers it, moves it, adjusts it - Jennifer ACTS with her hair. In every scene she is in the only thing you notice is Jennifer's hair. Also note that the musical score includes not one but two offerings from Frank Sinatra JUNIOR if you need any further proof that this is a B effort.  "},{"Title":"I wish I would have written this movie!","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I stumbled upon this movie by accident one night at the video store back in 1999 and it has since become one of my all-time favorite movies. It's a clever romantic comedy that takes something that most people would think of being a fairy tale but makes it very sincere and believable. I only wish I would have written something this charming and witty. It has a great sound track and great lines. It's something you should see at least once...cause after that you will be hooked. "},{"Title":"The man, Sinatra.","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I first saw this film in 1999. And as a hopeless romantic I fell in love with the melodrama of the relationship between Frankie and David. Now as an older and more seasoned film watcher I don't really differ in my belief that this is a wonderful movie. Dream for an insomniac is not a box office success nor is it bound to win awards a plenty. It's just a sweet story of an Italian/American wannabe actress who falls in love with a conservative wannabe author. Many witticisms that may be considered trite and prosiac by some people enchanted me with their 'superior intellectuality.' I think this film in efforts to be artistic may appear to some people as trying to hard, and failing miserable. But looking past the mistakes of a novice director you see the magic of this film.Ione Skye and Mackenize Astin play off each other marvellously and have an excellent chemistry. But I believe the real stars of the movie were Michael Landes as Frankie's closet homosexual and his lover BJ played by Michael Sterk. Rob's reluctance to admit to his father his true sexual orientation will endear him to you as you watch him struggle. But all in all this film will entertain you. It's not a cinematic masterpeice, and that's what makes it so charming.  "},{"Title":"Incredible film","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was perfect. At least in my humble opinion. I found it well thought out and written incredibly. I loved Skye's character, Frankie. She was amazing and her whit and intellect astounded me. The chemistry between her and Mackenzie Astin was fantastic. Of course, Jennifer Aniston (in my opinion) never makes a bad movie so her role as Allie was great too. I just appreciate a decent thought-provoking movie on love every once in awhile. What's wrong with that? "},{"Title":"One of the few romance movies I enjoy!","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I am not a big fan of romance movies, but this one is worth seeing.  The first reason is because of Mackenzie Astin is wonderful is this picture. Second, the way they use lighting in special areas (you will know when you see it) area wonderful.  **Spoiler coming up** Last the reverse Sleeping Beauty plot is very original.  This is one of the few romantic movies I can see over and over again. For other type of unique romantic movies I might suggest another Astin movie The Mating Habits of the Earth Bound Human.  "},{"Title":"Quirky romantic comedy","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  While not without its faults, this is a pretty watchable little film.  The characters and situations are quite unusual and there are some enjoyable scenes and generally witty dialogue.  The idea of a young woman who is the romantic pursuer is refreshing in itself and the two leads are appealing. Occasionally the film is bogged down with trying to be a bit too clever and 'post-modern' but, hey, it's a first feature.Of particular interest is Jennifer Aniston in a supporting role... She is wonderful and very convincing - the character is a lot more sassy and realistic than you'd expect from Aniston.  Her film career would really take off if she started doing some more interesting films  (as with Lisa Kudrow in THE OPPOSITE OF SEX). "}{"Title":"This movie is my life.","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is my life. The first time I rented it I fell in love. I bought the movie shortly there after and have not stopped watching it. I am Frankie in many ways and strive to be her in other ways. Many people may think that this movie is worthless, but I believe that it is a happy movie that makes me and others happy. It is just a movie its suppose to make you happy, so of course it is not going to be true to life. I would hate a movie where people were mean to you and you never got the guy. I watch this movie to get away from real life, not to relive it. And the mention of Kurt Cobain is excellent!  "},{"Title":"one of the sweetest, wittiest romantic comedies ever made.","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  for an effort from a 1st time writer/director, this charming movie has great visuals, snappy dialogue, and unforgettable characters.  i quote this movie all the time (scared of that).  it's an underrated film that deserves much more attention. do yourself a favor, and rent it with someone you love (or at least like a lot). "},{"Title":"Too many things in life are mediocre...","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":" ...love shouldn't be one of them.The description on the main page for this movie made this film seem trite and unbearable to watch.  However, it is the inane intellectualism that I enjoyed the most.  The characters of Frankie and David used their love of knowledge to convey conviction and emotion.  Plus, the lines about love and passion are right on - they transcend sexuality and orientation, and that is very rare.  Kudos to the film maker - I know I catch this movie any time it is on, and when I don't pop the video in myself! "},{"Title":"So sweet","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I confess the first reason I wanted to watch it is because Rachel (Jennifer Aniston) was in it. I turn on the TV, and I saw her. I looked for it in the magazine, and turns out it was a Romantic Comedy, another point for it. I thought I would have couple of hours of entertainment, it was more than that! It's just so sweet, and the fact it starts in black and white till Frankie find her blue-eyes charmed prince was a great idea of Tiffany. The public may not have loved it so much as I did, but it's certainly great and different of others Romantic Comedies. I loved the dedication at the end TO MOM AND DAD. Thanks for your support I couldn't make it without you I hope someday I will be able to do this too. "},{"Title":"quite ok","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  this isn't the best movie i have seen nor is it the worst. i kind of like the scene where Frank has just served a customer, then came David Shraeder. the effect from being Black and White to color was amazing.i particularly loved that part. and also in the first part, where Frankie was having a monologue conversation with a brown-eyed lawyer.since i enjoy the music of Frank Sinatra, i found this movie entertaining. the concept of the coffee shop was wonderful and the wonderful Jennifer Aniston strikes it again. if you're looking for a good movie filled with meaningful dialogues and a bit of Frank Sinatra, then this is for you. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"11 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was incredible. I found it searching at Blockbuster one afternoon. I rent it about once a month and watch it at least once a day for the full five days. It is amazing. Every time I watch it, I catch something new. I am a HUGE Jennifer Aniston fan, plus I can't get past the fac that MacKenzie Astin used to be on Facts of Life in the 1980's and better than that, he aged well. ) "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time.","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm a sucker for romantic comedies so I thought that this movie would really say something to me.  I ended up being incredibly bored.  Frankie's character is unnervingly annoying, pining forever for David.  It's so unlikely that David would like her, and the two leads had absolutely zero chemistry between them.  They looked like and were a bad couple.  Jennifer Aniston adds a few comic scenes with her weird accents, and is a help, but cannot save the movie from failure.  This is the sort of movie that you can leave for twenty minutes, and you'll miss nothing but endless quotes from famous people.  The only interesting thing about it is the color change, which is nicely metaphorical, unfortunately, it probably doesn't work as well as the writer hoped it would.  Awful, completely awful!! "},{"Title":"I really loved this movie.","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I love this movie because it is intelligent as well as romantic.  I enjoyed that the characters had obvious imperfections making them realistic, but I also enjoyed the fantasy-like quality of the story.  The wit is quick and the story is sweet.  I highly recommend it to any person that loves a good romance. "},{"Title":"An Awesome film","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I think this movie was an incredible first attempt.  Much better, at least, than some of us could ever do. I caught it late one night on cable and absolutely fell in love. It pulled me in, never to let me go until the credits rolled. I think my favorite part was when Astin walks in, and the movie turns to color.  Oh, I loved it! I can't say enough good things about the movie.  I cried when she left for LA, and those horrible hours they were apart from each other.I think what was best about the movie, what will keep the audience, is the characters.  You can honestly believe that Astin is the one Franki has been looking for all her life.  You can honestly believe that it breads Astin's heart when his girlfriend shows up at the shop.  I found my self talking to the TV, begging Astin to follow Franki, praying Franki would call the shop.It's an incredible piece of work.  By far one of my favorites.  I recommend it to any light-hearted romantic looking for a movie to get into. "},{"Title":" Love and dream","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Dream for an Insomniac was an excellent movie. Especially for those romantic ones who believe in soul mates, love at first sight and dreams that come true. This movie is extremely sweet. It revolves around Frankie and her dream of the perfect man. And when she finds lim the film goes from black and white to color- literally. Frankie works in a coffee shop leading a pretty normal life until Cupid strikes and watchers jump for joy.  Of course there are those who find it unrealistic but love is no fairy tale. Its a dream that comes true. "}{"Title":"Why did they bother","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Terrible film, badly acted (What was with Jennifer Aniston's accents?. It was completely devoid of any imagination or emotion. You may have gathered I hated it, next ..... "},{"Title":"It's a good movie, folks.","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's a good movie, folks, and it's got its heart in the right place.  The sort of thing that...well, maybe you have to be coming from the same place as DeBartolo to appreciate it, but if you are, you'll love it.  Sure, it's unpolished and maybe a little stilted, but, like most labors of love, the film is able to make you not care about the delivery and hone in on the point.  Which is, quite simply, that it's okay to be unsatisfied-- even in the realm of intangibles.Synopsis?  Well, presumably you've already read the comments that came before mine, but-- in case you haven't  Idealistic girl in search of everything finds half of it three days before her trip to find the rest of it.  Meaning, of course, that she finds the Love of Her Life and has to convince him that he IS said love so that he can join her in finding the Really Cool Life that he's to be the Love of.Like I say, if you're into schmaltz-- and maybe a little bit of Peter-Pan's-not-a-fairy-tale-- you'll love it.  Certainly not for everyone, though-- you may wanna try Say Anything... and The Object of my Affection, instead.  You know, for the Skye and Aniston factor. "},{"Title":"90 minutes spent well","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie.  Maybe it is not entirely realistic, but I don't watch movies for realism.  I watch movies for entertainment.Frankie (Ione Skye) chases after David (Mackenzie Astin), but David obviously seems interested and doesn't let his male pride hide his growing affections for Frankie.  I have never seen Ione Skye in a film before, and I really liked her performance.  I used to watch Mackenzie Astin on the Facts of Life, and I am glad to see that he has grown into a fine actor.  I also liked the other characters in the movie, especially Jennifer Aniston's character.  The dialogue in this film was funny and it reminded me of the way my best friend and I talk sometimes.  This is a sweet, romantic film which shows the girl going after the man of her dreams (which in real life is so hard to find)!!!  The movie is not something you would see happen everyday, but then again, what movie is?  If you like romantic comedies, see this movie! "},{"Title":"CURE for an insomniac!","Date":"11 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I must warn you if it is not too late to avoid one the biggest pieces of cinematic dreck I have ever lost an hour and a half of life on.  If you've not seen it, it is a romantic-comedy-indie-type thing with Ione Skye, who though very lovely, plays insomniac Fankie, a roll in which she could not make me care even one iota whether or not she lived or got hit by a bus. She (Frankie) is in search of love and all I could hope for was that she would fall asleep and not wake up again.  She and the apple of her eye, David, played by Mckenzie Astin, engage in this incessant banter infused with quotes from various philosophers and writers and musicians that made me want to scream.  If I could have leapt through my TV screen and choked them both out, I would have.  Truly, only two other films I have ever seen have filled me with a fouler taste in my mouth Chariots of Fire and My Left Foot.  The performance by Jennifer Annison, as Ione's best friend Allison, was typically annoying.  In fact, the only characters I cared about at all were David's girlfriend, and the unemployed, musician friend, Juice, who hangs out at the coffee shop mooching freebies.  And that is only because they had so few lines to say.  It seemed the more that came out of the characters' mouths, the more I loathed their existence.  I could go on in more detail, but that would be giving the movie more of my mental space than it deserves... Perhaps my criticism is too strong, but this movie was so awful I want to sue the producer for the time I wasted watching this film.  I am truly surprised that I sat though the whole movie, and though I could watch Ione peel potatoes for an hour and a half, this movie pushed me to the limit. If you happen to be an insomniac, rent this movie, it just may cure you. "},{"Title":"A struggling actress finds love in the arms of a struggling writer.","Date":"1 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was reminded of a deflating souffle as I watched this film. All the ingredients were in place but something caused the concoction to wilt. Ione Skye (Say Anything) plays the lead who's fixated upon the musings of famous others and her lack of sleep. Into her life comes MacKenzie Astin (The Last Days of Disco), another lover of quotes, who happens to get a job in the cafe her uncle owns. A romance develops but complications ensue when Astin is revealed to have a girlfriend. Never fear all turns out well in the end and that's the point, we're never given any indication this relationship will be deterred from happening. The writing is concise and knowledgeable which is a fault because our leads end up being too perfect. San Francisco is the locale here, but we almost never see any exteriors giving the film a stilted and claustrophobic sheen. Could the background music be played any louder and constant? If I heard one more bombastic note I feared the insomnia of the title was going to spill over onto me. All in all a good effort but one which needed a hint more realism and doubt then the 'ideal' union we're given here. "},{"Title":"Flawed, but the writer/director does show promise","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Frankie (Ione Skye) is an aspiring actress working in the Blue Eyes Cafe (when it is convenient for her). An insomniac, she hasn't had a solid night's sleep since she was six. Her best friend Allsion (Jennifer Aniston) is also an actress and Frankie's best friend. They are moving in five days to Los Angeles. Into the cafe for a job walks David (Mckenzie Astin) with eyes like Frank Sinatra and literary aspirations.Frankie is (supposed to be) a dark, tortured soul, but she comes off as more of a hopeless romantic (think Winona Ryder's Ophelia from Beetlejuice). When she meets David it's love at first sight. But David has a girlfriend, Molly, a law student. Frankie has three days to get David to fall in love with her, and agree to move to L.A. with her.Frankly, Tiffanie DeBartolo's film (which she both wrote and directed) almost made it onto my list of films to skip. It certainly does not offer much in the way of insight. But there were just enough clever moments in the otherwise entirely predictable script to save the movie. Skye and Astin are pretty good, but Jennifer Aniston, sporting a wide variety of accents, all bad, proves once again that it is better to be lucky than good.I decided not to pan the film partially because it is a little amusing, but also because DeBartolo shows promise as a director. If she matures and brings that growth to her writing, she might make some very good films.  "},{"Title":"Gen X Whine-A-Thon","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a dreadful, dreadful film. Witty dialogue driven comedy drama is one of my very favorite genres and I normally love Jennifer Aniston and Ione Skye, but this film is just awful. Self indulgent and poorly written, it is near unwatchable (I was able to get about 1/2 way through it). It has little wit or charm, and Aniston seems much too old for her role. If you want wit, humor, and fine writing, please rent Noah Baumbach's WONDERFUL Kicking And Screaming. Another aspect of this film that bothered me is that it is in black and white, but appears to have been shot in color originally, or perhaps it was just edited on video - whatever the case, the movie just doesn't look like real black and white and has a general feel of a student project. It is films like this that make people dislike independent movies.  "},{"Title":"this cutesy movie proves that debartolo knows nothing about having to pull lattes for a living...","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  this film is kinda cute.  but not wonderful.  any movie that refers to eddie veder as a kind of a rock god will soon become dated & laughable.also, i'm bitter because i worked on this film & my name was misspelled in the credits.  this is a rich girl's film about being poor.go pull some decaf double lattes with low foam, tifanie with an ie & get back to me. "},{"Title":"Contrived, annoying and superficial.","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie while trying for a sophisticated fifties romantic comedy edge, merely comes off as annoyingly pretentious and predictable.  By the end of the film we were wishing that they would suffer some horrible tragedy, or at the very least shut up for a few seconds.With the mannered acting and contrivedly talky dialogue, it would have been better if they had extended the film's initial witty black and white sequence into making the entire movie both black and white and silent. "},{"Title":"How to Steal A Boy-Friend in Ninety Minutes","Date":"25 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In San Francisco, Frankie (Ione Skye) is a dreamer aspiring to be an actress. She has been insomniac for seventeen years, since she lost her parents in a car accident. She was raised by her uncle Leo (Seymor Cassel) and works in his bar, and both are great fans of Frank Sinatra. Her cousin Rob is gay, but afraid to assume his sexual option to his father Leo. Her best friend is Allison (Jennifer Aniston), who is also an aspirant of actress. Frankie and Allison will move in a couple of days to New York. The new-hire  David Shrader (Mackenzie Astin) is a blocked writer who is not able to write anything new, and Frankie has a crush on him. However, David has a girl-friend (Molly) for three years, loves her and is faithful to her. Frankie tries to seduce her twin-soul David anyway.  The name of this movie could be `How to Steal Molly's Boy-Friend in Ninety Minutes'. The story is very talky and full of citations, but it has not convinced me. I found it very silly. My vote is five.Title (Brazil) `Alma de Poeta, Olhos de Sinatra' (`Soul of Poet, Eyes of Sinatra')  "}{"Title":"Well Written Independent Film Is Hard To Sit Through Thanks To Terrible Acting From Ione Skye and Jennifer Aniston","Date":"23 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Everyone I know told me that this was a great movie and that I shouldn't miss it. I always have been a fan of independent films and always wanted to see Ione Skye get her career revived, so I really was looking forward to it. However, I was disappointed with this crap. Ione, who I usually always like, was obnoxious and looked like an anorexic Monica Lewinsky. Jennifer Aniston, who also is usually good, also drove me nuts with her bad overacting and annoying accents throughout the movie. MacKenzie Astin was the only one who didn't overact and was good in his part, but is wasted here. I don't know how I managed to sit through the whole thing. I mean, don't get me wrong, the film is well written, but is ineptly directed and Ione Skye and Jennifer Aniston are just so flat-out awful that you shouldn't waste your time at all on this movie. "},{"Title":"Tiresome, pretentious, and unconvincing.","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A cast of hip young actors - no, wait, I should also put quotes around actors - ham their way unconvincingly through what is at bottom no more than a boy-meets-girl, girl-likes-boy, boy-plays-hard-to-get, girl-gets-boy story. The characterisation of the two quote-buff literary romantic leads is creaky and unconvincing, while Jennifer Aniston is cringe-making as she puts on her fake Irish or Southern or Canadian accents. Some of  the most turgid scenes leave the impression of the cast groping for the script, for what was *supposed* to be funny or interesting in the scene, and sound more like readings or rehearsals than actual takes. The invocation of Frank Sinatra as a unifying theme is wearyingly trite, not to mention the invocation of more present-day cultural icons in the voice of a generation scene, which was positively embarrassing. The *very worst* scene in the film is the one in which boy does in fact meet girl, in which all the stops are pulled out - the shot, which is in black and white, goes into slow motion as David enters the coffee shop, then, when the eyelines meet, there is a transition to color, starting with his eyes, which are of course blue. I felt physically sick. Of course, you might like it. "},{"Title":"Bartlett's Quotations The Film","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The film opens with Ione Skye's character, Frankie, dressed up in pearls like Audrey Hepburn in Breakfast at Tiffany's. She is on a date, and reeling off a tedious string of reasons why she will never settle for anything less than extraordinary and passionate love--as if she were the first person to ever come up with the idea. Unfortunately Skye does not have Hepburn's acting skills; and despite Frankie's retro-style wardrobe and naive romanticism it is not 1961.Dream... is perhaps better viewed as a follow-up to the John Cusack vehicle Say Anything, in which Skye played the part of the female love interest; here the girl is the protagonist in love and the male is the love object, a refreshing turn. However, Frankie is in her mid-20's, not in high school, and her ideas of love seem more than a little immature. In fact, her entire character seems that of the sheltered, spoiled rich girl who has an extensive wardrobe, goes to work when she feels like it, talks like someone who went to an expensive prep school or college, and whose me-first, out-of-touch-with-reality mode of thought is typical of someone who has lived a very sheltered life. These don't ring true at all with the details of her life both her parents dead from a young age, she lives in an efficiency flat above her uncle's coffee shop, where she also works.Apparently, the writer/director Tiffany (coincidence?) DeBartolo has included many autobiographical details in this, her debut film. The credits thank the real David Schroeder (you know who you are), the character name of Frankie's love interest.  A further look reveals that a photo of her Eddie and Candy DeBartolo is used for the scene where Frankie reminisces about her mom and dad before they died in a car wreck. Is Tiffany the daughter of former San Francisco 49'ers owner (and former mob-affiliated federal witness in the recent corruption trial against Louisiana governor Edwin Edwards) Eddie DeBartolo? If so, that would explain many things (1) the spoiled rich girl attitudes of the protagonist; (2) the setting of San Francisco and the gratuitous references to the 49'ers; (3) the Frank Sinatra and Italian-American themes in the film; and (4) how a novice writer got to direct her own film starring Ione Skye and Jennifer Aniston.I won't say that this movie is completely unappealing. Were my objections to the film solely based upon the naive, unrealistic expectations and attitudes of the lead characters, it could still be a good film. However, the pretentious script is like Woody Allen without the wit, accessibility, or acting -- and the intellectual overtones seem to be there only to the benefit of the screenwriter's self-esteem (at no point does it challenge the viewer to ponder any of its motifs). Aniston pulls her character off as well as the script and direction will allow, some of the supporting characters are somewhat entertaining, but Skye's overwrought performance is excruciatingly painful.What really sinks this film is the unbearable weight of quotations that Frankie and David use. Both characters rely on quoting famous people -- from Aristotle to Morrissey -- to express the way they feel. This might be cute used once or twice, Frankie can't seem to go a minute in the film without seeming like she's reading from Bartlett's quotations. This, of course, does nothing at all for character development.The movie changes from artistic black-and-white to color when Frankie meets David, and this is one of the cheesiest, blatant cinematic effects I have ever seen. Fortunately, the director doesn't have any more tricks like this in her bag.Finally, the love story itself is probably going to invoke the gag me with a spoon response to most people who have ever actually been in an amorous relationship. The film suggests, naively, that Real Love happens at first sight and is about absolute passion between two soulmates ideally suited to each other, and any compromise on behalf of either party is a sign of the relationship's inadequacy. Of course the film ends at a convenient moment, and the nature of compromise never has to be explored. Like many adolescent romantic films, it is more about being in love with the idea of being in love, than any real exploration of love itself. "},{"Title":"No chemistry.","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Too bad Jennifer Aniston wasn't the girl in the movie. Maybe there would've been more chemistry between Frankie and David Schrader. As it is, nothing could convince me that Ione Skye and MacKenzie Astin even liked each other much, let alone fell madly in love. On that note, this movie misses, and it's too bad because the promise was a good one. Just didn't fulfill. "},{"Title":"Nearly made me an insomniac!","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film was simply a vehicle for Tiffany DeBartolo's ego to clobber you with her trivial clichés and quote collection. I think I can sum up 'Dream' with just one line from the script After David gives Iona Skye's character a glass of milk to help her sleep, she says to him, You're not going to make me drink any more warm white liquids are you? The dialog could not have been more trite. Take for example the conversation where the characters waste ten minutes of your life comparing Bono of U2 to God, and Eddie Vetter to Christ. If you like THAT KIND of dialog, this film is for you. The only thing I can say about the film is that the supporting acting wasn't THAT bad (Astin & Aniston were great) though Skye looked like she could use a few more takes or reads of the script before she took on this know-it-all character. One of the films major problems were all the pop culture references. It would have been fine to leave in one (say, the Laverne and Shirley theme song for example), but the U2/Pearl Jam debate (if you can call it that), the Anyone, Bueler line, begin to wear you thin because 'Dream' becomes a highlight film of other film lines and song lyrics instead of something unique or even close to original. The movie is laced with them simply because the author isn't clever enough to come up with her own witty turns of phrase. The over use of quotes is enough to make you want to turn it off after 15 minutes. The second major distraction was the soundtrack because it NEVER STOPS PLAYING! I also don't know why the film didn't switch back to black and white when they find out David has a girlfriend. Why use that metaphor at the beginning if you're not going to stick with it throughout the film? I think that's the last Jennifer Aniston film I ever see. I like her, I think she's a great actress, but her nose for scripts is not going to keep her around once Friends is over. Kudrow has done much, much better at finding good independent scripts. Rent The Opposite of Sex, or Clockwatchers, if you're a Friends fan. This film was terrible. "},{"Title":"Trite, Trite, Trite","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What an annoying, sophomoric, whining, pseudo-intellectual, Gen-X, piece of blech. "},{"Title":"Sadly amateurish, I couldn't believe it was released","Date":"28 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This would have been an OK student first film. I found the dialog to be wooden, the acting self conscious and the production stagey. But then, what do I know? It appears that most people liked it. Maybe you have to be under 30 to appreciate it. One plus ... the actors are very good looking... "},{"Title":"Perfectly dreadful","Date":"11 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What a thoroughly juvenile screenplay - not a single believable moment. Somewhere there may be people who talk like this. I pray that I never meet them. "},{"Title":"An inept waste of my time","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Someone obviously bought Tiffanie DeBartolo a film of her very own to play with. A search of IMDb shows only one credit (as an intern on Four Rooms) before jumping in WAY over her head as both writer and director of Dream...The dialogue is by turns ham-handed, pretentious, precious (in the worst sense of the word) and sophomoric. I can practically see Ms. DeBartolo sifting through her copy of Bartlett's Quotations (or old Harper's Bazaar magazines) for quotes to put in the mouth of her allegedly well-read heroine...no one who has actually read all the books Frankie's supposed to have would be such an airhead -- nor do I believe Ms. DeBartolo carries all those quotes around in HER head. Foreshadowing and writer's-workshop tricks hang heavy in the air and hit the audience over the head with all the subtlety of an inflated pig's bladder. The heroine's name is FRANKIE, and she idolizes FRANK SINATRA nudge-nudge; get it?? There might as well be herald trumpets sounding when MacKenzie Astin as the love interest appears outside the café window in his Frank Sinatra suit-and-hat outfit. The trick of switching from B&W to color is effective, but unoriginal -- anyone remember The Wizard of Oz (1939)? Rob's revelation of his homosexuality to his father could have been a movie in itself, but instead fizzles to a feelgood easy resolution not worthy of all the buildup it's given. In general, too much is attempted and not enough accomplished.Acting Ione Skye uses one all-purpose possum-like grin when she's around Mr. Astin...it's actually kind of frightening. Mr. Astin is endearing, and Jennifer Aniston is a bright point, but they can't save the film from the god-awful script.Trying to excuse Dream... on the ground that it's not realistic is no excuse at all. If you want to see romantic non-realistic films done right, go see The Princess Bride.Dream... looks like nothing so much as a student project that should never have seen the light of day. My guess is that it was funded by a close relative or other source who didn't care about making their money back. Is it a clue that Ms. DeBartolo uses a picture of her real-life parents as Frankie's bedside picture of HER parents (R.I.P.)? Speaking of money, I'm trying to remember who recommended this to me so I can go ask them for my $3 rental fee back. Yech. "}]