[{"Title":"Starts awfully, then improves measurably","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dear God is the rare example of a movie that starts abysmally but slowly gains its stride. Most films these days are the opposite. They grab you right off, then run out of steam. To be fair, Dear God never fully grabs you or has much steam. But it gets to the point where it becomes worth watching, eliciting several pleased chuckles, while still falling far short of out-and-out funny.Greg Kinnear plays a two-bit hustler whose honest face and convincing stories allow him to con working joes out of their money. He has a gambling debt to repay to Junior, an overweight thug who teaches him a lesson or two about horses and stables at a disastrous visit to the track. Kinnear's Tom Turner is arrested while trying to scam two undercover cops disguised as foreign sight-seers, and in a ridiculous plot convenience, is sentenced to find a paying job for one year. Most criminals should be so lucky. But of course, Turner has that honest face.Anyway, he ends up at the post office, where he's assigned to a dead letter office filled with whacko postal cast-offs, played with sufficient nuttiness by Laurie Metcalf, Jon Seda and Tim Conway, among others. Conway's character once memorized the entire layout of the city of L.A., but was demoted when he lost it and bit a dog. Metcalf plays a former lawyer who needed a less stressful job. You get the idea.Through a series of accidents, this motley crew begins answering letters to God, and, through their limited means, they begin making minor miracles happen throughout L.A. The press picks up on it, which draws the attention of the U.S. Postmaster General (played with his usual rabid energy by the director, Garry Marshall), and brings heat on the do-gooder crew, whose activities are technically illegal. (Opening the mail is a federal offense). Meanwhile, Kinnear's Turner remains on the run from the gangsters and tries to woo a single mother played by the adorable Maria Pitillo, whose character has no function in this film other than as a weak romantic interest.Extraordinarily lame-brained from the get-go, Dear God actually gets on course, as the relative uniqueness of its storyline manifests itself in some sweet, quiet moments, and as the ensemble group of veteran actors really begins to relish their roles. Metcalf is always funny, although she's a little over the top here, and Kinnear is notable for his ability to play a likeable everyman. Conway has a very-funny apology scene with a dog and is otherwise likeable in his eccentricity.The movie ultimately only reaches the level of so-so -- but I guess the fact that I felt compelled to write about it means that it made some impact on me, and that I can marginally recommend it. 5 out 10. "},{"Title":"Dear God, thanks for this funny and uplifting movie!","Date":"7 April 2005","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Tom (Greg Kinnear) is a petty conman who poses as a burn victim (among other things) to elicit money from innocent bystanders. He has quite a reputation around town so law enforcement goes to some length to catch him in the act. Brought in front of a judge, she decrees that he will get a real job or end up in the pokey. So, a job it is for him. Tom has his eye on a pretty lady named Gloria, anyway, so it might help his image with her, too. Strings are pulled to get him into the postal service's dead letter office. Once there, surrounded by kind and interesting people, he begins to turn his life around. He even reads some of the letters addressed to God and performs random acts of kindness. What could be wrong with that? This movie leaves the viewer with feelings of great joy. Kinnear is a charmer, in every way, and with cast members such as Maria Pitillo, Tim Conway, Roscoe Lee Browne, and Hector Elizondo, he is in great company. The script has a buoyant message to give about helping others, only to receive kindness back in return. How nice the settings and costumes are, too. A love story develops quietly for any viewer who longs for comedies with romance. This film is recommended for individuals or families who need their faith restored in humanity, but who also enjoy laughter and nonsense along the way. "},{"Title":"Delightful comedy -- a fresh breeze to typical violent, sarcastic Hollywood movie making","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dear God is a movie the whole family can enjoy. Despite a predictable plot and an ending anyone can spot a mile away, the overall ensemble acting and dialogue are surprisingly fresh and sometimes poignant. The conversion of Tom from a conniving con who thought of every angle to profit himself to a do-gooder is gradual and quite convincing, avoiding a common pitfall of many feel-good movies. Jaded cynics may sneer at the religious tone, but it is actually not about any religion but about the uplifting experience one can gain by helping each other. The cast of Kinnear, Metcalf, Pitillo mixed with old pros like Conway, Elizondo and Browne really deliver. Conway is especially enjoyable, a scene stealer up to his old tricks, and Metcalf is deliriously wacky. A special mention goes to the director, Gary Marshall, using subtle yet funny touch to parody the American media and court system.   Overall, this movie is very delightful for everyone who is not a total cynic. Rating 8/10.   "},{"Title":"another time, another place...yet funny all the same...even now...","Date":"9 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" sorry this may not be for cynics at heart, but if in for a LightHearted less seriousness laugh of it all...non conforming but simulative...it was quite funny with a long-term feel ideal in a markable way...just stumbling onto this film from a Canadian inside-workers perspective and insiders-production's views, offers insiders laugh and a half, outdated in areas of course, but...it has splitting laughter parts that can be watched over and over and or feeling down-times brings a simple uplift if one does not come into it with an already harsh-eye...yes, sentimentally-sappish in a sheepish way, hints of gmashall-comedy to the fans and similar details of kinnear humorous-ways of the past. It is what it is and they are who they are...just on screen, for it's environment.It's a search to stumble upon, as myself, to make this lost past treasure into simplicity, hints and twists on Santa wishes/wishes as Be-wishes in an angelical light-miracle adult-sense of pay it forward ways with fittingly music to round it off...postmarked and mailed...make that emailed ) to scape into chuckles when you need an uplift in a different light, rather non-dark to note. Thumbs up in letters! "},{"Title":"One of the best Christmas movies in recent years!","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I just love this movie. It is funny and heartwarming. It has a happy ending. Laurie Metcalf is unforgettable along with a stellar cast. It may not be the best movie but it is fun to watch and enjoy. Tim Conway is unbelievable as a burned out postman. Laurie Metcalf as a burned out lawyer. Greg Kinnear who joins this zany group of people who are ordinary and do something to make themselves extraordinary people. It gives you a warm feeling by the end of the movie. Please rent or buy this movie. It's fun for the whole family. I love watching Rue McClanahan and Jack Klugman. The story might be flawed but it's always worth watching especially around the holidays when you need a little cheering up to do. Greg Kinnear is a good actor who is working at being a good film actor. "},{"Title":"Mostly entertaining story of do-bad turning to do-good.","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Greg Kinnear is Tom Turner, small time con artist who apparently never works, gambles, loses, and is forever in debt. He gets a few bucks here, a few bucks there, working any number of scams. Until police on a sting catch him trying to sell worthless airline tickets to what he thinks are a foreign couple.He is arrested, and in court is given a choice -- get and hold a job for at least a year, or go to prison. |He had to think about it, but took the job option. The judge figured he needed to experience how it was to work for money, since he was accustomed to taking what others had worked for.He manages to get a job with the post office, in the DLO -- the dead letter office. That's where letters to such personalities as Elvis, Santa, and GOD went. Still having 'scam' firmly in his mind, part of his scheme was to eventually get money from the letters. But first he had to do something fantastic. A Garry Marshall film.Tim Conway is his usual funny self, as Herman Dooly, a mail man who was assigned inside duty after he bit a dog. Hector Elizondo is good as the supervisor, Vladek Vidov.SPOILERS. Under Tom's influence, they begin to select letters to GOD, open them, and find people to help. As a result lots of money often came in. |Gradually Tom had a change of heart, began to reject his dishonest life and see the benefit of doing good. However he went to trial again, for violating postal regulations, in opening mail. Everyone rallied to his support, he got off, and got the girl too. "},{"Title":"Dear Kinnear.","Date":"30 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dear God (1996) Dir Garry Marshall / Cast Greg Kinnear, Laurie Metcalf, Hector Elizondo, Maria Pitillo, Tim Conway All Christians know that God answers prayer. In Dear God we learn that he answers mail too. Or at least he uses others to do so. It is a comedy about God's power through prayer with fraud Greg Kinnear arrested and given opportunity to hold a job. A job at the postal outlet is pretty routine until Laurie Metcalf and himself address these strange letters to God. They answer the letters thus rendering life more pleasant for others but Kinnear is arrested and taken to court, which results in a totally contrived conclusion. Director Garry Marshall brings an ominous appeal to the mail room but isn't backed with a screenplay worthy of the subject matter. He previously made Pretty Woman, another film about second chances. Kinnear is well cast and likable throughout his dilemma but he was funnier as a con man. Metcalf takes a rather standard role and provides comic relief particularly when she represents Kinnear in court. Hector Elizondo is unreadable as his boss. He seems to disappear in a half wit manner as if to suggest he is God. Maria Pitillo also appears although her role is cardboard. Could have been better yet sustains some charming moments. Theme of reaching out to others may appeal to those who experienced answered prayer. Score 6 / 10 "},{"Title":"Great fun movie","Date":"23 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Greg Kinnear does a great job carrying the lead in this movie. His costars are just as good. Anyone that thinks they are just old sitcom rejects is an idiot. They were given rolls and they played them as they, I'm sure, were supposed to be played. Christopher Darden from the OJ trial was a funny surprise. To see Tim Conway again was fun. And as usual, Hector Elizondo was his excellent self. This movie has many laughs and it is a really good time. Sure, you can spend your time doing something more productive but if you are going to sit on your butt and watch the boob tube, you can't go wrong with Dear God. "},{"Title":"It's appropriate that it takes place in the Dead Letter Office.","Date":"6 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I could say that 'Dear God' strains hard to be Capra-esqe if I ever felt that the movie was straining to do anything at all. This is the kind of movie written at the level of a fourth-rate sitcom by people trying to hurry up and write something &#x96; anything because they had big plans for lunch.What disappoints me most is that it begins very well. I always love movies about small time con men who try every trick in the book to separate suckers from their money and here Greg Kinnear plays such a guy who tries everything from selling phony airline tickets to making a phony accident claims to pretending to be a burn victim wrapped in bandages. Eventually his scams land him in front of a judge who issues him community service by working the Los Angeles Post Office.This is where the movie goes flat. Kinnear ends up in the basement of the dead letter office, which is populated by characters who seem to have been rescued from failed sitcoms. They are types instead of people. We meet a former lawyer (Laurie Metcalf), a disgrunted postal worker (Tim Conway), a man very close to his retirement (Roscoe Lee Browne) and a Russian immigrant (Hector Elizondo). Nobody acts like themselves but instead spout inane one-liners which seem all the more stilted without a laughtrack.Kinnear's job is to sort out letters to Santa Claus, The Tooth Fairy, the Easter bunny, Elvis and of course God. He begins reading the letters and we don't have to guess that next he begins answering those letters and doing good deeds for everyone.The movie is all sugary sweet as the office workers keep a man from committing suicide and give a woman the day off and help someone with their housework. The good deeds capture the attention of the media who dubs them 'The Postal Miracles' and has late breaking news reports to report the progress.I could have won side bets that the movie was going to end up with a painfully unfunny courtroom scene but I swear I could never have guessed the moment the Metcalf begins gyrating in the aisles. Thinking it over I really can't remember the last time a good comedy that climaxed in a courtroom.'Dear God' establishes a promising premise. Putting a small time con artist in the post office means that there are all kinds of comic possibilities to be had. But 'Dead God' isn't written with possibilities in mind, it's written at the level of a fourth rate sitcom that would have been cancelled. "},{"Title":"An angel's gonna find you someday.","Date":"5 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Well it's no Miracle on 34th Street, but this is an entertaining enough flick that has it's humorous moments. I mention that classic film because I felt it was heading to a similar resolution, but that would have been too blatant a rip-off. Greg Kinnear turns out to be a likable con-man once he answers a 'Dear God' letter and accidentally inserts some cash in an envelope, thereby brightening up someone's day. Thereafter he's joined by a disparate cast of fellow employees who want to get in on the feel-good feeling of being regular people doing their own brand of miracles. Laurie Metcalf is a trip as the frazzled ex-lawyer who winds up having her day in court, and I got a kick out of Tim Conway doing one of his best Carol Burnett show gimmicks as a clueless mail sorter. Also a hoot were the dead letter bins labeled for such ephemeral entities as Santa Claus, the Easter Bunny - and wouldn't you know it, even Elvis! Which all goes to show that you can go postal without actually going postal. "}{"Title":"Decent","Date":"17 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Greg Kinnear plays a compulsive gambler who is in debt to a loan shark. He must get a job after appearing in court and getting offered a choice between going to jail and getting that job. He winds up at the Post Office for the Christmas period and when he inadvertently opens up a letter to God. For some reason he decides to answer it with some jewelry he steals from the Post Office dead letter files. When he sends his cashed paycheck along it is an accident and he chases it but can't get it. The rest of the dead letter staff gets the spirit and things keep giving. There are several well known actors in this movie and they do an excellent job. Tim Conway, Laurie Metcalf, Hector Elizondo (although it is a reach to see a Hispanic having to portray what I guess is suppose to be a Russian accent), and Roscoe Lee Brown. When Brown gets pinched for giving a horn to a bum musician he gets grabbed by the Feds. Greg comes forward and says he did it all. At trial the whole gang comes forth and states they are the leader. Of course all ends well for the good guys. "},{"Title":"Feel-Good, Positive, Uplifting","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I don't know what you guys are talking about, because I think this was one of the most feel-good, positive, and uplifting movies ever made.  I own it, and I never get tired of watching it.  It has a lot of heart and reminds me of the movie, Field of Dreams. "},{"Title":"Delightful, warm-hearted, and inspiring","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The name of Frank Capra was tossed about by some of your reviewers and rightly so.  But the one film which I think this one puposely mimics and updates as a sequel but which was never mentioned by your commentators was the equally zany and warm-hearted classic, Miracle on Thirty Fourth Street (late 1940s) with Edmund Gwenn as Santa Claus.  Most likely by deliberate choice the writers of Dear God  chose the post office, dead letters, and a climactic final trial scene as pillars of their plot just as in the earlier movie.  In 34th Street Santa's defense lawyer calls upon those dead letter postal workers to dump 100s of letters addressed to Santa Claus in front of the presiding judge to prove that by delivering these letters to this particular court room an arm of the US government definitely believes the Gwenn Santa character to be the real Claus, thereby proving him sane and undelusional.  Santa too, like the gnome-like postal workers in Dear God, had been filling the screen with good deeds and sage advice for the length of the film.  And as in Dear God, the audience (at least I was) was most delighted to see Santa and the postal workers triumph over the stuffy laws and regulations which would stand in the way of their making people's lives so much happier by their good deeds.  I stand with those of your reviewers who hugged this delightful movie to their respective breasts and defended it against a cynical and humorless flock of detractors.  It goes into my all-time favorites list.  "},{"Title":"A feel good timewaster worthy of your time","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Okay, admittedly this is not the best movie ever made. Having said that, there are alot of redeeming qualities to this film that make it worth watching. Greg Kinnear plays a likeable con man who is sentenced to find and keep real job for 1 year. He lands one with the postal service in the Dead Letter office, working with a bunch of endearing misfits played by Hector Elizondo, Tim Conway and Laurie Metcalf, among others. Kinnears character Tom starts to secreatly answer the letters addressed to God and without realizing it he begins to care about humanity. By the time the film is over you end up rooting for Tom and just feeling...good. That, in essence is really what this movie is all about. This movie is not meant to make a political, religious or artistic statement, its message is clear - mankind has to take of its own, because God works through us and one person CAN make a difference. The soundtrack is better than average featuring an outstanding version of Dear God by Midge Ure, which alone is worth renting the movie for. Cynics need not bother, but everyone else sit back, relax and forget your cares for awhile.  "},{"Title":"Nice story but it drowns in it's own sentimentality","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Tom Turner is a small time con-man making a living off passengers at train stations etc.  When he is caught and sent to trial he is sentenced to jail time or to get a full time job and earn his own money.  He gets a job in the dead letter office at the post office where undeliverable letters are sorted by category.  When trying to steal valuables to help pay off his gambling debts he accidentally puts them in a envelope in reply to a Dear God letter.  When the money helps some people to fix problems with their block of flats and improve security his colleagues think he did it on purpose and begin to answer some other Dear God letters.  However how far can they go without being discovered as the media begin to pick up on the miracles.This is a very gentle comedy that struggles with being overly sentimental in the second half.  The story is quite unlikely but the film is gentle enough that the slight plot is not really a major problem.  Nor is it very unlikely - you won't be surprised to learn that every learns important lessons about life at the end.  The comedy is also very slight, it has some laugh out loud moments but outside of this it also has an overall funny feel to the film that is quite nice.Greg Kinnear is not a leading man, but he does a reasonably good job here.  Out of his colleagues Metcalf is good and John Seda (of HomicideLOTS) gives a different performance!  The cast is also fleshed out by some nice cameos from Larry Miller and Jack Klugman (better known as Quincy).  Elizondo has the best small role as the Post Officer manager who slips quietly away mid-conversation unnoticed.Overall a gentle comedy that eventually gets bogged down by being too sentimental.  It really could have benefited from having a more cynical edge. "},{"Title":"Eh.....","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I wish there was a rating between Liked it and Didn't Like It. Because although I didn't DISlike this movie, I can't actually say I LIKED it either. Very lame and weak in a lot of places - Tim Conway gives a GREAT performance as the burned out postal worker. The other performances are just adequate, and that's being kind. I am big fan of Laurie Metcalfe, but this is not a shining moment for her. Ellen Cleghorn's attempt at an accent fails miserably, and Greg Kinnear is not believable as a bad guy. The premise of the story is cute.....but the story sputters to it's predictable ending...and takes too long to get there. "},{"Title":"Bad guy comes good.","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Hilarious, I couldn't stop laughing! A very pleasant surprise on TV over the christmas break, amongst a lot of absolute dross. Rocky and Taffy you may step down. That one had me laughing for days. Who knew the good lord could be so funny!?  "},{"Title":"not the best movie I`ve ever seen, but I had a good time","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It might be true, what all of you`re saying, but what I enjoyed most, were the small jokes in the background. Making fun of the Media, the judicial system, the post or some of the religious groups. It was never in an ugly sarcastic way, more in a light - hearted way. And that`s what the whole film was quite funny and light -hearted, even if it was cut for the german market. "},{"Title":"Cute, uplifting film","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  We rented this movie with no expectations.  Thus, we were pleasantly surprised that this was a movie which with a good meaning.  The main character would cheat his own mother if he could, and in the end he learns what it means to think of others.  It sounds corny, and I suppose it was. Postal employees might feel offended, but I don't think it was meant as a complete put-down.  There definitely were funny parts in it. "},{"Title":"A delightful film for Christmas","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I really enjoy this film and indeed watch my copy of it when I feel in need of cheer. It is excellent for the holidays and for all the times of the year. The cast of characters are creative and well portrayed. The story is one that warms the heart. Greg K. as the  romantic leads pulls it off quite well. "}{"Title":"very good movie!","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought this movie was very funny and uplifting,I don't know why everyone thought it was so bad.I just rented it last night and i am thinking about buying it.It was very clean,no sex,and very few bad words,I would say that it is one of my favorite movies,I have seen it 4 times,and I am not tired of watching it yet!!Check it out.. "},{"Title":"I thought it was a made-for-TV-movie.","Date":"5 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A throw-a-away script & actors sleep walking through it, too. Silly, silly, silly for children, maybe?! Human being with minds, please stay away. Stupid, stupid & more stupid. Insipid, insipid, insipid. No tension, no surprises, no logic, no wonder you haven't heard of it! No ideas. No humor, no nothing. No good. Not funny, not fun, not cool. I was forced to watch this by my friend at work; gee, thanks! Got it in the bargain basement bin; gee, I wonder why? Great flick, hun?? Why not use your time wisely, like read, walk or walk into walks instead? I'd rather walk off into the ocean, than watch this again. Sorry; just trying to meet the length guidelines! "},{"Title":"Most appropriate title ever","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  More thought should have gone into the title for this film. They had to have known it was awful when they were making it. I saw it because I was a fan of Kinnear's from his Talk Soup days. It is absolutely worthless, though, other than one transcendent moment Rue McClanahan, Blanche from the Golden Girls, is going blind, and her son, Kinnear, makes her feel Coolio's face as a joke. It's not funny. It's just bizarre. 1/10 "},{"Title":"Greg Kinnear saves it","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  To be honest, even tough this is a nice movie with a message, it would be just average without Greg Kinnear. He plays the crook Tom very charming and manages to keep the viewer involved. Laurie Metclaf also gets some good laughs. Overall I liked it.  "},{"Title":"They don't make movies like this much anymore!","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie isn't funny even though it's labeled as a comedy, I mean it has it's moments, but it does have meaning, about faith, people put their faith in God every day, and for what, people to con them out of what they earn, I think if something like this ever happened in real life, the main character (played by Greg Kinnear) would end up in the situation of helping people because he took from them all his life. Not a bad movie at all, more movies should be made like this. "},{"Title":"Too slight for it's own good...","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  At first Dear God starts out promisingly enough and looks for all intents and purposes like it's going to be a fun, lightweight, somewhat old fashioned comedy, however initial impressions are misleading, and to be blatantly honest, a little disappointing. You see Dear God isn't really a comedy at all, not in the true sense of the word, what it is, or at least what it tries so hard to be is a feel good film...however, sadly it just doesn't quite work.The disappointing thing is it should work, it's a nice enough idea, it has a fine cast who all give good performances, especially Greg Kinnear who is very good as the hapless con artist, and who is ably supported by the very entertaining Laurie Metcalf, not to mention solid performances by Roscoe Lee Browne, Tim Conway, Maria Pitillo and ever dependable Marshall staple Hector Elizondo, and in Garry Marshall it certainly has a director with a familiar feel for this kind of thing, but the fact is despite all the talent and effort put into it Dear God just comes off as somewhat underdeveloped and half baked. Truth is that it just isn't a very satisfying film.The films main problem is it all seems rather superficial, it's so deliberately manipulative in an effort to push all the right buttons and be a feel good film that it seems to have forgotten the prime reason for films like this in the first place, entertainment. It also doesn't help that Garry Marshall's direction here is very by the numbers, that the story (by Warren Leight & Ed Kaplan) is utterly predictable and too schmaltzy by half, and that, perhaps worst of all, it's extremely lacking in any real laughs.With a bit more time spent on the script in an effort to add some genuine humour this could have been quite a nice little film, however as it stands, and despite the fact that Greg Kinnear tries very hard to make what he was given to work with come off as best he can, even his good natured performance can't save what is ultimately a very average film.One man's opinion. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Starts bad, gets better - Not a great movie","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dear God Well I really have to agree with most other people here; it starts off bad, but gets better. I watched the beginning of it, and waited for it to get into the swing of things, but it really was terrible, so I went off for a while. I came back later and to my surprise it had actually gotten better, still not great, but &#145;watch'able. There is a lot about this movie that is very unbelievable, but hey &#150; we watch movies for entertainment, so it doesn't really matter how realistic they are (but yes, I know it helps if it is believable). It's actually not even funny; I didn't laugh at any of the bits I saw, oh well.Do not rent it, ever. If it is on TV I guess, if you have nothing else to do, watch it, but it's not worth taping or going out of your way to see.  "},{"Title":"Dull and disappointing","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film had an interesting premise, but that is the only superlative that I have to describe this movie.  The solid cast basically just stands around and does nothing interesting...and they do this for almost two hours.  What exactly was supposed to be funny here?  And why were people like Kinnear, Metcalf, Conway, and Elizondo involved in this project?  These great talents were pitifully wasted.  Considering the people who worked on this film, this was definitely a big disappointment.  "},{"Title":"Dear God had a good premise with promising potential, but due to a half-baked, sentimentally-controlling script, unlikable characters and an awful sense of humor, this film fails miserably at wha","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dear God is so painstakingly boring, manipulative and predictable it's hard to watch despite some decent yet watered down performances by those onboard the project.Greg Kinnear plays a young slacker who is innocently arrested and sentenced to finding a job--yes, finding a job--by the bad guy from Total Recall, who doesn't look like he's having a very good time making this movie. Kinnear takes a job at a local post office and gets a spot in the Dead Letter Department, where all the letters to Santa Claus, The Easter Bunny, The Tooth Fairy, and God are sorted and thrown out.But as Kinnear avoids his odd co-workers, he finds himself wanting to respond to the Dear God letters, hence the title of the film--big surprise--Dear God.Kinnear's character is extremely obnoxious and annoying. At times the filmmakers want us to feel sorry for the Innocent Young Man Going Through Turbulent Times, but then the character does things that are inexcusibly ignorant and unbiased. For example, take a scene where Kinnear is on trial. We're supposed to feel sorry for him. But the next moment he's up in the judge's face making wise cracks and disobeying all courtroom procedures. This is supposed to amuse the audience. Yeah, right.The film's jokes are about as tired as every other average comedy out there. Too many scenes do not expand to their full potential, and instead we get scenes like the Stand behind the yellow line gag that not only goes on WAYYY too long, but has been done a million times before in a million different films.The characters are not only weak, but one-dimensional and totally distant We can't feel for any of them one way or another.The characters' dialogue is about as stiff and stereotypical as it can get You feel like the writers were trying to think of corny dialogue. And boy, if that's what they were looking for, they got it right.Dear God had a good premise with promising potential, but due to a half-baked, sentimentally-controlling script, unlikable characters and an awful sense of humor, this film fails miserably at what it promises us.1.5/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Superficial Christmas TV fodder","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A film like this is only on at one time of the year. Although it's about letters to God rather than Santa Claus, its theme of dreams coming true and its vague sentimentality are just right for the holiday season. The film is about a bunch of misfits and loners discovering a social conscience when they work in a department of the postal service that handles letters addressed to God and other people who don't have regular mailing addresses.This is certainly no ask-god version of Nathanael West's Miss Lonelyhearts (filmed as Advice to the Lovelorn and Miss Lonelyhearts), where a character faced with innumerable demands from desperate members of the public is slowly driven mad. It seems there are few problems in this film that cannot be solved with a misappropriated saxophone (indeed, with all the gifts being doled out, the film's idea of God is little different to Father Christmas). Wider issues of poverty, illness, death and other injustices are ignored.As an atheist, I was a little disappointed to see people talking about God inspiring the characters, as though nobody could do a good deed without being an agent of the Lord. It seems odd that a film with a potentially blasphemous premise (people impersonating God) could end up as such an affirmation of religion, but in the cinema people who impersonate priests and nuns tend to end up as heroes (We're No Angels, etc) while actual priests turn out to be villains. This film certainly panders to the audience's need for a feel-good spirituality that is simple and undemanding, without any of the complexities of organised religion.To be fair, the crew and cast are competent and while it's not Garry Marshall's best film, it's not his most shamelessly manipulative either (Pretty Woman is far stupider). The characters are an appealingly motley bunch that could work well in a sitcom, some of the dialogue is funny, and Dear God is in many ways a decent piece of schmaltz. If you forget about it as soon as it's finished, it's probably fine. "}{"Title":"They don't make movies like this much anymore!","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie isn't funny even though it's labeled as a comedy, I mean it has it's moments, but it does have meaning, about faith, people put their faith in God every day, and for what, people to con them out of what they earn, I think if something like this ever happened in real life, the main character (played by Greg Kinnear) would end up in the situation of helping people because he took from them all his life. Not a bad movie at all, more movies should be made like this. "},{"Title":"Please do not waste your time with this movie.","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought this movie was the saddest movie EVER! People were actually believing that god was writing to them, what stupid dumb asses. I hope the original copy gets destroyed like Vanilla Ices Ice Ice Baby. Please, if you have this movie, watch carefully, because it sucks too much. "},{"Title":"Falls down after promising start","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Whatever happened to Garry Marshall?  The beginning of the decade saw two entertaining movies from him, PRETTY WOMAN (which would have been even better if someone else besides Richard Gere was in the lead) and FRANKIE AND JOHNNY.  But then came EXIT TO EDEN, which was absolute dreck, and then this film.  Admittedly, it starts out promisingly, with the various cons Greg Kinnear pulls being funny.  But attempts to make a Frank Capra style movie misfire, as they almost always do; you need the right touch to do that, and almost none of the filmmakers today can resist being too saccharine.  And what was Laurie Metcalf thinking?  She plays a co-worker of Kinnear's who is neurotic to the point of unbelievable.  She's most famous for playing Roseanne's sister on ROSEANNE, but while that character was neurotic, there was a lot more to her than that, and we understood why.  Here, it's just schtick.  About the only one who stays funny here is Tim Conway, but he can't help here. "},{"Title":"Saccharine and unbelievable","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I can be positive. Look at me Greg Kinnear (of 'As good as it gets' fame) tries his best in this movie. He says his lines with such conviction, it's almost sad. Laurie Metcalf is as good as she always is as the neurotic lawyer-cum-postal worker Rebecca. Greg Kinnear's character, Tom Turner is...is...heck, I've run out of positive stuff.I'm sorry. It's just that this movie tries to tackle a subject matter far bigger than itself. And it does it, well, badly. Let me walk you through itTom Turner is some professional scam artist, who has a gambling debt. He is conning poor innocents out of their cash, until he gets busted by completely unbelievable undercover police officers more trigger-happy than Dirty Harry. He gets the completely unbelievable court order go to jail, or get a 9-5 job for a year. He gets a job through two completely unbelievable happenings, involving his cousin being the policeman dragging him out of a post office cue (presumably for noticing the deadly secret of the post office that even though there are huge lines in the post office, there is one register open with nobody using it, which Tom just walks up to).He gets a completely unbelievable job in the 'Dead Letters Office', which is a huge messy office, filled to the brim with letters, with 5-6 full-time workers. These work on the mail that has been adressed wrong so it can't be sent on. We're supposed to believe that there are so many sloppy letter senders? Oh, never mind. Tom discovers a place with a lot of left over jewellery, sent nowhere, and he pockets it ALL, even though he's been told he's watched. Sadly, he's rumbled, so he puts it ALL into a FedEx package and mails it. Not to himself, oh no, but to some random adress he found on a letter to God. You know, for a professional conman, he's pretty stupid. The only guy more stupid than him is the mail sorter that doesn't notice a fully grown man sliding down his mail chute one foot away from him. Watch the movie, you'll. No, on second thoughts, don't.So, inevetably, they start reading letters from God and want to help the people themselves. Tom totally forgets his character AND his gambling debts and starts acting...you guessed it...completely unbelievable. In one particularly completely unbelievable scene, they save an old man from walking into the ocean on a crowded beach. Ah yes. That's the most efficient way to kill yourself, isn't it. Anyway, they fish him out (he's completely dry), and he gripes a bit, and then that bit goes absolutely nowhere. They build to this moment for 20 minutes, and then it fizzles. Bah.It escalates, as it would do, and it ends with Tom being a bigger man, and we all learned a big lesson about helping others. No, wait. Sorry. It ends with a ludicrous, out-of-place courtroom sequence, where two dogs are interviewed for no reason. It's a roller-coaster. Avoid it like the plague.The short review This movie was boring. I picked up my guitar after seeing the Sylvia Plath part and practised playing Superstitious by Stevie Wonder as badly as I could. I don't know why; this movie just made me want to.... "},{"Title":"Oh lord","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Greg Kinnear is one of my favorite actors ever, so I figured, this movie must be good. I rented it expecting it to be a sweet, lighthearted comedy. Let me just say that I could not even finish watching it, it was so bad. It was the first time I have ever turned off a movie in the middle. I was extremely disappointed. The premise was cute, and it could have been a decent film, I think, but the script was just too cheesy, not to mention that Greg Kinnear was absolutely miscast as a heartless con. He just looks too much like a nice guy, and I found it far to difficult to believe that he was cynical and cruel (even if he does change later). It's a shame, but this film was terrible.  "},{"Title":"Who bankrolls this swill?","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  You have to assume there came a moment when the director saw a cut of this film and said, I have wasted the last year of my life. Yeech! How does trash like this get made and distributed? Didn't they know, couldn't they tell from watching people wander through the wretched scenes that make up this turkey?  "},{"Title":"Why can't we give a film zero?","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Wow.  Sometimes you go into the cinema or turn on the TV and, two hours or so later, you realize that you've just seen one of the finest films ever made; the sheer joy of that experience stays with you for days.  Films like LORD OF THE RINGS, SEVEN SAMURAI, LAWRENCE OF ARABIA. This film manages to produce the opposite reaction however.  It is, without a shadow of a doubt, the worst movie I have ever seen.  Worse than the last entries in POLICE ACADEMY.  Worse than MISSION TO MARS.  Worse even than BATTLEFIELD EARTH.  It is cloyingly horrible, with appalling performances and an even more terrible script and story -- I felt my brain rotting as I watched it.  The only explanation I can give for the IMDb rating of 4.9 (including 40 people who gave it 10/10 and an average vote in the US of 5.2!) is that, a la VIDEODROME, there must be usually some kind of signal broadcast with this film that removes all critical abilities (fortunately they seem to have forgotten to flick the right switch the time I saw it).  Either that or everyone who has given it a high vote has been home-schooled and this is the most exciting film they've ever been allowed to watch as it features a modern-day criminal rather than just biblical characters.... "}]