[{"Title":"Bad influence?  I think not!","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"29 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I've always loved watching Angelina Jolie on screen... but watching her in Foxfire quite literally gave me *chills* (and still does).  When Legs first walks into Maddy's classroom and they do that long, slow pan up - from head to foot - of Legs, you can instantly feel Angie's incredible magnetism and presence.As much as people would like to point out the negative aspects of this film - that violence of any sort is unladylike or just plain wrong coming from females - Foxfire has got many more positive ones on its side.Maddy and Legs' relationship is one of the warmest, most heartfelt I've ever seen portrayed on film ... Legs is not so much a maternal figure as she is a supportive driving force.  She teaches each of the girls to respect themselves and not be ashamed or afraid to be who they are.  If anything, I think it's Maddy that's the maternal one ... directing her loving and protective instincts towards Legs.  Maddy teaches Legs to open up her heart and stop *running* long enough to realize that some people *can* love you and not abandon you (like her father) or die (like her mother).  She teaches her to care again... to love again. "},{"Title":"a girl's world should be her own","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"25 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Not a perfect film, but I got a great feeling from it. I love movies about girls together, being strong and being friends. Not being intimidated and even laughing when the football team shows up to threaten them. Some of the things they did were not ideal, but they were kids, and they made mistakes. Legs was a cool character, and she meant well even when she was acting nuts. But it showed girls sticking together in the face of a man's world, the boys visiting their house in the woods, the boys attacking them and the girls commandeering the truck... dancing in the house, driving fast and music blaring... when girls are together, laughing and feeling great in their own skin, nothing else in the world matters, and no opression can hold them. That's the feeling I got from this film. "},{"Title":"A Surprise","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"27 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When Foxfire first came out, I had no interest to watch it at all.Recently I became a huge Angelina Jolie fan. The main reason to watch the movie was her.Jolie is great as usual. She gives everything into her character and is very good. Not a surprise.Besides Jolie, I was shocked as to how entertained I was while watching it. It gave me a sense of longing for that kind of rebelliuos female companionship.Foxfire has such reckless abandon that makes for fun ride. From Angelina's mysterious entrance into the  science lab, to the end credits, I stared at my screen. And smiled. I had so much fun I watched it again the next evening.Hedy Burgess (as Maddy) and Angelina Jolie (as Legs) give the best performances. Everybody else, are cardboard cutouts of girls for the most part.Legs is everything Maddy wants to be. Self sufficient, drifting, taking no **** from anyone.Maddy has the loyalty and values that Legs longs to have. The ability to hold friendships, love, conscience.Like someone else once said, the sexiest scene is really Legs and Maddy talking on the rooftop, and its not even about sex.The soundtrack is a great adrenaline ride. The music has the same spirit as the movie and is really fun.A must for Angelina Jolie fans.An entertaining movie.6 out of 10  "},{"Title":"excellent!","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I bought this movie without ever hearing of it before.  After seeing the cover and reading the back, I was intrigued.  I was not disappointed in the least.  Angelina Jolie is acting's best kept secret...or was at least. Now she is starting to finally get the recognition she deserves.  The storyline, acting, and camera work was splendid.  The bond that forms between the group of girls is touching as is the bond between Maddie and Legs.  True, many may not like this movie after reading the novel, because the two are so different, but the movie is more modernized and appeals to a larger audience.  The end of the movie never fails to get me choked up. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Solidarity At It's Best","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have loved this movie ever since I first saw it. It forces you to think for yourself. What would happen if you acted on the impulses in your heart, instead of what you were told was right? Jolie gives a stunning performance as the free-spirited Legs, and Hedy Buress (Maddie) portrays the coming-out-of-her-shell part of us all extraordinarily well. The other characters are well thought out, but don't overwhelm the script. This movie speaks to the rebel in all of us, and it will make you laugh, cry, yearn, and hope. I believe that every generation of girls should see this movie, and realize that they have the ability to think for themselves as well. There is nudity on the part of 3 out of the five actresses, and partial nudity in the very beginning, but it is not distasteful or even sexual at all. It's more about being comfortable. Bless you, FoxFire. "},{"Title":"watch between the scenes","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have seen this movie in 1996 when it was released. We didn't know who Jolie was back then but I think this is where producers discovered her even though she'd already made a few movies. This film is mostly about different human beings meeting and changing the life of each other. Just like in real life, you meet someone that has nothing to do with you or your interests but this person will make you feel alive, make you do and beleive stuff you never thought possible. Legs is there only like a tornado sweeping off everything on it's path. And sometimes it can be a good thing. Of course there is many subject related to womwn solidarity, girl power, and bla bla bla. But really a movie is what you see but what comes out of it and what you learn is entirely up to you. "},{"Title":"Worth a rental...","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is not by any stretch of the imagination a great film.  The characters are two-dimensional, the plot is clunky, the sound is spotty, the directing is uneven... but Foxfire is worth watching because a previously unknown young actress named Angelina Jolie waltzed onto the set and completely stole this movie.From her memorable entrance, with the camera panning slowly up from her boots, this movie belongs to Jolie.  Part riot-grrl James Dean, part goth      Ingrid Bergman, smoldering with sexual tension-- she's simply perfect in this part.  The rest of the cast is pretty solid, the indie rock soundtrack is great, and the story manages to avoid being completely predictable... which is pretty rare for a teen flick.  Foxfire is a schlocky movie, to be sure, but it's definitely a guilty pleasure.  "},{"Title":"Five teenage girls make a family","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Four teenage girls are joined by Legs (played by Jolie). Experiencing various teenage anxieties and failed communication with parents, they form a strong emotional bond which is augmented by events in which they take part together and into which they are drawn. Supporting each other, they play the role of both friend and family to each other.The plot deals with the isolation of late teenage from mainstream society and one's parents' generation, and the communication divide which neither parents nor children seem to be able to bridge easily during these years. Another theme is what too much pain and abandonment in the early years can do to you, and how good people can clash with a society trying to do the right thing, but getting it wrong. "},{"Title":"Too much, and not enough...","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  *SPOILER WARNING! SORTA...* I rented this movie because, like others, I love Angelina Jolie. She is a fabulous, beautiful actress, and is naturally impressive in Foxfire too. But this is one of those plots that requires all adults to be morons, all men to be horrible, all the cheerleaders to actually prance around school in thier outfits ALL THE TIME, and all characters to be stereotypes that go down the most ridiculous paths possible. And the worst part is that this movie is a patchy mimick of 1980's Foxes that starred Jodie Foster. It also had the wise ringleader, the awkward virgin, the tuff troubled teen with the abusive father, the flirtatious slut...and it did a much better job of bringing the mixed nuts of characters together in a believable way. There is even a scene in Foxfire where the awkward virgin exclaims, We're like those girls from that movie Foxes! No, hun. You're carboncopies of them. But I will admit that the relationship between 'Legs' and Maddy is touching during the moments where it is allowed to develop.  "},{"Title":"An exciting movie , that all girls will understand.","Date":"28 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is kind of an inspiration for girls.If this movie can teach a girl not to care what people think and boost confidence then this is a great movie.Legs is a great role modelish figure.She knows she isn't perfect.This is a great movie.Maddy is like a lot of girls too.She opens up after they find they all have something in common.Some guys might not like the movie.Then again some guys might.This movie isn't a chick flick.Its based on reality.Once people see this movie, people will find that they have a lot in common with some of the characters in this movie.It is a really good movie to watch.This movie can help you understand bonds between some people.They realize that you don't need a label to be someone. "}{"Title":"Great movie, but don't expect a morality tale","Date":"17 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Foxfire is about a group of high school girls who are empowered by a mysterious rebel (Angelina Jolie) who drifts into their lives. That itself is a great theme, and I love a good rebel story as much as the next guy or gal.But this isn't a straightforward go girl power flick. Early in the film, things start to get out of hand when the girls resort to violence and criminal activities, and as you can guess things get trickier as the film approaches its tense conclusion.To me, the beauty of this film is not the simple message about girls fighting back. It's the complex theme of how far is too far? Whether you're a male or female, when is violence justified? And is vigilante justice true justice, or just another form of aggression? These are ideas which the director certainly wants us to consider. Although Jolie's character is definitely glorified for her badass ways, there are enough seeds of doubt to make us wonder if she's really such a great role model.Excellent acting by a young Angelina Jolie make this a real treat to watch, even for people who aren't her fans. She plays a tough role a person who is always in control, always cool, yet suppressing some vulnerabilities & volatile demons within.The directing style is very artistic without getting bogged down with itself. Great attention is paid to colors and composition of shots which, if you pay attention to that sort of thing, will really impress you. I had initially feared that this would have an ABC afterschool special vibe to it, but it's clearly in a serious league. As a tangent to that thought, there is some nudity (male posterior in the beginning, and a scene with several topless girls performing a sort of ritual, none of which is sexual).By the way, there's also a scene depicting a bunch of ill-fated frogs nailed to boards in biology class, but the disclaimer at the end says it was simulated and no animals were harmed.Foxfire reminded me of two similar films that focus on young girls fighting back. These are the iconic 1988 Heathers (a dark comedy about a few murder/suicides at a high school, starring a young Winona Ryder), and the relatively obscure but powerful 2000 The Smokers (another dark comedy about high school girls striking back at rapists... by raping them back!). Along with Foxfire (1994) all of these films, one for each decade, present the viewer with a very compelling look at feminism. But whether you're a guy or a girl (I'm a guy if you hadn't guessed), they present charming & chilling portrayals of vigilante justice. Oh, I'll add one more to the list, the most recent addition Super (2010) a very funny--and very disturbing--look at what happens when the rebel gets too wrapped up in his/her idea of justice. If this theme interests you, your time will not be wasted on any of this great movies. "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"28 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a great movie. one of the best of Angelina Jolie. I love her. She does an excellent job of portraying the bad girl, and even better of making the movie what it is. She helps to push it to its full potential. Angelina has amazing talent. This movie is recommended for any girl who has never been the wild child. any girl who has never had the guts to do anything too drastic. excellent movie. I like Maddy. She is unique in that she is not your average teenage girl, but she is not drastic like legs. And who has a name like legs. It's like, once these girls have stood up for themselves, they can never go back. Like they are changed some how. I love this move and give it a excellent rating. "},{"Title":"foxfire","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I am a big fan of Angelina Jolie, so I picked up this movie. An as I started to watch it I was so into it I didn't notice, yes some parts may not appeal to some. But I can say that the movie really toughed me, the relation ship between all of the 5 girls is incredible but the relationship between Maddy and legs is heartwarming. they really picked some great actors for this movie, and some interesting placea to film it at. I believe it took place in a small town of Georgia and parts of north Carolina. I also think that the music was great i bought the sound track, and a CD from a band that plays in the movie. I proms you wont be able to take your eyes of this film its a must see. "},{"Title":"ugh","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The book was better. Much, much better. Even the presence of Angelina  Jolie failed to salvage this feeble flick about a girl gang. The 5 girls have practically no chemistry, and taking the setting out of the 1950s where it belongs, sexism and other social problems the ORIGINAL Foxfire girls fought seems irrelevant. Yeah, girl power, all the way. Let's talk about guys and hide out in an abandoned shack.  "},{"Title":"not an accurate novel adaptation but a great addition to the girl gang genre","Date":"22 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Firstly to correct an earlier reviewer this film is not based on a novel from the fifties, it's (very) loosely based on a Joyce Carol Oates novel that is set in the fifties but was first published in the nineties.The film isn't perfect, but no film is. The plot surrounds a group of teenage girls who are brought together by the arrival of a rebellious stranger named Legs. Like other girl gang films before it, such as Foxes (1980), the film employs certain character types regularly seen in movies of this sort, although this can hardly be considered an attempt to copy other movies. The film belongs to a specific sub-genre and as such it employs the conventions of that sub-genre.While some may simply pass this film off as clichéd others will look a little deeper and appreciate the film for what it is. Foxfire puts across a message rarely seen in American cinema - one that emphasizes the importance of teenage girls forming close friendships in order to assist their development into well-adjusted adults. And while the film may employ certain clichés in order to get that message across (such as the somewhat one-dimensional secondary characters) the message itself is not a cliché and is an important one for girls of all ages. "},{"Title":"Girls just want to have tattoos.","Date":"5 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Joyce Carol Oates 1950's era novel, Foxfire, is transplanted, unsuccessfully, into the modern age. Girls will still find a lot to like about the story, but it makes more sense in the repressed and repulsing era when sexual abuse was considered a don't ask, don't tell kind of an issue, where the girls where the sinners, simply because they were girls. Moving the story to the modern age only serves to take away that depth. As is, Angelina Jolie, Hedy Burress, and Jenny Shimizu are all good in this, with Jolie and Burress making, what could have been, a good couple as Legs and Maddy. The scene where the three take off their tops to get tattoos of a flame from Legs is powerful. It's not about sex or nudity, although their is a lot of the latter, it's about having a mark to identify each other. It's a great scene, most of the scenes with Jolie and Burress are, though the movie isn't quite. "},{"Title":"A marvellous adaptation of the novel by Joyce Carol Oates.","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  While the novel, written by Joyce Carol Oates and first published by Plume in 1994, originally takes place in the early 1950's, the story was perfectly adapted for the modern screen.  The casting of Angelina Jolie as Legs was a brilliant move, and with her recent celebrity status a wider audience has been persuaded to view the film.  Modernizing the story also increases audience appeal, but the primary reason the movie is so successful for me is because of the real feeling I get from the settings, costume design and camera work.  I felt that I could identify in part with each of the main characters at some point, yet the movie was able to maintain that Hollywood-ish sense of magic and mystery that is so important in good film-making.  Finally, I would like to give praise to Hedy Burress, Jenny Lewis, Jenny Shimizu and Sarah Rosenberg for masterful performances in such an amazing film. "},{"Title":"Cliches' kill film!","Date":"17 July 2003","Score":"16 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This story was taken from a novel from the 1950's and that might explain to some degree why this script was so predictable and contrived. Story is about a group of high school girls who are being harrassed by the science teacher and one day they meet a drifter named Legs (Angelina Jolie). The group consists of Maddy (Hedy Burress), Rita (Jenny Lewis), Violet (Sarah Rosenberg), Goldie (Jenny Shimizu) and of course Legs. The five of them beat up the teacher and they all get suspended. Then they decide to hang out in an abandoned house where they start bonding and getting into trouble like when they break into the school at night and accidently start a fire. They all tattoo themselves with a symbol but the rest of their community is resentful of them. After an altercation with a school jock and stealing his car, Legs is sent away for 6 months. She gets out but Goldie has been hooked on drugs and is sick so they kidnap her father (Chris Mulkey) and want him to pay for her rehab. The big problem with this film is the script and instead of these characters being put in realistic situations, they're surrounded by cardboard characters and cliches'. The teachers are unsympathetic to their claim of abuse by the science teacher, Goldie's father is a physically abusing jerk, the jocks at school are neanderthals (Of course) so when we watch these five females were suppose to understand their frustration. Its such a contrived set-up of events that its totally unbelievable. Some may say that the story was based on true events but the story was written in the 50's and when this was filmed in the 90's it just doesn't cross over. Jolie seems to be playing the same character that she would play in Girl, Interrupted so now I'm forced to question just how versatile an actress she is. I do think the film does a good job of showing that these girls really like being around one another. The friendship of all of them is evident and it rings true. I also enjoyed the performance of Hedy Burress who played Maddy and while I admit she didn't steal any scenes from Jolie (Who can?) she still demonstrated that she has a strong presence. For you trivia buffs out there, Shimizu and Jolie were lovers in real life and the making of this film is where they met. This film had real potential to be something special and interesting but it drowns in cliches' and cardboard characters. What a shame because all the actors are very good and they deserved better.  "},{"Title":"compelling Angelina leads the group","Date":"7 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Maddy Wirtz (Hedy Burress) can't wait to graduate and go to art school. She has no connection to anyone in school other than her boyfriend Ethan Bixby (Peter Facinelli). Then rebellious Legs Sadovsky (Angelina Jolie) shows up and turns her world upside down. Legs comes to the aid of beaten down Rita Faldes (Jenny Lewis). In the bathroom, Rita tells the girls that teacher Mr. Buttinger keeps her in detention where he gropes her. School slut Violet Kahn (Sarah Rosenberg) backs it up with a similar claim. The girls with spaced-out Goldie Goldman (Jenny Shimizu) confront the teacher. The girls are suspended. They find a gathering place in an abandoned home.This movie is adapted from a novel of a girl gang in the 50s. The movie starts out great. It builds up to the confrontation with Buttinger. It's terrific. While the movie diverges from the novel, I wish it diverge more by concentrating on the Buttinger situation. The girls aren't the same as the girls in the novel. It seems to me that these girls in the movie would narrow their focus on Buttinger. It's a question left hanging. The further away the movie goes, the less compelling it becomes. The movie tries to hit the big notes in the novel but it may be better off rewriting more of it. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable!","Date":"31 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kickass girls revolting against the status quo and sexism? Hell Yeah! This film was great, a wild ride from the minute that Angelina Jolie (Legs) stepped foot into it. I watched this simply because I tend to love films from the 90's, and this has been added to this vintage list. The diversity of characters allows you to connect with at least one in the film, a healthy situation. As mentioned earlier, Angelina Jolie's character (Legs) acts as a catalyst and really speeds up the plot while twisting it too. Being the mother of the group Legs really steals the show and gains a herd whom together face difficulty along the road. I would recommend this film towards a younger audience, specifically teenagers. It's wind of freedom and rebellion would appeal to the average adolescent (along with the general age of the characters, and the setting). This film isn't an immensely deep, thought-provoking thriller, but rather acts as some cool, fresh, light-entertainment. "}{"Title":"paying rapt attention to details","Date":"26 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" i am fascinated by the crtitical assessment of others as regards this film. i was able to understand that people do really watch films and pay peculiar or rapt attention to details. the entertainment plus lesson of the film is one part while viewers actually depicting scenes indicates that maximum attention is given when watching films. for jolie's relationship with madie been described by almost all as warmth, i totally concur. tears flowed my ears at the time jolie stopped that big truck and told madie to make up her mind as to where she would want to be. jolie cried for the first considering the fact that she has to leave behind the little family she created. madie's strong words pushed da momentum 'i will never forget u' and jolie replied 'u are always in my heart madie'. i want to draw our attention here.....jolie didn't say u will always be in my heart but she said u are always in my heart - meaning that madie has and will continue to remain in her heart, mind and thought. this film is negative in some aspects. but thats not what i want us to check. the positive side is actually visible and with the family created by jolie, it therefore shows that strangers can be accepted. just check out how madie had to make sure legs didn't leave - there is an abandoned house just across the street should in case... . and for madie's parents, i loved their relationship with their daughter. "},{"Title":"Superbly produced and inspired work with extraordinary insight into today's teens","Date":"12 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I think you could live a thousand years and never see a more brilliantly made cinematic work. Literally every scene is eloquently written and masterfully filmed. The visual tone exactly matches the content of every moment of the film. You very rarely see such technical virtuosity coupled with such depth of human interaction. ALL the performances are spot on. The movie takes an unflinching, unvarnished look at vulnerability and love and loss and the way of the world for young people growing up in our time. You've known these kids -- maybe you WERE one of them. Alternately brutal and magical -- FOXFIRE is an absolute masterwork in every way. A vividly beautiful, heartbreaking inspiration. "},{"Title":"I really loved this movie!","Date":"8 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" What a great movie! Despite the low rating, this is a terrific 90's film with Angelina Jolie as Legs before she was famous, and even then, she was starting to show something very special. After a group of girls take revenge on a sadistic pedophile teacher, they get suspended by the dumb principal. They decide to stick together and move into an abandoned house. There, after they almost set fire to the school while trying to get the main character Maddy's portfolio, Legs tattoos herself and the other girls with a flame, bonding them all together for life. The film seemed to have a lot to do with the Riot Grrrl movement (an underground feminist punk music genre that helped girls making a name for themselves in a male dominated punk scene) In the film, the teenage girls are oppressed and abused while trying to stand up for themselves, even though they do things that aren't exactly right. The strong female bondage is brilliantly portrayed and I also loved the guitar solos in the music score, typical of the 90s.While some aspects of the film are a little clichéd and some situations are unrealistic, it's easier to tell ourselves that it's just a movie. I for one really enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"my favorite film","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  i accidently caught Foxfire on Showtime, when i had insomnia.  i could not stop watching it, i was immediately hooked to the film.  That was over a year ago, i have been looking for a copy of the movie since then.  i finally found it for sale in Canada 2 weeks ago.  I watch it at least 3 times a week! This is by far, the greatest movie i have ever seen when it comes to truly portraying friendships among women.  There are a lot of people who consider this to be a lesbian film--to them i say-i do not think so, my friend!  This is a movie that explores female relationships and those bonds between them. Yes, there is female nudity, but it is not sexual--in fact it is a beautiful scene.  The scene between Maddy and Legs on the roof is just so perfect! My only problem with this movie is it left out a lot of really good stuff from the book by Joyce Carol Oates.  There were scenes that would have worked very well in this movie.  i feel that they left a lot of crucial information out of the movie to allow for time.  They left a lot unsaid.  i feel that they could have explored the relationships between all of the girls a lot better and should have shown the delevelopments of them. To the comments about this being far-fetched (the knives and such) the book was written about a 1950's girl gang and it does make a lot of sense.  I think it is safe to say that girls that age do not want to go to a principal about a teacher like buttinger due to the fact that 9 times out of 10 nothing will be done. This is such a fantastic movie, i just wish it was available in the states for more people to see it. "},{"Title":"This was one of the best films I've ever seen!!!","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a movie that deeply effected me, and that is how I can tell if it is a good movie or not. Foxfire develops its inspiring characters as the movie progresses. I found myself becoming attached to and envious of the relationship between these girls, especially legs and Maddy. The touching story shows the power of friendship, and the lessons behind sticking with what feels right. I only hope I meet someone who affects me as much as legs affected Maddy. I give it a 10!!! "},{"Title":"I recommend this film to anyone!","Date":"28 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I stumbled upon this movie while sitting around with a friend... To make a long story short, I watched it with great enthusiasm.. This movie really touched me and made me think that maybe my problems aren't as bad as they could be.. I recently purchased the movie on Video and DVD.. It was worth the money..I would recommend it to EVERYONE!! "},{"Title":"I'M A GUY AND I LOVED IT!!!!","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm probably the only guy in the world who liked this movie for the right reasons, I thought it was awesome.  I know this sounds corny but it really made you stop and think about the way girls are treated "},{"Title":"comparing to the book is unfair to both","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" but do read the book. especially if you did not like this movie.this movie was dumb, but angelina jolie and hedy burgess make it okay to not be too ashamed by the fact that you like it.it is much like 'center stage' in that regard.but in every other respect, it is much like someone tried to adapt a novel about girl gangs in the 50s into a movie about giggly juvenile delinquents in the 90s. it doesn't work, but like i said no one is watching it for the incredible story or acting chops.we're watching it to see if maddy will ever grow some metaphorical balls and kiss legs already! "},{"Title":"A Movie To Remember","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" At first i wasn't quite sure about the movie, i had just rented it for something to do on a Saturday night and the next thing i know i was falling in love with all the characters. I guess it just hit home, i was especially jealous of Angelina Jolie's character and how fearless she was. Its one of those movie types that just stick with you and the emotion you feel at the time of viewing the film haunts you when you look back on it. The girls quickly became some of my favourite fictional heroes and i know i will always remember them. I would definitely recommend it especially if you enjoyed watching the Films 'The Dead Poets Society' or even 'Breakfast Club' or 'Stand by Me'. It is more darker then those movies but it was more real to me then anything i've seen. However there was one scene i would have to protest to the realism of it and being a girl i am fully aware on what girls do over at sleepover parties, even ones celebrating on an escape from the law and it doesn't happen. I won't go into any further details on the matter i'm sure you'll know the scene that i am talking about when you view the film. Anyways if you have issues with harsh language, sex scene types then i would avoid this film. Enjoy viewing. ;D "},{"Title":"Toilet paper script//possible spoilers","Date":"11 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Jolie-Nation will tar and feather me after reading this review.This film redefines aimless. If you're not an angst ridden young woman, than don't bother picking this up.The plot centers around this sexy mysterious drifter who goes by the title of Legs(Jolie), and who changes the lives of four high school girls forever.What begins as a solid message, standing up for your rights and against harassment, quickly dissolves into wayward youth territory.The four girls get expelled from school for beating up a teacher, with the guidance of Legs. The script, if you want to call it such, has the girls address the sexual harassment charge against the teacher they roughed up, with their principal, and he expels them for three weeks!! Like a real principal would discard claims made by a group of girls.Sympathy dissolves when the girls begin to follow the be bad example set by Legs. Hedy Burress finally realizes Legs may not be so swell when she abducts Shimizu's father at gun point.Hedy Burress' sensitive portrayal is what kept me going when all I wanted to do was hit stop, and pop in The Usual Suspects. "}{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  ***Tame Spoiler***Here's the problem I see with the way a lot of people look at Foxfire. Some people say that it capitalizes on the girl power movement, and some think that the girl power messages are the main underlying theme, but to me, neither is the case.  What I got from this movie is a great story about a group of girls who are shunned from society and form a strong bond with each other.  Having never read the book, I can't say anything about what the original story's theme was, but I feel the director chose to take it in a different direction.  While I definitely did not agree with some of the choices the girls made (doing drugs, stealing a car), I felt like I wanted to know them in real life, to be their friends, to help them in their struggle.  Being a guy, I think one of the highlights of the movie was when the girls took their shirts off.  This scene appeals to me in more ways than one.  I also liked the scene at the end where Madie was walking on top of the bridge.  The quote We've drifted since then, stuck with me.  Even though in reality the only good that can come of the girls drifting is them becoming overweight drug addicts, it leaves you with a certain romantic view of their lifestyles.  The only thing about this movie that left a sour taste in my mouth is, like I said, the girls doing drugs, particularly all of them smoking pot during the tattoo scene.  I don't want to discuss my views on drug use, but I can't make myself care very much for someone who doesn't care about their self.  Also, at that point in the movie, I lost a lot of respect for all the girls and found myself more detached from the story.  As far as acting, editing, and directing go, they were superb. Well, there were my two cents.  Watch this movie, because you'll likely get something out of it. "},{"Title":"Female empowerment?","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  think Foxfire is trying to make a positive stand about young women defending their rights. The problem is...it goes about it all wrong.The fresh, young cast is wonderful. Yes, Angelina Jolie shows what kind of talent she has. Jolie plays a character nicknamed Legs. Legs literally shows up out of nowhere and struts into a high school biology class. She pulls the pins out of a live (!!) frog that is about to be dissected and tosses the frog out a window to freedom. She then climbs out the window herself. Legs has this odd habit of showing up at the school even though she apparently has no connection to it.Anyway, she befriends four girls at the school. She soon finds out that the scummy biology teacher has been sexually harassing and fondling some of his female students. They decide to get a bit of revenge and end up beating him up. The girls are then suspended for a few weeks. They find an abandoned home in pretty good shape and they decide to make it their hangout.Some female bonding and hijinks take place. They give each other tattoos. They break into the school and carelessly start a fire. Implausibly, one of the girls is almost abducted by a bunch of guys from the school. Luckily, a couple of her friends had been hiding behind some bushes or something and one of them pulls a knife on the guys. Then they steal the main abductor's vehicle. They end up being arrested and charged with several serious felonies. Extremely weak plotting if you ask me.Ultimately, the film tailspins out of control. As the movie progresses, the viewer loses more and more sympathy for the girls. It should be the other way around. You should care more about characters once you get to know them. These girls make such awful and selfish decisions that you end up feeling that they deserve whatever comes to them. Sadly, the fabulous cast can't save the fatal script they were given.  4/10 "},{"Title":"Rich dialogue, insightful story, moving performances","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If these are qualities you normally look for in a movie, then this film is not for you.  If however, you enjoy cheezy, one-dimensional girl teen flicks- you'll probably love it.  It's intentions are in the right place, but the film's lack of depth, cohesive storytelling and dramatic casuality leave us with only a failed attempt at what could have been a truly poignant delineation of modern young women.  I have not read the book on which it was based, but I imagine the print version is probably more worth your time than the film.  One little trick I have for judging movies is to imagine them as a play.  Imagine all cinematic effects abandoned, leaving only plot, characters and performances.  Then imagine if it would still entertain/enlighten you.  When I apply that line of thinking here, it becomes all too clear that this film does not succeed in the realm of compelling drama.  In the end it is little more than an unusually long after school special. "},{"Title":"Potential almost realized","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  As an adaptation of the novel by Joyce Carol Oates, this film doesn't work in the slightest.  On its own terms (the terms it should be taken on, of course), it almost realizes its potential.  I won't deny that the difficulty of making the film as a period piece (the novel is set in that peculiar Oates version of the 1950s) would probably have proven quite impossible.  I think the general updating of the story to the 1990s was actually handled quite well.  However, some of the character changes seem like forcing square pegs into round holes.The character of Goldie is my main problem with the film.  She's an utterly unbelievable character no matter which angle you study her from.  The actress tries valiantly, but nothing could save that dimensionless piece of cardboard.  The film also suffers from some major pacing problems, particularly in the midsection (it would appear that some heavy editing may have been involved).  On the other hand, the two lead characters are very well-drawn and well-played.  As a refreshing antidote to macho male-bonding gang films, this is indeed a most welcome addition to the canon.  The entirely new ending (which differs significantly from the ending of the novel) is also a knockout.  I just can't help but think that somewhere in there was a great film that didn't quite make it out, and settled for being merely good. "},{"Title":"Great Flick--get past the chick flick stereotype.","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Great movie--even for guys to watch. The movie pulls you in and does not let you go. While there is the nominal breast scene, the most erotic moment is on the roof--all clothes on! The relationship that evolves between the two main females (and the other females) is tremendous. Give it a look!  "},{"Title":"the best movie eeeeeevvvvvveeeeerrr!!!!!","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  foxfire is the best movie ever. it is based on a true story of a girl gang from the 1950's. and in the movie (for the record) they did not say look, were like those girls from 'foxes'!. she said look, were like those girls who run with foxes! because the principal said something along those lines earlier in the movie. and you cant even judge this movie without reading the book. it is a true story and should get the credit it deserves "},{"Title":"this movie is horrible","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  i read all the other comments about this movie, and i'm thinking did we watch the same movie?  because this movie was bad.  the plot had like 5,000 holes and the characters were amazingly underdeveloped.  the whole girl-bonding movie has been done soo many times and this movie just took bits and pieces from every other movie girl-bonding movie ever made!  bad bad bad.   "},{"Title":"Wow","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I loved this movie.  Its so fun...it makes you want to go back to those days when all that mattered was your friends and finding yourself! I have made all my friends watch this and they all agree.  Angelina was great!  Good soundtrack too! "},{"Title":"the most genuine tale of friendship","Date":"14 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I first saw this movie when I was 13. And even then found it to be an accurate display of what teens feel when in distress. I related a lot to Legs being the initial flame, Angelina was great in this movie. I have yet to see a pioneer in this genre that has matched in realism and the drama that consists of a teen's problems... when life seems to be in reverse and the world is against your every move...This movie has an underlying morale and for first time watchers, that morale will be completely different for each and every one of you. I find this movie true to it's intent, and would go back in time to see it for the first time, it left an impression on me that has yet to be surpassed. "},{"Title":"Empowering movie","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie spoke to me, literally, watching it, I could feel what the characters were feeling. I love watching movies about the bond/friendship between teenage girls coming of age, their just so real. The only problem with the movie that I had, was the part where they take Goldies dad hostage, I just can't see that happening in real life, plus it just wasn't like Legs to do that, the storyline just went way off there, but every other parts of the movie were fantastic! I liked the part where they broke into the school and all hell broke loose *laughs* that was funny. I just loved Angelina Jolies character 'legs' I wish I had her power. I ALSO recommend this movie to anyone who is a big Angelina Jolie fan like me *smiles* And dont listen to all those critics who say that its a lesbianish film, because its not, its just about the friendship that forms between five 18 year old girls. "}{"Title":"Big ideas, bad execution","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" OK, I get the point. This is supposed to be about girl bonding in a patriarchal society that values stories only about boy bonding. As nice as the idea sounds, I don't think it was executed all that well. The set-up is flimsy. I'm not convinced by the abusive teacher's performance that he's all that scary. The characters are barely sketched out, so it's hard to feel attached to them, or like their bond is terribly genuine. Angelina Jolie's Legs might be interesting, but she hardly gets to talk. The other characters' lines are so simplistic and cookie-cutter,they sound almost like a teenager WROTE them -- rather than a mature writer who understands teenagers. What they say, in fact, sounds almost interchangeable in places, which heightens the sensation that the characters are extremely two-dimensional. There are also distinct lesbian undertones in the film, which is fine, but the movie feels incomplete by not coming out and actually acknowledging the lesbian theme. It's almost like a bad editor hacked out the love scenes. I wish I was able to compare this to the written work by Joyce Carole Oats and know whether the flaws are the fault of the screenwriter or inherent in the source material. I don't know. I haven't read it. But I do think that the reason why this movie didn't get much publicity is not because it was incredibly avant-garde. Critics and the press LOVE avant-garde and risky themes. Hello -- Brokeback Mountain?!! It just wasn't a well-made movie. "},{"Title":"*SPOILERS* Starts with a bang, ends with a whimper...","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Now...a friend recommended this to me because it was a Jolie film, and I was kinda shocked to find it was a teenager movie...I had thought it would be about a bunch of women in their mid-20s to mid 30-s rampaging around...It started out strongly with the teacher being a heel, and the group exacting revenge on him, then congregating around Legs...Legs was a strong, central figure, obviously meant to serve as a mentor for the group, and she fulfilled that role...but I still started dozing off about halfway through the movie.My biggest problem here is one of credibility...all the guys are monstrous rapists and abusers, and all the girls are heroes...Okay, I'll buy that it's an empowerment chick flick, I'm cool with that, but some of the characters were soooooooo underdeveloped. I mean I thought Goldie was a guy hanging with the group until they started calling her she and her toward the end.  And I had to wonder why Legs' best kid (Maggie, Maddie?) never got placed as a missing person.Those are quibbles.The movie serves well as a teen-girl-empowerment-chick-flick, but leaves me wanting more out of it...it seems it could have used an extra 10 minutes or so.I can't give it more than a 4, really. But...I did watch this after But I'm a Cheerleader, so there was bound to be a huge letdown. "},{"Title":"Another guy... who actually cried.","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I know women who have lived lives similar to the people in this movie, and it reminded me of them so much. This movie, which does contain some unoriginal pieces to it (which movies don't?), literally made me cry - I fell in love with it. The girls grouped together because they loved each other, and not for lesbian ways like some other people who've written on here have mentioned, but in a way of deep heartful respect and trust for each other. My girlfriend watched the movie with me (I first suggested the movie, by the way), and she cried as well, reminded of her past no doubt.It was a lovely film of women coming of age, going through their rites of passage as it were, and was needed in our glut of male-only movies. I'm listening to the Colorado high school shootings now, and I feel that we need more of these rite of passage movies and less gun-toting movies, we need to get in touch with who we are as people... and this movie definitely touched on that subject well. "},{"Title":"Angelina Jolie is my idol","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Foxfire is my favorite film.  i don't buy movies very often, but this one i had to.  I remember seeing the preview for it at the Craft and my best friend and i wrote the name down so we wouldn't forget to see it.  After spending a year at video stores saying No, i don't want the Foxfire with Jessica Tandy in it, i want the one with the girl from Hackers!!!  we finally found a place that had it.  I fell in love with the movie the first time i saw it.  These girls do all the things i wish i could do.  Jolie frees the girls from the stereotypes that they are living in teaches them to have fun, real fun.   "},{"Title":"one of my favorites","Date":"5 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  first of all to correct two previous commentators....Rita says, after getting her tattoo, we're like those girls who run with foxes. she says this to mock the comment made by the HS principle when he suspended them. trust me, i've seen this movie a hundred times.anyway, i came across this movie quite by accident. i was supposed to go out partying, but I fell asleep waiting for my always late friend. I woke up right after they beat up the teacher. I think what made an impression was how deep the friendship was between the girls. that time of my life wasn't the best, and I didn't have close friends like that. i saw parts of myself in some of the girls, and characteristics I wished I had possessed in the others. I own the movie, I watch it on occasion. The only part I think everything falls apart is the kidnapping of Goldie's father. that was kinda dumb. i have not yet read the book, but i have heard for years that the book is far different and better than the movie. Usually I am one that has read the book prior too, and usually find the movies disappointing. I tried reading the book after seeing the movie Where the Heart is and the exact opposite happened, I HATED the book. but from the reviews, I don't think this is going to happen with this one. I will be going to the library tonight.all in all, I think it was a good movie. i didn't particularly care for Jolie at first, but now that I've seen other work of hers, I have changed my mind about her in this movie. I liked the Maddie character the most, but the first time I watched i was more like Rita, the awkward virgin, while I longed to be a little more like Violet, the slut. Goldie represented what I could've become, had I not been as strong as I was and let situations and circumstances lead me to embrace drug addiction. I wish they would've gone a little deeper into some of the girls's background. all you really got to see is goldies dad slapping her around, and maddie's parents, and a couple of small glimpses into Rita's family. but the friendship and the bond with the girls is central focus, I felt for the movie, and I think that came across very well in the movie. maybe i'll have a different opinion once i read the book. we'll see.  "},{"Title":"This film spoke to me. It's Angelina at her best!","Date":"8 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When I first saw the film I was blown away! The way the five female leads bond and form such a connection from an accidental meeting is written so well. A stranger comes into their lives and teaches them more about themselves than they ever could! Life long friendships are built on the connection they had. As the film goes on you start hoping it's never going to end and when it does it's so sad that I cried. When I first watched it I really wanted 'legs' and 'maddy' to get together as it was so obvious that they had fallen in love but the more I watched it I realised 'legs' had to go, she moved on because she loved 'maddy' and that also 'maddy' couldn't love her the way she wanted! It's very bitter sweet but the more I watch it the more empowered I get. This film has so much personal meaning to me that I reckon anyone who watches it, or rather any girl who watches it is going to relate in some way and really feel like part of the film. This film is Angelina at her best when she defide convention and said that feeling something for another women isn't wrong in fact most of us have those feelings at some point in our lives. She was the first women I felt something for and to this day when I look back at that film I feel strong and hopeful. Foxfire is and will always be my favourite film of all times. "},{"Title":"not worth watching","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  i just wanted to say that if there are any girls/boys out there that want to see this movie just because it is about a girl gang, read the book.  the book is so much more profound, detailed, interesting, and you don't get the bad acting with it.  the only reason to see this film, is to watch angelina jolie. "},{"Title":"What a disgrace!","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Routine B-movie for teenagers for some reason pretending to be a film version of Joyce Carol Oates's gorgeous novel Foxfire.  Readers of the book are sure to be disappointed -- outraged is more like it.  I certainly was. "},{"Title":"Meh","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Well, Angelina Jolie is my fave actress, and I only rented this movie 'cause she was in it. I mean, I never even heard of it before. She's an awesome actress and if she wasn't in this movie it probably would have been really dumb. It was a pretty good movie though, but the nudity was totally unnessecary(spelled right?). What, they don't believe in bras? The ending was really good. I cried. And I cried again a few days later when I really thought about it. Seeing other people cry always makes me cry. Anyways, it was a good movie. "},{"Title":"Foxfire burns and burns and burns","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Although Foxfire illustrates once again film's basic inability to truly capture the levels of meaning proffered by the print medium, it is relatively successful in remaining true to the spirit of Joyce Carol Oates's riveting novel.  Its presentation of the strength of both the bonds of friendship and of women alternates between abandon and lyricism to underscore the primal joy and moving tenderness that are the Yin and Yang of female freedom.   Women, like fire, offer nourishment and warmth, but they can destroy if not shown the proper respect.  Legs Sadovsky, the embodiment of the freedom and centeredness than can result from embracing both the nourishing and destructive aspects of women's inner fire, is stunningly portrayed by Angelina Jolie.  With a single look, Jolie can and does convey the depth of love and intensity of commitment and strength so necessary to this hero's ability to compel and command.  Looking into her eyes and hearing the calm, sure confidence of her voice, viewers understand why Maddy, Rita, Violet, and Goldie see her as the liberating leader she becomes.  It is difficult to imagine any other young actress who could play the role as convincingly.  She is backed by an excellent performance by Hedy Burress, who portrays the searching uncertainty of Maddy Wirtz, the young girl who is most confused and changed by her encounter with Legs, in a way that reawakens in each of us the aching longing of adolescence.   By all means, see the film.  But don't neglect to read the novel, one of the best by one of the few writers working today who is destined to become part of the Western literary canon. "}{"Title":"huge Angelia Fan","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is a total girls can take care of themselves movie! Too many people write this movie off but I think it shows a good side of females. I love it and Jolie is perfect for the part of Leggs! Buy this movie and watch it over and over again its a winner! "},{"Title":"Wonderfully Magical Movie...","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Wow! That's the only word that can describe this beautiful, touching film. I was blown away by the acting. Angelina Jolie is the most beautiful and talented actress in the film industry right now. The whole movie was a wonderful trip through the lives of five friends...i recommend it as much as humanly possible "},{"Title":"Intriguing... sexy... sad...","Date":"10 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Foxfire reminded me of the works of S.E. Hinton but with much,  much more intensity, largely because it worked in fewer  characters and allowed for greater development of those  characters. Excellent, taut performances by the leads resonate as does the  final image of the movie... don't miss this  "},{"Title":"Bad book adaptation, still a decent movie","Date":"8 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Watched this for the first time in 2 or 3 years the other day, having read the book since then. Hate to agree with the popular viewpoint, but it's true... moving from the 50s to the 90s is a bad idea. In 95/96, you don't get suspended for 3 weeks for accusing a teacher of molesting you, the guys aren't all 50s style jock bullies who try to gang rape a character who they have no reason to be concerned about (she's walking one's abused girlfriend home... let's rape her. The four other guys... yeah why not. Not one of these supposedly 1996 guys try to stop him. There's at least one, probably three, who realize their coach/teacher is an a**hole who forced himself on a pathologically shy virginal redhead).However, there's a good performance from Jolie before she became a major annoyance (anything after Gia), a great performance by Burress, able to convey that she is rebelling against the evil male hierarchy of a hick town in upstate New York in 1956 that somehow got transported through the Donnie Darko time vessel into 1996 Portland (why not just set it in Seattle and cut out the middle man while yer butchering a pretty good book for the flannel generation?). She also has great chemistry with the always scenery-chewing Jolie, back when it worked... see Girl Interrupted for a case where Burress woulda been much better (or even Claire Danes, who auditioned and like Burress would be much more compatible with Winona, not resorting to all those notice me Oscar antics) She'd be a way better cop in Bone Collector too.(i saw some show where she played a butch, kinda guncrazy cop or Secret Service agent, damned if i can remember what it was now). Maddy's transformation into walking on top of the bridge thus works way better than it has any right to (the first time I saw it, I was almost as moved as when Jack Nicholson inspires Will Sampson to lift the tub. And just like One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, I then read the book).Had this been set in the 50s and directed by Figgis (who ended up just producing) instead of a casting director it probably coulda been a classic chick flick that guys like too. If Figgis could remake it with the original 50s story (maybe Jena Malone as Maddy, Lauren Ambrose or Christina Ricci as Legs... no they're both 23 or 24 now. i'm no casting director, but Carter could stick to that job)...6 outta 10. It's not mediocre because of the very good leads but too unfaithful to the source and poorly directed to be considered good.Wow, I'm a guy and made it thru the review without talking about the scene where Jolie and Burress take their shirts off. Woops. I just did. "},{"Title":"Silly silly silly","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The only reason I saw this movie is because I was an extra in it.  A group of friends & myself saw this in the theatre, and knew it was a bad sign when, on a Friday night, we were the only ones in the theatre.  After the hey, look! novelty of recognizing local places, this movie began to stink like week-old shrimp salad.  Silly one-dimensional characters (the leader, the center, the addict, the ugly one) and issues handled about at realistically as a 70s after school special just made this howlingly bad. Note the awful acting of the pretty-boy boyfriend.  While waiting for a scene to start, I overheard this exchange between him & the director. After the director was explaining the deep emotions his character was to supposed to be going through, the director asked him if he had any questions. Yeah, do I have a close-up?  Truly awful. "},{"Title":"It had potential; I can't, and won't, contest that.","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What can be said of a movie like Foxfire. It was a truly original film, and no one can possibly doubt that. And it had some good stuff in it, very good stuff. However, after establishing a unique and wonderful storyline, it becomes cliché too quick.I do often write, and Legs and her friends are similar to many of my characters. However, she is a character who initially sparks much interest indeed, but eventually loses her realism and becomes uninteresting. From that point on the movie becomes a sad excuse to show some female nudity accompanied by some lesbianism to, let's admit it, get horny guys watching it.  "},{"Title":"The only good thing in this movie is Jolie","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The only thing worthwhile in this movie is Jolie. She seems to somewhat salvage the movie, if ever this movie could be saved. However, when one has seen Hackers, one would know that it is done without much effort since she more or less plays the same role; rebelling, bad-ass, teenager. Her acting style is exactly the same with that from Hackers. The rest of the appearances and acting is quite lame. Overall this would be a movie to be watched if one has nothing better to do. I watched it at 4 in the morning (insomnia).For Men The actual only worthwhile scene in this movie is when Jolie takes off her t-shirt.WoW!!! (J.K.) "},{"Title":"Put out the Fire, Please *","Date":"28 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Terrible film with Angelina Jolie starting off her career.She comes into a school and goes around unchallenged by a security guard. Walking into a biology class, she sees that the teacher is harassing a student for refusing to cut up a frog. It turns out that the teacher has been doing more than just that to his female students.Jolie, known as Legs, finally jumps the teacher with 4 other girls.They are suspended by Principal Parks. (Richard Beymer) Sad to see that Beymer's career has come to this playing a non-understanding principal. The part is gratefully brief.The girls are suspended and come back to the school with Legs since one of them has to retrieve papers. A lit match ignites a fire and the sprinkler system goes on. Even with the arrival of the police, the girls manage to flee to a hidden abandoned house where they dance and act like the brats they are.Of course, there is a stolen car episode and a gun going off and hitting one of the parents. Seems his daughter, Goldie, is on drugs.There is entirely too much going on here.Legs thankfully leaves and Matty is suddenly no longer afraid of heights. The writing is contrived. The ideas are out of inner sanctum. A very poor movie with no way out other than turning it off. "},{"Title":"I Concur With The Other Reviewer","Date":"2 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" ...but for slightly different reasons. I read the book before I stumbled upon this unfortunate movie and it makes it all the more shameful. Joyce Carol Oates's novel is ingenious, it captures the nostalgia of a mid twentieth century in an upstate New York and the fierceness of femenism in spite of it. All the nuanced details of the book and the beauty of the characters are killed, as one can come to expect. What really surprises me is why Oates okayed the script. A lot has been altered here. It renders the original concept unrecognizable in fact. It's not something that would have been spotted upon reading the script; it wasn't so much a lousy directorial execution. Though then considered, they didn't even do as much as they could have even despite the handicapped script. "},{"Title":"Long, Boring, Silly","Date":"18 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I am totally shocked that so many here have raved about what a wonderful movie this is! It was so choppy and the more the story went on, the less I cared about the characters! The only good thing about the movie was Jolie (considering what she had to work with, but even she can't produce a miracle!) I must admit that I liked the cool house they hung out in. Otherwise, all I can say is run, run as fast as you can away from this junk!! Don't waste your time on this. It's a shame they didn't stay true to the book. It could've worked if there'd been a better script. It would've also been nice if they set it in the 50's or 60's. The characters would've been more believable in a different time. "}{"Title":"stupid Jolie film","Date":"18 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Once more this so called actress annoys the XXXX out of me. Her blowfish mouth looks like she should be blowing bubbles. I have never liked this actress and am in an amazement that she is so popular. I was hoping she'd jump earlier in the film and save us all the painful watching of this film. The other girls in this ridiculous flick deserve whatever happens to them. A collection of the most unattractive women ever put together in one film.There is no justice when they are continually allowed to get away with all the trouble they cause those around them. I have no sympathy for any of them. To me they should all be put away somewhere to rot. "}]