[{"Title":"A naturalistic tragedy of immense proportions","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"59 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I started watching this movie after having read the viewers' comments, so I was prepared for the depression inducing effect everyone kept talking about. Seems like you are never prepared enough for this movie. Sadness and tragedy are in the air right from beginning, you can feel them all the time, even when things start getting better for the two protagonists you know it can't last...because they are doomed, losers, not meant to be happy together. And yet the love they share is the purest and most devoting love I have ever seen on screen; it stunned me how true Jude was to Sue, and how brave Sue was, accepting Jude jr. as one of her own, no questions asked. Many people might find the scene of Sue giving birth and being watched by Jude jr. disturbing, yet it is essential to understand his later deeds, at least partly. The climax of the tragedy is so emotional and so immensely cruel it rips your heart out. I felt the theatre was falling into pieces and so were we, watching this emotional tornado, weeping like possessed. The experience of this movie will make you ponder life, love and death, it will make you understand how important it is to teach your children well and never make them feel undesired. It will make you realize how important it is to always think twice before commiting yourself, even in the modern world flooded with divorces. It will show you what it means to really love, completely and uncompromisingly. I highly recommend this masterpiece, a tale of two beautiful, unfortunate heros ahead their time, doomed by cruelest fate imaginable. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Love and Life are Tragic","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"45 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Life and love can be tragic and beautiful. The ways of society and the heart are not simple and can be quiet opposed. Jude is a masterpiece as a novel and film. Yes, it is quiet the most painful story, but all lives worth living have pain and heartbreak, love and laughter.  This is no sugar-coated romance, but a dark, dirty, tragedy. What affects me so is the timelessness of this story. Michael Winterbottom truly made a wonderful film - he did not write the story folks.Christopher Eccleston is a master actor, he brings such a full-blown sense of the man Jude. He really knew this character strongly and I feel that he has a level of intelligence and feeling that is rarely used in modern male actors. Kate Winslet is a stunning actress. Hard to believe that she carried the level of passion and maturity in Jude as Sue Bridehead at the ripe age of 20. She is truly one-of-a-kind and deserves all accolades placed upon her shoulders. I had no problem with the love scenes and nudity in this movie - although that could be because Chris Eccleston is so incredibly attractive. Isn't love-making crucial and appropriate for two people in love? I don't understand how some people commented poorly on that. It seems quite acceptable for me.  Don't look for mushy weepy romance in Jude. You will find power, grief, passion, love, and bravery. Jude and Sue possess more bravery than most people living today, the tragedy is that they risked everything for their love - which destroyed them and the lives of their children.Masterpiece film making and acting. Bravo!   "},{"Title":"A tragic story told beautifully","Date":"8 April 2003","Score":"32 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  You can't discuss this movie without discussing the novel of the same name. The movie stays remarkably true to the novel; from character to location. If anything, the movie enhances the novel--through Christopher Eccleston's fantastic performance we see in Jude the light of desire and the crush of defeat.Though another review characterizes Thomas Hardy's depiction of females as misogynistic, I disagree.  The character of Arabella is certainly a villain at her heart, but the character of Sue Bridehead is a mirror of our tragic hero, Jude.  Through their interactions, we see not only a stunning performance by Kate Winslet, but also a relationship of equals in misery. Certainly, the males in the novel and movie are depicted at least as wretchedly as the females.This movie draws the viewer in and gives you insight into Jude's world, from it's optimistic beginning to its tragic end.  Definitely not a date movie, but absolutely fine film-making. "},{"Title":"not what i thought...","Date":"28 September 2004","Score":"33 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  ...but i loved it. i was at the library getting a movie for girls night and then i saw the jacket for this movie. first thing i notice it has kate winslet, its historical, and the tag line is really catchy so i check it out, drive to my friends house and start the show. instead of a cute feel good romance i'm confronted with a heavy movie of death, love, hate, and betrayal.now i found this movie to be amazing. the story was very much true to hardy's novel (well up until the end) and while the film is dark it is wonderfully so. it is not a lighthearted period romance but rather a study on human behavior and how it can go terribly wrong when the heart becomes involved. it is obvious that they love each other, and the fact they are cousins is secondary... they had never known each other as children as most children know their cousins. they met as adults and fell in love as such. their story is an impassioned one of trail and error romances, exploring ones desires and drives, the burden of nonconformity, and what can cause as love to break down. very good, very powerful, but a very abrupt ending with one of the best closing lines. ****/*****  "},{"Title":"greatness","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"24 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The best film of the 1990's.Dazzling and heartbreaking in every way imaginable.Eccleston and Winslet give career performances, Hossein Amini's screenplay is judicious and honest, and Winterbottom's direction and cinematography capture everything there is in Hardy's greatest novel.Unmissible,  unparallelled, and devastatingly beautiful. "},{"Title":"Our friends in the west","Date":"18 April 2004","Score":"24 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are three common errors made by directors of historical films that Michael Winterbottom neatly avoids in 'Jude', his adaptation of Thomas Hardy's novel.  Firstly, he creates a picture of a livable past, not some shallow collage of country houses and Dickensian squalor but a world in which a normality, of sorts, might reign.  Secondly, he sets out to explore that normality, instead of simply judging the past by present values.  Finally, he is working with a script that is neither archaic and stiff nor laced with modern anachronisms.  Add to this strong direction and casting (Christopher Ecclestone is excellent in the title role, and a young Kate Winslett fetchingly appealing as Sue), and the result is a good film; but it lacks something of a dramatic punch.I haven't read the book, but one senses from the film that it may represent a fierce attack on then-contemporary values, particularly those involving marriage, values which drive the characters to their ultimate misfortune.  One senses this, but in the movie this theme is played down, so the story seems merely to tell of the ups and downs of Jude's life, presented as fairly accidental happenings.  A terrible tragedy eventually occurs; and, because of what has happened in the past, a second, avoidable, tragedy then follows.  The problem, dramatically speaking, is that the second tragedy appears smaller than the first, thus the end of the film serves as an anti-climax. Without a unifying sense of accusation, we, instead of a powerful polemic, are left with only the tale of an unfortunate.'Jude' is one of the better, and the least sentimental, of historical films.  But something of the point has been lost in translation. "},{"Title":"An imperfect adaptation but powerful film in its own right","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"22 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is not a film for Hardy purists, nor is it for the faint-hearted. No two-hour adaptation could do complete justice to Hardy's final work, and many of the themes of religion, education and society are pared down in favour of the tragic central relationship between the eponymous Jude and his cousin Sue.Eccleston and the then up-and-coming Winslet are superb as the on-off couple, lifting the film despite some patchy directing. The passage of time and emotion is dealt with heavy-handedly (albeit faithfully) by Winterbottom, but this is in contrast to some beautiful and touching set-pieces. This is where the film excels, especially in the bold decision to cut the final stage of their relationship in favour of a powerfully bleak ending in which the audience, along with Jude, is left with little closure.No happy endings here, then, and those of fragile stock should be warned that, despite being visually underplayed, the pivotal scene is played with a brutal tragedy which makes it no less shocking.Finally, I feel the score should be given special mention this was Adrian Johnston's first major work but it succeeds as an evocation of tenderness, piety and sorrow, especially in the final two scenes of the film.  "},{"Title":"Don't let the kids see this","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"23 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This pessimistic and rather brutal cinematic production is based on the nineteenth century novel Jude the Obscure by Thomas Hardy. A bowdlerized and altered version of that novel first appeared in Harper's New Monthly Magazine as a serial beginning in December 1894. Its original title was 'The Simpletons,' a title modern viewers of this movie might find appropriate considering how Jude and Sue round out their lives.It need hardly be said that any motion picture, and certainly not one running only about two hours, can hope to do justice to Hardy's novel (his last, incidentally) which is about 180,000 words long (about 400 pages of dense text). An earlier TV mini series version made by the BBC that I have not seen, Jude the Obscure (1971), ran for almost four and a half hours in six episodes. But this is a pretty good movie anyway, highlighted by an enthralling performance by Kate Winslet.The movie starts rather slowly, if picturesquely, until Kate appears and then the movie comes to life. I have seen Winslet in several films, including her first feature film when she was18-years-old, Heavenly Creatures (1994), an interesting film made in New Zealand based on a sensational matricide from the 1950s. She was very good in that film, her budding talent immediately obvious as the spinning, laughing, crazy teen who went off the deep end emotionally. In Jude, Winslet's sharp, confident and commanding style is given greater range and she comes across with a performance that is full of life, effervescent, delightful, witty, sly, clever, and very expressive, and she looks beautiful doing it.The story itself, a naturalistic tragedy that in some respects anticipates Theodore Dreiser, et al., was considered immoral in its time. 'The Bishop of Wakefield, disgusted with the novel's insolence and indecency, threw it in the fire,' according to Terry Eagleton who wrote the Introduction for the New Wessex Edition of the book. Modern film goers will hardly notice the implied critique of marriage that offended Victorian readers, but they might find the scene where Arabella throws the pig's 'part' at Jude indelicate. Victorian readers found that scene most offensive. As a public service I want to warn any modern viewer who might be offended at seeing Kate Winslet naked to avoid this film. (Just Joking Kate is quite fetching in the Rubenesque shot.) To be honest, though, this really is a tragedy that still has the power to offend some sensibilities. Certainly you don't want the kids to see it.Christopher Eccleston plays Jude and does a good job, and Rachel Griffiths in a modest part plays Jude's first wife Arabella. Director Michael Winterbottom stayed spiritually true to Hardy's dark vision while tailoring the tale for modern audiences. There's a nice period piece feel and some charming cinematography. The denouement is well set up and so realistically done that we don't know whether to be horrified or outraged. I think I was both.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"Beautifully depressing","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Set in late 1800's Britain, Jude traces the life of the title character (Eccleston),  a learned but humble stonemason, who courageously struggles with life's disappointments only to be struck with unspeakable tragedy. A beautifully depressing human drama, Jude traverses the highs and lows of life through its dreary tale of one man's steadfast conviction to his beliefs and to the woman he loves. Not for everyone, Jude is a film for realists into serious drama which many will likely regard as a downer.  (B+) "},{"Title":"Thomas Hardy's Jude","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" How could such a sprawling novel like Hardy's become a two-hour movie? It was a mammoth task and the result is only partly successful.That's why the beginning of the movie seems botched.Actually everything happens when Kate Winslet's character appears.The main flaw lies in the fact that Jude's main ideal was to become an intellectual,Christminster remained his horizon till the very end.In the movie,the second part of the movie focuses on the Sue-Jude relationship.After the doyen's letter,his cultural ambitions take a back seat and it's Sue who provides the main interesta woman ahead of her time,despising marriage, this leading to her downfall.Then again,the film recreates the fatality (recalling sometimes French writer Zola )hanging on Jude and Sue only occasionally (Drusilla warning the hero).Arabella's character,though vital in the novel,is sometimes reduced to a walk on,the same goes for Aunt Drusilla. Assets a very good music score,fine performances with K.Winslet the stand-out,beautiful photo and nice film sets. "}{"Title":"Not enough like the book","Date":"14 November 2007","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I disliked the characterization of Sue in this film. Sue was supposed to be higher than Arabella, spiritual and intellectual. To see her smoking a strange man's cigarette and carousing with the boys in the bar was a bit of a shock. And the bit about your child killed my children was not at all like Sue. At no time in the book did she attach blame to anyone but herself. Her ultimate neurosis was her complete self-centeredness. She led poor Jude and Fillotson a merry dance and ended up ultimately rejecting both of them. That's one of the reason I detest this character, in the book as well as the movie. Nothing matters to her but herself. You even get the sense in the book that the death of the children only mattered in its reflection on herself.The movie is also missing the ultimate irony, Arabella's second seduction of Jude and his eventual death in her home, in her bed. Christopher Eccleston is wonderful as a consumptive; they should have given him a lovely death scene instead of leaving him standing in the snow.Kate Winslet is a beautiful Sue, but the characterization is a bit too tough and brazen. Christopher Eccleston was simply sublime. And did anyone else notice David Tennant in the bar? Two Doctors in the same room... ) "},{"Title":"Kate Winslet shines in this very grotesque film by Michael Winterbottom...","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's an adaptation of Thomas Hardy's harrowing novel in which a young man (Played by Christopher Eccleston) falls in love with his cousin (played by Kate Winslet) upon meeting her for the first time. Their love is probably to blame for all the problems that come their way throughout the course of the film. Winslet is especially daunting as she is haunting in the character of Sue, a young woman who is just out to please the ones she loves until tragedy strikes and she is forced to think differently. Eccleston is stellar as the title character of Jude, a role that was also offered to the likes of Ewan Mcgregor and Colin Farell just to mention a few but just watching Eccleston in his first scenes as the character and you just cannot possible imagine anybody else playing the role. For the sake of art, you will have to endure full frontal nudity on the part of Winslet, as well as a graphic scene in which she gives birth. So, you've been fore warned. Director Michael Winterbottom, captures the beauty and picturesque nature of old England in his brilliant masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Excellent!!","Date":"28 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If you like dark dramas, this is your movie. Very true to the book and absolutely engrossing. The locations are beautiful. The acting is superb. The characters are richly brought out, and you can understand their thought processes. This is a moral play, as well as a look at the way society imposes rules of conduct. I stumbled on this wonderful film while watching the romance channel on television in 2000. I came in toward the middle, but was immediately drawn into the story. I searched high and low for the video, and when I want a moody drama, this is where I go. This film will make you think. Obviously, the book is practically required reading after you see this movie. You'll just be compelled to know more. Truly a haunting movie that you will remember for a long time. "},{"Title":"Hardy's Jude the Obscure faithfully portrayed","Date":"24 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Winterbottom keeps the temperature of the searing original novel in his faithful, brilliantly realised film adaptation. Hardy was sick when writing Jude, out of sorts, and the bleak tale has in some quarters been credited more to bile than his muse. Jude's fate is certainly more damning than other Hardy heroes such as Tess, and the final third of this tale requires a strong heart to get through.Jude Fawley is a self-educated stonemason looking to enter the hallowed halls of (a thinly-disguised) Oxford. Class and snobbery combine to crush that dream, but he fights and wins his other dream, to secure the love of his cousin Sue. Headstrong and independent, a prototype Suffragette, she will face her own stern test and be found wanting.Christopher Eccleston inhabits the character fully. The scene in the pub where he recites the Lord's Creed in Latin, then challenges the undergrads to judge if he got it right, is painful and poignant. Winslet is stunning as the admirable but infuriating Sue Brideshead whose choices in life are oblique but all-too-real. A cold draft of air oozes from her expression every time she shuns Jude. There isn't a missed beat in Winslet's portrayal of a woman who goes from supremely confident to utterly lost.Winterbottom would go on to tinker and experiment, unsuccessfully, with Hardy's Mayor of Casterbridge in The Claim. Here, he keeps it strictly BBC, evoking the early industrial age magnificently in his cobbled streets and fog-shrouded spires. An array of British acting talent fill out the supporting roles superbly, most notably Liam Cunningham as the put-upon Phillotson, and Rachel Griffiths as pig-hugging Arabella, whose rising fortune sways in counter-point to Jude's slow, inexorable decline. In one scene where she encounters her estranged son at a fairground, the interaction between woman and child is both naturalistic and magical. The expression on the face of Little Jude's sister is priceless. Perhaps a happy accident, perhaps genius from the director, but all the more tragic for what follows.One of the most ill-fated couples in British literature are vividly brought to life in this film, designed to satisfy fans of the novel. Hardy, one feels, would approve. "},{"Title":"Heartbreaking literary adaptation","Date":"26 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A briskly but sensitively shot, well-acted and brutally rendered version of Thomas Hardy's tragic novel. I remember being terribly disappointed though (when I saw this in the cinema) that the grainy, visceral b&w images of the title sequence were discontinued as the movie proper got started.Ecclestone finds a great deal of sympathy and charm with which to play the ambitious but unlucky Jude. Kate Winslet is an arguably bigger draw though, throwing herself headlong into a part that requires... well many of the characteristics that she brought to the successful Austen adaptation Sense and Sensibility the previous year willfulness, joy and despair. Rachel Griffiths is horrible as Jude's ball and chain but nothing is as nasty as the notorious fate of the incestuous couple's children. Strong stuff from Winterbottom, as usual. 6/10 "},{"Title":"A tragedy caused by their own time","Date":"12 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" How to summarise Jude? They say that in the late Victorian era there was a school of thought that almost glorified the state of childhood, believing it to be a perfect time in a person's life when innocence reigned, but I don't believe Thomas Hardy followed this line of thinking. No matter how young, both Jude the father and Jude the son seem weighed down by doom and misery in this film.I think this film fell under the category of independent film, which is just as well. Following the Thomas Hardy convention whereby nothing can end happily, Jude ultimately ends with a miserable mood, but in a sense this is perfect. Although it's not the sort of film anyone would want to watch on a down day, I'm sure that - had this film been given the Hollywood treatment, the storyline would have been mercilessly rearranged to have a loving happy ending. The problem is, if that happened, it wouldn't be Hardy.There is something stark about the opening of the film - the scratchy music, the loneliness of the solitary young Jude, the clattering noise of the bird-scarer and yet, combined with the black-and-white filming, it evokes the appropriate mood for the film so easily and so early on. In amongst the winter scenes and the aerial shots that show only a tiny bit of movement in an otherwise still landscape, Jude and Arabella's wedding is possibly the busiest, most colourful scene in the whole film. Of course, there are also many interesting social and sometimes political issues raised, partly because of the time in which the film is set. Had the story been moved forward a hundred years, there would be nothing remarkable about Sue attending lectures, smoking cigarettes, drinking beer in the pub, visiting Jude without a chaperone. There would be nothing surprising about being educated when you had a job - like Jude's - that didn't require it. But Jude and Sue are tragic in a way - both impulsive people in a world and a time when a commitment like marriage was not to be taken lightly.There are many bad omens in the film - Aunt Drusilla remarking that The Fawleys were not meant for marrying - and the particular tragedy of Jude's character is the way he rushes into things only to regret them later. Though Jude is tragic, his cousin and partner Sue is equally blighted - to watch her change during the film from an irreverent, sparky, impertinent, independent single woman into a tortured, guilty (in her own eyes) shadow of her former self is heartbreaking. Although in some ways women's lives and opportunities were limited in various ways in the nineteenth century, as a female with a job, no husband and no parents or other family, she did have quite a lot of freedom. Oddly, Jude's wife Arabella is not so different from Sue - she is as forward and daring physically as Sue is intellectually. During their marriage, she and Jude almost reverse roles - she goes out to kill a pig single-handedly when he is too sensitive to do so. There is an interesting contrast between Jude's sex scenes with Arabella and the one he has with Sue. The wedding night with Arabella is warmly lit and cosy, whereas the scene with Sue is stark, almost grey, with a cold feeling and yet in some ways Sue and Jude are more necessary to each other than Arabella and Jude ever were. On the costume side I note that - as with the more recent Kate Winslet film Finding Neverland - the costumes don't look like fashion plates, they look like real clothes (occasionally none too clean but when you take into account how time-consuming and labour-intensive it must have been to wash them, it's hardly surprising). It seems strange now that Kate must only have been twenty or twenty-one when this film was made - in her first scene she looks mature whereas in others she seems very, very young.This isn't the easiest film to watch - there are a few sections I almost always fast-forward - but that is not to say it's not good. Every time I watch it, a bit of me wants things to end happily, but - as I said before - that just wouldn't be Hardy. "},{"Title":"Touching and pleasing","Date":"5 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Words can not describe the emotions that you get by watching this movie. I did not know anything about it before it was shown on TV a few years ago. But by luck, i stumbled on it and i'm still revisiting some scenes, months after the viewing ! I basically never cry during emotional, and hard scenes, but this time i could not contain myself. You know things are going all wrong for the couple and you're rooting for them from the start but it just keeps coming and coming...Apart from the emotions, i truly loved the acting and also really enjoyed the historic side.A solid 9 (i never give 10's) that i would recommend anytime ! You'll be touched, i guarantee ! "},{"Title":"What an astonishing film!","Date":"17 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Thomas Hardy isn't an easy writer to tackle. His work is so black and depressing, really. It's brilliant, but very challenging.Michael Winterbottom isn't my favorite director. I didn't like his last 2 films, and Welcome to Sarajevo was very stupid and white washed. But JUDE is easily his best accomplishment...and he was the perfect man for the job. His best decision was to cast the amazing CHRISTOPHER ECCLESTON and KATE WINSLET, who, as Time Magazine critic Richard Corliss stated, is the star of her time. The tragic scene at the end of the film is so devastatingly performed by Winslet and Eccleston, that just writing about it makes me want to cry. Sue's reaction to what she sees is just...absolute horror and devastation too great for words. For me, JUDE ranks with SOPHIE'S CHOICE as one of the saddest stories ever brought to the screen.But the film does have moments of wonderful tenderness and humor, believe it or not. And the chemistry between Winslet and Eccleston is like nothing I've seen on screen in the last 10 years. See Jude if you haven't yet! It starts off slow, but with good reason. The cinematography, music, acting, direction...everything is first rate! But prepare yourself to have your heart torn out of your chest, thrown on the floor, and stomped on a thousand times. "},{"Title":"Entertainment is Forsaken.","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  In this day and age, hollywood cranks out hundreds of films made for one purpose.  The almighty dollar.  The first thing that caught my attention while watching this film is its lack of any entertainment value from the very beginning.  No gimmicks, no effects to draw your money.  This is possibly the best movie I've ever seen.  In fact, it is more than a film, it is an experience.  Jude progresses so that its closing moments strike so much agony into your heart, you are changed.  It is the type of film you can only experience once.  Any added viewings would only be analyzing it. Jude is the epitome of what true, high, fine art should accomplish.  A feeling you can never recreate.  If you enjoy art you will love this film, and if you look for entertainment, you will be so shocked by it, you will never look at films the same way.  Since seeing Jude, all other films seem bland and heartless.  The final punch is so powerful it will make even endings like those in The Rear Window and The Sixth Sense seem mediocre and even predictable.  Anyone with 3 dollars or a library card should do themselves the favor and experience a piece of life only found in this movie. "},{"Title":"A wounding, but splendid film","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film, though not completely faithful to the text, does capture the essence of the novel, and creates an atmosphere typical in Hardy's novels. The film is full of visually beautiful scenes. The cast, as well as being a group of highly talented actors, very accurately portray the characters, and draw sympathy and understanding from the viewer. This is Kate Winslet's best role to date, perhaps with the exception of her role as Ophelia in Hamlet. Ecceleston shines through as a truly talented actor, and in very believable manner plays the role of a man trapped by his destiny. To those who enjoyed this film, I would recommend the following movies -The Wings of the Dove -Tous les Matins du Monde(All the mornings of the world)  "}{"Title":"Moving and Striking...","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film has remained in my mind since the first time I saw it (back in the winter of 1997) and has earned its place as my favorite movie of all time; while not technically spectacular, commercially successful, or critically supported, it is both a wicked strike at oppressive Victorian morals, a sour commentary on the effects of religion on a society, and an extremely well-crafted love story about a relationship that endures years of torment on both sides and a horrible tragedy.  Kate Winslet and Christopher Eccleston are the two best British actors working today (check out Heavenly Creatures and Shallow Grave if you don't believe me) and I applaud Michael Winterbottom for bringing this great book to the screen. "},{"Title":"Sadly beautiful.","Date":"20 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Jude is a stonemason in late 19th century England who had a dream of becoming a University professor one day. And then he fell in love with his cousin. This movie based on a Thomas Hardy novel is one of the most melancholy films I've ever seen. But sadness flows so beautifully in this film, thanks to excellent vision by the director Winterbottom and surprisingly mature script. The movie catches the 19th century mentality nicely, but without delivering any cliché in perspective. Winterbottom was aided by brilliant performances by both Eccleston and a 20-year-old Kate Winslet. Some complain about the inclusion of nudity in the film. But this is art.I never read the novel. But with a film such beautiful, it doesn't really matter whether it follows the novel truthfully or not. "},{"Title":"Hardy would be ashamed . . .","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I must say that I watched this movie with a jaded eye, I had just finished reading `Jude the Obscure' and expected to see the philosophical, social and mental complexity the book contained reflected in the film. I was so very, very wrong. The plot meanders roughly to the book, glazing over most of the Schopenhauer-driven importance of suffering and welcoming of the death wish. As Jude and his illegitimate wife/ cousin Sue make their way through abject poverty, the plot drags on so much that the misery the two main characters is nothing compared to the misery of watching this movie. To make matters worse, the director throws in a nude scene that has no purpose, not furthering the plot nor matching with the rest of the movie.My best advice is to pawn the movie and use that money to buy the book. Even cliff notes would be better than this poor literary rip off.  "},{"Title":"fascinating book lost under much badly-shot whining","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  An adaptation of Thomas Hardy's novel Jude The Obscure. This film was at its strongest when presenting the book verbatim, but got extremely tedious when it went off on long, irrelevant, and inconsistent tangents.I think it can work really well to update historical works by presenting contemporary values/contexts (eg. Baz Luhrman's Romeo & Juliet), but this film is so oblivious to the ideas and arguments of the book, one wonders why the director bothered with it at all. Jude the Obscure was an indictment of many of the values of its time, in particular chastity outside marriage, and the equation of class with intelligence and prospects. Both of these get lost under long, badly-shot segments of whining. "},{"Title":"it could not have been worse than that!","Date":"31 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Hardy is one of the writers whose works are so difficult to be cinematized I think! When I watched Tess I was disappointed even if it was produced by great director like Polanski. The thing is that Hardy does reflect the soul of his characters against the backdrop of darker truths in a society which seems clear in a veneer of pastoral vision.When I saw that the run-time of this movie 123 min I was surprised unfortunately I was right because after 20 minutes we see Jude grown-up man who travels to Christminster. We have never seen anything about his soul,dreams,ideals until then. We do not understand after then either. We just see him studying Latin at his desk. This is barely Jude's way of living and studying!Before the viewers understanding what is going on he meets Arabella beside some river! Jude meets her when he ,is returning from his work-masonry but we do not see anything about masonry until that minute either! At some point we see Sue's frigid reaction Dont touch me like that. I am not read then after a minute we see her giving birth a kid! How the heck did they do it! We do not see much into their marriage either! Nothing about the souls and psychology about characters, fast sets of events, not exact dialogs etc.. etc.. I am totally disappointed! "},{"Title":"Dark but Romantic Drama","Date":"10 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If you like dark dramas with a touch of romance, then this is the movie for you. The film is actually very true to the book and absolutely engrossing. The acting in the film is truly superb so much that the characters come to life on screen, so that you almost can become them and see through their eyes. This is a moral play, as well as a look at the way society imposes rules of conduct. When I came in toward the middle of the movie, but I got sucked into it. I find it a great movie to watch on a nice rainy day. Obviously, the book is practically required reading after you see this movie. Truly a haunting movie that you will remember for a long time and keep coming back to. "},{"Title":"romantic epic","Date":"19 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Jude Fawley (Christopher Eccleston) comes from a lower class rural village. He aspires to be educated but is a simple stonemason. He marries country girl Arabella (Rachel Griffiths) thinking she's pregnant. Jude is wrong for the country life and Arabella departs for Australia claiming that she thought she was pregnant and did not trick him. Jude goes off to Christminster where he hopes to go to the university. He is taken by cousin Sue Bridehead (Kate Winslet). The university rejects him and Sue refuses him after he reveals that he's married. She marries the religious Phillotson (Liam Cunningham) but it's a loveless marriage. She and Jude go off together in a life of struggle. Arabella sends him Juey who she claims is his. Jude and Sue have two more children together but their common-law relationship causes problems and ends in tragedy.Director Michael Winterbottom brings some life to this difficult story. He could have made this darker and moodier. He could have played up the star-crossed lovers. He could also put the social structure much more out front. He is blessed with two great actors. Eccleston and Winslet are terrific. This is a fine romantic epic. "},{"Title":"Beautifully Depressing","Date":"17 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If I had just started ranting about how much I hated this movie, it would not portray the true beauty that is so easily over-looked. Yes, this movie made me want to kill myself, but I do not say that in a this is the worst movie ever kind of way. This movie was intended to be a depressing example of how love is tested and how life is full of tragedy.This movie was definitely not one that I have watched if I would have known how it would make me feel, I am more of a happy-movie kind of person. But after watching it, I started to realize that there were many beautiful lessons to be learned from it.So all-in-all, 'Jude' is a mixed bag of pain, love, tragedy, beauty, depression, and then more pain and depression. "},{"Title":"Hey Jude, you make it good (web)","Date":"12 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's an excellent movie because it scores in each corner it has a wonderful, gripping story that can speaks to anyone with heart. As it's an adaptation, you will be interested in reading the novel. Beyond the personal drama, I remember two scandals that are always verified today 1) education is elitist as it expels those who don't have pedigree 2) Christian congregation is highly hypocritical as they achieve to turn a message of love into one of rejection. It has wonderful locations, between the green pastures and the austere British cities (for those who have seen Spielberg's War Horse, it has the same ambiance). Winterbottom is inspired to fill his frames and Johnston's soundtrack is just one of the best ever as it gives such poetry to the pictures. As for the cast, it's just an amazing reunion Eccleston finds his career pick as his Jude is such a good man always sincere, hardworking, caring, sometimes sad but never quits! Kate is always fascinating by her precocity and by her personal choices for free- spirited characters! "},{"Title":"A bitter reflection on non-conformity","Date":"8 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" With actors of the calibre of Kate Winslet and Christopher Eccleston, this drama could hardly have failed. That said, I felt something was lacking in the characterisation of Sue Bridehead, I haven't read the book, but there is a difficult combination of character traits that stumble between the intellectual and prim and the untethered and vivacious. I felt that we knew Jude, and all the other principle characters, but somehow Sue, despite a magnificent performance by Winslet remained detached and distant as though there was something unexplained in her make up. She was wholly unabashed about her and Jude's marital state, incredibly liberal in her adoption of Jude's son, but yet at times seemed almost uninvolved in her intimacy with Jude. I'm not sure what Hardy wrote, but I think revealing a little more of the motivation behind Sue's character would have clarified and improved the film immensely. Overall though, a very moving and beautifully shot construction, not quite in the same league as Polanski's Tess or Schlesinger's Far from the Madding Crowd, but a great film nevertheless. "}{"Title":"Jude","Date":"28 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Jude is an extraordinary film by one of the most daring and amazing director out there ,as Michael Winterbottom. The original novel(Jude the Obscure) is translated in a brilliant script by Hossein Amini and centers on the aspirations of a lower-class man,Jude Fawley(Christopher Ecclestone),who fights to become a university man. After a quick and wrong marriage with an humble country girl,Arabella(Rachel Griffiths), he met his cousin Sue Bridehead(Kate Winslet)an intelligent,beautiful and apparently as unconventional and brave as him. Their passionate love will end tragically though. The film is from the end to the beginning sad and depressing at his best since we see Jude and Sue fight against the Victorian society's beliefs such as a legalized marriage(they only live as a couple)and the impossible aspirations of a lower-class man who would like to become equal to his peers and study at the university. Ultimately their lives will be destroyed by a cruel destiny. Jude is completely coherent to his ideas but Sue is a tormented and fragile woman who,in the end, is not able to came to terms with what she professed at the beginning. In the end, she turns to religion and accepts a life she rejected because she feels guilty. Christoph Ecclestone and Kate Winslet are just superb. Ecclestone is a serious underrated actor who should be in the spotlight. He never misses a beat and gives an amazing performance. Kate Winslet is completely committed to her role and gives a dramatic performance that is devastating. The director gives the a vivid and crude cut and confirms his uncommon abilities to tell a story set in a different era as we're seeing a modern tragedy.His direction is as tormented as his leads and we can't help but have a feeling that he is not afraid to show the crudest side and the terrible contradictions of the Victorian period. my vote is 10/10. "},{"Title":"Suitably depressing piece of Hardy","Date":"4 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Jude The Obscure is Thomas Hardy's final novel, and his bleakest. It doesn't seem an obvious choice for cinema, hence why it failed at the box office.An air of gloom hangs over the whole proceedings. The story is a little like Tess- a man's chance at love is destroyed by a woman from his past. Jude (Christopher Eccleston) is the man in question- an ambitious country boy whose desire is to become a student at Christminster (Hardy's made-up name for Oxford). He moves to Christminster and falls in love with his clever cousin Sue Brideshead (Kate Winslet). Unfortunately he is already married- to loose country girl Arabella (Rachel Griffiths), who keeps popping up and ruining Jude's chance at happiness. The climax of the film is one of the most tragic and horrific things you will see in a long time.The film is quite well done. It is a bit graphic (this is Michael Winterbottom after all) and anachronistic in places, but there are enough tinges of Hardy to make it a costume drama. He certainly hasn't butchered it as he butchered Tess in his film Trishna.The problem of the film is that Jude is a bit of a ninny, who doesn't seem to have the ruthlessness or the cleverness needed to get into the academic elite and constantly runs back to Arabella. The incestuous aspect is also very off-putting. One feels sorry for Jude and Sue but one can never feel entirely comfortable with their relationship.Another problem, at least adaptation-wise, is that Arabella, who is a horrible sadist in the book from what I've heard, is merely a nuisance here. Perhaps Winterbottom thought that might be too much misery for people but it does mean that the film ends abruptly.Acting-wise, everything is fine. Eccleston convinces as a country boy, although his Northern accent does come out at times. Winslet does well as spirited Sue Brideshead, similar to Rose in Titanic so not much of a stretch for her.EDIT Having now read the novel- not my favourite Hardy novel but a powerful novel nonetheless- the film gets the sexuality right. Everything that Hardy couldn't show, this film shows, so for those who complain that the film has too much nudity, this is actually quite true to the novel- particularly as none of it is very erotic. Jude's weakness for the flesh is almost animalistic.Leaving aside the hot and steamy, we have that whole spiritual dimension. That part of the novel is quite hard to translate and it doesn't really come through in this film. Jude is meant to be too noble for this world, hindered by his fleshy desires.And the film really does let Arabella off too lightly. In this, she's a typical country wench- a tart with not much of a heart. However in the book, she's not only a tart with no heart, she's a proper butcher, cruel to the point of sadism. "},{"Title":"Ambitious and anything but tender, but wonderfully acted and well adapted","Date":"2 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Thomas Hardy's Jude the Obscure is a very complicated and ambitious book, and while heavy-reading it is a fine piece of literature. This 1996 film adaptation is a rock-solid adaptation, that is ambitious and realistic. I will admit some parts like the killing of the pig is anything but tender, but none of the scenes are over-sensationalised.As an adaptation of the book, it works very well. If I had a quibble, the secondary characters could have been developed more than they were depicted. The screenplay is well crafted; the writers and the director have at least some idea how Hardy's work should work on film and stay relatively true to the book. The music both haunting and beautiful at the same time was absolutely outstanding.The direction is very fine, never sluggish and never overdone. It was about right. The cinematography is superb, dark, fluid and sensitive. And the period detail was just as good. It was this element alone that contributed to the mood of the adaptation. The love story here which is dirty and tragic was beautifully realised, and very rarely struck a false note.The performances were just brilliant, no overplaying or underplaying as far as I could see. Special mention must go to the two lead performances. Christopher Ecceleston is a very talented and I think under-appreciated actor, and in the title role he was perfectly cast and showed real versatility. As Sue Brideshead, the beautiful Kate Winslet is positively luminous and is true to her character. Out of the supporting performances, the best is Rachel Griffiths as Arabella, a very modest performance I must say.Overall, has its minor flaws but a very well done adaptation of a complicated book. Always realistic and never overly-sentimental as I feared. Though the ending is heart-rending. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Agree whole-Hardy-ly (pardon the pun)","Date":"9 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The gentleman from the UK who commented on the film and said that he hadn't read the book is very intuitive regarding the book's motive force - and quite correct!Thomas Hardy (my favorite author) wrote many of his novels as searing polemic against the institutions of Victorian English society. Hardy was a modern thinker, and felt that the societal strictures that predestined people to riches or servitude were abhorrent in the extreme.It seems evident that the film was suggestive enough of this agenda, so on that score the film is successful. "},{"Title":"Loves the movie","Date":"1 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" As a huge Thomas Hardy fan, Jude the Obscure being one of my absolute favorites, I think that this film is truly well done. It captures the essence of Jude and Sue's relationship convincingly making these characters truly three dimensional. Understandably, not everything in the novel was included in the film, but what was included in the movie stays true to the novel in all of its significant aspects. Although Hardy's Jude has curly brown hair, Chris Eccleston does such a fine job portraying Jude that it is hard to imagine Jude looking any other way. As for Kate Winslet, she shines and gives Sue more depth than can easily be found in the novel. The reversal of their views of life is portrayed so well that it feels as though it is Hardy himself directing the movie. Wonderful job, few have captured Hardy's cynicism and misanthropy the way this movie does. "},{"Title":"Wonderful-Horrible, a Must-See","Date":"7 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film tells the story of a boy who from his childhood dreamed of becoming more. He hopes to leave the brutal rural world of pig-slaughtering and rolls in the hay for the intellectual world of the university, which to him represents the freedom to think one's own thoughts and to live one's own life.Sadly, his conduct and, more importantly, his opportunities cannot bear his aspirations. When faced with a pregnant girlfriend, he marries her, as any good man should. When faced with mockery from wealthy undergraduates (a scene all the more odd because it pits two Doctor Who's against each other), Jude tries to prove his intelligence by reciting Latin in a pub, realizing in the end that no matter how much Latin he studies he will always be a laborer to these people. He becomes infatuated by his free-thinking cousin, Sue Bridehead, who is similarly pursuing education and independence and who also rejects Victorian conventionalities about women belonging in the home.Sadly, the two cousins find that they cannot reject the values of their world without dire consequences, for them and for their children.Happily, this film beautifully depicts Sue and Jude's struggles in gorgeous shots of the landscape and rich images of the two leads. Christopher Eccleston gives Jude a warm humanity and Kate Winslet creates a Sue Bridehead whom we easily believe could both rebel against social custom and also be crushed by it. I particularly liked the depiction of the harshness of Victorian life the working in the rain, the beatings, the cruelty to animals, the pain of childbirth, the lack of privacy endured by poor families. The film is not Masterpiece Theatre (no criticism just a comment on style) and shows us clearly what the university means to Jude and just what he is trying to escape.If you liked The Remains of the Day, The Age of Innocence, Tess or The Idiot (book, I've never seen a film of this), you will appreciate this film and the book, as well. "},{"Title":"A very sad poignant movie","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Jude Fawley(Christopher Eccleston) lives in a small agricultural town. He is a stonemason who aspires to a higher education level and to go to the university. He marries his childhood sweetheart, but it soon appears that it was wrong from the beginning. She had tricked him into the marriage thinking she was pregnant. They split, he goes to a nearby city and she goes elsewhere. In the new city, he meets his cousin Sue(Kate Winslet), with whom he becomes enthralled with. They both know the relationship is impossible, so they arrange a marriage to a professor(Liam Cunningham) at the university Jude hopes to go to. Within 6 months, the marriage is over and Sue asks for a divorce so she can be with Jude. Her husband says, no. Sue leaves him anyway and she and Jude begin to live together. Their life is the life of abject poverty. At one point they have to auction off their possessions to pay the bills. When people find out they aren't married and have 3 children, he loses his job and they must move on. In the end due to a terrible tragedy, Jude and Sue are separated permanently, though they are still in love and still married to each other's hearts.This is a brutal, realistic film. Thomas Hardy wrote it in the 19th century, but the topic is relevant today. I think just about everyone knows someone or a family that is homeless, had to go bankrupt, had cars repossessed, had to hawk their possession, had to take on 2 or more jobs. I think I've made my point. Having children would have made all of the above worse.All the actors were brilliant, but I must pick two out especially. Christopher Eccleston plays Jude simply as though he knew him. That, in his mind, Jude may have lived down the street from him. The second is also called Jude played by Ross Colvin Turnball. He played Jude's son of the woman he married. She had gotten pregnant after they were married. Jude never knew he had a son with her. This young actor has tremendous presence. Turnball also played his character simply. He could have been the boy he pretended to be.BEWARE Because it is very realistic, it has an R rating with nudity, sexual situations and an adult subject matter. I wouldn't recommend this film for anyone below the age of 17. "},{"Title":"Setting","Date":"20 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" did anyone notice as I did the use of Edinburgh for the town of, I think Christchurch, or some made up place where Jude goes to pursue university? Being home that I miss often i instantly recognised most of the scenes there as being filmed on the Royal Mile in the old town and directly around the square in front of St Giles. Also all the churchyard scenes, including their children's graves was in Greyfriars Churchyard nearby. i found it interseting why theyd give it a false name, furthered by the fact that in the scene in which Jude follows Sue into a public meeting in a hall the man speaking almost seems to be discussing the divide between the new town and the old which anyone who's visited Edinburgh will be well aware almost splits the town in two, the rich and the poor. the new town being visible in the film in scenes such as following the children's death and Sue's departure Jude follows her to an anonymous house before she returns to the church, I think its just below Queen Street. Where was that supposed to be by the way? Just happened to catch the film while flicking last night and thought it was ace, harrowing, but rewarding nonehteless. "},{"Title":"Book Accuracy","Date":"7 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Overall, the movie was very close to the Thomas Hardy novel from which it takes it plot. However, one thing got to me Jude doesn't die in the end. I found the ending unsatisfying. I understand why the filmmakers didn't include the stillborn baby, for there was already so much tragedy, but Jude needed to die. I mean, Tess died, Michael Henchard (Mayor of Casterbridge) died, and Jude died. It brings completion to the novel/story--Jude finally escaped the horrors of his life.All in all, the movie was well executed. The actors (especially the actor who portrayed Jude, who I've only seen in one other movie--the modern Othello done by BBC/PBS) were well cast. I just wish they hadn't made that one change. "},{"Title":"Weakened  man is doomed","Date":"14 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Jude is as powerful and as it is sad. Film sounds strikingly realistic in our days despite being based on an old (19-th century) novel by T. Hardy. It's a good movie for people who prefer rather to suffer from truth than allow to be sanitized with deliberate blindness. The central character Jude, would-to-be scholar while making for living with hard labor, is dragged through maturity because his submissiveness to twisted women around. His authoritarian (aunt? grandmother?) is pushed aside by the young Arabella, daughter of pig farmer. The girl quickly seduces Jude and - on pretense to be pregnant - got him into marriage. Month later she suddenly escapes to Australia. (Another her twist is revealed later she actually was pregnant from Jude; after eight years she sent Jude-Jr. back to father).Abandoned by Arabella, our hero returns to Christminster University and is immediately caught by beautiful cousin. Street smart Sue easily establishes intellectual domination over brother, while puffing cigarettes into his face. Platonically admired, she starts to press him into marriage. After learning that Jude is formally married, she turns around to his mentor the next day... only to abandon him soon for Jude. Numerous twists and turns (like sudden death of Jude's three children, caught in the battle between Arabella and Sue) require quite a space for comments. I would just mention the final Sue's twist she categorically rejects Jude. While kneeling on the snowy cathedral steps, she proclaims to reconcile with supposedly waiting, forgotten for years husband... Crashed and humiliated would-to-be provider, family leader and father Jude is elevated in the end to tragic heights as a bearer of the fatal in man nature trait, - weakness. Strong, convincing movie, no matter how close is it to original literary base. "}{"Title":"Lovely but dark.","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of my favorite books by Thomas Hardy, so I rented this with trepidation- usually I'm let down by filmic adaptations, but in this case I was pleasantly surprised. Well, as pleasantly surprised as one can be for an unpleasant and difficult story such as this. It's a brutal experience, but worth going through, and all the actors are marvelous indeed. But save it for a night when you want a good cry, or just to feel sorry for yourself. It won't (or will) disappoint! "},{"Title":"Searing emotional tale","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  While the novel is famous, this film tries to do it justice.  Eccleston and Winslet are marvelous, the direction is thankfully unstodgy, and the look is grim.  Griffiths, however, is all wrong as Arabella, and the screenplay is so loaded with sex and unconnected scenes, it almost sinks the goodwill of the rest of the cast.  I give this a strong 8, and do not let your children anywhere near the TV when you rent this. "},{"Title":"Love and tears.","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Major audiences are not used to films that talks about losers and his frustrations. Michael Winterbottom played his game looking out to the essence of his characters and dealing with them. Here is a lot about tragedy; the encounters of Jude with his cousin seems to be planed by gods playing with their little toys. Even when a door is opened at the end, the couple must deal with their tragic fate. I compare the plot of Jude with some other love histories like Wuthering Heights, where the surrealistic idea of amour fou is all over the film, and even with the sad ending, love exists above all. "},{"Title":"Gripping lovestory","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a beautiful, sad and very gripping lovestory. One of the really great lovestories in cinema, maybe even more intense then for instance Gone With The Wind, Romeo And Julliet or Love Story ( though the last one is in fact on a comepletely different level). This is the story of two people who are made and meant for each other, but by fate, social conventions at the end of the nineteenth century and all kind of other misfortune, are prevented from becoming happy together. Off course there are more stories about this subject, but this one of the most powerfull ones I have ever seen! "},{"Title":"a decent adaptation","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  As a student of Hardy, I feel it would not be arrogant of me to say that I have a sound grasp of the intention that lies behind this novel. Bearing this in mind, I feel it would be fair to say that this is one of the best film versions of Thomas Hardy I have ever seen. The scenery and cinematography are superb, although highest praise must go to the acting. Kate Winslet ably demonstrates the way in which the carefree nature of Sue Bridehead is slowly transformed by the realisation of her love for Jude, as she portrays the ensuing confusion over his complicity in the resulting tragedy. Similarly, Chris Eccleston, a very underrated actor, perfectly displays Jude Fawley's desire and subsequent despair. The chemistry between these two is among the best I've seen. The script may not be as true as it could have been, the accents may be a bit ropey, but the feel is spot on. "},{"Title":"Cinematic Masterpiece","Date":"11 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film engages the viewer on a personal level as few movies do. I found it utterly poignant, portraying real love at its most raw and human and intense. The performances were beyond outstanding, the script flawless, the cinematography beautiful. It's fascinating the way in which it allows the viewer to get inside the secret places of yearning unique to the human heart. And it also shows real intellectual heft in its grappling of flawed moral absolutes and pointless societal mores.I adored this oft-overlooked, emotionally wrenching work which really delivered. I would heartily recommend it for its artistic merit as well as excellent plot. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jude is a brilliant film with warm as well as depressing moments.  The acting between Christopher and Kate is top quality and is well supported by a emotional soundtrack and good overall atmosphere.  Although it is upsetting and slightly uncomfortable to watch, I watch it again and again for the parts where the two characters are getting to know each other more and become close.It shouldn't be seen as a wholly depressing film as there as many lighter parts where you can enjoy the romantic scenes.  Watch the moments depending on your mood. A great movie with great direction and acting.     "},{"Title":"damn it made my eyes water..","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  and damn that doesnt happen all the time. this was just oh so beautiful, and yet, sad. made me think about many things after the movie.  and i guess thats what a movie should be. thought provoking. well it did that effectively. the cinematography is perfect. kate winslet is the best actress. young jude was the one who made me cry....damn!this is not to be missed. its not to  be enjoyed as much as absorbed.  "},{"Title":"be faithful to yourself","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of my all time favorites. Throughout the whole movie you keep asking yourself why, and you always know the answer. The movie that makes you review your beliefs, that sets your life back on the right track(for some time at least), that, although utterly depressing, makes you walk out of the cinema one foot off the ground. "},{"Title":"One of my favourite films...but I never want to see it again.","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  After I saw this film, I was haunted by the tragedy of it for months afterwards. A piece of sadness is left with you after following the title character Jude through the worst ordeals possible.I would recommend seeing this film once. I tried watching it a second time but couldn't bring myself to do it, although I still think of it as one of the best films I've seen.  "}{"Title":"Fails to capture book","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The adage a great novel rarely makes a great movie is not as true as is supposed, but I'm sorry to say it's true here.  Director Michael Winterbottom and writer Hossein Amini fail here because they fail to understand the town of Christminster, the town Jude loathes and yet wants to be accepted by so desperately.  The town functions almost as a character in the novel, but here you feel nothing from it, and therefore the context for everyone's actions is removed.  And except for Sue and Arabella(well played by Kate Winslet and Rachel Griffiths, respectively), the characters are underdeveloped).  It looks appropriately dark, and the other actors are good, but I felt at the end like there was something missing. "},{"Title":"Not THAT good!","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having read the book by Thomas Hardy, I looked forward to seeing this movie. And I was very disappointed. The dramatic end sequence of the book is simply non-existing in the movie, and it generally lacks some nerve. It seems indifferent. If you haven't read the book, you might find it an interesting movie. In that case, watch the movie and read the book afterwards. If you have already read the book, the movie isn't really worth watching.   "},{"Title":"The best","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is EXCELLENT, I can honestly say that it is the best film that I have ever seen (and I've seen a few!)  It is truly moving.  I have watched it countless times and still love the story, I even went and read the book afterwards.  I was pleased to see that making this book into a film did not ruin the story.  The casting and locations were spot on and Kate Winslet was inspirational (where's her Oscar?)Reading the other comments about this film only backs up my belief that this movie is better than many of those overrated Hollywood efforts.  It is interesting to read that one viewer only hired the movie out for Kate Winslet and then found that he liked it.  If this had a wider audience then it would be top of the polls, I see it has 8.7/10 here and is let down only by the fact that it hasn't had more voters.  I haven't a bad thing to say about it.If you haven't yet seen this then get it, I suggest you buy it as you'll probably want to see it several times - there are lots of lovely little details that you'll only notice second or third time round.Oh, and listen out for the music,  generally not very noticeable in films but excellent here. "},{"Title":"A beautifully somber lament","Date":"26 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jude (Christopher Eccleston) has been looking forward to life beyond his small village since he was a little boy. One day, he'll be going to Christminster, where you can achieve academic success. As a young man, he is tricked into marriage by a farm girl named Arabella (Rachel Griffiths) and soon Arabella leaves Jude for Australia. Jude falls in love with his cousin, Sue (Kate Winslet), a stunning, talented, audacious beauty. But their mutual affection doesn't come easily along the way. Sue marries Jude's former teacher and later they split. Eventually Jude and Sue begin living together out of wedlock.Merry days go by, Sue gives birth to two children. Then comes the shock that Arabella has not been in Australia and she has been raising Jude's son- also named Jude. She sends the boy to Jude and Sue, and the boy has a very dark character, which will directly lead to the inevitable tragedy of the whole story.Returning to Christminster with three children and fighting poverty, Jude's and Sue's lives are more than miserable, especially owing to the fact that they are not married. One day, things have got better, Jude and Sue gladly go home and see the most horrible sight which is beyond their (and your) imagination...their love must perish. Yet, they shall always love each other, even though they are apart, after such an immense tragedy.I haven't read the book, therefore I cannot say whether this film fails to present the story properly or not, but the movie itself is a beautiful love story, albeit deeply tragic and the astounding sight is not for anyone with a vulnerable heart.      "},{"Title":"A Real Opinion","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  In my previous IMDB review on this movie, I didn't give my strong opinion about the film. Instead, I gave nothing but a boring summary. Anyway, I just want to say that this movie is absolutley a must-see. It had beautiful music, fantastic settings, the actors were such a charm, the cinematography was exquisite, and the screenplay was very spellbinding. I felt terrible when I discovered that the movie didn't recieve any Oscar nominations. I will just say though, that this movie may haunt some audiences, but that should not stop anyone from seeing it. Watching it again takes a lot of bravery considering this movie has a tragic stroy and event involved. So if you decide to watch this movie, be strong and I'm going to say that it is perfectly ok to cry watching it. Crying while watching the end of this movie will certantly be a relief for certain people. But by the end, you will be thinking to yourself Superboy478 was right, this movie is a must-see. I do plan on renting it again soon so that I can remember what an excellent film it is. "},{"Title":"This is a Dark and Depressing Film","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I beg of anyone, anyone at all that is in the least depressed, stay away from this film.  Unless, seeing those less fortunate in torturous situations makes you feel better. Beautifully filmed, acted, written and wonderful adaptation of Thomas Hardy's Jude the Obscure.  Those that like indy films, moody, brooding darkness will find a soulmate with this film. "},{"Title":"Well made, but very depressing","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Now, I've never read any of Thomas Hardy's works, so I can be no judge on how faithful this movie was to his novel.  It seems many people consider it a very faithful adaptation.So, I must just not be a Hardy fan.  I found the story senselessly depressing.  And not just realistically depressing, but depressing in a contrived and very manipulative way.  (Is that what Hardy's known for?)One scene that quite disturbed me was the discovery of the children.  Not just the content, but the way it was handled seemed very heavy-handed, contrived and kind of slip-shod.  It just seemed like pointless and at the same time almost laughable horror, with the short time passing between when Sue tells Jude Jr. we are too many and when the boy does the deed. And the note was just too much.  (I'm curious, does that whole scenario develop much the same way in the novel?)It also didn't help my viewing that, in stark contrast to most of the user-commenters here, I was just very very annoyed by Kate Winslett's character.  Her acting was unimpeachable, but the character just left me ill almost from the beginning, and made me iller and iller as the movie wore on. I couldn't see why Jude kept ever at her heels like a puppy-dog whilst she played her manipulation games.  She just seemed always distant and all-'round messed-up.Well, anyway, I suppose my critique is not so much of the movie as a movie, but of the story's content.  Too too too bleak, and like another user-commenter said, horrifying. "},{"Title":"My Favorite Movie Ever","Date":"19 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  What can I say?  This is the best movie I've ever seen.  No other movie has made me literally sick because it has had such an emotional impact on me.  I wept for Sue and Jude.  Films about love don't come much better than this, except maybe for Breaking the Waves.  See this movie for the antetdote to the trite cuteness of Titanic.  Oh, and Kate Winslet is the best actress of her generation.  Just thought you'd like to know. "},{"Title":"VERY Disappointing","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the very few movies I have ever walked out on. A very, very bad interpretation of Hardys brilliant novel. I don't think the filmmaker had any idea of what the story was about, nor any sense of period. "},{"Title":"This was a depressing and disturbing movie.","Date":"31 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This was a depressing and disturbing movie. I Couldn't get this movie out of my head for a couple days and in a bad way! I wished I would of turned it off before I was so traumatized by it! It's long, cold , depressing and a waste of 2+ hours. The only reason I hung on was for the actors. Kate and Christopher made the best of a terrible story. The director did a great job of putting you right there in the movie. Unfortunately it's not a great place to be. Some of the scenes were just a little overly disturbing for my taste. This movie could of ended an hour earlier and it wouldn't of mattered. I strongly suggest skipping this unless you really want to fell deflated afterward. "}{"Title":"It will rip your heart out.","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Do not see this movie unless you want your heart ripped out.  It engages you and then slaps you with one of the most horrific images I have ever seen on film.  Even two weeks after seeing it I can picture the disturbing scene, and feel awful all over again. "},{"Title":"ONE OF MY FAVORITE MOVIES EVER","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is at least fabulous!!!!!It has had an emotional impact on me.I loved Sue`s and Jude`s characters and of course I loved Chris and Kate.The director is one of the best of his generation(see`Wonderland`,`Stay away from me`..)The script is PERFECT..Kate is fabulous actress(see`Heavenly creatures`,`Sense and sensibility`,`Holy smoke`,`Hamlet`)and extremely beautiful "},{"Title":"Dark and tormented love story","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wow, I thought I was getting a run-of-the-mill movie and this just blew my mind.  Jude Fawley wants higher education, and the love of his cousin, Sue Bridehead.  Sounds simple, doesn't it?  But nothing is, indeed, simple in the world they live in.  Tragedy and gory stuff are not diluted here.  I love Kate and Chris in this movie. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Wonderful","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jude is possibly my favorite movie. It's well-written, well-photographed, and the acting is so wonderful words will not describe it. Christopher Eccleston fits the part perfectly and Kate Winslet deserves an Oscar for her portrayal of Sue Bridehead. I usually don't cry at movies but tears were rolling down my face by the end of this one. I will say that this movie is absolutely not a good one for people who like a happy ending, as it is possibly the most depressing movie I have ever seen. Otherwise, rent Jude - you won't regret it!  "},{"Title":"The most superb acting ever summed into one film!","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a great film. The acting is so wonderful, so encompassing. There has never been a book brought to life on film with more drama, suspense, and wonderful actors. It is a must see simply for the acting talents of Kate Winslet. She shines in this role and helps you to understand Thomas Hardy and his reasons for writing the novel. Don't let the serious nature of the movie keep you from seeing it! "},{"Title":"mid-800's England love and tragedy","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are some beautiful scenes of crowded places and great cinematography. The way the camera is held, moved, and framed on moving people is notable. Don't see this film if you have children.  The tragic ending is too sad and might be too painful to watch.   "},{"Title":"Kate Winslet's starring role","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kate Winslet is so brilliant in this film. How she wasn't nominated for an Oscar for it I don't understand. I'd have to agree that she is the greatest actress of her generation.  Watch her portrayal of how a person can change, from being happy-go-lucky to torn and shredded by tragedy. She really does hold this film together.  "},{"Title":"Possibly the best British film ever made","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is heartbreaking. It is very very grim, but it is done in such a way it's really beautiful and easy on the eye. Winslet is great (this is her best role, aside from heavenly creatures), Eccleston is fantastic. He really should have been oscar nominated for this, he is devastating. The final scene made me cry. I felt strange at the end of this film, I was crying for Jude, as his life was in total ruins and I felt really depressed. But the film is so good and well acted, you are totally drawn into the characters and cannot let go. The last line of the film we were more man and wife than anybody else ever was sums up the whole film. Brilliant!! Ten out of Ten "},{"Title":"The aesthetics of Hardy","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film moves you.  In its beauty, in its tragedy.  The aesthetics of the novel by Hardy, the Wessex landscapes, the doomed pursuit of love, are there to behold.  Whatever artifice the filmmakers had to create in their pursuit of producing a beautiful lasting work of art, was worth it judging by the end product.  Their achievement is complete.  "},{"Title":"One of the most emotionally jarring movies ever...","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie, is so draining, it becomes a part of your life.  I have never seen a scene more powerful in my entire movie watching years.  Kate Winslet is amazing as the cold, partially frozen, yet somewhere underneath, you can feel the love that desperately fights to come out, Sue.  She is the greatest actress of her time, and this performance matches all of her others.  This movie will affect the way you look at many things in life, and how you will cherish any chance at love that may cross your path.  "}{"Title":"An excellent film adaptation from a classic book","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film must rate as one of the greats. Keeping the full meaning of Hardy's stories set in Victorian England requires skill in production and direction.  This film achieves that.  The portrayal of the central characters Jude and Sue was well done by Chris Eccleston and Kate Winslet. The latter now an esteemed actress from Titanic.  Some of the scenery and script could have been more realistic but as we move further from Victorian England only historians and those with very long memories would know.  I would have liked a little more explanation and time spent on some of the actions, like the reason why Jude's first wife went away.  It was a love story with a tragic ending which demonstrated the intensity of belief and importance people of the time placed in propriety and religion.  Let's have more good film adaptations of the classics. "},{"Title":"Made me think","Date":"23 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie had a remarkable way of making me look at life, death, marriage, love, and God.  This movie had so many elements that I was totally absorbed in the plot.  Kate Winslet (the only reason I rented it), did a remarkable job playing headstrong woman who has her doubts about God.  The writer did a fantastic job at portraying morality in that time period.  Though sad, I found some real truth in the plot.  It makes me ponder the ways of God.  "},{"Title":"Tough, affecting, underrated movie","Date":"21 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  JUDE is a love story, but not one which you'll want to watch with a date.  It has some really hard-hitting scenes, especially the one where Jude and Sue come home to tragedy just as it seemed things were finally starting to go good for them.  That scene sticks in your mind, as do the performances of Eccleston and Winslet.  Nice job.      "},{"Title":"Kate's Best","Date":"27 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Though Kate Winslet was wonderful in Titanic and deserved the nomination (and probably the Oscar for it also!!).  This role as Sue Bridesmaid and this role should have meant a nomination for this role.  I really believe that Kate will very soon get that Oscar if she can continue her wide range of roles!! "},{"Title":"Wonderful and astounding........","Date":"26 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie. I am such a big fan of Thomas Hardy and I can soundly say that this is the best presentation of this novel I have seen in a long time.  The way it was filmed is excellent.  It is breathless and exciting and haunting all at the same time.  But the standing ovation truly goes to the remarkable actors. Chris does an outstanding job in bringing Jude's inner turmoil and confusion to life, though Kate Winslet truly steals the show.  She brought life to scenes that might have been dull had she not been in it.  I normally don't cry at movies, but I was was weeping like a widow at this one.  The film will break your heart, but you will keep coming back for more, just like Jude. "},{"Title":"superbly adapted","Date":"19 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Every time I have been to see a film based on a novel that I thoroughly enjoyed I have inevitably been disappointed ; either with the cast, the director's adaptation or the frequent changes to the story. Michael Winterbottom's Jude however perfectly illustrates a superb novel by Thomas Hardy. Christopher Eccleston and Kate Winslet are extraordinary in the two main roles, the photography is inventive and the film sticks to the book. Definitely one of my favourite films of all time. "},{"Title":"Hardy's World in Bleakness and Beauty","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although still successful in maintaining the bleakness of Hardy's depressing love story, it's hard to say that Hossein Amini has done a great job with his script, especially with the rhythm of it. In some parts, it even seems that he was more impatient to reveal everything as he was writing it than the audience when watching, this is the script that talks too much, and too fast, not too articulate. But the imperfection of the script is not always enough to destroy the remarkable parts of a movie. Since everything else is so captivating (in the case of Eduardo Serra's cinematography, it's magnificence! One of the most beautiful I've ever seen), we can still meet a a great scene after another and forget that they are not coming in the most proper order and length. Anyone young in Britain can make a better Jude & Sue than Christ & Kate? I don't think so. Eccleston once again prove that he can play any sickness on screen, and with such combination of great talent and striking beauty, Winslet always has enough charm that can burn every screen. "},{"Title":"I agree","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jude is a tragedy as is Titanic.  Brilliant acting on behalf of Kate. Bravo. A little patience and she will be an Oscar winner. As long as she doesn't marry anyone related to the business.  Good luck to you Kate. Dave "},{"Title":"A Powerful Film","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jude is one of those movies that you end up watching, but never forget it, ever.Jude Fawly (Christopher Eccleston) is a highly educated individual. He's worked hard his whole life and has never had any trouble. After his marriage to Arrablla (Rachel Griffifths) suffers, he moves to Christminster where he attends college. He then bumps into his cousin Sue Bridehead (Kate Winslet) who he only knows from pictures from the past. He starts spending a lot of time with Sue, and eventhough they're cousins, he deeply loves her in a certain way. So, she ends up marrying a teacher (Liam Cunningham) that taught Jude as a child. Of course, she ends up leaving him to be with Jude.From british director Micheal Winterbottom (Welcome to Sarajevo) and starring Christopher Eccleston (Gone in Sixty Seconds), Kate Winslet (Titanic), Rachel Grififths (Six Feet Under), and Liam Cunningham (A Little Princess). This film is absolutley powerful and disturbing. I highly recommend it to any adult who is looking for an entertaing love story. I say this all the time in my reviews, but I'm going to say it again This is not a movie kids or teenagers. It's an adult love story, with adult themes. I saw it when I was 13 because it was on Bravo, but I still liked it even at that age. I still do. Except now I'm 15.  "},{"Title":"A Stunning Unforgettable, Dramatic and Tragic Romance of a Man who Chased His Dreams and Was Caught by Life","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  In the middle of the Nineteenth Century, in a small town in England, Jude Fawley (the splendid Christopher Eccleston) is a boy who received an advice from his school teacher he should study a lot and move to the large city Christminster to go to the University. He becomes adult and gets married to Arabella (Rachel Griffits), the daughter of a small pig farmer. A few months later, Arabella leaves him and moves to Australia. He finally decides to go to Christminster, where he works as a worker. Meanwhile, he meets his cousin Sue Bridehead (the fantastic actress Kate Winslet) and fall in love with her. This forbidden love, for a place and an age where the moral values of the society and religion did not accept such a behavior of a couple, will drive them to a tragic end. Sue Bridehead, atheist, modern and with a very open mind for a woman in that place and period of history, ends the plot as a wreck person, pressed by the oppression of the society. Jude Fawley, frustrated because his dreams have not come true and with a broken heart, ends a man angering God. A powerful love story, with outstanding performances of Christopher Eccleston and Kate Winslet, makes this film a stunning unforgettable, dramatic and tragic romance of a man who chased his dreams and was caught by life. My vote is nine.  "}{"Title":"Most Stunning Drama of the Century","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  'Jude' is quite literally the most epic drama ever created. The original novel itself was amazing, but the film, together with the actors, the music, and the script, it creates a complete picture of what a film should be. Kate Winslet is marvelous, and Christopher Eccleston is tragically real and stunning. If you haven't seen this film, rent it now!  "},{"Title":"beautiful and sad","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  i am watching the movie right now.   this movie is very beautiful, but very sad.   it's nice to see a movie about true love.   it really makes me feel bad when anything happens to sue and jude; amazing, for something that is not real and only on a screen.kate winslet and the man who plays jude are both excellent. "},{"Title":"Gratuitous Location Shots","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The film is glorious to look at, but at times too glorious to look at.  The film makers went to great lengths in their search for appropriate locations - they even filmed in the street I used to live in at the time of the filming (Northumberland Street in Edinburgh), and I could observe how much effort they had to go through to make the street look authentical.  Having spend all this effort the scenes had to end up in the final product, but they are not really contributing anything to the film.  I would describe them as gratuitous location shots. "},{"Title":"incompetent, poorly conceived, boring","Date":"13 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" What kind of person is Jude? does he have a love for Latin? Does he really want to be a scholar? What does he think of his wife Arabella? what is she like? Are we supposed to like her, dislike her? because...? because she is sensual? earthy? Is she too ignorant to be a good wife for Jude? Is Jude Smart? We see them have sex..and this means..? Not one scene has any development. Guy walks around in the rain, somebody tells a boy that education is everything...Is this Jude our hero? He is shown trying to memorize some Latin. How far has he progressed ...what does Classical literature mean to him? The viewer's emotions are not guided toward any coherent response ...scenes begin and end without discernible intention.Lazy, incompetent film directing. Not thought through. Watch a film Like Hobson's Choice by David Lean, in comparison, and appreciate how every image, gesture, every object, conveys thoughts, character, intentions. Someone intelligent sat down and thought through what to show and how. Scenes with beginnings, middles, and ends and meanings and direction. This film is, by contrast, a lazy, stupidly unrealized piece of incompetence. Kate Winslet's performance, and the beauty of the locations are the only positive parts. "},{"Title":"Somber and tragic","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you are in the mood to be depressed for the rest of the day, go ahead and watch this film.  It seems every other scene is filmed in a rainy downpour. I never really found myself rooting for the protagonist, Jude, which is probably just as well because things never did seem to go his way due to bad luck, poor choices, and his unfavorable social status.  Did I mention bleak?  "},{"Title":"A Heroic Failure","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A well made film with all of the right intentions but it just can't compensate for the tarnished nature of the original novel.When it comes down to it, Hardy isn't interested in love - his women are strange, often deceitful creatures. Hardy, was let's face it, bigotted and a mysoginist.To try and make this look like a love story is a big mistake. "},{"Title":"A horror movie","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Some scenes in this movie are extremely horrific, and much too real and painful to watch for the sensitive heart.  I gave this movie a 1 out of 10, because no matter how well made or well acted this movie might be, the final product with its disturbing content stirs very unpleasant feelings that last for days.  I felt very sick to my stomach after watching this movie.    "},{"Title":"Jude","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I mainly wanted to see this because I heard that Kate Winslet had some good nude scenes, but I she is also one of my favourite actresses. It is actually quite an interesting story based in the Victorian times in a not completely wealthy village. It basically tells the story of a life and love story between Jude Fawley (the very talented, once Doctor Who, Christopher Eccleston) and Sue Bridehead (Winslet). Very interesting for a British film, excellent acting by both Winslet and Eccleston. It is quite distressing to see moments of Winslet having a baby, but if you overcome and pass that moment, the rest is very good. Touching, romantic and dramatic in places, what more could you ask? Kate Winslet was number 55 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, she was number 2 on The 50 Greatest British Actresses, and she was number 29 on The World's Greatest Actor. Very good! "},{"Title":"Not for the sensitive","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Don't rent this movie if you just want to see Kate Winslett.  This movie is extremely depressing with dreary scenery and bleak thoughts.  If you are in a depression or are sensitive, this movie will cause you that much more pain and sadness.  Be forewarned...you need a tough skin for this one.  If the thought of something extremely horrific happening to a child is something you'd rather not see, do not rent this movie.  Rent Notting Hill (a comedy) instead. Movies are supposed to be entertaining..or at least have some intellectual value. This one is from a very sick and disturbed mind. "},{"Title":"Crassly manipulative and exploitive","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"   I stopped watching this movie the moment it turned into a completely unrealistic farce.  The use of children as perpetrator and victims of a murder/suicide was beyond low.  Not only was it in such incredibly poor taste and exceedingly obvious as emotional exploitation, but it was just not believable.  That one scene stood out like a thumb in the eye (sorry for the mixed metaphor, but it seemed to work here).  It simply did not fit and was grossly abusive.  I can't believe that anyone thinks this is some kind of love story.  Pure exploitive trash.  If you like being depressed by crude and obvious methods, by all means watch it. "}]