[{"Title":"Extremely funny and entertaining","Date":"1 October 2003","Score":"56 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This is a wonderfully funny story, affectionately parodying old-time musicals, and evoking a nostalgic regret that they are not being made any more. Some of the vocalizations are amateurish (Alan Alda is an exception) but Dick Hyman's musical arrangements and the performances of the musicians are fine. Alda's rendition of the old Cole Porter song Thinking of You, accompanied by the marvelous Dick Hyman on the piano, is first rate.Woody Allen provides many hilarious moments. He uses the great violinist Itzhak Perlman as the punch line to a carefully constructed gag. He uses the invasion of privacy of a session of psychoanalysis as an offbeat plot device. He satirizes the romantic young and the do-gooding impulses of the old. He takes us from Manhattan to Venice and Paris. He involves us in old tunes and comically elaborate dance routines. He gives us a good time.Everyone Says I Love You is one of the very few movies I have ever gone back to the theater to see another time.  I even bought the tape. "},{"Title":"Sweet, light weight musical - enjoy it (it's later than you think!)","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"40 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  In an old fashioned musical, the loves and losses of an extended upper-class family in Manhattan are followed in song from NY to Paris and Venice.The company logo comes onscreen followed closely by the white title on a black background.  Seconds later we are into the first song as two young lovers walk in the park - and it's not until 100 minutes later that it lets you go again.  The plot is nothing more than lots of strands of love and loss tied together by family connections.  None of the stories really have any great significance but are backed up by wit and some charming song and dance numbers.  This is whimsy at it's very best.It feels like Woody Allen has really relaxed and is making films that hark back to an older age - indeed his usual style is tuned down a little to make it more accessible and more enjoyable.  He has several black characters, his humour is witty but less cruel than usual and his narrative is driven by a teenage girl rather than himself.  It feels so free of his usual cynicism that it adds to the weightless charm it already has.  He handles the song and dance scene with such vigour and such imagination that you find yourself wondering why he hasn't done a musical before.The superb cast all catch the charm and light feel perfectly.  Not all of them are great singers but they all do well and give their best (except Barrymore who refused and was dubbed).  The usual stars are complimented by plenty of well known faces - Alda, Goldie Hawn, Lucas Haas, Portman, Tim Roth, Roberts and of course the wonderful Edward Norton.This is  100 minutes of lightweight wonder.  It has no rough edges, no difficult issues, no cruel jokes and very little swearing.  Only the coldest heart could fail to warm to this little charmer. "},{"Title":"Everybody should say 'I love you' to this film!","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"34 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I must say that musicals don't really appeal to me, maybe it's because I'm young and am accustomed to more action and special effects from today's typical style... but this movie totally surprised me! The star cast including Drew Barrymore and Julia Roberts is what initially allured me to give this movie a chance and I'm glad I did. Now I know why Woody Allen is considered a genius. I mean I've seen parts of some of his earlier films and they didn't really draw me in either, but this one is truly a winner. Woody Allen chose his cast well, he obviously has a good sense of judgement in that area. The music and singing was actually a welcoming change for a film. I never thought I would like a musical so much. Each character's life was perfectly intertwined with all the others and the plot moved along in an up-tempo beat. It was also nice to be brought to France & Italy via cinematography. It seemed musicals were somewhat of a trend the year this film came out (1996), because that's also when Romeo & Juliet starring Leonardo DiCaprio surfaced too. It was a good turn of events to educate younger generations (like myself) into appreciating a more old-fashioned genre of film that was almost extinct until this film came along and rebirthed it. "},{"Title":"Allen does music","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" So, Everyone Says I Love You is pretty much the typical Woody Allen comedy, complete with all the staples that define his oeuvre; lots of neurotic characters, a performance from the man himself, New York City...only this time, there's one big difference - it's also a musical. It's well known that Woody Allen is a big fan of cinema, and therefore it is not unreasonable to assume that this film is Allen's tribute to the classic musicals of yesteryear. Everyone Says I Love You is typically Woody Allen in spite of the obvious difference in genre to the rest of his movies. I'm not a fan of musicals, and if I were to be overly critical of this film; I would say that it would have been better as a straight comedy-drama, without the musical element. However, it's the musical side of the piece that gives it it's unique edge, and dropping that from the film would have ensured that it isn't the movie that Allen wanted it to be. Not to mention the fact that the musical side of the movie makes it striking in the way that only Woody Allen can be.For this film, Woody Allen has put together a terrific cast. Of course, a number of stars is part of Allen's trademark, but I think he outdid himself with the cast of this movie, which includes the likes of Edward Norton, Natalie Portman, Drew Barrymore, Julia Roberts, Goldie Hawn, Tim Roth, Natasha Lyonne and Alan Alda. Not to mention Woody himself. I'm not a fan of all of those film stars, but seeing a number of familiar faces in a movie together is always a treat for a movie buff. The song and dance sequences in the film aren't all that well put together, as the songs are largely unimaginative and the film fails on the whole to capture the grandeur of the classic musical. However, the drama side of the movie is very strong; and as usual, Woody's script is funny, touching and obscure in equal measure. He's given himself the best part, and has most of the other characters commenting on how great he is, but Woody Allen without a huge ego just isn't Woody Allen. I don't rate this as a movie at the very peak of Allen's filmography, but it's a strong one and it's recommended to his fans. "},{"Title":"Does What Every Musical Should Do","Date":"2 September 2007","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Woody Allen, one of my absolute favorite film directors, goes against the grain of his normal outings with a very creative cinematic device which involves making a bright, happy musical that takes the course of a normal film starring actors who've never sung before singing with their normal voices in musical numbers with no truly professional dancers. With this vastly fun element of the movie, Allen shows us life if any old person broke out into song. And that is what makes it an even more pleasant and encouraging escape that many other normal musicals.One has never before looked at a cast the same way. I wonder what reviews were like. I can say that Alan Alda, who's always fun, has one of the very best voices in the film and even plays the piano. The same goes for Goldie Hawn, who apparently was scared to death of singing in the film. She's also still extremely hot. Julia Roberts plays a very very serious role and never sings, but it was definitely interesting to observe what she and Woody are like on screen together. He carries the scenes, and she loyally follows. Natascha Lyonne is the definite highlight of the cast, playing a hyperconfident girl in that midpoint between girl and woman whose flights of fancy make her extremely fickle with men. Edward Norton, one of the best contemporary actors we have, is actually not at his best in this film. It feels like he just doesn't know how to get comfortable in his role. His voice is OK. Billy Crudup, in a small role, is actually quite unexpectedly funny in a little number in a cab with a Middle Eastern driver. Tim Roth, an unexpected addition to the bit players like Crudup, has a great non- singing role that recalls the genre he's been working in for most of his career.Where a lot of musicals repel most people because of their agonizingly featherweight stories, this one does what a great musical is supposed to do, which is lift your spirits and make you feel the very deepest potential of life's beauty that can possibly be pulled out of it, and because of Allen's unorthodox method, it nails it. It's one of my favorite musicals, of which there are few. It's a very interesting ensemble epic that involves all different strands pertaining to the love life and newfound wisdom of each member of a wealthy and happy family. "},{"Title":"Delightful movie with lovely tunes","Date":"12 January 2006","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Woody Allen made a musical comedy with some romance in 1996.The movie's called Everyone Says I Love You and it tells about the Dandridge family living in New York.Alan Alda is the father Bob, Goldie Hawn is the mother Steffi, Lukas Haas is the son Scott, the daughters are Laura (Natalie Portman), Lane (Gaby Hoffman), Skylar (Drew Barrymore), stepdaughter D.J (Natasha Lyonne)and Patrick Cranshaw is the grandpa.Allen plays the neurotic ex-husband Joe Berlin, who has no luck in love.He becomes, at least for a while, a man of the dreams for Von(Julia Roberts).Edward Norton plays Holden Spence, who wants to marry Skylar.The happiness breaks for short amount of time, when Skylar is introduced to ex-jailbird Charles Ferry (Tim Roth).The movie goes from N.Y to Venice and Paris.All great places, too bad I've never been to any one of them.All of the actors do terrific job in the movie.The music is wonderful.Not only by the great violin player Itzhak Perlman, who's also seen in the movie, but the actors show us some great skills in singing.This movie has been made like the old musicals were made, where actors would start singing all of the sudden.That's just great, gives the old times' kind of feeling.That's not something you can see in movies these days, but ten years ago Woody brought back that world, that magical world with lovely tunes.I guess you can expect anything from Woody. "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" A fresh and original musical comedy, the film takes classic songs and fits them into a new vision with some different dance routines. The choreography is lively and the actors and actresses do not look like professional dancers, which helps to make the music and dance side more natural. It is still as witty and funny as one would expect from a Woody Allen comedy, and the ensemble cast brings forth some great performances, even from actresses such as Goldie Hawn and Drew Barrymore who are not usually amazing. Other than light commentary on love and romance in New York and international society, the film is lacking in depth, some of the sequences are overdone and the narration tires as it progresses, but generally the film is well made. It also possesses a charm that helps it to swing along, and it becomes easy to accept different sequences, given that it is a musical that one is watching. The film will however best be enjoyed by those who are familiar with its redone songs. "},{"Title":"leaves you with a smile for almost the entire film- 'Woody Whimsy'","Date":"21 January 2007","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Aside from a couple of liabilities, which I'll mention a little further down this review, this is top-notch Woody Allen, a work that gives as many delights as his earlier work, but is also marvelous in that it's an experiment for him. How can a filmmaker combine his usual- by 96 usual anyway- with relationships that go up and down, end and start, and neuroses floating around like it's nothing, AND with the escapism of the musicals of the 30s and 40s that Allen obviously adores deeply? Somehow it all works pretty much to classic Allen effect, where there's a level of sharp wit, but there's also that added element of life being wonderful enough even when things seem at their lowest. The story goes into several directions, with a narrator (Natasha Lyonne) filling in the gaps of a family and their turbulent relationships. She D.J. Berlin, biological daughter of Joe (Allen), and technical step-daughter of Bob (Alda) who's married to Steffi (Goldie Hawn), her real mother. He lives in Paris, and on vacation Joe suddenly becomes involved with Von Sidell (Julia Roberts) after getting advice from DJ (she listens to all of her confessions to a psychiatrist through a wall) so he has all of the moves to make it the perfect relationship. Meanwhile, her sister Skylar (Barrymore) is engaged to Holden (Edward Norton), but things become complicated via parolee Charles Fery (Tim Roth). And meanwhile, DJ goes from man to man, almost getting engaged, and then falling for a guy in a Taxi Cab...And so on. All the while Allen injects the perfect whimsical tone and sweetness of all of those great, 'un-real' musicals of the Golden Age of Hollywood. Occasionally an actor might sing and not sound too right (aside from Barrymore, whom one can definitely tell a difference, they all sing their songs)- Roberts being one of them- but it's really amazing to see such talented actors have naturally apt ways into singing. And why not, after all, as many of us would love to just go right into a song we like on a dime. Some highlights for me were the Norton songs, Just You, Just Me and My Baby Cares Just For Me, the Tim Roth number If I Had You, and very surprisingly by a group of the 'un-dead' via D.J.'s grandfather played by Patrick Cranshaw (likely the only time Allen's had this much visual effects going on). And, of course, even Allen breaks into a soft tune of wanting affection too. But it would be just one thing if the songs were very joyful and made the audience happy- there's always, even in the bits that still ring with the realistic dialog of Allen's relationship tragic-comedies- it's also got very funny moments. The moment Roth pops up is one, or when Joe tries to use his 'knowledge' on Roberts's character, and the Marx brothers number is almost *too* good.Aside from the oddly voiced narration from Natasha Lyonne (not a bad performance at all, but for some reason the narration sounds just off for me), and a couple of exceptions, Everyone Says I Love You provides for a truly serene time in Woody Allen's ouevere, a collection of old-time numbers (and maybe some new ones) that combine the beauty in the cities we see (New York, Paris, Venice) with a subject that has wonderfully dogged the director for the bulk of his career- what does it mean to fall in love, or to lose love, or to find it again even in the smallest measures- and not without some mixing of politics and neuroses. "},{"Title":"The experiment works","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  High camp and high neuroses in the same picture.If you get everything you ever wanted, you still aren't satisfied because your own fantasies can never be truly fulfilled in the real world. It's kind of what Woody Allen is saying by making this movie into a goofy musical. It's his own fantasy of what movies used to be like, but can't ever be anymore. The small touches of realism, like the grocery store heist or the homeless man breaking out into song provide both humor and a commentary on how unsubstantial and irrelevant musicals are. But aren't they fun?The most obvious example of the theme is the Julia Roberts storyline. She gets everything she ever wanted, but instead of making her happy in her new life, it helps her therapy for her old life. Joe was married to Steffi, all the woman he ever wanted, but he was so afraid it would fall apart that it did fall apart. Skylar wants a man to take control and sweep her off her feet, but when Charles Ferry comes along and does just that, she can't live with the consequences. There are other examples.The execution of the movie is awkward and sometimes off-putting. But this movie is an experiment in form x function - what kind of story lends itself to the musical form? Sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn't. For example, it used to be that musicals helped you into the mood by introducing songs, something that couldn't be done here because of the very nature of the story. It can be stagey and forced if you're not already in the mood. On the whole, however, everyone seems to be having a good time, and it shows up in mostly loose, endearing performances - even the ever-annoying Goldie Hawn, who I'd normally want to toss in the river in any other movie. "},{"Title":"Off Type Allen Film ... But Fun","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Not just any filmmaker should be entrusted with the delicate and precarious genre of the musical. Woody Allen would probably be the last person I'd expect to see work up a musical. He's gotten a lot more experimental in some of his more recent works, so it's of no surprise. I think what makes this film work is in its charm and the love of 30's musicals that is behind it. This really is an ode to the old black and white musicals and to the classic love stories of the same period. Now, on the level of Woody Allen's catalog, this one does not rank very high, but in comparison to television shows that have the occasional musical episode, this one hits its mark. The reason I mention the last comment is because there are some actors in here that never would they be expected to sing in a film. Maybe they shouldn't have, but there is just a lot of love behind this production that you've just gotta smile. "}{"Title":"Great movie, Natalie wonderful, too!","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I first rented this movie as a fan of Natalie Portman and Woody Allen. I was thoroughly impressed with the great cast and how they lived up to their reputations by performing magnificently, but felt there were a few too many strange musical numbers, such as one where some kids dressed up for Halloween stop by for candy and begin this bizarre musical number.  Maybe I'm not just one of those Oh, isn't that cute! people.  Also, it was kind of uncalled for to have lotsa deceased spirits dancing around a la Beetlejuice, which was much better in this case. Anyhoo, the performances are wonderful though I was a little disappointed that Natalie only got to sing two lines and Woody Allen did a great job fitting most of the cast in most of the movie, not leaving anyone out.  There are tons of memorable scenes, and I strongly suggest you rent this hilarious movie!  "},{"Title":"Very entertaining","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"22 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This movie has got to be one of the best I've seen.  I've seen a lot of movies and a lot of musicals and Everyone Says I Love You should go down as a great musical with Singin' In The Rain and as a great movie.  I thoroughly enjoyed this entertaining, amusing, fun jaunt through musical bliss and the heartache of romance.  I recommend this film to everyone! "},{"Title":"It Still A Can't Miss Woody Allen Movie","Date":"14 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Woody Allen produced,wrote and directed an All-Star cast musical comedy set in modern day New York,Venice and Paris in this film,Everyone Says I Love You.The ensemble cast includes Alan Alda,Drew Barrymore,Lukas Haas,Goldie Hawn,Gaby Hoffmann,Natasha Lyonne,Edward Norton,Natalie Portman,Julia Roberts,Tim Roth,David Ogden Stiers and Woody Allen himself.The story centered on a polite and comfortably well-off group of people and their romantic difficulties.DJ (Natasha Lyonne), who narrates the picture, is the daughter of divorced couple Steffi (Goldie Hawn) and Joe (Woody Allen). Since the break-up, Steffi has married Bob (Alan Alda); their children, DJ's half-sister and half-brother, are Skyler (Drew Barrymore) and Scott (Lukas Haas). Skyler is about to be married to a likable chap named Holden (Edward Norton). However, her mother Steffi, a wealthy liberal, cultivates people as projects. Her latest project is ex-con Charles (Tim Roth), an extremely rude and crude customer. At family gatherings, everyone politely ignores his lapses in manners and good taste until Skyler postpones her wedding to have an affair with him. In a parallel storyline, we see that DJ is convinced that her unmarried dad would find a perfect mate in Von (Julia Roberts), and she contrives an elaborate (and successful) scheme to bring them together.Overall,this is one of the best musicals made in the 90's although it does not compared to those done in the past especially when it tries to emulate typical of '30s musicals.But nevertheless,it still passes as one of the best film features made since the performances of the actors are great.Also,the love story involved is told with sincerity and honesty.Aside from that,it also presented great songs such as songs such as Just You, Just Me and My Baby Just Cares for Me,.In summary,this is a can't miss Woody Allen film. "},{"Title":"Love - something to make a song and dance about.","Date":"5 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Everyone Says I Love You is, not to beat about the bush, Woody Allen's musical. And a delightful confection it is too.Revolving around the life and loves of one family unit, the movie hasn't really got anything to say but presents itself with such style, warmth and wit that you can't help but enjoy it anyway.The cast, as is usual for a Woody Allen movie, is superb. Natasha Lyonne is the sassy teenage girl narrating the events while Goldie Hawn, Alan Alda and Woody Allen himself portray the parental figures. Drew Barrymore and Ed Norton are the young, courting couple who have their world disturbed by a crooked Tim Roth. Then we have Lukas Haas, Natalie Portman and Gaby Hoffmann playing the other teen-aged siblings. Oh, and I almost forgot to mention Julia Roberts as a woman plagued with problems who may end up being the one woman who stays with Woody Allen's character. Or she may not.There are plenty of enjoyable lines in the script, as per usual, but this is mainly about getting from one song to the next and the musical numbers are enjoyable enough. The big plus for this movie, though, is how Allen beautifully mixes the unreal with the real and this is demonstrated perfectly in a song and dance moment he has with Goldie Hawn near the end of the movie. In fact, when it gets to that scene you really get behind the movie and realise that it's been playing around all this time to get to that place where magic can seep into the mundanity of the real world. It's a beautiful and moving sequence that ranks up there with the very best work that Allen has ever put on film.For that one scene alone, I recommend that people check this film out. Don't worry though, there's plenty more to enjoy en route with superb turns from all of the actors involved, some nice moments that remind you of the gloriously bedazzling musicals of old and numerous little touches that should bring a smile to your face. "},{"Title":"Everyone looking for one of Woody's best should get this film!","Date":"19 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Joe Berlin (Woody Allen) has one beautiful daughter, DJ (Natasha Lyonne). But, he rarely sees her, for he lives in Paris and his offspring lives with her mother, Steffi (Goldie Hawn) and her new, lawyer husband, Bob (Alan Alda), and various other half and step siblings, including stepsister Skylar (Drew Barrymore). Bob is extremely wealthy and Steffi does a laundry list of charitable work. Skylar has a handsome boyfriend, Holden (Ed Norton) who has just presented her with an $10,000 engagement ring. However, she accidentally swallowed it, for Holden placed it in her dessert, thinking she would notice that particular piece of hardware. Sometimes, Skylar thinks Holden is too tame. All of them break into song whenever they feel it like. Now, DJ goes for a vacation with her father to Venice, where he tells her that he, Joe, is smitten with a lovely lady, Von (Julia Roberts), a young American he saw jogging near the canals. Funny thing is, DJ has seen her before, for the girls know of a shrink who takes clients in their apartment building and they often listen through the thin walls to the patients' confidential tales. So, DJ knows what Von wants in a man and encourages her father to use her advice to capture her heart. Meanwhile, Steffi has invited a wronged criminal, Charles Ferry (Tim Roth) to a cocktail party at their digs and, before you can say jailbreak, he's making a successful pass at Skylar. Things are complicated, too, with Grandpa being ill, the younger sisters getting a crush on the same handsome teenage boy and the oldest son turning Republican in their liberal household. What will happen to all of these fine folks and who will be singing the next showtune? This is a musical like no other, in that it features actors who are not natural singers but, sing anyway, even Woody! All of the numbers are staged beautifully, having been plucked and polished from other sources by Allen himself. But, in between the melodic numbers is a story that is split-a-lung funny and supremely clever, one of Woody's best ever. Also, the scenery in Manhattan, Paris, and Venice is gorgeous and the costumes are dazzling, too, with all of the ladies looking especially lovely. Naturally, Allen's direction is energetic and inventive, far more so than the tired-and-typical yukfests that Hollywood spews out regularity. In short, everyone who loves film will love this terrific flick. Find it soon. "},{"Title":"Nice fluff despite the off kilter warbling","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This is one of Allen's oddest pieces because it takes a while to get used to. I needed a third viewing over time to get past the musical numbers and discover how sweet this really is. The old grandfather is the funniest character and Alan Alda has probably the best dialogue. And the autumn and Venice scenery here is well photographed. Actually, all the seasons are filmed with poetic breath taking photography, to enhance the rather goofball story. The entire cast is likable, despite representing the bored wealthy elite so over the course of the picture, even their lies and mannerisms become endearing. Goldie Hawn and Julia Roberts stand out, and yes Woody makes himself appealing to both of them; the running gag of having beautiful women fall for him still going strong as he ages... Not great but great to look at. Even for people who usually cringe, like I do, when movie characters break into song and begin dancing. "},{"Title":"Great, if not his best","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Yeah, sure, we set our Woody Allen standards WAY too high....but only fools would deny an otherwise excellent film just because it's not as great as we'd hope. Of course, I was skeptical when I heard that Drew Barrymore, Ed Norton & the sweet old Goldie Hawn were involved, but they were all FANTASTIC. Even the bizarre Julia-Woody relationship is believable, considering the hilariously-psychoanalytical way in which they met. The musical numbers, the dialogue, & most of all, the son who's a Republican thanks to a brain tumor...all GREAT! I highly recommend this film...that is, *IF* you have a decent sense of humor. If you don't, you won't enjoy it, but if you do, you'll LOVE it! "},{"Title":"Traditional Woody Allen","Date":"26 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed ESILY. The way it blended traditional Woody Allen comedy/romance (like Annie Hall) with music was superb, and I think that it should go down as one of the great musicals like 'Grease'. "},{"Title":"Excellent, warm-hearted fun for the intelligent.","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  If you don't like this movie, you are probably more accustomed and comfortable with such flicks as Sorority Boys and Collateral Damage.  What we have here is a light-hearted throwback to musicals of old, where anyone could burst into song if they felt so inclined.  If you don't like Woody Allen, don't see this movie.  If you enjoy movies with car crashes and frat-boy semen jokes, don't see this movie.  If you like movies with Freddie Prinze, Jr., don't see this movie.  But if you like subtle, intelligent humor and music, check it out and watch it with someone you love.The final scene with Goldie and Woody was very poignant, a perfect example of Less is More. "},{"Title":"Kind of out there, but wonderful","Date":"8 March 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I didn't really know what to expect when I heard this was an all-stops-out Woody Allen musical, featuring the REAL voices of his stars. Some of them should definitely not quit their day jobs--Julia Roberts and Ed Norton in particular.  Others, like Goldie Hawn, Alan Alda and Tim Roth, fare much better.  I shudder to think what Drew Barrymore sounds like--she has said her voice is SO bad, she insisted on someone dubbing it.  I can't imagine how she could top Julia Roberts on the tone deaf meter. There really isn't much of a plot here.  It's basically about upper-class New Yorkers struggling with their love lives, but the plot gives Woody an excuse to film in Venice and Paris and mimic his hero, Groucho Marx.  Some of the musical interludes are really creative and funny--dare I say as good as some of the numbers in the classic MGM musicals. And some of the numbers, in places like hospitals, funeral homes, and jewelry stores, are a little on the bizarre side.  Woody Allen fans will most definitely appreciate this more than the average viewer.  And on another note, I have no idea why this movie is rated R.  There is no profanity, no nudity, no sex, no violence---I think the MPAA was on drugs when they saw this.     "}{"Title":"As straight as a Woody Allen comedy can be","Date":"6 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" While still being a Woody Allen movie/comedy, this is not as wacky as it usually is. So, more people can enjoy it. And there's a lot to enjoy, including some very well planned and executed jokes, some of which are physical, but not based on someone stumbling around.The only downside to this is that it has less of a philosophical stream in it. OTOH, there are a lot of Woody Allen movies with much more of that, if that's your thing. Don't get me wrong, there are some smart and interesting themes and ideas in there, but, the accent is on the comedy.I'm guessing that casting Julia Roberts, in her prime, in this was exactly to highlight that this is more of a straight movie. In that light it's also interesting that her role in the movie is probably the wackiest one. There are a lot of little gems like this in the movie, so it is rewarding to watch more than once. "},{"Title":"I loved it!","Date":"12 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I really liked this film! They do not make musicals any more in those old fashion ways any more. And what a cast of actors! All of them were fantastic, but somehow Alan Alda and Woody Alen stick out! How could they not make people like Alan Alda more often? I mean the little greys. They clone, right? Perfect actors like Alan Alda could not be conceived in the normal way. I figure he is cloned ;) Dialogues are fantastic so are the music pieces. All in all if you want to put a smile on your face, and take a trip in a world where most of people never venture, make sure you see this film. "},{"Title":"A different Woody Allen film, and an example of different equalling good","Date":"28 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Woody Allen directing a musical and having stars who you wouldn't associate as singers initially could cause alarm bells, but I found Everyone Says I Love You much better than expected if not among Allen's best(a long way from his worst though). The film looks great with skilled photography and a great use of three of the world's most beautiful cities, New York in springtime looks enchanting here and Venice and Paris look breath-taking too. The songs are very pleasant and work really well within the film, Looking at You stood out as my personal favourite, not surprising seeing as it is Cole Porter. The production numbers and choreography are neither overblown or amateurish, not quite classic musical standard and a little silly at times but really enjoyable stuff. Highlights were the dancing ghosts in the funeral scene, the dancing number on the banks of the Seine and the Marx Brothers-like ending, it is not everyday when you see Goldie Hawn levitating either. The dialogue is toned down from what you usually expect from Woody Allen, not as blunt or as savage(as seen in Deconstructing Harry, which I consider Allen's last masterpiece), but it is still as sparkling and witty. The story is very warm and charming while showing a good amount of interesting insight on relationships, remarkably also it could be seen as one of Allen's most accessible. There are a few neurotic characters, particularly Allen's and Edward Norton's, but the characters mostly are quite likable compared to other Allen films(not that that is a bad thing). The singing is not amazing(wasn't particularly impressed by Julia Roberts or the dubbed singer for Drew Barrymore) but very little of it is bad either, Alan Alda has the best singing of the cast which added to Looking at You being a highlight. The performances are great, though Natalie Portman and Billy Crudup are under-used. Allen directs most assuredly and his performance comes off well. Goldie Hawn is good too and while he is a rather awkward dancer Ed Norton sports a not bad singing voice, but the best performances come from Alan Alda, Natasha Lyonne and a hilarious Tim Roth(who could have had more to do). Overall, a different film from Allen and while not one of his best, considering how films having directors who try to do something different generally have very mixed results, Everyone Says I Love You came off surprisingly excellently. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Of dreams coming true and Groucho Marx tributes","Date":"16 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" DJ(Lyonne, a typical teen girl - and our narrator), the daughter of heartbroken divorced Joe(Allen, his typical neurotic self, needing pushing by loved ones) sets him up with the unhappily married Von(Roberts, sweet, and... well, she doesn't have a lot of personality). Without her knowing. ...well, the latter's in therapy, and the former listens in. That old story. And along the way there are subplots, and this is, at its core, about falling in love, its effect on what one thinks about the future, and how sudden it can be - even when already infatuated with someone else.I don't often watch musicals, but this one is irresistible. Charming, hilarious with fast-paced dialog, background reactions, quick throwaway lines, and a memorable cast of characters, all of whom are portrayed by talented and well-known actors. The big numbers(and just *try* to stop humming them) are dominated by long takes and few cuts, with everyone in the vicinity singing and/or dancing, such as the early scene in the ER where doctors, nurses and patients giving it their all. There are sit-com-like misunderstandings and some pretty evenly divided political jokes, with the Republican son(hey, he has his reasons... maybe you'll learn them in this) and the liberal rest of the family. It takes place over a year, taking us around New York, Venice and Paris. The running time is 94 minutes sans credits.There is a little strong language in this. I recommend this to anyone who is at all into this type of film. 7/10 "},{"Title":"How did I miss this Woody Allen movie?","Date":"8 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This movie was hilarious! An all star cast singing and dancing in between the dialog. It has the usual Woody Allen premise of love lost angst on Woody's part. The plot twists and turns with love as its theme. The little nuances that are classic Woody Allen in the background, like the teenagers drinking hard liquor that no one is noticing, the stereo-typing of ethnic peoples, playing stick hockey in the fancy foyer, to name a few that have you looking for the absurd as if a game within the movie watching. Everyone is looking for ideal love except maybe not Alan Alda who has already found his in Goldie Hawn. The actual singing by the actors was not so good but that's what made the movie so perfect. The musical numbers and dancing were so campy it was excellent and entertaining. At times like watching the June Taylor Dancers including the over head camera shots. BRILLIANT! The Groucho Marx routine and party to follow was the best! A Great movie and should be up there with the top 10 Best Movies of all Times..... "},{"Title":"Professionally amateur","Date":"11 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" As an incredible affinity with nostalgic populism has been a recurring theme throughout his expansive career, the melding of a 1930s inspired musical and Woody Allen does not seem to be as unorthodox an idea as one might expect. However, in typical form, Allen proves far more interested in pursuing his own whimsical train of thought and interest than pursuing a topic along conventional expectations, opting for a 'musical' more reflexive about the role of the musical as a genre than concentrating on itself as a new entry into the genre. The result, Everyone Says I Love You, subsequently proves to be one of Allen's most silly, experimental, self-indulgent, and yet delightfully enjoyable films.While initial inspection would find criticism in the lacklustre singing and dancing efforts of his primary cast, it becomes clear over time than Allen's film attempts to harness the inspirational impact of the musical and the role it plays within the lives of the general public, particularly as a tool for inner expression. Through intentionally casting 'non-singers' (rumour has it than Allen neglected to inform any of the cast the film was a musical until after they were cast), the film achieves a naturalistic feel, as if providing real people with the sudden opportunity for cathartic song and dance in a way excluded from 'real life', thus exposing them and their inner workings as characters. And it is this methodology that brings the film to life, providing a unique spin on an otherwise familiar Allen narrative of a web of quirky yet credible individuals weaving in and out of each other's lives and relationships, suggesting the fluidity of romance and human nature. However, as always, Allen is less interested in ascribing judgement on his characters as simply observing them in action (although there is an amusingly tongue-in-cheek subplot satirizing the film's young republican character which unwinds in a hilariously contentious fashion). Everyone Says I Love You ends up exploring the inevitability of the contradictions and lapses in judgement of human nature, leaving each new weave of the plot largely bereft of directorial moral guiding and all the more human because of it. Though the title may suggest a comment on the devaluing of emotional excesses regarding love, Allen's film never trivializes or languishes on love, but merely presents it as a universal human concern, his fluffy approach belying a more credibly sweet interior (the film's ending riverside dance sequence stands out as one of the more quiet, poignant and beautiful climaxes in recent cinema). That said, the film at heart remains more of an experimental exploration than firmly quality film, as Allen's script lacks the zing and wit of many of his more assured works, lagging somewhat midway through, and the entire film has a highly cobbled together, incohesive and somewhat amateurish feel (whether or not this fits with Allen's intent at naturalism remains up for debate). In addition, Allen sometimes gets a little too silly for his own good (a song and dance number with ghosts in a funeral home is really pushing it), though he never quite gets carried away enough to lose track of his intent or film as a singular entity.Regardless of what they may lack in vocal credentials, the film's cast certainly excels in terms of performance. Drew Barrymore masters the sweetness, innocence yet unpredictability of a somewhat naïve young woman in love, and Edward Norton is a scream as her thoroughly wholesome yet vaguely self-centred fiancé (their prospective engagement scene in a restaurant, with Norton essaying his best neurotic Allen impression in the midst of growing chaos, is likely the film's most hilarious moment). Allen himself finds an entirely appropriate role for himself without taking over the narrative, toning down his eccentricities for the role of a man attempting to reconstruct his entire life in the image of his prospective lover's ideals, and is fully convincing and lovably pathetic in the process. As said romantic interest, Julia Roberts is left with little material to work with, but channels a fitting sense of grounded yearning nonetheless. Alan Alda is hilarious as the central family's sweetly outspoken patriarch, threatening to steal the show on multiple occasions, Goldie Hawn is somewhat underused yet both witty and touching as his wife (and Allen's ex-wife). Tim Roth steals the show with a far too brief part as an unbalanced, recently released convict, and a young Natalie Portman excels at credibly conveying teenage yearning for love without lapsing into cliché. While an undeniably whimsical entry into the Allen canon, Everyone Says I Love You remains a thought-provoking and thoroughly charming (albeit somewhat clumsy) film easily worth experiencing for those beguiled by musicals as much as musical lovers.-8/10 "},{"Title":"An Unadulterated Good Time","Date":"17 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Woody Allen tips his hat to old-fashioned musical romances in this delightful escapist film.Allen himself appears in this film as his usual bumbling nebbish character, but he's surrounded himself with a terrific ensemble that includes Allen regular Alan Alda, Goldie Hawn, Edward Norton, Drew Barrymore, Julia Roberts, Tim Roth (hilarious) and Natasha Lyonne, cute and spunky as Allen's daughter. Everyone but Roberts feels perfectly at home in the Woody Allen world, which is a bit of a shame because she's the one we're supposed to believe Allen is smitten with, but she's so boring we're left wondering why.The story is episodic and about as substantive as a marshmallow, but what sets the film apart are its musical numbers, performed by the actors using their real voices, and a few catchy dance numbers set in places like hospitals and funeral homes.Everyone Says I Love You is unadulterated goofiness. It's Woody Allen just asking us to have a good time, and it's easy to oblige.Grade A "},{"Title":"a great work","Date":"8 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" It's a film of mild romance and funny sentiment. Though I don't like musicals very much and don't believe that actors and actress distinguish in grand ecran could outdo in playing musicals, Everyone says l love You is a great exception evidencing old fashioned musical is never out of fashion. A couple in love but handling love ineptly, a couple divorced but still having close connection, a son holding unpleasant dissidence with his father, a step-daughter caught in endless romantic encounter, a twins of same taste for man, a woman with eccentric whimsy and unfortunately watched in meeting with her psychiatrist&#133;&#133; Everyone seems to be distinctive or or even a little bit odd like a grotesque oeuvre. But everyone enjoy themselves when tomber amour. Woody Allen placed much humor by tricky means to produce charismatic force arising out of love, no matter where it comes from. The last scene that the divorced couple conversed from the depth of mind under the bridge is a great scenario, touching and enjoyable maybe because it tells the essence of love. "},{"Title":"Entertaining and funny!","Date":"25 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This Woody Allen masterpiece is absolutely entertaining and funny. The songs and performances are very well done and the acting is pretty good especially because there are so few cuts which requires a outstanding acting.  I love musicals and this one in its old-movie style is very unique. All in all, an absolutely recommendable movie for fans of this genre! "},{"Title":"joyous & beautiful...AND woody allen","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I still can't figure out my attitude towards musicals.  I think they're a brilliant concept, that I know.  Some of my very favorite movies are musicals.  But I still hate most of them.  Everyone Says I Love You is a musical, and it's one of my very favorite movies.  I don't hate it.The characters in the movie, as in most of Woody Allen's movies, are charmingly intelligent liberals living in New York City.  They're wealthier than usual this time, though, in the way that they're always doing charity things and going to France, and most of them are members of two or three generations of the same family, the Dandridges, which is also unusual for Allen.  Oh, and every once in a while there'll be an exuberant song-and-dance number, always to some standard or other-Makin' Whoopy, My Baby Just Cares For Me, the title song.I know a lot of people really dislike Woody Allen movies.  I love them.  One of my favorite things about them is that they're their own genre.  The Woody Allen Movie is a kind of movie just as surely as the film noir or the teen horror movie is a kind of movie.This is great, because, rather than make the same movie over and over again, as some accuse him of doing, he makes his genre-his movie, if you must-make babies with all sorts of different ones.  Manhattan Murder Mystery was the spawn of the Woody Allen movie and the amateur sleuth movie.  Bullets Over Broadway was the result of the coupling of the Woody Allen movie and the Mafia movie.  Love & Death was the bastard child of the Woody Allen movie and the Russian epic.  And Everyone Says I Love You is the Woody Allen movie's baby out of wedlock with the movie musical.What's so great about this is that all of Woody Allen's usual characteristics-the quick, smart, and utterly realistic dialogue, the neuroses, the long, long shots of multiple characters, just talking-are all there, mixed with the usual characteristics-singing and dancing-of musicals.  So when Holden Spence (Norton) is proposing to Schuyler Dandridge (Barrymore) at the beginning, say, we see them walking through a park, singing about love, and we're far away from them.  It's really cool.The story barely need be mentioned.  It's convoluted as all get-out, anyway, and has eighty thousand characters.  Really, very little need be said about the movie at all, other than the fact that it's perfect in nearly every regard.  It's joyous and beautiful the way the best musicals are.  The way all the actors (except Barrymore, for some reason relating to her claim that she didn't know she was signing on for a musical) do their own singing, ranging from Allen and Alda's tinny warbling to Hawn's gorgeous loungey voice, but always just sounding like real people carried away by emotion and just _having_ to burst into song, is fantastic.  And there's a scene towards the end, with Woody Allen and Goldie Hawn singing to one another, where she just starts floating through the air and gliding effortlessly across the ground in an utterly impossible fashion that is also utterly perfect and utterly beautiful, that it is by itself worth whatever money it takes to see the movie.  "}{"Title":"Only Woody Allen would think of creating a film musical in the 1990's. But why not?","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  No matter what you think about Woody Allen, the man - Woody Allen, the artist can tell a story in a way no one else can and get it right. Just about everything about the cast, the plot, the set, and choreography is perfect for a modern musical.  Only Woody would think of having the actors sing in their natural voices and have the story told from the P.O.V. of the youngest member of this wacky - blended family, Ms Steffi. It really works and makes me wish we'd have more modern musicals.  Steffi had it right when she said the story had to be told as a musical because no one would believe it otherwise.  "},{"Title":"Well-balanced musical bits","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I thought the musical bits in this movie were really well balanced between giving respect to the old Hollywood musicals and spoofing them (the bit in the hospital when everyone bursts into song wasn't too far removed from Airplane of something like that).  Yet again Woody gets it on with beautiful young women (this time Julia Roberts) but he can be forgiven because of some great lines, especially between Alan Alda and the right-wing son, which was class.   "},{"Title":"Great Movie - If You Can Appreciate the Intention","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  The intention of this movie, by Woody Allen, was to create a musical comedy where the stars sing and dance like regular people, while the chorus are well-trained singer/dancers.  (What would John Doe do if he suddenly broke into song).  Ed Norton was actually asked to re-record his songs badly because he, sounded too much like Perry Como, according to Allen. Norton's best scene, in my mind, is where he is buying a ring for his soon to be fiance.  Watching him pathetically attempt to dance along with a musical-theatre trained chorus that joins in is a treat.  This movie is best enjoyed by people who really enjoy musical-theatre and relish in how odd the medium actually is.  Then throw in a group of wonderful stars who signed on to this film for a great, fun experience, and not necessarily as a vehicle to forward their careers.  Every performer in this piece should be applauded for just having a great time performing their pieces, and letting audiences believe that they cannot sing, which every actor seems to do in this film brilliantly.     "},{"Title":"Everyone Says I Love This Movie","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Or they would if they saw it. Alas, while Woody is still brilliant post-Soon-Yi, large segments of the audience left him over that. I tell my friends of this movie and they get interested. I tell them it was by Woody Allen and they ask if it's dirty.I truly enjoyed seeing 1930s Hollywood musical numbers played in a 1990s setting with new spins on the old standards. And that Halloween costume and song of Chiquita Banana -- talk about product placement!Being a Marx Brothers fan, I loved the French tribute to Groucho. But by the same token, I didn't like the after-the-fact treatment given to the title song. Everyone Says I Love You was first sung by the Marxes, first in fact by Zeppo, in HORSEFEATHERS. I know the song and waited and waited for the new film's stars to chime forth with it. But it's just a voice-over song for the end titles.This movie should have been titled after the song Woody DOES make a good play of, I'm Through With Love, a little-known Bing Crosby song. But nobody would have gone to a movie of that title.Outside of that quibble, though, this was one hilarious flick! And it supplies a wonderful explanation for Republicans...). "},{"Title":"Move Over Baz Luhrman - Woody Allen Coming Through","Date":"10 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I must preface my remarks by admitting I never liked Woody Allen films, his humor and neurotic little guy characterization are simply unfunny -- but, after viewing Everyone Says I Love You, I've changed my mind.A film that hearkens to the wacky musical genre of the past, the outstanding performances by a stellar cast including Allen Alda, Goldie Hawn, Ed Norton, Tim Roth, Julia Roberts, Natalie Portman, Billy Crudup, and Drew Barrymore, is nostalgic and entertaining for today's audiences. Singing and dancing, whining and wineing, the film utilizes New York's spectacular seasonal changes, the romantic canals of Venice, and the beauty of nighttime Paris to stage this somewhat simple storyline of boy loves girl, girl is more neurotic than boy, and the liberal Democrats are more neurotic and simple than all the film's boys and girls.Enjoyable perhaps because Allen does not center the story on himself in every scene, I found myself liking the implausible situations as actors broke into songs of love, which no matter what the setting, seemed thoroughly appropriate for the dramatic situation. I loved watching Goldie Hawn dancing with her nebbish partner Allen along the banks of the Seine. Her gravity defying graceful steps were matched by the equally graceful Allen. Alan Alda's serenade to his wife at their anniversary party was both touching and a good rendition. And, Allen's hysterical New Year's Groucho Marx theme party and musical review had me in tears laughing. The wit and droll humor of translating familiar songs into foreign languages is a brilliant juxtaposition of expectation and surrealism.This is a wonderful film to spend the afternoon or evening, and while sentimental films are not usually my cup of tea, I found myself enjoying the romantic Allen film moreso than the visual, energetic angst and splendid efforts of the frenetic Baz Luhrmann musical, Moulin Rouge released around the same time. While both directors approach to the musical genre is respectful of the great choreographers and songwriters of the past, it is the differing styles each director brings to the subject that is worth the audience's serious consideration. Everyone Says I Love You is perhaps a bit less energetic and overt, but is equally satisfying as Moulin Rouge. In finding myself enjoying Allen's approach to the musical, I will now look to his other work with a new interest and respect. "},{"Title":"Classic Musical","Date":"17 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Woody Allen has been the director/writer/star of some of the best romantic comedy's ever made. He has also been the director/writer/star of some of the worst romantic comedy's ever made. He has had everything from Annie Hall and Everyone Says I Lve You too Melinda and Melinda and Manhattan Murder Mystery. He is one of the best directors ever to live. Everyone Says I Love You is not quite Annie Hall, but how many movies are even as close to being Annie Hall as Everyone Says I Love You. Everyone Says I Love You is a classic Musical comedy. It is hilarious and the characters are written like people everyone will know. One of Woody Allens best films and a true classic musical film. "},{"Title":"Light, romantic and magical","Date":"23 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  There are many things I liked in Everyone Says I Love You. I think Woody Allen is a genius to mix the typical elements of his films with the musical genre. All the actors are great and nice to accept the challenge. Goldie Hawn is funny as always. There's something very special about Drew Barrymore as a sweet young woman. Even Julia Roberts is great here, as in the recent Notting Hill.So if you're looking for a very light Woody Allen this is the one. "},{"Title":"Ranks with Woody's best","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I am a huge Woody Allen fan, and I have been since I was a kid.  My parents had a comedy album of his from when he was a stand-up comedian, and I used to have the entire thing memorized, and would perform his routines for friends.  So it follows that I love his movies too (though, to be fair, not all of them).  His best ones, IMHO, are ANNIE HALL, MANHATTAN, HANNAH AND HER SISTERS, RADIO DAYS, HUSBANDS AND WIVES, and now this film, which, along with RADIO DAYS, may simply be his most enjoyable, since it's a tribute to a medium he loves; the 30's musical.I can see how that last aspect, it being a musical, might turn off some people, and the film plunges you right in with the opening scene of Edward Norton singing Just Me, Just You to Drew Barrymore.  If you're turned off here, you won't like the movie.  But I grew up on old musicals, among other things, so I wasn't turned off.  Like RADIO DAYS, this allows room for satire on the form (like when Goldie Hawn shouts at Alan Alda for singing I'm Through with Love, since he isn't, or when a rap group performs it), but is mostly affectionate towards its subject, and even achieves some of that magic (like the dance sequence between Allen and Goldie Hawn).  It's also the usual funny Allen film with a great cast(the only quibble is it Gaby Hoffman and Natalie Portman, who are both appealing, don't get enough to do, but that's minor).  In short, I was completely enchanted. "},{"Title":"An only intermittently funny musical comedy","Date":"27 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Woody Allen's only musical, this is an only intermittently funny comedy. The script has flashes of brilliance and I liked some of the exploration of the complicated family dynamic but there are several other Allen films that I thought dealt with similar material in a superior fashion. On the bright side, his direction was typically excellent, particularly during the more elaborate musical scenes, and it makes great use of the locations offered by New York City, Paris and Venice. This was the first time that one of Allen's films had ventured outside of New York since Love and Death 21 years earlier, something which he would do far more frequently in later years. Given the soundtracks of previous Allen films that I have seen, I would have expected this to feature more than one Cole Porter song and at least one Irving Berlin song. However, I liked all of those featured, even though Makin' Whoopee and Looking at You were the only ones with which I was especially familiar. My favourite scene, musical or otherwise, was certainly the wonderful Enjoy Yourself sequence at the funeral home. It was an interesting idea to cast actors who were not exactly well known for musicals and one that I think worked rather well since it was supposed to portray normal people bursting into song at the drop of a hat.The film stars Allen in a very good performance as Joe Berlin (presumably named after Irving), a largely unsuccessful novelist who has lived in Paris for many years. He has a very amicable relationship with his ex-wife Steffi and is even close friends with her second husband Bob Dandridge, often visiting them in New York. Joe is rather unlucky in love considering that his ex-girlfriends include a nymphomaniac and a heroin addict. Bob believes, accurately as it turns out, that Joe is still in love with Steffi after all of these years but it doesn't bother him in the slightest. It's all very civilised! Alan Alda and Goldie Hawn are excellent as Bob and Steffi and the scene in which we first see Joe discussing his myriad romantic problems with them is the funniest in the entire film. Unfortunately, however, it comes very early in the film. I would have certainly much preferred if Allen had given himself, Alda and Hawn more screen time and some of the other actors less. Hoping to change his luck, Joe attempts to pursue a relationship with a considerably younger woman named Von Sidell, who is very pleasantly surprised to learn that Joe shares all of the same interests and seems to know everything that she likes in a man. However, Joe has an ace up his sleeve as his daughter's half- sisters' best friend's mother is Von's psychiatrist and the girls make a habit of spying on the therapy sessions. In a film, a suitor gaining knowledge of this kind can be either whimsical or creepy, whether intentionally or not. (In reality, it would be very, very creepy.) In this case, it has shades of whimsicality but it was a serious mistake on Allen's part to cast Julia Roberts as Von. She has never been a great actress by any means but the major problem here is that she and Allen have no chemistry whatsoever. As such, I found it very difficult to get involved in the relevant scenes or to even care about the characters' relationship, really.Natasha Lyonne is incredibly poor and amazingly irritating as Joe and Steffi's flighty daughter Djuna D.J. Berlin who falls in love three times an afternoon. Her narration is the nails on the blackboard of this film and, on more than one occasion, I winced when it started up again. On the other hand, Drew Barrymore is good as Skylar Dandridge, Bob's 21-year-old daughter from his first marriage. Stepfamilies can be a little complicated and, for quite a while, I have to admit that I forgot that she was Bob's daughter instead of Joe's! Skylar has just gotten engaged to her solid, reliable, dependable boyfriend Holden Spence but, in spite of the fact that she loves him, she is concerned that he is not exciting and romantic enough. To that end, she leaves him for a recently paroled violent criminal named Charles Ferry, played by Tim Roth. Although it amounts to little more than a cameo, Roth gives perhaps the film's best performance. She soon realises that dating someone like Ferry is not all that it is cracked up to be and returns to Holden, who loves her so much that he can simply pretend that the Ferry Incident never happened in the first place. He's more forgiving than I would be in the circumstances. Edward Norton is a great actor but he was miscast as Holden. In several scenes, such as the very unfunny engagement one, he seems to be trying emulate Allen, unsuccessfully as it turns out. There is a rather amusing running joke about the liberal Democrat Bob being concerned that he has failed as a father because his son Scott, played well by Lukas Haas, has become a conservative Republican. I'm a socialist so, if I had a child who turned out to be that right-wing, I'd probably feel the same way! Natalie Portman's performance as Bob and Steffi's daughter Laura is not one of her best but I'd still liked it if she had been given more screen time and Lyonne had received less. In spite of the numerous siblings and stepsiblings on display, there is no real sense of a family dynamic, for better or for worse, between any of the children outside of Laura's relationship with her sister turned romantic rival Lane. That struck me as a little odd. The film also features nice appearances from Patrick Cranshaw, the underrated Gaby Hoffmann, Robert Knepper, Billy Crudup and Alda's M*A*S*H co-star David Ogden Stiers.Overall, the film has its moments but it's nothing special. "},{"Title":"An Offbeat Musical","Date":"19 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" A New York girl sets her father (Woody Allen) up with an ugly woman (Julia Roberts) in a shaky marriage while her half sister gets engaged.For the most part, I am a fan of Woody Allen's work. I like the intelligent humor, and although he has gone through a few different phases, he seems to be good in a variety of different ways. This film was claimed to be among the 10 best of 1996 according to several sources.Personally, it may be one of the best of 1996, but I would not put it among Woody's best. Not even among his 10 best. I still liked it, especially the musical number with the ghosts. Nice touch. And this is the sort of role we never see Edward Norton in (but probably should). But it just was not as good as some of Woody's other work, and a bit of it seemed forced. The Republican kid was just too much of a caricature to even really be funny. "}{"Title":"good job with the singing","Date":"28 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Psychologist Steffi Dandridge (Goldie Hawn) and lawyer Bob Dandridge (Alan Alda) head a liberal upper class Manhattan family. The extended family includes Steffi's ex Joe Berlin (Woody Allen), their daughter Djuna Berlin (Natasha Lyonne), Skylar (Drew Barrymore), Lane (Gaby Hoffmann), Laura (Natalie Portman), grandpa with dementia and the black sheep Republican son Scott (Lukas Haas). Holden Spence (Edward Norton) is in love with Skylar. Von (Julia Roberts) is one of Steffi's patients. Charles Ferry (Tim Roth) is an ex-con.This is a Woody Allen musical. The music is easy listening and everybody does a good job singing. Some are surprisingly good but the songs aren't terribly challenging. The overwhelming family can be hard to take. I would have preferred some trimming of the family tree. It would have been better to concentrate on one relationship. The effect is a bit scatter shot. "},{"Title":"And the music was supposed to be the part ...","Date":"29 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Love is a Many-Splendored Thing says the song. Well in Woody Allen's case, love can be described as many-handled theme.Indeed, whether portrayed as an inexhaustible source of intellectual torments, an unreachable holy grail or an emotional dead-end, love has always been in the core of Woody Allen's oeuvre. Even in his zaniest days, Allen featured romantic walks in a bucolic site or deep interactions in a well-chosen spot of New York or any place of the world. The seminal Take the Money and Run, had a very touching romantic subplot leading to much more magnitude in Manhattan and Hannah of Her Sisters before being treated in a skeptical and disillusioned way in Husbands and Wives from the light of Allen's separation with Mia Farrow.This brief preamble is to show that almost every facet of love has been depicted by Woody Allen. So, with such a title as Everyone Says I Love You, his twenty-something film, I didn't know how high to put my expectations. I guess Roger Ebert's enthusiastic endorsement made me expect fireworks of emotions, something on the same arousing level as Manhattan's opening sequence &#x85;. But what I got was a firecracker. The film is cute, charming, with sweet interactions between enamored characters, but nothing affected me like all the films I mentioned. Even the parts set in Venice and Paris, instead of enhancing the romance, irritated me with their superficial postcard quality.I understand that superficiality was intended to embody the lightheartedness and spontaneity of these characters struck by Cupid's arrow. I understand Allen didn't plan to preach or speak philosophical statements about love, but just let the hearts express through spontaneous outbursts of singing and dancing. But this is where we come to the main flaw, which alas is the reason-to-be of the film the music. I enjoyed the hospital sequence, the part where a bunch of ghosts from beyond the grave give the living some precious advice, and the surrealistic climax in Paris where Goldie Hawn, in a superbly executed sequence started floating in the air. But the rest of the music didn't touch me, and my heart is not made of stone.I've got to hand it though to Woody for the risk he took by letting the actors perform with their own voice, it startles in the beginning but we quickly get used to it. When the film opened with young Holden (Edward Norton) sining his love to Skylar, an upper-class girl of Manhattan (Drew Barrymore), I respected Allen's audacity for materializing this idea that we all sing when we're happy and how we sing hardly matters. But how greater would the surprise have been if the songs were really catchy and didn't seem randomly perturb the narrative structure. Maybe there weren't many musicals at that time so the film had a fresh quality but the soundtrack was not the highlight, which is saying a lot for a musical.A good point was the titular Everyone, which relied on a great ensemble. There is Goldie Hawn as Steffi, the guilty-ridden rich mother and Alan Alda as Bob, her husband, both the best friends of the neurotic Joe, Steffi-ex-husband, contemplating suicide after many failed romances and played by you-know-who. There is also a scene-stealing performance from Natasha Lyonne, as Steffi and Joe's daughter DJ, trying to get her father in touch with Von, Julia Roberts, a therapist whom she happens to know all her secrets and fantasies. There were also fine performances from Lukas Haas as the Republican son (the reasons of his political orientation was the kind of comedy gold the film needed in more quantity) and last, but not least, Tim Roth made a believable released prison mate falling in love with Skylar and causing her to breakup.The film had the same potential than Hannah and Her Sisters, but I was disappointed by the easy ways Allen chose to close his characters' arcs. The kind of emotionality provided by Dianne Weist' last line from Hannah was totally missing, which can be forgivable since it's a comedy, but the wit was frustratingly inexistent and only confined to some predictable gags such as a wedding ring, hidden in a cake and getting swallowed by the future bride. This also would have been forgettable if it wasn't for the central romance between Woody Allen and Julia Roberts. We know it's doomed from the beginning, because of the whole plotting, they had to break up so Joe would finally realize he's still in love with Steffi and can enjoy such good moments like a Groucho Marx party in Paris, one of these things that makes life worth living. But his separation was nowhere close to the level of poignancy or comedy reached by Manhattan.Just like Skylar who breaks up with Holden to eventually reconcile, Joe cheats with Von, she goes with him, until realizing that having fulfilled her fantasy of living with the perfect man, she's got nothing much to fantasize about, it was cynically anticlimactic, and convincing, but for a film that pretends to be a comedy, I expected more, at least, enough to give Julia Roberts a shining moment and not reduce her to the beautiful actress who stars in a Woody Allen film. That also was announcing another Allenian trend when he became Europe's darling, each film raising the big question about his casting. Allen has always been one of my favorite directors, but when he became a 'hip' phenomenon, something of his touch was kind of lost.Now, after watching his interview he gave to a French magazine in the DVD features, I started to look at his film with more indulgence, respecting his desire to make a personal tribute to old-fashioned musicals. But as much as I wanted to love Everyone Says I Love You, it was nowhere close to Allen's top 10 best films, not even to his next film, Deconstructing Harry, which I thought was perfect. "},{"Title":"OK, this time, I said it (DVD)","Date":"15 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I'm not a fan of Woody. Among 325 movies i watched so far, only one comes from him and it was terribly dull. Beyond, i don't like the buzz heard each year about his new movie because he seems to be a industrial brand. However, Stephen King who faces the same critic has a good answer  if they can release so much, it's because they work the same. Nevertheless, i couldn't stand also that his movies star the most talked actress of the moment. But there, he has himself the perfect answer he paid them. Finally, I picked up this movie because Natalie plays in it, and i must say this was an excellent moment.The movie is split between three romantic cities (New York, Paris and Venise) and the choice for a daily diary is always interesting. Woody is really funny here as an anguished but sweet father (i was one day compared to him for that). His romance with Julia is depicted with truth. Natalie and her big family are attaching. As the movie is a musical, I suppose i have to speak my opinion about it. For me, the songs and dance suck because they are not classic tunes (at last for me)and they just stop the story. However, the ballet at the Seine banks is poetic.In conclusion, if this wealthy family is faraway of most people life, they form a united one and they bring us an happy moment. "},{"Title":"Allen in a new style...","Date":"2 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Woody Allen gets groovy and musical in his 1996 flick - 'Everyone Says I Love You'. Allen in a new style, does justice to the screenplay. He exceeds in convincing and not Boring' you while his music begins to play the part. The Film Legend makes a film worth watching, yet again!'Everyone Says I Love You' is multi-starrer, it has many stories to say and do justice to them. But the most entertaining and best chapter of the film is the one with Allen and Julia Roberts. It's charming, old and wonderfully executed. Even the culmination, is fantastic. It's so mature and happening! Allen as a writer and director is in top form.The acting needs a special mention Allen, again, is the life of the show. He pitches in a superb act. Alan Alda is terrific. Goldie Hawn is at her best, it's a pleasure to watch Hollywood's favorite delivering such a memorable performance. Drew Barrymore is very good; in fact this is amongst her better works. Edward Norton is killer and dances gracefully. Julia Roberts is efficient, as always. Natalie Portman is fantastic. Tim Roth is good.'Everyone Says I Love You' is a must watch. Some musicals bores, but this one surely stands out, thanks to Allen! Two Thumbs Up! "},{"Title":"Unique and wonderful in its own way","Date":"22 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Compared to Woody Allen's absolute best this is a trifle, but an extremely enjoyable trifle nonetheless (let me add my voice to the throng who say the man's had an incredible career, and if he wants to relax and have fun in his golden years bless his heart!). There's not much story to speak of but the cast is wonderful and several individual scenes are great --- I can rewind and watch them over and over again. My faves the musical funeral, the lovely number with Goldie Hawn on the bank of the Seine, Hooray For Captain Spaulding sung by a bunch of Groucho lookalikes --- in French! And, immediately following, the incredible bit where Woody himself does a Groucho Marx impression so spot on it looks like he's channeling the late comic. The only thing about the movie I found truly disappointing was the choreography, which consisted primarily of people running around waving their hands and doing cartwheels. But the heck with that, the movie's a minor gem. "},{"Title":"Funny As Woody Gets","Date":"12 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Near the end of this film when Woody is dancing with Goldie Hawn who is floating with help of some wire I realized by guts were hurting due to laughing so much. And this was the 2nd time I watch this film this winter, and at least the 6th overall. Yea there is no real plot. But each time I watch this it gets funnier and sweeter - with wonderful music. The number of seconds that pass in this film which aren't worthy of your full attention can be counted on one hand.Okay I love Woody. But this is at the top of the game. Not the same as the Woody from 60's and early 70's but just as off the wall and funny. You just can't be ghost dancing and singing and telling you to Enjoy YourselfBy the way it's rate R for a one short scene blip of a rap band doing a version of I'm Thru With Love adding of course the require use of a profanity - which of course had me laughing. "},{"Title":"Entertaining and funny!","Date":"25 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This Woody Allen masterpiece is absolutely entertaining and funny. The songs and performances are very well done and the acting is pretty good especially because there are so few cuts which requires a outstanding acting.  I love musicals and this one in its old-movie style is very unique. All in all, an absolutely recommendable movie for fans of this genre! "},{"Title":"beautiful, just beautiful","Date":"23 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I absolutely love this movie. I actually, somewhat stupidly, got off the couch and hugged the television set after it was over. Every single thing in this movie feels absolutely right; right from the beginning. You know with the fountains? God. Beautiful. The fine actors and actresses sing, some having better voices than others. But that's the whole entire point -- we all want to sing, you know? Sometimes, just sometimes, we'd like to break out into song, probably because of an intensely happy moment we just experienced. And damn it, who cares about the quality of the voice when it's just about passion?The family is so amazing, I wanted to live with them. I liked Woody's little subplot in Paris, very, very much. Shallow? Please. Look at some of your more romantic mainstream pap, like, um, Runaway Bride, and then compare the two. Sure, it is lightweight, but it's still a little grounded, and it's all really refreshing.Kind of funny that I'd mention Runaway Bride, seeing how miss Julia is in both that and this. I hated that movie. It, for the lack of a better word, sucked. She seemed to lack something in that movie (or maybe the whole thing was lacking a good script?), I don't know. But here, she absolutely shines. She probably has the worst voice of them all, but, goddamn it, she means what she's singing.The last scene (well, sort of last) is a amazing dance sequence between Woody Allen and Goldie Hawn. Now, you see, the movie has already provided so much damn charm, wit, and loveliness by this point, that it's almost unbearable. But then, my dear friends, this scene comes along. One of the most beautiful things I've seen in recent memory; Goldie just... floats. She glides. She does everything you've (or more like I've) always wanted to do at times -- just leap into the air and move, like there's no gravity. Really graceful. It's sort of brilliant.**** / **** "},{"Title":"Fantastic Movie","Date":"20 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This is a wonderful film-charming, funny, romantic, whimsical, andintelligent. It is also a good family film especially during Christmasseason. Goldie Hawn has a terrific scene at the end of the filmwith Woody Allen (and she can sing too). Edward Norton gives aflawless performance and Julia Roberts is great as the object ofWoody Allens affection. This film is an instant classic. "},{"Title":"OK - for a hommage.","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This in not a YUK movie. This is an acceptable hommage for all the old musicals. The intertextual layers pointing towards these old musicals is huge - and yet Woody Allen keeps that ironic distance. Yes - there is also a typical 'Woody Allen' aura around the movie - especially in the character he depicts himself. And that of course is always subject to some likes or dislikes. But as I see it, it is nothing more than a hommage to the old musicals (especially 'On the Town' I suspect). "}{"Title":"possibly woody's best, a great musical","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"     I loved this movie.  I am not the kind of guy who generally loves musicals, or even movies from the era when they made musicals.  I am a fairly young guy--30--and those movies have simply not been a part of my experience.  But this was an amazing movie.      Smart, funny, interesting characters and dialogue from Woody.  Great songs, many of them borrowed from the past but delivered freshly.  Wonderful cast from the in-love Norton, to his bride-to be Barrymore(never has looked better), to Hawn, Alda, Roberts, Allen and the girls playing wealthy, smart, attractive New York adolescents to college-age girls so perfectly. Also one of Tim Roth's best performances.      Enjoy yourself, enjoy yourself while you're still in the pink, and see this great movie if you haven't yet.  Few make movies better than Woody, and this may well be his greatest work. The songs will stay with you forever.    "},{"Title":"Mysteries of Love","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  You have got to be a Woody Allen fan to watch his films. He has got a unique way of making you smile or even laugh with his depressing, self-destructive humor. You either like him or you don't. I've always though his work is wonderful because they are built on dialogue rather than picture. Its all about love and its complexities and its ironies and its ups and its downs. Woody Allen is a master in making fun of love's by-products - frustration, jealousy, adultery, regret, self-pity, back-stabbing, opportunism - which he can incorporate in his character like no one can do, always in good taste. This film has great actors and a warm story about love and different facets which we all pass through some time or another - this all done in a comedial style ala Woody Allen. Great actors, great dialogue and great script. Mind you, not a film which will make you die of laugher, but rather smile because you know that its so true.  "},{"Title":"perfect for a lazy sunday afternoon...","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This is the second time i watched the film and i have to say that having enjoyed it thoroughly, i'm bewildered by the number of negative reviews here.Here's what i like about it, the songs though sung in less than perfect fashion by actresses and actors, are absolutely nostalgic and appropriate. In my opinion they threaded the film together and made this film stand out.There are also scenes of New York in fall/winter that's fabulously colorful.I'm always amused when reviewers say that they decide to give this film a chance because of the star-studded casts. Since when is a star-studded cast synonymous with a good film?!!Admittedly the plot is weak and if you're one of those who loves a thoroughly logical and coherent plot, you might find this a disappointment (personally i didn't detect anything about the plot that is remotely out-of-synch but hey i'm no critic). I have to assume that those who said it regularly go to movies dissecting every line and scene before qualifying it as good. That's a chore i never have to endure. I guess i'm one of those blokes who just goes to movies for a good time!This is a light-hearted, poignant film with lotsa beautiful songs, an uplifting plot, a few woody one-liners and a credible performance from the star-studded casts.  Like i said perfect for a lazy afternoon....p.s.those who are fed on typical macho-action-packed, tightly-plotted-180mins-of-action stuff, choked-full of special-effects and oh-so-clever cliche one-liners ala Hollywood style for eg. Blade II etc  might possibly find this film a bore...but if you like a change from those fare, why not give this a shot?? "},{"Title":"Classic Allen.","Date":"19 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Everyone Says I Love You is a clever exploration of the musical movie tradition which cleverly eludes the viewers' expectations.  It is also a beautifully perverse parody of romantic comedies and real-life love that will keep you laughing from beginning to end.  But here I heave a sigh, for I wonder why so few movie musicals have been made in the last ten years, especially since the few that have come out have done well.  And why, when they do come out (other than Evita and cartoons) must they reuse old songs (including this movie) rather than finding somebody to write new ones? There are so many successful Broadway shows that would be great movies. Hopefully, in the wake of Moulin Rouge, Hollywood will rediscover the musical. "},{"Title":"A very funny musical spoof","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I finally got around to setting my Tivo to record Wood Allen movies. I'm SOOOOO far behind on them. This was the first one I've seen in years, and I didn't know anything about it beforehand.What a surprise to see a musical with so many stars! This is a wonderful spoof of old musicals, and the production is surprisingly good. It's shot in a style that will evoke the feeling of an old MGM musical. Wonderful cast that's along for a fun ride! "},{"Title":"A Bit Confused...","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie and thought it was hilarious.Everyone else who reviews this seems to think of it as a failed attempt at a good musical. I see it the other way around. I think it was meant to poke fun a bit at old musicals - all the cliches from musicals appear hear in a very funny way. Edward Norton dancing in the jewelry store is one of the funniest bits.The cast is especially star-studded, even for Allen. Alan Alda, Goldie Hawn, Drew Barrymore, Edward Norton, Julia Roberts, and even Natalie Portman before her Star Wars Episode 1 fame.Take this the way many Woody Allen movies are meant to be taken (see Love and Death) - as spoofs of a particular genre. As a spoof of musicals, I think he carries it off very well. "},{"Title":"Woody sings (even if he doesn't soar)...","Date":"26 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I am a huge Woody Allen fan, but I must say I was somewhatdisappointed in this loving, but sometimes awkward and very mildtribute to Hollywood musicals of the 1930's. Actually, perhaps thatis something of a misconception, as the movie never reallyattempts to pay tribute to the usual boy meets chorus girl on herway up depression era musical story lines, nor does it attemptany recreation of the Busby Berkely type production numbers thatprevailed during that period. Rather, it tells a modern (and typicallyneurotic Allenesque) love story where the characters break out insong to convey their inner (or outward) thoughts and emotions --and the tunes all happen to be from the '30's.There are actually several love stories here, each seeming todepict various modes of romantic infatuation. Edward Norton andDrew Barrymore mostly play out the conventional Hollywood lovestory about two well to do youngsters engaged to wed. Woodyhimself is a long divorced ex-patriat New Yorker now living in Parisand rebounding from yet another in a series of failed relationships,who finds himself infatuated with a woman (Julia Roberts) hesees while vacationing in Venice. He pretends to be Roberts' soulmate by masquerading himself with character traits that hisdaughter (Natasha Lyons) supplies to him based on intimateinformation she gathered while eavesdropping on Robertspsychiatric sessions back in New York. Lyons herself seems tofall in love with just about every new young stud she meets. Andeven the betrothed Barrymore fancies a fling with a seductivelydangerous prison parolee portrayed by Tim Roth. Meanwhile, Allenalso harbors lingering love for his ex-wife (Goldie Hawn) who isnow happily married to Alan Alda (and their teenage daughtersboth fall in puppy love with the same local boy they've beenadmiring from afar).I wasn't sure how the musical numbers would work, and therewas much promise displayed with the opening number sung byEdward Norton, which the movie launches into directly out of thebrief opening credits. The mood seems just right as Nortonserenades Barrymore on the streets of Manhattan, and passersby(including a disheveled panhandler) soon begin to join in withsong. Unfortunately, this kind of earnestness is reproduced onlysporadically throughout the rest of the movie. A definite highlightwould be the singing and dancing spirits that emerge from coffinsin a funeral home to implore the bereaved to get out and enjoy lifewhile they still have the time. The comedy is rather mild, but thereis one priceless gag where ultra-liberal Alda gets a medicalexplanation for his son's inexplicable reactionary Rush Limbaughbrand of conservatism.Allen does save the best for last, however, in a sequence thatbegins with a musical tribute to Groucho Marx at a Parisian gala,and continues with two priceless scenes (one at the gala, theother along the Seine River) between Allen and Hawn. These twohave such wonderful chemistry and the film comes so sparklinglyto life in their interplay, that it is a wonder Allen hasn't since writtena vehicle in which the pair could properly shine. Everyone Says I Love You is never more than mildly amusing, andnever less than pleasantly diverting. Yet, one must applaud thebold and noble experiment. Allen is an artist who has proven in thelast 10 years that he is still capable of producing strong and evenpoignant material (Husbands and Wives, Sweet and Lowdown,Deconstructing Harry) that it is somewhat surprising when hisfilms do NOT rise to his usual level of excellence. Fortunately forus, such misteps (Shadows and Fog) are few and far between.  "},{"Title":"entertaining homage to Marx Brothers-style musical comedy","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I was prepared for the worst after reading some of the reviews here, but it appears those viewers just didn't get the jokes. The title of the movie comes from a Marx Brothers movie (I think Horsefeathers), a tip of the hat to them, and like them the movie has some serious songs and some funny absurd songs. Who wouldn't laugh at the dancing ghosts scene? Even if you fast-forward through the musical numbers the film is still funny. Liberal father Alan Alda wonders if his suddenly conservative son has been replaced by Republican pea-pods in the basement. Now if you never saw Invasion of the body snatchers that joke wouldn't make sense but it wouldn't make it a bad a film. When are reviewers here going to stop mixing their temporary taste with quality? Liking/hating a film doesn't mean it's brilliant/terrible. Subjectively I'd say it was entertaining(tho not great). Objectively it was well made and definitely NOT a bad film(like an Ed Woods film) "},{"Title":"You need to be in the right mood.","Date":"1 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  The problem with modern Allen movies is that you can't help but judge them against his past work.  I mean how can anything compete with Annie Hall, Hannah, Sleeper, and etc.  But if you are in the right mood, and you can let two major things go.  The first, Julia Roberts being a romantic interest for Allen and two the, at times silly, singing.  One of the really nice things is to see some great actors just kind of enjoying themselves. Except for Natasha Lyone who is giving a very forced performance.  She is much better actress then she comes across in this movie.  They seem to act like there is no pressure on them to perform and they just seem more relaxed in this movie.  It's really a lighthearted fun movie.  Norton's allenesque character is hilarious.  Check this movie out if you like two things, 50's musicals and Woody Allen. "},{"Title":"Very Lightweight, Charming Musical Gem","Date":"7 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Woody Allen's Everyone Says I Love You is a lightweight, very innocent musical featuring charming performances from an all-star cast and an overall pleasant, warm feel to it.Though the plot is thin, it's carried by some wonderful music numbers and the hearty singing of the entire cast.  Edward Norton, in particular, turns in a sweet-natured, likeable performance as an overcompensating beau.  It's hard to believe this is the same actor who would portray a Neo Nazi two years later in American History X.  Drew Barrymore is also disarmingly naive as his fiancee.Certainly not as corrosive, insightful, or neurotic as other of Allen's films, Everyone Says I Love You is still a wonderful romantic comedy sprinkled with a dash of nicely arranged songs that proves to be a delightful throwback to the musical productions of yesteryear.  Overall, quite fun and enjoyable.7 out of 10 "}{"Title":"R, you got to be kidding with me","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I can't believe this movie is rated R because of one stupid Rap song that contain only one F-word. The scene goes by fast anyway. The rest of the movie is a harmless musical family movie, more of a PG movie. It's all because of one stupid scene that this movie is rated R. This movie is not really that bad for children. It's a real shame this was a great family movie.I give this movie 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Not a Woody fan, but. . .","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  . . . I liked this film. The dance sequences were delightful; the singing? Well, who cares -it was all from the heart. Woody was at his best at the Groucho Marx party. Drew was being adorable as always. I'm disappointed there was not more of Natalie Portman. I think her star is still on the horizon but will be shining brightly soon.  "},{"Title":"Who says good singing is a part of musicals?","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I recently got rejected at an audition for a school musical on the basis of my vocal talents.  They loved my monologue, enjoyed my somewhat amusing dancing skills (similar to those of Edward Norton's Holden in this film), but when my solo number came up, they were....unimpressed.  Mortified I suppose is more in the ball park.  I only wish I had first auditioned for Woody Allen's _Everyone Says I Love You_.  I think I would have fit right in.I thoroughly enjoyed this entire movie, top to bottom.  I loved their pointless, highly amusing, dance sequences - I wonder who choreographed those?  I assume Woody Allen himself, of course.  I especially enjoyed the escapades at the jewelry store and funeral parlor.  Also, being a fan of The Marx Brothers, I was overjoyed at the party.  The characters Allen created also were wonderful in my opinion.  The way everything intertwined and ended up in one big knot that never quite got sorted out was what made this film so great.  Being an enourmous enthusiast of Edward Norton's work and a long time fan of Drew Barrymore, not mention loving Alan Alda as Hawkeye in MASH, I was impressed with the casting.  The maid and the grandfather were also splendid.To say that everyone should see this film is not a correct statement. Anyone with a heart, humour and an enjoyment for life should watch this film.  And the rest of you, it might just cheer you up, and teach you the fundamentals of musical theatre. "},{"Title":"A magical comedy","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Everyone Says I Love You is as light and fluffy as any movie ever made, and that's one of its biggest charms. Woody Allen's hilarious, irresistibly romantic musical-comedy never pretends to be profound, and that's what makes it so lovable. The plot is pretty much insignificant. It takes several wealthy New Yorkers and has them profess their love in songs from the 1930's like Just You, Just Me, Makin Whoopee, and I'm Through With Love. None of the actors (with the exception of Goldie Hawn, Alan Alda, and Edward Norton) can sing and that's the movie's wonderful point That even the most normal person can be inspired to croon melodies when in love. Allen also has his vintage classic lines and he makes good use of a great cast, particularly Hawn and Drew Barrymore, who offer radiant comic turns. The movie is also great to look at, alternating  spectacular shots of Central Park with Venice and Paris. And the musical numbers are inspired and hilariously goofy. The final one which has Woody and Goldie partaking in a poignant, moonlit waltz along the Seine, is one of the most magical scenes in movie history. It's a fitting finale for a highly original and wonderfully enjoyable movie.  "},{"Title":"Woody as pastry chef and magician","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Like a great chef who whips up a delicious airy confection or a magician who seems to pull substance from the air, Woody has made a wisp of a film that somehow is full of life in every scene. This movie WORKS, yet you can't see the strings. I'm dumbfounded at how Allen has pulled it off. The film harkens back to frothy musical comedies of the 1930s and 1940s, but manages to pull in jabs at voyeurism, politics, and the manipulations of love. Like Roger Ebert, I had a stupid smile on my face the whole time. Why it was rated R is inexplicable--the F word is said only once, and even then very quickly in a rap song as part of a funny running gag involving the song I'm Through with Love. The rest of it is squeaky clean. There are adulterous affairs, but nothing is ever explicit. Most PG-13 films are far more objectionable. The dance in the funeral parlor is a wonderful affirmation of life. The choreography and singing aren't exactly first rate (and Woody's bald top in the charming flying dance with Goldie Hawn at the end is a bit distracting), but who cares. It even makes a romantic liaison between the likes of Allen and Julia Roberts plausible, but only because of a massive and quite unethical deception. The film has the courage, in our cynical and unsentimental age, to extol the joys of romance without apologies or shame. Some of the younger posters to this database, used to their glum, cutting edge view of life and cinema, are sadly missing out on the film's charm. Perhaps with age will come more sensitivity. Even so, the film itself shows that sweetness doesn't have to be syrupy. Allen continues to make one great film after another. When will we realize and appreciate what a prolific filmmaker we have working in our lifetime at such a consistently high level of quality? Contrast this film's optimism with the vicious, profane, but wildly funny view of life Allen presented in his next film, Deconstructing Harry. Now, that's diversity. In good moods or bad, his films are almost always unique and fun. In short, this is an intoxicating creation.  "},{"Title":"a real woody allen movie here and there, but I hate the singing","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I love woody allen movies. The dialogs are always funny, intelligent, etc. etc.But this singing doesn't do it for me. Maybe it works for older people but.....I FF-ed all the singing and liked the rest.I give it a 7. "},{"Title":"Woody sings!","Date":"4 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Even though the people can't sing too well, Everyone Says I Love You is one of Woody's most clever efforts.  The cast is great, and the songs are quite catchy.  The script is hilarious and so is the singing.  Get to the video store and rent this one. "},{"Title":"A musical made as satire","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This has to be seen by everyone. Definitely one of the best of  Allen's films in which the musical genre is shown through a satire. It's worth pointing that the film is full of gentle humour and great performances. Too corny sometimes because of the satire itself but simply an outstanding well-written plot. "},{"Title":"Outstanding Allen fare!","Date":"18 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I enjoy just about everything Woody Allen has done. He has a capacity to combine pure humor, sometimes subtle, sometimes right between the eyes - along with romance, satire and empathetic characterizations. To combine all of these again and again in his films is truly a feat. This film is effective in all of these respects, and the fact that the song-and-dance routines are done by actors not usually involved in this genre, and who don't look (or try to look) like Kelly, Astaire, Cyd Charisse, etc., make it all the more effective and entertaining. All actors and characters are engaging, and the great Dick Hyman provides outstanding musical expertise for the production, as would be expected. The film also provides a pleasing and healthy dose of nostalgia - another trademark of Allen's productions. A pleasurable way to spend an evening. "},{"Title":"If only for one scene, see it...","Date":"16 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Everyone Says I Love You is the last of a series of smaller, wonderful films that spanned a decade after Woody Allen's box office and Oscar triumph, Hannah and Her Sisters. It is by far his most gushingly sentimental film, and the musical he FINALLY got around to making. It's ironic that this films draws a sort of inspiration from perhaps the most reviled film musical in history, Peter Bogdanovich's At Long Last Love (1976), in that the actors (most of whom can't sing a note) often suddenly break into song to express their innocent moments of passion, love, pain, sorrow, fear and joy. And many of the musical moments are sung live as filmed (and it shows), yet there is a lovely nakedness to this, much like when you spy a loved one singing in front of the mirror, thinking no one is around.Beyond the hardcore Woody fans who will find much to love and study in this showpiece, if you have any amount of silly love in your heart, see it through to the scene near the end with Allen and Goldie Hawn which begins at the Groucho Marx party and climaxes beside the Seine.It makes the whole film worthwhile. It gave me goosebumps the first time I saw it, much like when I saw my best friend walk up the aisle with her now-husband years ago.Allen reminds us again that this little shiver is as important as anything else in life. "}{"Title":"Woody Allen's Magic Musical....","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Everyone Says I Love You (1996 ) Woody Allen's musical is great. When Mr. Allen wants to, he can create movies that simply carry you away on bubbles of champagne. This is one of those movies. See Manhattanites enjoying themselves in New York and Paris and Venice, singing and dancing along the way.One of the outstanding highlights of the film is near the end when Mr. Allen and the lovely Goldie Hawn share a pas de deux on the banks of the Seine. Ms. Hawn literally floats on air in this wonderful dance number. Earlier on, the talented Ed Norton has a great song and dance number in a posh jewelry store.The film's only flaw is a horribly miscast Julia Roberts but don't let that spoil the fun. As with most of Woody's films, this is an ensemble piece so there isn't too much of Ms. Roberts to ruin the soufflé.  "},{"Title":"Nice film with an ordinary story","Date":"25 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed the atmosphere of the film, especially the setting in Manhattan  and the milieu of the upper ten.  I was impressed by the great cheographies and  the special effects, e.g. in the dancing sequence in Paris where Steffi (Goldie  Hawn) almost flys. And also Woody Allens humor is great For instance, when the family´s Republican son is in hospital and it turns out that he is in fact a Liberal but some  health problem made him so conservative. After the operation, he is healthy  and a Liberal again. Haha! What I did not like that much was the flat story. It would have been really boring  without the great setting. "},{"Title":"The best Woody Allen movie ever!","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  The part when Alan Alda sings I´m through with love is not to be missed if you only could or wanted to see one Woody Allen movie this would have be the one. All his other movies are crap but not this one.  "},{"Title":"Woody Allen's Best","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This is one of my favourite movies of all time. It's good to see musicals these days, especially well-done ones like this. It has an all-star cast (Goldie Hawn, Julia Roberts, Drew Barrymore, Edward Norton, ect.) and the musical numbers are amazing. I found myself wanting to go back and watch this movie again, and I did, several times. It's also good because we get to hear big stars sing (except Barrymore, someone else sang for her). Rent this movie now! "},{"Title":"For hardcore Woodyphiles only","Date":"12 March 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Every now and then acclaimed directors of comedies and dramas venture into the movie musical genre and varying rates of success were achieved...Sidney Lumet really tripped up with The Wiz as did John Huston with Annie and Richard Attenborough with A Chorus Line Sir Carol Reed did yeomen service to Oliver!, Milos Foreman triumphed with Hair and Norman Jewison did a decent job with Jesus Christ Superstar. One director I never imagined making a musical was Woody Allen but even Woody ventured into this forbidden territory with 1996's Everyone Says I Love You, A sophisticated romp with the same kind of loopy characters Woody usually provides us with, except here, they do occasionally burst into song and dance, despite the fact that several of the cast members can't sing. I have to admit that I do like the fact that the Woodmiester chose to cast actors who fit the characters and not just actors who can sing and dance.The film stars Goldie Hawn and Alan Alda as the head of an affluent upper west side family eagerly anticipating the wedding of her daughter and his stepdaughter (Drew Barrymore) to the heir apparent of another wealthy family (Edward Norton) who are thrown for a loop when Barrymore falls for an ex-con (Tim Roth) who Hawn has invited to their home for dinner as a gesture of bleeding heart liberalism. As always Woody blends multiple stories to great effect, the other primary one being Woody's role as Hawn's ex, whose daughter (Natasha Lyonne) has accidentally overheard a lot of information about a woman (Julia Roberts) who Woody meets in Paris and feeds him information about her in order to romance her.I think Woody made a wise choice in not employing an original score and using classic old songs for the characters to sing and the actors do their own singing (except for Barrymore), which I think adds a touch of realism to the unexpected musical interludes. There is some imaginative choreography by Graciela Daniele with Norton and Lyonne's production number in a jewelry store being a stand out. There is also a dance number at the film's denouement with Woody and Goldie that can only be described as magical.Musical numbers aside, Woody's screenplay is rich with the sophisticated wit we have come to expect from Woody, there's just a little less of it because of the musical numbers. Woody has always had exquisite taste in music, a key element in all of his films so I guess his journey into this genre shouldn't be completely unexpected, but, I think the results are pretty much a mixed bag and the film is suggested for hardcore Woody-philes only. "},{"Title":"charmingly bizarre Woody Allen musical","Date":"12 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Allen takes us into a musical world which still has his psychologically challenged misfit in it, and with a cast around him that includes Goldie Hawn, Alan Alda, Drew Barrymore (not doing her own singing!), Julia Roberts, Edward Norton, and weirdest of all, Tim Roth, you have a brew which is more likely to swim than sink.Everyone Says ... is a fun film, especially in the bizarre ghost sequence Enjoy Yourself and in the trick photography where Hawn literally walks on air during a lover's tryst.  It is punchy, fast-paced, witty, and containing all the mix you would expect from Allen's non-musicals.  A definite hit, much enjoyment here. "},{"Title":"...of all Woody Allens films...so far...","Date":"29 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" ...I think this is my favorite.  Oh, I am devoted to Manhattan...and Bullets Over Broadway, but Everyone Says I Love You   creates such a divinely mad world, and the cast is so great,    and the cinematography is so beautiful that I am glad I have my  copy to watch at home...because it is fresh a delightful each   and every time.  And I love the references to the Marx Brothers  and Betty Grable (Cuddle Up a Little Closer).  It is the most   constantly entertaining film in my collection (close to 1,000). THANK YOU, Woody Allen! "},{"Title":"We Love You We Love You We Love You Loving You","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Woody makes movies the same way he plays jazz, for himself. And what concerns him is metatext and self-awareness. So over the years he has marched through major styles of film -- mostly those which concern a self-aware shift from reality (or some other folding). Then he makes a picture that uses that style and comments on the style at the same time.Now he comes to the musical, ripe with possibilities. That's because the musical has two realities already built into it the `reality' of the story and that of the stage on which the numbers take place. Woody adds a third the film of them both.He sets it up as a recounting by a young girl, a journalism student daughter of a writer. She narrates and is told towards the end to write it up as a film, presumably the one we see. The plot devices all concern the romantic schism among realities.It's a more intelligent notion that what we usually see in theaters. Sometimes Woody hits the clever track as with `Annie Hall' and `Sweet and Lowdown.' Sometimes he misses. He misses here (except for the Groucho bit, which is special). To see a much richer mining of the self-referential modern musical, see what friend Branagh did with a Shakespeare comedy (Love's Labour's Lost) after working with Woody on `Celebrity.'Odd that people go to these films expecting to be entertained and judge them on that criterion.But here's an interesting observation This film is seen through a redhead's eyes (Natasha Lyonne). And Woody's art director responds. Her half-sister (Drew Barrymore) is made a redhead, so is her mother (Goldie Hawn), her father's love interest (Julia Roberts -- a natural red). Even Woody's hair is tinted red. You'd expect the psychiatrist to be included, and yup, she's red too.Ted's evaluation 2 of 4 -- Has some interesting elements. "},{"Title":"Thin, but fun","Date":"5 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" A cute, inventive film with a couple of great musical numbers, and some fun characters (Tim Roth in particular is terrific), but lacking any sense of depth. For me, this doesn't hold up on repeated viewings nearly as well as most Allen films. It feels more one joke on returning to it. Almost every Allen film I've seen has only grown on me with time, with additional layers and themes becoming evident. This was a rare exception.Still Allen's overall playful use of musical techniques makes this worth at least one viewing. I'd still rather see a flawed work by a master, than most of what's available. "},{"Title":"Bring down a copy of my will, and an eraser","Date":"5 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Why do characters in musicals suddenly and inexplicably break into song? Musical numbers are an emotional outlet for a film's characters, a means to express joys, sorrows, and yearnings that would otherwise be unarticulated. This is an outlet that, regrettably, is rarely available to ordinary people in the ordinary world. What Woody Allen does here is to bring the cinematic principles of the musical within the grasp of everyday characters &#x96; that is, people like you and me. Allen chose his actors precisely for their lack of singing and dancing ability, and on one occasion reportedly asked Goldie Hawn to sing worse. If the musical numbers are clumsy and awkward, then I suppose that's part of their charm; Allen shoots most of his scenes in one or two takes, deliberately minimising the extent to which he is able to manipulate the quality of the performances. Nowadays, the one-take musical number is an oddity, and here it draws attention to the performers' weaknesses, but recall that this is how Astaire and Rogers were always filmed, lovingly and always with full attention on the dancers themselves.'Everyone Says I Love You (1996)' is a lighthearted romantic romp, a weaving of love stories connected by a single New York household. Edward Norton and Drew Barrymore are a lovestruck couple whose engagement is thrown into turmoil by the arrival of a sleazy ex-con (Tim Roth). Natasha Lyonne is a precocious teenager, attracted to a succession of random men, who tries to help her father (Allen) score a girlfriend by relaying a woman's (Julia Roberts) confidential psychiatric confessions. Not surprisingly, Allen's subplot is the strongest, bittersweet and heartfelt, and his final, melancholy dance with ex-wife Steffi (Goldie Hawn) carries all the sorrow and lamenting of Fred and Ginger's Never Gonna Dance number in 'Swing Time (1936)' and does so even with Hawn's slightly bizarre gravity-defying antics. On a lighter note, I also loved the Dandridge son (played by Lukas Haas), whose fiercely-Republican political convictions are explained away by a medical condition that was limiting the supply of oxygen to his brain. "}{"Title":"comment","Date":"10 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This movie demonstrates a different use of comedy in a Woody Allen film. It is a musical genre with unique and talented performers. With characters played by Edward Norton, Drew Barrymore, Julia Roberts, Goldie Horne and Woody Allen a comedy is created. Although the movie is made to replicate classical musicals it can easily be considered otherwise.The plot of the film doesn't consist of much, it is simply about love problems and family ties. Much of it focuses on sarcasm and witticisms that are far from obscene or cruel. Although sung badly songs and dances create many relaxed and comedic moments. Many of the numbers are imaginative and full of life.Compared to other Allen films this one doesn't Scream,  I'm all about me. In many Woody Allen flicks Allen is the key narrator or performer however, in this one a young teenager (Drew Barrymore) does most of the narration.For musical lovers this could be an ear bleeding experience. For those who enjoy musicals, comedy and Woody Allen it's an excellent movie to watch. It is uplifting and entertaining. "},{"Title":"Light Hearted Fun","Date":"27 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I'm just going to get it out in the open here, I don't get musicals. In fact I quite usually detest them. 'Everyone says I love you' is probably one of the few that I have managed to find at least tolerable thanks to a charming and delightfully funny script that occupies the moments between all that -mostly- awkward music and dance.Performances by the cast are terrific with everyone bringing their characters to life wonderfully. The pacing was a little uneven particularly in the middle section where things stalled a little and I began to lose interest but generally the plot moves along well enough.It's simply just the rather mundane overall theme of love and romance that I feel hinders the film as it doesn't ever stray into anything distinguishably memorable. That and the whole musical thing which -as I feel with most- distracts and takes away from the film more than contribute. One scene that I think all agree was amazingly done was the final dance between Allen and Hawn which is just wonderful to watch play out and serves as a nice payoff for the film.Overall, Everyone Says I Love You is a funny and quirky take on romance and musicals that serves as a fun, un-taxing way to spend 90 minutes. Fans of musicals will most likely adore it, so it's to them I recommend. "},{"Title":"A Magnificent Comedy/Musical","Date":"17 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" EVERYONE SAYS I LOVE YOU (YEAR 1996) (GENRE Comedy/Musical/Drama) (CAST Woody Allen, Alan Alda, Edward Norton, Drew Barrymore, Goldie Hawn, Julia Roberts, Natasha Lyonne, Tim Roth, Natalie Portman, Gaby Hoffman, Lukas Haas, Barbara Hollander)Everyone Says I Love You is a magnificent comedy/musical from writer/director Woody Allen. The plot revolves around two intertwining stories.Joe Berlin (Oscar Winner Woody Allen) can't seem to find love&#151;he picks the wrong women. One day, in Venice, the beautiful Von Sidell (Oscar Winner Julia Roberts) catches Joe's eye and he's immediately attracted to her. Turns out, his daughter DJ (Natasha Lyonne) knows this woman&#151;and everything about her. DJ tells Joe everything Von loves and Von falls madly in love with Joe, as Joe does with Von.Elsewhere, in New York, when Bob and Steffi Dandridge (Oscar Nominee Alan Alda & Oscar Winner Goldie Hawn) aren't helping Joe&#151;they're running their crazed family. Eldest daughter Skylar (Drew Barrymore) is going to married to Holden Spence (Oscar Nominee Edward Norton)&#151;**SPOILER** until she falls for ex-convict Charles (Joe Roth).Lane and Laura (Oscar Nominee Natalie Portman and Gaby Hoffman) are falling for a mysterious guy, and unfortunately, **SPOILER** one of them is left heartbroken.Their son, Scott (Lukas Haas), is a big time republican and can't help but always express this to his highly liberal democratic family.The stories go together very well, and the acting is great. Edward Norton and Goldie Hawn, in particular, really are amazing. They don't have scenes together&#151;but they're most definitely the best in the cast.Woody Allen, Alan Alda, and Natasha Lyonne come in a close second place tie. They're characters are so different and it's very believable that the three are family and close friends willing to help each other out.Drew Barrymore and Joe Roth could have done better. They were okay, but they really didn't do anything spectacular.Natalie Portman is a very likable character and a very talented actress. Unfortunately, we hardly see any of Gaby Hoffman in this movie. Rounding out the cast is Lukas Haas, who will really make you crack up. The acting is amazing from the majority of the cast, the story is a very good one, and the musical numbers are crafted so well.EK'S EVALUATION PLOT&#133;10 ACTING&#133;8 WRITING&#133;10 FINAL SAY&#133;9 (OUT OF A POSSIBLE TEN) "},{"Title":"Satirical Musical","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Not sure if anyone else got this, but the best satirical musical i've seen - as a kid, i was always annoyed by the musicals when they suddenly break into song - in this film, woody turns this all into his typical neurotic, poke-fun-at-hollywood, satirical, conglomeration of personalities, neurotic skits and foibles.  Especially amusing are the kids in the halloween scene (chiquita banana), the rap version of i'm through with love, and tim roth as the reformed convict singing if i had you (tim roth - the visualization of an ongoing amusing NY democratic joke) .. quite surreal, inappropriately appropriate with just the right traditional woody allen flavor of his sardonic jokes interspersed with true-to-life lessons. "},{"Title":"One of the best musicals ever","Date":"22 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Quite simply, this is one of the finest films in the genre, and definitely one of the Woody Allen''s best films. It's entertaining and hilarious from beginning to end and the cast is excellent and fun to watch. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Ev'ry time we say goodbye","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Really excellent movie. Although the plot is rather frail and the movie seems to be a chain of skits the overall effect is terrific. Old, good Woody once again says us the simple truth about life, death and love (not necessarily in this order). Music is really moving in this context but why without my favourite thing Ev'ry time we say goodbye which really fits in. "},{"Title":"Review","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie, even though I am not a fan of Woody Allen. This film was real, not perfect, but real. The relationships were not perfect, but I gather that Allen tries to portray real life characters with real life concerns....The actors did a great job of acting, singing and dancing..... Does anyone know where in Paris the last dance scene took place between Woody Allen and Gaby Hoffman? Is it to the right of Notre Dame?(saw a church to the left of the screen and I have only been to Paris once even though I lived in Europe 10 years). Thanx!John Marruffo "},{"Title":"Everyone Says Leave it on the shelf...","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I've sat through my fair share of sacaraine filled, puke now it'll hurt less tomorrow, overproduced, worthless musicals, sorry Grandma but let it be said. For my money there were only two shows worth more then a fools gold nugget. Guys and Dolls, of course, the only musical with enough testostorone to excite a male larger then a gerbil, the other is Little Shop of Horrors (Morranis not Jack).So what I'm shooting at is simply avoid 'Everyone Says I love You'. Do it for love, love of dignity, love of artistic respect, love of integrity, pretend it doesn't exist. you found it at the store and left it in the ninety nine cent waste basket where it belongs. What connects us with Woody Allen? His neurotic diatribes, his Haulden Caulfield like charm, his razor sharp wit, rooting for Woody Allen is like being able to step back in time to a high school gym and either having the courage to make friends with the kid everyone picked on, or being able to stand up for yourself if you were that kid- he suffered so that we could be moved. We love you Woody, you inspire, you make us laugh, you teach us that being a geek is actually pretty damn cool- for that we owe you many thanks. For the fans of Woody Allen- If you're new to the genre watch Annie Hall, Mighty Aphrodite, Husbands and Wives etc. Leave this movie for only,only,only the most adoring fans of one of New York's finest. Woody lets break out the chess board, put on the Mahler and take a walk through Central Park... stay away from LA LA Land... you're better off. "},{"Title":"One of The Lamest Movies Ever","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This movie has awesome actors in it..but that's the only good thing about it! It was lame and why was it rated R? It didn't even hardly swear or anything. It was a total waste of money. I was hoping to see a movie worth my time. Drew Barrymoore usually does pretty good movies, but this one, was on the the worse she's ever been in or will ever be in. I was expecting more then what i got. I would never pay money for this again, and i don't recomend it to anyone unless you want them to go through hell. "},{"Title":"if this wasn't a musical....","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This is a very good entertaining film. If there's no reason for you to watch it because you don't like musicals, think about the cast, one of the best ever... Edward Norton, Drew Barrymore, Julia Roberts, Alan Alda, Woody Allen.... what can you want more?The film is a classic Woody Allen. Very well contured and interesting characters, fast paced dialogue, nice funny scenes. There's only one problem. It's a musical.I never liked musicals, not even the ones in the 60s or 70s. Now to see a musical in the 90s seems really strange to me. If those passages weren't there, this movie would've deserved an 8. Now i give it only a 6 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Extremely average","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  It would be unfair to say that if you know one Woody-Allen-film, you know them all. He made some very unique films like &#132;Love and Death`, &#132;Mighty Aphrodite` and &#132;Sweet and Lowdown`. These are movies that don't have a lot in common.But &#132;Everyone Says I Love You` is really a typical, typical Allen-movie with no topic to describe in two sentences. There are just lots of people falling in love with other people. It's a pleasure to see it and the musical parody scenes are very funny, but there is nothing about it you would remember later. I think, Allen felt under pressure to produce a new film every year, that's why he collected some ideas from all his earlier movies, wrote some simple songs and mixed it all together to a new screenplay. Then he cast many stars and future stars (Ed Norton!) and ready was the film. Well, why not? We're all getting old, aren't we?6 stars out of 10 because the ending is really disappointing.  "},{"Title":"The all star cast does not help this lame film","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  A film only for Woody Allen fans.  For those of us not fans, it is a waste of an enormous all star supporting cast.  Cute, if you want to hear the singing voices of many of them.Natalie Portman fans will be severely dissappointed, she is always in the background.Woody plays the typical tragic comic insecure role that he seems to like so much.  Its annoying. "},{"Title":"Everybody says they love this movie -","Date":"24 November 2011","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" - but I'm here to complain. I find the film embarrassing. Its slipshod dramaturgy (not foreign to Allen) makes Meet Me in St. Louis look like Shakespeare. The voice-over babbles on and on so as to make you think that Woody Allen ought to have written a novel instead.The film as such seems like a sorry excuse for the musical numbers which are few and far between. And then, as often with Allen, I feel like having to listen to a guy who goes on and on about his affairs with beautiful women and what a great lover he is. This time he's taking Julia Roberts and Goldie Hawn hostages. I wish I could believe that it's all tongue-in-cheek, but I can't. I give it two stars for the music only. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"27 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This movie just didn't work for me. There is no continuity, and the characters burst into song spasmodically without any lead in. Song and dance scenes often seem contrived, and irrelevant to the situation. With such a strong cast, I settled back to enjoy an experience that never materialised. The storyline is okay, and would have made a good straight comedy, especially considering the great actors in the cast. Perhaps I have missed the point - maybe the haphazard choreography and terrible singing was supposed to be comical in itself. I would suggest renting before buying, just to make sure that it meets your expectations. Unfortunately, it didn't meet mine. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies ever!","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I knew I should have resigned myself to the fact that Woody Allen movies (with the exception of 'Mighty Aphrodite') are horridly dull.  What an awful movie.  I couldn't wait for it to end.  I was eager to watch it because of the great cast (Edward Norton, Drew Barrymore) but it was just as terrible as all his other ones, in fact, worse.  Dancing and singing ghosts in a funeral home?  I'll stick with the Haunted Mansion at Disneyland, thanks.And why does Woody Allen always put himself in every movie sleeping with the most beautiful star he can (in this case Julia Roberts?)  Not very believable. "},{"Title":"Woody not at his best, but I forgive him","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Woody Allen is one of those film-makers who some people love and others detest. I generally count myself as one of the former, but find this particular movie hard to take. The elements I certainly enjoy are several of the musical numbers (especially those sung by Edward Norton and Alan Alda; the surreal hospital and funeral parlour dances; and the chorus of Groucho Marxes), a few of the  gags (especially about Lukas Haas as the right-wing son), the relaxed, professional performances by Alda and Goldie Hawn, and  the enchanting views of Venice and Paris. On the other hand, there are some aspects that make the film almost unwatchable; these include the shortage of irony in the treatment of the upper class milieu, the surfeit of trite, unfunny (possibly improvised) dialogue, the dreadful singing  by some of the actors, and Woody Allen's embarrassing love scenes with Julia Roberts.One major problem is that the film is clearly intended as a hommage to the Marx Brothers, being called after a song from one of their films; and it is set in a plush Upper East Side setting, that cries out for for some Marx-type debunking.  But it is hard for the movie to poke fun at these upper crust characters, while requiring them to keep breaking  into romantic 30s numbers. Also, who would play the debunker? The answer should be Allen himself, who after all is a comic and an admirer of Groucho; but in this film he's too occupied in playing a romantic lead. The nearest we get to the feel of, say, A Night at the Opera, is for a short period when Tim Roth as a released convict is at a social gathering; but again a romantic song breaks the anarchic, irreverent mood. Another glaring flaw is the absence of any proper resolution of the Allen/Roberts liaison, which seems to show a lack of interest by the director in his own movie; he might at least have written a few sharp lines for Roberts to say after he tells her that his apparent fulfilment of all her requirements in a man was a complete sham. But when all is said and done, this is only a movie (as Hitchcock said) and a musical comedy at that; so perhaps I should not take it too seriously, and give Woody credit for making a musical at all.      "},{"Title":"An ill-conceived disaster!","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This film is forced; obviously trying too hard, altho' trying WHAT is impossible to say. Where is it going? What is it doing? You'll never know because it seems obvious to me that Allen didn't know.If it is a loving tribute to musicals, then the music shouldn't be so dreadful. Julia Roberts singing is an embarrassment, Alan Alda is a hair better, and Woody Allen only manages to stay on key by whispering. Only Goldie Hawn sings surprisingly well.The dancing is equally bad. I understand it is meant to be funny, and at moments it is very funny indeed, but mostly it's embarrassing, and sometimes it's unbearable.As to the plot, where is the romance in cruelly spying on a person's most intimate secrets and then shamelessly using them to steal her? Why is this treated as sweet? Oh, right, from the guy who married his step-daughter, it would be silly to question the morality of his FILM romances. Well, I guess art imitates life, because the morality here is contemptible.I want those two hours of my life back. Yuck.  "},{"Title":"Everyone Should Say They Love This Film.","Date":"24 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Everyone Says I Love You (1996) Dir Woody Allen / Cast Woody Allen, Goldie Hawn, Julia Roberts, Alan Alda, Tim Roth Exquisite musical comedy that remembers when musicals were popular entertainment. The characters express themselves fully by lyrics. Several subplots all evolve around the trials within one family. An engaged couple express love through song before she accidentally swallows the engagement ring buried in her dessert. Her mother is played by Goldie Hawn who wishes to create better lifestyles for prison inmates. Woody Allen plays her ex-husband who seeks advice from his daughter on how to win the affection of a married Julia Roberts. She fills him in after listening in on her therapy sessions. Ranks among Allen's best works, which includes Manhattan Murder Mystery and Mighty Aphrodite. Great ensemble cast engages in witty comic dialogue and many inspired moments. Despite a few unnecessary music numbers Allen proves to understand the musical era delivering an outstanding scene where he engages Hawn and her body drifts aimlessly. Alan Alda plays Hawn's current husband who always seems to be sick. Roberts is superb as the object of desire who must make a big decision. Tim Roth is hilarious as a convict invited by Hawn into her home. It ranks among the best of musicals rendering it a film everyone should love. Score 9 / 10 "},{"Title":"No cigar","Date":"19 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This film, which could easily have used good singers dubbing the actors, did not do so by intention. The whole point was that these were real people warbling at their real life situations...real if you happen to have a New York penthouse apartment big enough to play hockey in the foyer. However, as admirable and seemingly funny as that was meant to be, some miscreant sound person couldn't bear to defame his art and turned the singing tracks down. The result is the viewer has to strain to hear awful music; or rather, beautiful music conveyed by bad voices. Hey Woody, if you're gonna do it, do it loud enough for us to hear! Another objection I have to this film that nobody seems to have read the script. It is not consistent. In the beginning, DJ refers to Drew Barrymore's character as, my sister but Woody Allen as the father, when talking to Goldie Hawn's character only referred to one daughter, DJ. Thehalf sisters didn't seem to belong to Goldie, who in fact, showed no interest in any of them, as a mother. The entire family seemed like marbles in a tin can.The best parts were with the Ferry guy and of course, the wonderful funeral dance number. That was hilarious and great, most original. My second favorite was the hospital dancers, and the graceful, lovely ballet by Goldie on the bank of the Seine.More a miss than a hit. The cast, the script, the singing...good try, Woody, but no cigar. "},{"Title":"Is this movie a musical?","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Is it? I saw it twice, last time about one year ago, and what I was left with is the feeling that this is a movie in which songs come in exactly as it happens in your life, whenever you say Ha ya, how that old song says?. In fact the soundtrack is absolutely familiar to anyone and, as a matter of fact, I had the same feeling with On connait la chanson (aka Same old song). If you know these popular french songs, I recommend this Resnais' movie very much. As a third example of musicals where the most popular songs are used as part of the plot I should mention Baz Luhrmann's Moulin Rouge!, but... should I really? ;-)Apart from this peculiarity, this is a typical Allen's movie, with a fine analysis of many crazy feelings and behaviors, many formidable wits, a tribute to his beloved cities of New York, Paris and Venice, and a nice soundtrack, gracefully performed by the actors (so don't expect perfection).It lacks perhaps of a better editing, for some parts are, if I can say, a bit boring.Memorable is the character performed by Julia Roberts, a young woman who wants to make her dreams come true, as well as a beautiful dialogue between divorced Woody Allen and Goldie Hawn, culminating in the absolute magic of the dance by the Saine river. This scene is for this movie what Gene Kelly's singin' in the rain is for An american in Paris. Worth seeing! 7/10 "}{"Title":"A must-see for any Tim Roth-Obsessives like me.","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Personally, I'd rather watch The Sound Of Music and I can't say this is one of Woody Allen's better films.  A star-studded film; which is what really made me watch it.  Funny in places but also predictable and irritating. Tim Roth's part was excellent - quite a...dramatic change to his usual roles!  "},{"Title":"Skip it","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I not only saw this movie, I own it on VHS.  But that does not mean I like it.  I was expecting a Woody Allen film, so I was not disappointed by some of the sillier parts.  But this is not one of Woody's better films, even though it has a pretty good cast, including Edward Norton and Drew Barrymore.  It's a musical, and I wish I had considered what that means before I bought the tape.  Woody-- it feels like a Chris Columbus film. Drew-- did you really need the exposure that bad?  gb  "},{"Title":"What a cast!  One of Woody Allen's best of his recent movies.","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  An enjoyable comedy about life (mostly lives of pretty well off white folk), with good singing,very good dancing, and great old music in comical musical interludes.  The cast ensemble includes such well-known stars as Alan Alda, Ed Norton, Woody Allen, Julia Roberts, Drew Barrymore, Goldie Hawn, David Ogden Stiers and Itzhak Perlman.The magical crowning touch for me was the very last scene at a Grouchoi Marx costume party when one of the many principal female characters is stated to have met an unusually sexy man at the party, and then we see it is someone dressed as Harpo Marx, whose theater persona included being a comedic letch. "},{"Title":"Not very interesting romantic musical comedy, typical Woody Allen style.","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This rather boring story about rich people and their love problems would be a waste of time if it wasn't a Woody Allen production. His role in the film adds the usual humor and clever dialogue. Too much sugary romance scenes, some interesting characters like the republican son and the grandfather, they could have appeared more, I think. The music scenes are somewhat strange, like the ghost dance, but they also add some 'magic'.Rating 5 "},{"Title":"Make Up Your Mind","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  A comedy's success (and I think Allen wanted to make a musical comedy here) is a very personal thing. For me it is very hard to keep the flow of laughs coming when actors are singing songs every 10 minutes. Now I did like the fact that this was a Woody Allen movie with somewhat original music which is a refreshing change from his last few films. Also there are funny moments but these are islands drowned with too many badly sung songs. Every film asks a question, why do I exist? If it a comedy then focus on that. If you have music, make it good and if you have comedy and music, make them work together hand in glove. In other words Allen needed to make up his mind about what kind of movie he wanted.I knew there was a problem when this great cast, Goldie Hawn and Alan Alda stopped setting up laughs and set up a routine song by Drew Barrymore pining for her love. Not only is Barrymore not that good of a singer but the song's setting looked like it was lifted directly out of Westside Story, not good. At this moment we don't have a comedy or a good musical. It's just filling time. Contrast this with a nice song and dance bit about an engagement ring in an exclusive jewelry store which showed that with the right flair (dancing and editing) a few good musical numbers would have enhanced the musical part of the film and enhanced the comedy. Unlike my usual reviews of movies in imdb, I cannot comment on the entire film because at about the half way point after a good comic bit where someone swallows a ring and with great lines by the hospital staff, a doctor starts to sing. The singing is bad and the song is not funny. The comedy is spoiled and it's not interesting as a musical either. Then Everyone Says I Love You became too unlovable and I gave up.  "},{"Title":"A bit cheesy...","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  If you liked Hello, Dolly!, then you'll probably love this flick.  There were good things about it, but I pretty much spent the majority of the movie cringing in embarrassment from it.  I consider myself to be an aficionado of movie musicals in general, but this one took things a bit too far, in my opinion. "},{"Title":"This is an entertaining movie but it sure is strange!!","Date":"27 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This movie is very strange, corny ,and kind of stupid!!  If you watch it you will know what I mean.   Natalie (whats her name)  is just plain annoying and her performance is not anything special. She is completely overrated. Even though this movie is kind of stupid it is usually quite entertaining and funny.  The only problem is that it can be a bit too funny.(as in strange)  "},{"Title":"There are things to like about this movie","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Let's face it, Woody Allen stopped being funny or relevant about 20 years ago. This movie has some likeable things though, number one being the dream cast. I watched it in video format, so maybe the experience would have been different in a theater, but I didn't like the musical aspects. It's so 40's, you know. Maybe that was the point. Woody tends to do things like that.Anyway, the inter-connectedness of the stories and characters was better than most ensemble type movies. I thought Woody did a good job directing this, and as I said I found it enjoyable. I give it a solid 7.  "},{"Title":"Didn't find it that amusing! 3/10","Date":"19 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Review Man, this movie was painful to watch. Watching Edward Norton, who played the Hulk, singing and dancing wasn't good and the rest of the A-list cast didn't that much better. I have never seen what the big deal is about Woody Allen movies because they just seem to have way too much dialogue and not enough action. This movie wasn't that much better and to top it off, he added some annoying singing which just got on my nerves. Originally, I thought that I would give this movie a go because of the amazing cast, but watching them singing through the movie just didn't help. Along with the usual Woody Allen type storyline, I just didn't enjoy this movie at all but it was good to see some big named actors like Natalie Portman and Edward Norton, before they became household names. Annoying!Round-Up I can definitely see why most of the cast haven't pursued there singing careers because some of the singing was awful. I was hoping that the storyline was going to save the day, but that wasn't that good either. As this was Edward Nortons second movie in his career, after Primal Fear which was a much better movie, I'm sure that he was just happy to be in a movie, even though he made a complete fool out of himself. Other young actors like Natalie Portman, who came fresh from Leon and Heat, also must have been glad to get the work so I can't really blame them for there performances. At the end of the day, you really have to be a fan of Woody Allens work to enjoy this movie but I'm just not into his comedy or his sense of direction.Budget $20million Worldwide Gross $34millionI recommend this movie to people who are into Woody Allen movies about family life and love. 3/10  "},{"Title":"god when is it over","Date":"1 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Ed Norton, Barrymore, Roberts, Hawn, Alda, Portman... what's not to love? Well the boring, plodding, banal and mind numbingly worked story line that is as intricate as a cereal box. How can anyone like this? Did they get awards because of the cast? This proves to me that pretentious nits make a good market for an inane movie a college student could have composed. It reminds me of those self-indulgent I am melancholy pay attention to my deep thoughts of the 70s genre, which is how old you have to be to find this mildly entertaining. Woody Allen should just give it up. Then again, people will pretend he has talent because they are suppose to. Kind of like people paid a zillion dollars a ticket to see washed up Streisand in concert. "}{"Title":"A mismatch of celebrity talent and well-trodden Woody-isms...","Date":"5 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" A fragmented modern-day family in New York City--filled with siblings and step-siblings, step-parents and in-laws--fall in and out of love to the tunes of the 1940s. Woody Allen wrote and directed this bursting-into-song celebration of valentines and vitriol; he also co-stars as the ex-husband of Goldie Hawn who hasn't been able to find a decent woman since their divorce. His daughter has access to a beautiful woman's psychiatric sessions (straight out of Another Woman) and coaches her father to woo the girl with his inside-knowledge. Meanwhile, two teenage girls have a crush on the same boy (reminiscent of Hannah and Her Sisters) and Drew Barrymore's society sweetheart is thinking of dumping her lovestruck fiancé for an ex-convict whom everyone thinks has gone straight. The songs are not integrated into the mix smoothly, and the actors Allen has cast are not great singers (including himself). Still, there are some lovely moments and a few stray funny lines, but the cast members don't match up with their characters--and the dialogue is so static and vacuous it leaves everyone stranded, shrugging and nodding to one another instead of actually communicating. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Please, God, No...","Date":"18 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Every time I see Woody Allen with Julia Roberts, I feel vaguely sick. Actually, forget vaguely. I feel sick. Does Woody Allen have no restraint? Julia Roberts? Really? That aside, the movie was entertaining. I don't want to see it again. I understand that it's a parody of/ homage to old musical comedies. That's why the songs are so lightweight, right? They're a little too lightweight to be very interesting. The part where Drew Barrymore runs off with the serial killer is funny. So is the funeral. However, I do not need to see Julia Roberts and Woody Allen kiss. That is one mental image I don't want to be saddled with. Also, I can't see how anyone could compare this movie favorably with Annie Hall. "},{"Title":"One Of My All Time Favourite Woody Allen Movies!","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Everyone Says I Love You is brilliant movie. One of the main reasons is, it's just very enjoyable, it can't fail to entertain the audience watching. The movie features great acting, as well as some great music. It's been directed and also stars, the great Woody Allen, who has made quite a few somewhat strange, but brilliant movies like this and I can tell you, only he can make a movie like, Everyone Says I Love You. Besides, Woody Allen, the rest of the *all star* cast, includes Natasha Lyonne, Natalie Portman, Gaby Hoffmann, Goldie Hawn, and Drew Barrymore. All of them, whether there scenes are big or small, do great here. Everyone Says I Love You is recommended.  "},{"Title":"I'm through with love","Date":"7 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" There came a point when the trademark opening to Woody Allen movies - plain white text on black backgrounds accompanied by a jazz song - went from classy and charming to twee and self conscious. That point really seemed to hit home around his lacklustre 90s period, largely due to the indifferent quality of most of the product. If your jazz opening is ironic juxtaposition to a genuinely funny film, or a more museful one, then it works. If it presages a mediocre offering with Larry David then it can look a little self congratulatory and pretentious.That feeling extends throughout the whole of Everyone Says I Love You, a film that doesn't seem to know what it wants to be... a genuine musical homage or pastiche. If seeing hospital patients or the ghosts of the dead dancing to show tunes is your thing, then it's ideal. But this kind of humour would work more in the full-on hands of a Mel Brooks, not a nebbish pseudo intellectual. And I say that as a fan of Woody.One thing that surprises is how almost everyone can hold a reasonable note in the cast, even Woody himself, with Hawn and Norton reputedly told to sing worse to make it more realistic. And technically there's no faulting the skill behind this piece, Allen's first picture in over ten years to be shot outside New York. But there's a twee, self-amused feel throughout, something made even worse by the character Allen plays in the film. I'm a huge Woody Allen fan, but I would never claim he has a great number of strings to his acting bow. Here he plays Woody Allen - this time called Joe Berlin - as a man who psychologically manipulates Julia Roberts into bed with him. Using spied knowledge of her intimate psychological secrets, Allen says and does the right thing at all time to procure a physical relationship... sorry, but isn't that practically rape?This unsettling subtext to the movie unbalances it still further, a dispiriting turn of events in a film that never seems to know quite what it wants to be. It's nice to see Woody trying something new thirty years into his movie career, but Everyone Says I Love You really needs to be filed under inessential Allen. "},{"Title":"The Film That Could Have Been","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This may be one of the most amazing assemblages of talent ever put together for a film.  Drew Barrymore, Julia Roberts, Alan Alda, Woody Allen, and even a young Natalie Portman!  When I rented this film I was convinced I was going to see one of the best films I had ever seen, since it had so many of my favorite actors and actresses in it.  Wow, was I wrong.  The movie was terrible.  By the time it got to being late in the movie, I was pretty much praying for it to end and spare me.  Only Woody Allen could take this great a group of stars and turn out such a terrible movie.  What a waste. "},{"Title":"What did I miss here?","Date":"5 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie in hopes for the best, since I like Woody Allen and everything, but it seems like I missed some very important elements... Before I knew it the film was over.  It spent a lot of time dealing with character development (which WAS done well), presented the character with an itsy bitsy dilemma, and solved it within a half an hour.  What a disappointment!  Did I miss something?!?   "},{"Title":"Woody's Worst","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I love Woody Allen and I love musicals. I can't believe how awful I found this movie!Allen's dialog has always been so fresh and sharp. I've never heard such weak dialog in a Woody Allen movie. Lukas Haas is a conservative republican vs Alan Alda as the liberal democrat father; the dialog between them was the most obvious. I didn't believe any of the lines from any of the characters.Then this idea that the actors should do their own singing. Why? I've heard these songs many times by talented people. Do I really need to hear these songs butchered by the likes of Drew Barrymore (I also am fond of Drew B, but hope never to hear her sing again). Edward Norton is doing a Woody Allen imitation. Oy. None of the musical numbers move the plot forward.Why did he decide to make a musical? "},{"Title":"what is it woody has lost -- or is it me?","Date":"2 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" As fond as I am of Woody Allen, his recent films (to be fair, I have not seen many of them) absolutely drive me up the wall. And none of them has turned me off like _Everyone Says I Love You_.It has NOTHING to do with the by-now familiar plaint that oh, Woody _used to be_ so funny. Rather, I am ashamed to admit it is really all about what another (apparently very conservative) poster typed about this film being all about neurotic, upper-crust New Yorkers and their problems.Me = big capital L Liberal. No problem here with being in love with the Big Apple, either. The thing is, I _live_ in New York. But not on the Upper West Side -- I live out in South Brooklyn, where life can be truly bizarre, just like a movie, but in a completely different way from the way things are in Manhattan. Check the dinner scene in _My Favorite Year_ for details. It's an exaggeration ... but not that big an exaggeration! Woody began to make me itch and squirm somewhere around the second time I saw _Hannah and Her Sisters_. Clever, yes. Well written and acted, absolutely. But no more something I could remotely relate to than any given episode of Sex And the City. I fear sometimes that this indicates a limitation in me that I am unable to stretch as a viewer and identify with characters who are not like me. I don't _think_ this is the case, so what is the problem here? Is it my newly found class consciousness, my sneaking feeling when I walk through tony neighborhoods in Manhattan in my crummy shoes that I am looked at as riff-raff even though I am highly educated, etc? I just don't know! What it feels like, to me, is that Woody no longer reaches out to speak to anyone but people exactly like him. That leaves me unable to account for the fact that plenty of other people seem to have found this film entertaining, big time. Me, I found it excruciating. There was one line that made me chuckle -- the Alan Alda character saying Bring me my will, & an eraser. Otherwise, I found it intensely annoying, off-putting, self-consciously clever, shallow, self-satisfied, smug and dull. Which made me very sad. "},{"Title":"Diverting, fun, wonderfully shallow","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" (Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon.)Woody Allen courts Julia Roberts. (I wonder if Woody writes his own dialogue these days or just chalks it in and improvises. Maybe he gives a signal to the other actor(s) that it's their turn.) Yes, I am eating my heart out, but believe it or not&#x96;and I swear this is true and Julia Roberts herself will vouch for this&#x96;she was once courted by an orangutang. True story. You could look it up. It was a PBS special. I'm serious. You think I could make up something like this? She even held a baby orangutang in her arms and he...well, let's just say he wasn't wearing a diaper. I kid you not.Anyway, this is a kind of satirical take off on Broadway musicals, but half on the square. It features a lot of show tunes and dance numbers, some beautifully choreographed. Goldie sings, Alan Alda sings, Julia sings and of course Woody sings. (Drew is dubbed, I understand). Ed Norton also sings, but the difference is, he's actually good. Goldie Hawn is the mom, Woody is her ex and Alan Alda is her current. They are all rich and privileged and spend their time in places like New York and Paris and Venice. Goldie is a flaming, bleeding heart liberal who thinks that prisons ought to have a cuisine at least, and Alda is an establishment lawyer and doctrinaire liberal. His son consequently devours the National Review and is a member of the National Rifle Association, and thinks that welfare mothers ought to get a job, etc. Woody Allen is Woody Allen of course. I haven't seen one of his films in decades, but watching him put the moves on Julia brings back memories. You almost believe it. In fact, you DO believe it. And lament.Tim Roth plays an ex-con, just released from prison, invited to a family dinner by Goldie. (Extended family dinners involving kids and grandparents and eccentric relatives stirred by light-hearted family politics are a staple of the Woody Allen canon, as I recall.) Roth's animal magnetism, and his interesting kiss entice Drew away from her intended (at least temporarily). The story is narrated by Woody and Goldie's daughter (Natalie Portman, I presume), who finds herself falling in and out of puppy love with the regularity of the rising sun. Everything is played as a light satire of the intended audience, a technique perfected by Oscar Wilde in his play, The Importance of Being Earnest over a century ago. In a sense Woody Allen's effort amounts to a gentle massage of psyche of the New York liberal establishment.Some highlights The Marx Brothers song and dance number done en francaise near the Seine in Paris allowing Woody to do a fine Groucho impersonation; Drew's peach satin dress; Julia jogging in Venice; the intensive care unit choreography; mannequins coming to life in song and dance..All in all, there's some cute fun had with Broadway show traditions, people breaking into song at odd moments, mostly standards from the pre-rock and roll era, e.g., My Baby Just Cares for Me, Making Whoopie, (yes, that is where Whoopie Goldberg got her moniker), and the beautiful I'm Through with Love, (sung not badly by Goldie Hawn), a few good gags, a cute cast--enough of interest to divert one after an afternoon of hard-core shopping at Neiman-Marcus and Sak's Fifth Avenue. "},{"Title":"Forgettable musical","Date":"12 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Now I did like the old school style direction when it came to this musical. And the musical numbers is good and even cute in some cases. But despite how it tries to go in that sweet and meaningful direction of it all, it just didn't work all together. This has multiple different subplots going but it just wasn't all that effective. Even if it does kinda tie together in the end for the most part. With Woody Allen's character story as the primary. Although I didn't really watch this for Woody Allen but for Edward Norton, who is almost impossible to dislike. This just wasn't all that absorbing despite it trying to be sweet and charming, I just didn't fall for it. The plot is about characters trying to find there path, which revolves around love, sex, fantasies, politics, enjoying life, Christian and atheist views. It even tries to be witty and edgy but wasn't feeling it. Like I said it does tie together in the end but not all that well. Fans of Woody Allen might like this film, it does have a lot of his trademarks in this. Woody Allen put a lot of ideas into this movie, but everything just seemed so rushed and poorly developed. It seem to lack heart and goes more towards opinionated life views, which isn't even all that deep. Edward Norton is always cool though. And the musical number and choreography is good but also forgettable. This movie is about a hour and a half long but felt longer. It's disappointing since this has a good cast.3.6/10 "}{"Title":"The worst from Woody Allen","Date":"5 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" What a disappointment but I have to say that I knew from the first scene that this would not be one of his best. The songs are extremely average, nothing spectacular about them at all! And most of the characters are uninteresting shells.Some of the scenes (in fact most of them) seem like early rehearsal. Especially the parts with Tim Roth who usually is a very talented actor.To make things worse there's just a few funny jokes in here. In fact other than the narration from Natasha Lyonne, a few decently funny moments between Alda and his republican son and Allens regular character + a dance group consisting of Grouco Marx look-a-likes are the only worthwhile parts of the film.It felt extremely uninspired and rather annoying at times. What was the Julia Robers sub-plot for example was extremely unfunny and just plain annoying.It seemed like this film didn't know what to make fun of or how to do it. Most of the time the dialog is just tame and uninteresting and it just seems like it tries so hard without making it.That said Natasha Lyonne and Alan Alda was great. Allen was good but weaker than usual. Again a few funny moments. I actually laughed out loud once or twice but overall this was just decent and by far Woody Allens weakest film. "},{"Title":"A Comedy and Musical of Limited Proportions","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Movie musicals where the actors do the singing are rare these days.  I must say I haven't watched a lot of old musicals to try to catch up.  This movie probably does these old musicals justice.  The music is from or reflective of the golden age of the musical (with a distinct comical exception), not like Grease, Moulin Rouge which attempt to use modern popular music. From the director's commentary of Moulin Rouge, he describes his attempt to use music to advance and serve story.  In Everyone Says I Love You, the musical elements seem to be gimmics and distractions.  The use of song definitely has a feeling of overkill at some points, like the singing trick-or-treaters.The plot lines and characters are mostly simple and trite.  There is no significant gravity to this movie at all.  The movie lacks any sort of philosophical tone and I don't think it has a point.The first 5 minutes is the test of this film, as much as you appreciate that, you will appreciate the rest of it about as much. "},{"Title":"Tim Roth steals the show","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  The characters in this film burst into song at frequent intervals. All the actors use their own voices and all sing out of tune. This is frequently charming but occasionally irritating. Allen himself mumbles his way through I'm Through With Love. A professional vocal group does the choruses and ensemble numbers and some of these really take off, notably at Grandpa's funeral when Grandpa and assorted ghosts launch into Its Later Than You Think and a French version of Hooray for Captain Spalding performed by a troupe of Groucho Marx impersonators The inspiration for the format of the film seems to be Dennis Potter but none of the reviewers seems to have noticed this connection even though Pennies from Heaven was remade in an American version.Goldie Hawn suits Allen's material wonderfully and she even sings well. Julia Roberts is less successful both at singing and as Allen's girlfriend. Edward Horton, as the fiancé does a young Woody Allen impersonation. The film is stolen by Tim Roth in a cameo role as a paroled convict. He looks as if he has stormed onto the set after taking a wrong turning while making a Tarantino movie.  "},{"Title":"Fascinating for reasons other than conventional entertainment..","Date":"22 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Don't miss the I'm through With Love sequence at the end. But that means you have to watch the rest of the movie. Take a chance. It will not be a common movie see. Can be said to be considerably over-produced, under-written, but still very something to talk about. Great for film enthusiasts who want to refine their observations on continuity and self-indulgence. This review itself has to be produced with initiative and purpose. I am exercising a spontaneous sense of relatively unrefined description. But film is a medium that allows that refinement from the vision of the director and all other qualified input from associated sensibilities. I'm in a house in the woods of northern California on a rainy November night. I see all WA movies. I see all movies. I also eat corn flakes and caviar. Now, I've got to get back to the movie that just came on IFC after Everyone Says.., .. Deconstructing Harry. .. any more caviar? This time I'll try blueberries and Stoli in iced crystal. GWRogers "},{"Title":"Everyone Says I HATE you...","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  To put this in context, I like many of Woody Allen's films... some I even love. SLEEPER and ANNIE HALL come immediately to mind. Of his more recent projects, CRIMES AND MISDEMEANORS is evidence of his continuing attempt to meld his comedy with a rueful, Chekovian mood. I even put up with some of his more, um, experimental attempts ... like ZELIG and STARDUST MEMORIES. His digressions into Bergmanesque psycho-drama (SEPTEMBER, INTERIORS, ANOTHER WOMAN) are excrescences, second-rate Bergman rather than first-rate Allen, but seem forgivable exercises in hero worship.  But, what Woody Allen doesn't know about making a movie musical could fill Newt Gingrich's ethical void.The concept of the film seems vaguely intriguing ... a contemporary musical comedy, examining the longing for love amongst New York's sophisticated elite.  Intended to function as a loving homage to the musical comedy genre itself, a reflexive musical LA RONDE, the film doesn't live up to this promise.Lets take a look at the movie's basic structural elements. With regard to the plot... there is none.  An extended family, Park Avenue-style (husband, wife, ex-husband, girlfriends, boyfriends, suitors, children, step-children, grandfather, household staff), goes through the various torments of love, traveling to various glamorous places rich New Yorkers go... Venice, Paris, the Hamptons, La Cirque.By the end of the movie, all the characters are pretty much where we found them at the outset.  Sure, there have been some incidents, some vignettes... anecdotes, if you will, but nothing that one would go so far as to call a plot.Now, as this is a musical, lack of a plot is not necessarily a fatal flaw. In fact, its something of a convention of the genre.  After all, Fred & Ginger's movies didn't exactly evoke the intricate plotting of an Agatha Christie mystery. Still, it's not something to crow about, either.As for characters, well... more than any other aspect of Woody's recent films, the unpleasant nature of the characters with which he populates his tales indicates either Mr. Allen's ever increasing misanthropy or his total isolation from the world, representing his inappropriate belief that these people (if such they are) are interesting to anyone but himself (see also HUSBANDS AND WIVES).There is the kind, liberal patriarch Alan Alda, berating his son for holding neo-conservative views; his beautiful activist wife, suffering from liberal guilt (Goldie Hawn, the best thing in the picture) who still has unresolved feelings for her ex-husband (Woody, doing his usual Woody); Alda's three daughters (the two younger ones pining over the same cute boy) and Woody's daughter, wise beyond her years, trying to set up her love-lorn dad with a beautiful neurotic (Julia Roberts, attempting to reclaim a career on the wane at the time).Lets not forget the callow youth (played with a silent whine by ubiquitous Ed Norton), planning to become engaged to the oldest daughter (Drew Barrymore! Can someone explain her career to me?).  Drew overcomes her doubts about her boring beau by dating a sexually threatening felon (a breath of fresh air played by the wonderful Tim Roth).To paraphrase the THE PHILADELPHIA STORY, there is nothing as disgusting as the sight of the privileged classes enjoying their privileges. And that is precisely the spectacle that Mr. Allen presents ... whining, wealthy, neurotic New Yorkers in an endless web of who loves who and whom loves whomever.  There is disgusting behavior by all parties concerned... hypocrisy, lies, deceptions, betrayals, selfishness... and we don't really care about anyone after just a very short while.Woody obviously has such little affection for his own characters that he creates one who's sole purpose in the film is to be a punch-line to an unfunny running joke.  Alan Alda is tormented by his son, the scion (a one dimensional role played by Lukas Haas), who has become a neo-con critic of his parents' values.  It turns out the boy's views are just the symptoms of a blood clot in his brain! A Conservative, then, is not a liberal who's been mugged, but a liberal with a circulation problem!  Oh, ho, ho.. that Woody, what a pistol.So, no plot and hateful characters.  Even these flaws are possible to overcome in a musical if the production numbers are wonderful. But they are not. As musicals are pure cinematic fantasy, they require a painterly eye and a choreographer's sense of movement.  Woody evinces neither.Co-conspiring with his long-time cinematographer Carlo DiPalma, Woody shoots each of the songs up close, way too close, and gives no sense of geometry, space or movement to the production numbers.  Things drift in and out of the edges of the frame as the camera wanders around, exploring real space. While this heightened realism is a valid and interesting cinematic devise used beautifully by Renoir in RULES OF THE GAME and by Allen himself in HUSBANDS AND WIVES, it is anathema to the fantasy of the musical.Allen does manage to create one nearly-magical moment in the penultimate scene, where Goldie and Woody do a whimsical pas de deux on the banks of the Seine. Bathed in golden street-lights, the two ex-lovers sing and dance to the music of I'M THROUGH WITH LOVE, a song used as an allegedly humorous leitmotif throughout the film.  Goldie literally floats on air, pulled gracefully to and fro on invisible wires.  The scene manages to parody the grace of Astaire & Rogers while also providing a poignant and sympathetic homage to such musical moments.  It seems the only time in the film that Allen is not condescending to the form.If you look at Herbert Ross's adaptation of Dennis Potter's PENNIES FROM HEAVEN, you can see how poorly Allen compares. In PENNIES, Ross created a homage to the Depression-era musical that commented on the irony of the fantasy of musicals, juxtaposing it with the real-world tragedies that such films scrupulously ignored. He, too, made a musical about musicals but in doing so never forget that he was, in fact, making a musical.  With his choreographer's instincts, he fashioned one spectacular production number after another, delivering in full measure the requirements of the genre.EVERYONE SAYS... delivers neither the fantasy of musicals nor the realism of Allen's more recent comedy-dramas.  It falls neatly between the cracks, with its petulant, unlikable characters falling like acid on the tongue.  The film's ambition unfulfilled, it accomplishes little more than to quell, momentarily, the hunger for Woody found mostly amongst elitists, as seeing it serves to comment on their own good taste, like an unread coffee-table book about 19th century impressionism artfully left sitting out for guests to notice.  "},{"Title":"The Absolute Worst Movie I've Ever Seen In My Entire Life!","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This was pathetic! My mom and I, being the movie fanatics we are, just had to buy this. We read all the huge names in this movie and we knew it would be great, so we purchased it. BIG MISTAKE!!!! It was terrible, it was a musical. The singing was terrible, the plot was worse. It was the most boring pointless movie I've ever seen. It was a total waste of money and time. A big waste. So, the only reason I would ever, ever recommend this is if you really, really (for some very strange reason) want to waste two hours of your life. I don't know why anyone would, so don't see it, unless, you really do want to waste your time.I wouldn't even give this movie a 1/10, it was so bad it doesn't even deserve that. YUCK!!!!!  "},{"Title":"Everyone Sings I Love You","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  In my opinion there are two kinds of muscials; Good ones and bad ones. Grease was a good one. This is a bad one. I quit watching this movie with a good 15 minutes left to spare. I have enjoyed other Woody Allen movies like Mighty Aphrodite, but this is a real bomb, in my opinion. Do we really want to hear Woody Allen, Alan Alda, and Edward Norton sing? Dead people coming back as ghosts and singing! Oh please. There are some things like that that are entertaining. This movie just gets down right annoying and I wished it would end as quick as possible. It didn't. The only good thing I can say is that there were some finely acted scenes between Alan Alda, Goldie Hawn, and Woody Allen, but that's about it. I wish someone could tell me why this was such a good film. A waste of a good cast, but again this is only my opinion.  "},{"Title":"Sorry","Date":"9 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I have yet to see all of the Woody Allen films, but this one was too boring for me. I liked The Curse of the Jade scorpion, Celebrity and Small time crooks. Next one will probably be Manhatten Murder Mystery or Hollywood Ending  "},{"Title":"It Has Good Humor","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This movie is funny, romantic, it's light hearted, and it's unlike almost every movie they have today No violence, no cursing, no hard core sex. It's very sweet, too, and I got a kick out of it when I watched it.  I love the old songs they sing in this movie, and the dancing.  It was like watching a Broadway show on your television, or even better an old movie from the early 20th century (I suppose)! "},{"Title":"Wonderful spoof of old musicals, NYC liberals, and relationships.","Date":"11 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I don't usually have the patience for Woody Allen's whining, but I loved this movie! It takes a musical film lover to appreciate the gentle spoof of production numbers and the courage to allow non-singing, non-dancing actors to sing and dance. I also loved the satirical jibes at Eastern liberals and jet-setters. What's sad is that most of the best touches go right over the heads of today's movie audience, like the uncredited and unannounced appearance of violinist Itzhak Perlman. I realized that right now, there is no one in my life who would appreciate this film the way I do. Woody, I forgive you for all the tiresome angstthat has gone before.  "}{"Title":"Musical Mishmash","Date":"13 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Everyone Says I Love You is a perfect musical for people who don't like musicals. Since the music is such a totally insignificant part of the overall story, it isn't as overwhelming as good ones like The Music Man and Fiddler on the Roof. The only thing I can imagine is that Woody wrote it up as an ensemble comedy, in the vein of Hannah and Her Sisters (he loves actors and puts as many as possible in each movie) and then suddenly decided that he always wanted to make a musical so he reached into a hat and pulled out a bunch of songs that only bore fleeting resemblances to anything happening in the plot, which is needlessly complicated and overlapping. Skylar's (Drew Barrymore's) sister DJ tells the story in voicover of her mother (Goldie Hawn), stepfather (Alan Alda), half sisters, brother and her real father (Woody) and the woman he's fallen for (Julia Roberts). And let's not forget the recently-released sociopath (Tim Roth) and Skylar's geeky betrothed (Edward Norton). Yes the cast roster is impressive and most of them (Norton, Roth, Alda and Hawn particularly) do all right with the singing, but the production value, performance quality, even the quality of the songs used is so low that it totally overshadows Woody's gift of dialogue and character. If you like Woody's romantic comedies, by all means rent this movie, but fast forward past all the songs because (with the possible exception of Hooray for Captain Spalding in French) they are all bloody awful. The last line of the film is DJ saying that somebody ought to make it into a movie but that it would have to be a musical, or else no one would believe it. Guess again, DJ.  "},{"Title":"I hated this movie","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I don't understand why this film got a decent rating on the imdb, it is just plain awful.  The singing and dancing are uninspired, the songs don't fit into the story well, the overabundance of subplots is distracting, and absolutely none of the jokes are funny.  If you want to see a good Woody Allen film, rent The Purple Rose of Cairo instead. "},{"Title":"THE worst musical film ever!","Date":"24 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I rank this film as a total disaster.One of the basic requirement I would consider to acting in a musical is to be able to sing and act at the ***same*** time!!! (Or, in the case of most musical films, mime to the playback machine and act at the same time). None of the actors in this movie give the slightest indication they are capable of doing this. Instead, whenever a musical number starts up, they almost visibly switch from acting mode to singing mode, with no continuity in performance.And on top of that, the song numbers don't fit into the story at all. It is EXTREMELY obvious that the songs are standalone pop compositions, that do not link to the narrative structure. Sure, some regular musicals occasionally have a number that adds flavor to the story and have very little dramatic impetus, but they are the exception rather than the rule. Here, ALL the songs are just emotional padding. It would have been a lot easier to just tack them onto the soundtrack as basic emotional cues, like in a regular movie, and forget the musical idea at all.To me, the ideal situation is a musical is to have the character or characters involved in the action. The music is playing in underscore behind the scene. And then, almost imperceptibly, the dialog just so happens to become rhythmical; the character may start humming or something, and almost before you know it you get a musical number. One that seamlessly integrates into the storyline, giving the feeling that it just naturally occurs there. That way, you at least temporarily get by the unusual conceit of having a song pop up in the first place - even if common sense dictates it is unnatural. "},{"Title":"Just YUK!","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This really is not a good film. OK I'm no fan of Woody Allen movies, and I myself start to wonder why I still watch some of his films. It really has just one reason. I want to see a film that is as good as Manhattan Murder Mystery was. Not this kind of garbage, that I guess delivers about 3 laughs, a lot of celebrities but nothing much of a story or character development. GO TO SLEEP!!!!!!3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Everyone Says I Hate this Film","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Woody should not sing. In fact, no one in this film should be singing. They all can't sing. It was Woody's attempt at a musical much like the kind he saw in his youth but the songs were poor and the plot was lame. Not worth seeing.   "},{"Title":"Not Woody's finest hour.","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  The idea was, apparently, to cast 'real' people who would then break into song and dance. Unfortunately, none of the real people can sing or dance, so you have basically a high school amateur hour. Combine this with some of Woody Allens' weakest camera work- some of the dances are shot so that you can't see their feet! and you have a mess. With game efforts from the cast, but it can't help sinking under it's own weight. Rent Singin In The Rain if you want a musical. Rent Annie Hall if you want a good Woody Allen movie.     "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time","Date":"23 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I'm a big fan of most of the actors in this movie especially Julia Roberts. This movie is not worth your time to watch. The acting is boring and so is the plot. The movie is basically about falling in love which the characters do numerous times with different people. Natalie Portman has a small role which is disappointing. Her acting abilities were under utilized. It's also a musical which I didn't realize until I started watching it. There is a romance between Julia Roberts and one of the much older cast member which is unrealistic. If you want a good musical rent Annie (the original version). There are only two positive comments about his movie. It's under 2 hours and it has a well known cast. "},{"Title":"Easily one of his worst pictures.","Date":"30 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  If you can overlook* weak performances (you'll be surprised at Julia Roberts, Barrymore and Norton; and Tim Roth's accent is not to be belived),* terrible singing (you're thinking i didn't know Woody Allen could sing? Well, he can't),* a musical where the songs are just taken straight from other musicals, and the stagings and settings mainly pastiches of other musicals, like the scene at the end on the bank of the Seine, from An American in Paris,* and a story/characters culled from other big family movies and Woody Allen pictures...Hell, who am I kidding... no-one should have to put up with this film!I don't think even Barrymore and Ed Norton fans will be pleased with this (you'll like it, maybe, if you liked him in Death to Smoochy)Even Woody completists, don't waste your time. Stardust Memories is a worthier film for completists to have under their belts.3/10. "},{"Title":"it´s so bad","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAH This film is a joke.It´s so bad.I turned it off after 15 minutes.The worst thing I have ever seen.Woody Allens movies use to be rather good but this is a really stinky thing. Throw it away. "},{"Title":"There's nothing to love about Woody Allen's worst movie ever.","Date":"21 September 2005","Score":"7 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" In the early '90s, it seemed like Woody Allen's quality was declining as he made more and more movies about neurotic rich New Yorkers. He reached an all time nadir with Everyone Says I Love You. It was bad enough that he had to imply that the lives, affairs, etc., of rich New Yorkers was interesting to the world; to add insult to injury, he had to make it a musical. The issue is not whether the cast members can do a good job singing; the whole movie makes you feel like you're turning into a piece of jello. In short, he wasted a perfectly good cast (Goldie Hawn, Alan Alda, Drew Barrymore, Lukas Haas, Tim Roth, Edward Norton, Julia Roberts) on the sort of thing that he would normally rip apart as Hollywood garbage. Absolutely toxic. "}]