[{"Title":"Unusual drama with plenty of points of interest, but also its fair share of problems.","Date":"8 December 2003","Score":"22 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"   Most films starring Keanu Reeves or Cameron Diaz are a safe bet for a big Hollywood blockbuster. This one stars both, yet is a rather low-profile affair which many poeple won't have heard of. Ironically, Reeves gives one of the best performances of his career because he isn't asked to play a one-dimensional man of action. Diaz is eye-opening too, as a foul-mouthed girl trapped in a dead-end existence. The story tells of a young, aimless ex-con named Jacks Clayton (Reeves) who returns to the uninviting Minnesota town of his birth at the request of his mother (Tuesday Weld). She wants him there for the wedding of his elder brother Sam (Vincent D'Onofrio). However, when Jacks arrives he realises straight away that there's something rather fishy about the wedding. It turns out that Sam's bride Freddy (Diaz) has no desire to get married at all (she's only doing it because a nasty local gangster has bullied her into it). Before the wedding party is even over, Jacks has had sex with Freddy in the toilets; before the week is out, the pair have eloped intending to start over in Las Vegas. Suffice to say, Sam is pretty annoyed by what young Jacks has done.... Feeling Minnesota is a gritty, occasionally funny drama which benefits from its unfamiliar setting. Within its own admittedly twisted logic, the film's odd narrative works reasonably well. However, the characters are so amoral that it becomes hard to care what happens to any of them - including the supposed hero Jacks (who would make a fitting bad guy in most other pictures). The amount of coarse language is rather jarring too. You don't need to find swearing offensive to notice it, but if coarse language does bother you then it's safe to say that you'll be offended by the quantity of it in this film. The plot twists and turns in a very unpredictable manner, and makes for an interesting - if not entirely believable - experience. "},{"Title":"Tarantino-esque?","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Watching this movie on running trait in all the characters stood out, their quirkiness. The strange slightly surreal and offbeat tone of the film was quite reminiscent of Tarantino's work. I loved this film, and thought the little laughs hidden in the film made me like it. I watched this with a couple of friends, they too liked it, but we each noticed and laughed at different things.I also loved the constant twists and turns and changes to the dynamic of the story. It starts out as Freddy paying back a debt but changes into an affair on the road, then finding some stashed money, hiding from the cops, then hiding a murder and so on. Oddly despite all of these twists and turns I never got lost but was glued to my screen figuring out who's with who and who's looking out for who.The fights between the two brothers, Sam (Vince D'Onofrio) and Jjax(Keanu Reeves) are some of the funniest things i have ever seen on screen. Reeves put in a good performance as a bumbling crook and D'Onofrio carries himself well as his childish brother. The ever angelic Diaz puts in a good show too. Lindo and Akroyd raised a few smiles too.Don't pay any attention to the bad reviews here. They were just people looking for a ho-hum romantic comedy when instead they got a witty dark comedy.(My kind of film) 3.75/5 "},{"Title":"Much better than reviewed here","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"18 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film suffers from being a hybrid between the Coen brothers and Quentin Tarantino in part.  It's not violent or ironic enough to be a Joel Coen creation and not obscenity-laden or gory enough to be a Tarantino product.  There is humor, however, in the bumbling of Vinny D'Onofrio's character and in Reeve's typically understated role.  You get the idea the real bad guy in the film is the neglectful, dope-smoking mother who allows the older brother to brutalize and bully the younger.  It's topped off with more goofiness with Aykroyd's Krazy Kop and Delroy Lindo's Gangsta role (I particularly liked the red hair gimmick).  I missed this one when it came out and rented the video because I found the name, Feeling Minnesota, remindful of the Coen Brother's Raising Arizona.  I found it very watchable and rather liked the ridiculous situations very dysfunctional people get themselves into.  The only glitch seemed to be Cameron Diaz who at times seemed unsure what her character was all about.  Still, there is much in this film to recommend it.  I would ignore the more negative reviews found here I've no idea what these people were expecting or wanting.  Check this movie out for yourself and you decide.  "},{"Title":"Likeable dark melodrama","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a piece that almost everyone can identify themselves with,in one way or another.Everyone that has been hurt early on in his life,someway.And not given a chance to hit a better road.Keanu portrays a lost young man who has been mistreated in his childhood mostly by his brother,but also by his mother who decided to get rid of him while he was still a kid.Cameron Diaz is a tough girl with no future who gets caught up in trouble which ends up having to marry Keanu's brother,played excellently by Vince D'Onofrio.Whole establishment of the town is rotten.Specially the police officer played by Dan Aykroyd and a stripjoint shark played by Delroy Lindo.Keanu meets Cameron on his brother's wedding and love blossoms.Watching this movie is quite enjoyable and i easily fall for these stories,of paradise lost and love happening on the worst place possible.I dont know why,but i kind of felt like it was me on the screen,or a part of me playing the part of Jjaks.Iam sure many more felt the same.Whats so great with this film is that it makes us feel so many different emotions at the same time,and the moods change incredibly fast.First,everything is dark and then hope starts to come and we feel like Jjaks and Freddie might make it,before our hopes come crashing down again and in the end come true.Its the main accomplishment of this film.Creating so many intense and dramatic situations.Contrasts are strong here.This is one of Reeves' best roles in my opinion.Same goes for Cameron and D'Onofrio.Dont believe the poor reviews of this film.Watch it. "},{"Title":"i really enjoyed this film, in fact, its one of my favorites","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie on TV once...the last half hour or so. I enjoyed it very much so I bought the DVD.Its turned into one of my favorite films. I agree with the previous post about the quirky characters. Indeed that is what makes it lovable.I felt that the plot was good. I always like a story that is not common or at least has some twists in it. Black comedy it is, I never thought I would enjoy that genre but apparently I do.Its an entertaining movie, I highly suggest it for anyone that enjoys a twisty plot....Wils "},{"Title":"Road Movie Crash","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Feeling Minnesota is not really a road movie, but that's still the best categorization I can generate. A road movie does not primarily depend on a great story line, and since the plot of this movie is truly pathetic, it does fulfil that description. To be interesting, such a movie must rely entirely on moving and intriguing characters, and on the chemistry between them. Unfortunately the staff of Feeling Minnesota fails utterly in producing this excitement.The initializing presentation of the characters is unsatisfying and confusing; I can, for example, not figure out whether Jjaks (Keanu Reeves) did grow up in the house of his mother and brother or not. It is said, by his mother (Tuesday Weld), that he must live with his father, but nothing in the film suggests that it ever happens. The same goes for the rest of the characters - I never get to know them. They appear irrational, and no real explanation is given to why they do so.The bottom line is that I leave the movie without any feelings for the characters, except dullness and perhaps a tiny kick of attraction for the cute Cameron Diaz.  "},{"Title":"Woeful film has a provocative look and feel...but nothing of interest in the foreground","Date":"1 June 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Steven Baigelman wrote and directed this uncertain comedy-drama concerning estranged brothers (Keanu Reeves and Vincent D'Onofrio) battling over embezzled cash as well as the affections of a pretty blonde (Cameron Diaz). The gritty ambiance inherent in Walt Lloyd's incredibly vivid cinematography is the most memorable aspect of the picture; capturing a blue-collar realism with such clarity, however, tends to emphasize the unreality of these dunderhead characters, and the movie's look and its story fail to cohere. Baigelman does get things off to a promising start, and he has an attentive eye for what to capture, but these petty people merit little interest. Danny DeVito was one of the many producers (all, presumably, with their own idea of how to film Baigelman's unremarkable script). *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"J.J. Jameson Quote ... Crap, Crap, ...","Date":"18 February 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" J.J. Jameson (from Spiderman 2) Quote ... Crap, Crap, ...Mega-Crap It pretends to be an homage (un/intentional) to the Coen Brothers ... done poorly.There is no real mystery to the plot.Diaz's performance is totally uninspired.The quirky characters don't really work.There are a lot of duh moments.I love black comedy, but this film isn't funny.In my view, it wasn't worth the electricity.There are many films in this genre which are much more entertaining.I hope you find this review helpful. "},{"Title":"See it because of Keanu Reeves and Cameron Diaz.","Date":"28 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I first saw Feeling MInnesota on a Saturday morning. And if it didn't have Keanu Reeves and Cameron Diaz, I wouldn't have watched the whole thing.Reeves plays Jjaks, a man who lives his life on the road, because his mother threw him out when he was only 8. Jjaks has an older brother, Sam who works at a nightclub. The owner of the nightclub found that someone stole his money. He figure that it was Freddie, an ordinary woman played by Cameron Diaz. The nightclub owner is making Freddie pay off the money by marrying Sam. At the wedding, Freddie meets Jjaks and falls in love with him. They run off together and things turn into a disaster.If you enjoy movies with 2 men fighting over the same woman, then I would recommend Feeling Minnesota to you. "},{"Title":"The absolute worst film I've ever seen**","Date":"19 December 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" During a lifetime of seeing and enjoying thousands of films, Feeling Minnesota is absolutely the worst (**major film with A-list stars) that I have ever seen. Bar none. This movie totally fails on every level. It's poorly photographed and edited. There's uninspired acting, the kind where the actors appear bored out of their minds. Just collecting paychecks, perhaps? And worst of all, the sludgy script appears to have been written under the influence of some unpleasant substance found only in sewers. I can't even begin to comprehend how the writer/director could ever have found anyone to finance this project, let alone attract any of the stars that it did. I truly wish I could get back the time that I wasted watching this piece of garbage. If possible, I would have given this film a grade of zero. Better yet, a negative number. "}{"Title":"The family that fights together...well. Blood runs freely.","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I did not expect this movie to be as funny as it is. Although dark and situational, comedy is where you find it. This quirky little story is a mess as much as it is painfully funny. An ex-con(Keanu Reeves)shows up empty handed for his brother's wedding. The brother is played excellently by Vincent D'Onofrio, who himself is a dim witted crook. Reeves ends up boffing the not so blushing bride(Cameron Diaz), who has her own baggage to deal with. The fighting siblings mother(Tuesday Weld)dies of a heart attack at the wedding reception. The newlywed bride wants to runaway with what she thinks is her new husband's stashed fortune. Reeves and Diaz argue about love at first sight, but are absolutely in lust. D'Onofrio wants his bride back and the comedy of errors, mayhem and murder proceed.The scenes of the brothers fighting is hilarious, especially the rock fight on the side of the road. Miss Diaz lives up to my infatuation of her. And Dan Aykroyd plays the part of a corrupt, inept detective. Courtney Love is patient and understanding as the waitress in the diner. The wedding singer is Steve Ghizoni. His singing style is quite an oddity...singing Sinatra type mood songs with an almost imitation Elvis like delivery. You have to watch this twice just to take in the wit and humor. "},{"Title":"A Horrible Film","Date":"13 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Feeling Minnesota is one of the worst films I have ever seen, it is also one of the most disgusting films ever made. It has to do with a woman who is forced to marry a disgusting mob man. At the wedding she meets his brother Jjaks. They have sex in the house after they eat the cake than decide to run away together. The other brother of course comes after him guns blazing and he kills his wife. Jjaks wakes up to find her corpse in the bathtub and buries her. He than seems to become friends with Jjaks and they try to get money together because someone is blackmailing them because he saw them and the body. This loops about and several characters dies or come back to life, but it never comes together with anything that could be called a good plot. The performances are horrible by pretty much everybody. Cameron Diaz, Keanu Reeves, and Dan Akroyed. The direction, dialogue, and visual effects are just horrible. A disgusting and horrible movie. "},{"Title":"Very poor","Date":"3 August 2004","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Feeling Minnesota, directed by Steven Baigelmann, and starring Keanu Reeves, Cameron Diaz and Vincent D'Onofrio The strained relationship between two brothers, Sam (D'Onofrio) and Jjaks (Reeves), is pushed to breaking point when Jjaks arrives at Sam's wedding and makes off with the bride, Freddie (Diaz), a former stripper, marrying Sam to repay a gambling debt owed to night-club owner Red (Lindo). Baigelman's writing and directing debut is a frustrating mess, full of hateful characters and lacking coherence. Putting Keanu and Diaz in the same movie should at least provide some eye candy, but Baigelman even cops out on that score, grudging his actors up with little positive effect. Very poor.  "},{"Title":"Feeling Cameron Diaz Being Devious.","Date":"5 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Feeling Minnesota (1996) Dir Steve Baigelman / Cast Keanu Reeves, Vincent D'Onofrio, Cameron Diaz, Delroy Lindo, Dan Aykroyd Bizarre and twisted tale about places that hail dreaded memories and pain. Two brothers compete in paper, rock, scissors in 1976, which introduces what will become a life long feud. The plot is a series of misfortunes within one family. Keanu Reeves and Vincent D'Onofrio play two feuding brothers. Cameron Diaz is sold as a wedding gift to D'Onofrio by his boss, played by Delroy Lindo, as punishment. To see why being married to Diaz would be deemed a punishment, will be revealed, but he owes money to Lindo nonetheless. Reeves is shunned for not bringing a wedding gift so he robs a gas station and buys a gift with the stolen money. Diaz seduces Reeves into stealing money from his brother and for the price of a chewed ear he succeeds. Intriguing plot but its outcome isn't very pretty. Director Steve Baigelman uses style to highlight. Reeves and D'Onofrio are in top form as the dueling brothers that put each other through decades of torment. Diaz plays a true bimbo who manipulates and survives a bullet wound. Lindo is effective as he enacts his rage on D'Onofrio. Dan Aykroyd plays a corrupt detective who also weighs in on the pursuit of Reeves. It isn't pleasant but it does regards the chaos that haunts one family. Score 8 / 10 "},{"Title":"90s twisting & turning, very funny low-life crime film about users on the take","Date":"13 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Bottom line, this is a very funny, silly, slapstick, goofy film - but very adult, with twists and turns as the largely amoral characters grapple and use each other to get what they want. None of the characters are particularly likable, Jjaks (Reeves) seems the most put upon but he's in and out of prison and Freddie (Diaz) is a good time girl who messed with the wrong people and is just doing what she has to do to get by. It's also a sort of romantic love story although despite Reeves acting superbly and being rather cute, the chemistry between him and Diaz is lacking something. Diaz, I don't feel is acting her best and often is a somewhat monotone, as if reading lines, but they are enjoyable to watch and whilst I think she's the weakest performance she has the most difficult and emotionally exposing role and in that case I think she does well. It's the scenes with Reeves and D'Onofrio that are truly engaging in an anti-chemistry kind of way. They rub each other up the wrong way - sibling rivalry - Jjaks having had the bad end of every deal in their childhood - and in doing so provide some scarily good aggression and slapstick comedy timing genius ensues. It's a film where you have to watch closely, for some grand scale and also minutiae performances, and it can be watched over and over again for laughs and the drama. Reeves is animated and light - like Diaz, I think he suits comedy and there are plenty of funny scenes (albeit black comedy as often as not) to enjoy. Diaz is both charming and annoying - her character is understandable and relatable (possibly due to her performance making it so) but also largely without scruples and single mindedness her dream of working in Vegas - and I like that whilst it ends satisfactorily, it's not particularly Hollywood in it's ending and it's predictable but pleasantly so. Dan Aykroyd is the hapless, stupid, love-sick, cop on the take with a very overblown Minnesota accent - or is it Canadian, or Irish? He brings more laughs, and Courtney Love in a small but nice role adds small town glamour and a stable foil for some of D'Onofrio's eccentric behaviours.Adults only black comedy, lots of bad language, scenes of a sexual nature (though not gratuitous) and a lot of violence and aggression. The subject matter, and plot, make for a very dramatic film but it's played for laughs which makes it an enjoyable romp with all the actors giving it 100%. Amazingly this film flew under the radar of 90s cinema-going and is an unexpectedly good film that I've seen a number of times and it doesn't get old. Not a chick-flick although it may appear as such, and plenty for boys to enjoy. "},{"Title":"Dumb and selfish characters doing dumb and selfish stuff","Date":"29 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" When I first saw this movie when it came out I thought it was a good movie. But watching it now, not as much but just decent at best. But than again I thought Cameron Diaz was overly hot back than. This movie is basically about two brothers quarreling with one another and fighting each other in a very malicious manner. One more malicious than the other and they are both in love with a superficial and selfish girl. And none of the characters are likable and run on greed and their own selfish ambitions while constantly trying to use each other. But than again that somewhat applies to the real world. Watching this movie was like watching Dumb & Dumber except the characters aren't as dumb nor as funny. It has this certain black humor going for it and it works sometimes and has a slight bit of the Coen brothers vibe going for it. But the humor isn't all that well grafted and is nowhere near as good as the Coen brothers films. Keanu Reeves who plays the slight good brother between the two brothers is right for this role and although his acting needed some work. He did a good job of playing this dumb character that is oblivious to his surroundings. His character Jjaks is basically a dumb robber that gets into a hole when he bangs his brothers wife who got forced into the marriage by thugs and so on. This movie is basically about dumb selfish people doing dumb and selfish stuff. It's still a entertaining movie to a degree but nothing special.6.5/10 "},{"Title":"A Dog","Date":"23 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This completely failed attempt at a Black Comedy is a painful experience to watch. It is an example of bad direction and a bad script and the on screen performers are left with nowhere to go. That is the feeling that the film elicits. It is all over the place with predictable surprises and floundering characters on a road to ruin. It is not for one minute funny, or exciting, or dark. It is nothing dressed up as something with a hip delivery and dull designations. The tension between the brothers is nothing more than rough housing and the film's tone changes so much it is dizzying.This mess is a movie that does not entertain or even pass as anything but an unrelenting bore. In fact it is cinema of the cringe. An ugly affair with unpleasant characters and events. The most interesting part of humanity in this movie is the Dog. Ironically that's what this is, a dog. They must have seen it coming. But it's doubtful. "},{"Title":"My Feeling is to Miss Minnesota *1/2","Date":"19 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Very poor film dealing with quite a dysfunctional family to put it mildly.This must have been one of Cameron Diaz's first films and she set the standard for her career A real cute young lady with absolutely no acting talent whatsoever.In this sub-standard film, two brothers vie for attention and one, Vincent D'Onofrio actually marries her. Tuesday Weld, as the mother of the two losers, is totally unrecognizable and should be considered fortunate to drop dead early in the film. Anything to get away from this.Even the end-plot twist with officer Dan Akroyd is boring at best. "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable if imperfect film.","Date":"21 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Feeling Minnesota is an entertaining movie, and though it may require some rewatching to be sure, it's probably now one of my favorites. From the beginning it reminded me quite a bit of a certain Coen brothers film with a similar title, only it is much more violent and a little darker.For those of you who haven't seen it, and to sum it up without spoilers, it's basically a movie about two brothers- Keanu Reeves, the petty crook who has a habit of holding up convenience stores (again, remind you of anything?), and D'Onofrio, his jerky brother. If I got everything right, D'Onofrio does accounting for a dope dealer/club owner who gives him this girl (Diaz, not exactly stellar in this role) as a wife as a reward for him for finding money she stole and as a punishment for her (again, he's a jerk). Reeves pretty much steals her away from D'Onofrio, and D'Onofrio isn't havin' none of that.The best thing about this movie is the weird sense of humor- it's rather subtle sometimes, and then out of nowhere there will be goofy physical comedy (the only thing Reeves excelled at in this, oddly enough) and weird situational humor. The tone is fairly dark through most of it, but there are plenty of hilarious scenes (however odd they are).This might be my favorite D'Onofrio movie (I'm a big fan of the man), especially for how over-the-top he was in it and for all of the goofy outfits he wore. There are a bunch of scenes where he and Reeves are stumbling around or beating each other up and the nearly slapstick physical comedy was great.D'Onofrio and Aykroyd especially are great as the whiny, violent brother with a bizarre taste in clothes and the crooked cop with the hots for Diaz. Reeves wasn't the best choice, though he's passable (especially in scenes involving sibling rivalry), but the rest of the cast wasn't exactly delightful.The sex scenes between Reeves and Diaz (again, not exactly my two favorite performers) were pretty awful, there were parts of the ending that I didn't like, and I wish the film had omitted some of the more annoying romantic elements in general, but I really enjoyed it overall.It's certainly something I'd recommend, though it's a little odd and very dark (pretty much all of the characters are simultaneously likable and disgusting), so it may not be for everyone "},{"Title":"Closer and Feeling Minnesota","Date":"21 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Two very similar types of movies Closer and Feeling MinnesotaFeeling Minnesota followed the same pattern this year's Closer did. You know, the Hollywood movie that tries to be an Independent film in the way that it tries to be like real life, but it ends in a way that is so obviously Hollywood? So if you liked Closer, you'll like Feeling Minnesota. And Vice Versa.Sex is the main focus of this movie, followed closely by feelings. The movie was upfront about providing clues to what was coming, and this made it the good movie it was.Sj "}{"Title":"Very Surprised!","Date":"10 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I caught this movie late one night while flipping through the channels. I mainly stopped on it because it had Keanu Reeves, and I had never seen it before. I was shocked when I realized Cameron Diaz was in it too! I was hooked instantly. What seemed like a really strange movie at first, turned out to be one of my new favorite movies. It was like nothing I had ever seen before - and I loved it! Before it was even over, I knew I wanted to own it! I would recommend this movie to anyone who likes to mix things up a bit, or is just tired of the same old movie plots - and especially anyone who would love to see Keanu and Cameron together! I give it ***** (5 stars)!!! "},{"Title":"surprising movie","Date":"12 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" the movie is a surprising acting performance from Keanu and Cameron, refreshing to see Keanu play something else besides some moron-like action figure. and Cameron for once not in the blone bimbo roles she seems to frequent. strange thing is that this movie is not that well known , i guess this is because both did not really had their break trough yet at the time. and Courtney Love as the waitress only makes this movie complete ) and well on his way to cult status. also Dan Akroyd with an over the top try at a local accent is well worth your time. all in all a movie with an impressive cast, specially for such a low profile movie. "},{"Title":"Believe it or leave it","Date":"29 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  At first, I thought the script itself was mean-spirited and seemingly pointless. However, the movie in its entirety is very effective as a window into the lives of these rotten characters. The actors are the integral component in this movie; each and every one of them is so totally believable that I am still disgusted when I think of the film. I can't think of a single other movie that makes me appreciate it for the ability to draw me in in such a negative manner. I can't see this kind of film being done again, however. I think modern movie audiences come for the spectacle. With this movie, however, they are confronted with the same mediocre, selfish people that probably live in their respective neighborhoods.  "},{"Title":"Very good movie, kept my interest","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this on late night TV once and I liked it.  It had some interesting plot twists, I thought the character were a little comic but believable. It was a different kind of movie that I still remember over a two years later. See it. "},{"Title":"Good Rental","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you like Keanu Reeves, Cameron Diaz, Dan Ackroyd and Vincent D'onofrio. Rent this movie.  I just finished watching it and I was intrigued by it, waiting to see what would happen next.  I thought Ke did a great job as did Cameron, Dan and Vincent. Not once did I regret renting it. It's all relative people. "},{"Title":"Great little dark/Comedy/Romance film, that's quite entertaining and funny, with a good story and excellent performances!","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a great little dark/Comedy/Romance film, that's quite entertaining and funny, with a good story and excellent performances!. All the characters are great, and it has some very good dramatic moments as well ( a lot of them actually), plus Keanu Reeves and Cameron Diaz are simply amazing in this!. OK yes the finale was a bit predictable, however that didn't ruin it for me at all, and I thought Reeves and Diaz had excellent chemistry together, plus it has a few very good plot twists as well, even if I did see one of them coming and that was the big one!. It's pretty well made and written, and I thought Vincent D'Onofrio was brilliant in his role, as the brother of Jjaks, plus I really liked the ending as well. The opening was pretty cool, as it showed the two Jackson brothers growing up as kids, and I was lucky enough to buy this for 1$ at a VHS Blowout sale at my video store, plus Delroy Lindo is quite intense in his role. This is a very underrated film in my opinion, as it should be a lot higher then 5.2, plus it's also very clever at times too. This is a great little dark/Comedy romance film, that's quite entertaining and funny, with a good story and excellent performances, I highly recommend this one!. The Direction is great!. Steven Baigelman does a great! Job here with good camera work, solid angles and keeping the film at a fast pace. The Acting is really excellent!. Keanu Reeves is amazing as always and is amazing here, he is extremely likable, had excellent chemistry with Diaz, had some powerful scenes with D'Onofrio, had plenty of charisma as always, and I consider this to be one of his best performances! (Reeves Rules!!!!!!!!). Cameron Diaz is incredibly gorgeous and is amazing here, she is very likable, had an unpredictable character, was vulnerable, had excellent chemistry with Reeves, and I felt sorry for her in a lot of scenes(Diaz Rules!!!!!!!). Vincent D'Onofrio is brilliant here as the brother of Reeves, he really was a sorry excuse for a human being, but he played it so brilliantly that I couldn't help but like him, he is one of the main reasons I enjoyed this film so much. Delroy Lindo is intense here as usual, he had a small but very effective role here, I love this guy!. Dan Aykroyd is great here as the dirty cop, I really liked him. Courtney Love has a worthless role as a waitress she was OK I guess. Tuesday Weld is OK as the Mother but was wasted. Rest of the cast are fine. Overall I highly recommend this one!. ***1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"In a word, pathetic.","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was without a doubt the worst movie I have ever sat through.  And that's saying alot, because I've seen my share of horrible movies.But I have never seen a movie in which every single character portrayed was an unintelligent loser.  Seriously, there was not one respectable character in the entire script.  How fitting that the plot was equally lame, lacking any intelligence whatsoever.I can't believe that Keanu Reeves and Cameron Diaz would even consent to participating in such stupidity.  And while I haven't seen all of their other movies, I've always enjoyed their performances until now.  It's not that the acting was bad, just the entire story line was moronic.  "},{"Title":"Not a great rental","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  OK, if I was in the rental store and someone asked me if the movie was worth the three bucks for the rental, I'd have to say no.  The plot was implausible.  I've come to the conclusion that Keanu Reeves can not act.  He can, at times, be painful to watch (though my wife thinks he's cute). Dan Aykroyd (who is usually great) was even a little disappointing as the crooked cop. On the plus side, the plot (because it is far-fetched) is unpredictable. Cameron Diaz was good. "},{"Title":"An Awful film","Date":"19 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" A waste of time, talent and shelf space, this is a truly abysmal film. What are big leaguers like Keanu Reeves, Cameron Diaz and Dan Aykroyd wasting their time being in such rubbish?. Petty criminal Reeves turns up to his brothers (Vincent D'Onofrio) wedding and ends up leaving with the bride. A comedy?, thriller?, romance? I honestly do not know! Reeves is wooden in the lead and casting Dan Aykroyd as a cop is so dreadful it has to be seen to be believed!. Only bright spot from a dark dark tunnel is Diaz and even she isn't that good. Rent out something else. everyone involved with this mess should hold there heads in utter shame and prey that it gets lost in oblivion in the years to come. "},{"Title":"better than i expected","Date":"17 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  started out amazingly - i could not stress enough how original the film is, idiosyncratic and very interesting, new to the best of my knowledge, for about the first half or three quarters of the film ... after that it is either stupid and unrealistic or overdone and exaggerated, eg. the level of violence is inappropriate for the rest of the thing, though even that in itself was fairly original in plot etc. ... the main reason i had the impetus to write about this film was that it was likely the only (or one of the only) keanu reeves films in which he actually performs well and gives an engaging and three dimensional character with EMOTIONS ... i want to like him, i really do ... this film definitely helped ... 7.5/10  "}{"Title":"Keanu and the rest of the cast create Fargo atmosphere","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I really liked this movie. It reminded me of the movie Fargo.  There were enough twists and turns mixed in with the goofball depiction of the characters to keep me interested.  I thought the acting was good enough to make the characters surreal rather than stupid.  This is a movie worth watching repeatedly.  As usual, Keanu Reeves does a great job with his character from beginning to end in a spontaneous fashion as the situation is very fluid.  "},{"Title":"I'm feeling Minnesotta, an lookin California..","Date":"30 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Props to whoever titled the film, they took it from a great Soundgarden track called 'Outshined'..So anyway, I felt obliged to write a few words, seeing as 'Feeling Minnesotta' has been unjustly slated on here, so far.It is a pretty simple plot. Black sheep of the family returns to his hometown to attend his bro's wedding, the soon-to-be-wife immediately takes to the black sheep and lays him in a nearby bathroom, on the wedding day - how irreverent! They then proceed to get the hell out of no-wheres-ville, which strings a interesting and chaotic chain of events together.There's some neat twists, a few edge-of-your-seat moments, nice story, good and funny (in a black comedy style) script, but what impressed me the most was that, this has to be Keanu Reeve's only convincing role in his lucky-as-hell career.The whole cast performed way beyond my expectations, maybe this is the result of such a low budget and thus, without special effects and fancy dress, the likes of Cameron Diaz, Vincent D'Onofrio, Tuesday Weld, Dan Aykroyd and Delroy Lindo are truly forced to 'act'! ~Paul Browne "},{"Title":"Well, so what DOES Minnesota feel like?","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  After watching this film, you will come to the unshakeable conclusion that Minnesota feels like a giant mosquito bite.. right smack on your arse (nothing against the good people of Minnesota, mind you - it's not YOU, it's just this MOVIE that leads me to that contusion (oops, I mean conclusion).That being said, it's not really such a bad movie (read previous commenter Michael O'keefe's comments - good evaluation!). No, I can't at all dismiss this movie. It actually IS an enjoyable romp (but then again, for some people anyway, so is stripping naked and rolling around in the hog pen at the local farm. It's all relative, you see. Especially if some of your relatives are hogs...)Anyway, this movie features characters who could best be described as folks who are one audition away from appearing on the Jerry Springer Show, or Maury Povich, or perhaps America's Dumbest Criminals. In the movie, I'm not sure why they even feature them living in houses - it seems trailer parks would have been a more fitting domicile. But they get the job done. Which job is, apparently, to dazzle the viewer with numbing amounts of infighting, bloodshed, lust, stupidity, more fighting, car theft, and lots of cussing (Hey, you like the F word? Then this gem is for you!)I'm surprised that more people didn't see this for the wicked and grungy crime-comedy that it is (hey, afterall, it's got Courtney Love in it, playing a waitress no less!). Plus it's got Dan Aykroyd and Delroy Lindo in it, and they're always good for a chuckle or two. If you've ever laughed at the likes of episodes of Jerry Springer or Talk Soup, then this movie should make you laugh. And that's all there is to say about it. Now, excuse me, I gotta' go scratch that nasty mosquito bite... "},{"Title":"I just saw this movie","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just saw this movie yesterday. I hadn't really heard of it, but than I saw it sitting on the shelf at blockbuster. I picked it up and decided to rent it. I began watching. It seemed like an 'ok' movie. And after I watched, it still seemed 'ok.'Feeling Minnesota is about a former stripper, Freddy (Diaz) who owes a debt to a nightclub owner (Lindo). To pay him off, she is forced to marry Sam (D'Onforio). But when Freddy meets Sam's brother, Jjaks (who's name was mispelled on his birth certificate), Jjaks and Freddy run off together. Sam highers Detective Ben Costikyan (Aykroyd) to get revenge on them.This movie is rated are for violence, language, and sexuality. I do not recommend people under high school age to see this movie. But anyone old enough, should try it out. "},{"Title":"This movie was a complete waste of  my time.","Date":"15 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I want the 99 minutes of my life back that was wasted on this pathetic excuse for a movie. The acting was horrific! I used to be a fan of Cameron Diaz and Vincent D'Onofrio. I will never look at them the same again. Keanu Reeves and Dan Aykroyd were not a surprise. Everyone knows they never could act. Thankfully, only Dan attempted an accent. His accent was a disaster as expected. I think he was either confused about the location of the film or had never actually spoken to anyone from Minnesota. I hope this review helps anyone who is undecided about what to do with their precious time. The only reason I was able to sit through the whole movie was because I was stuck somewhere without anything better to watch or read. "},{"Title":"Clearly inspired by Tarantino","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  All of the characters in this film are amoral human scum but yet some of them are likable, particularly Jacks and Freddie, not coincidentally the attractive two in the bunch. The characters and their hijinks are clearly inspired by 'Sir' Quentin. Akroyd proves his versatility while Lindo rehashes his Get Shorty role (he visits it yet again in Heist). Vincent D. appropriately makes his character one of the most smarmiest seen on the screen in recent years. All in all a fairly entertaining flick, 7/10.  "},{"Title":"not what ya think","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I guess I was misled by the cover and thought this was going to be a blooming romance. This is no romance its wham bam thank you mam. There is only one word in the script it starts with a f and has four letters.There is no chemistry between reeves and diaz but I did find my self hoping he would ditch this chick and get away from his mixed up family. I would give this ** stars, ok if you like reeves but not what ya may think. "},{"Title":"weak, weak, weak","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What a waste of talent.  A very poor, semi-coherent,  script cripples this film.   Rather unimaginative direction, too. Some VERY faint echoes of _Fargo_ here, but it just doesn't come off. "},{"Title":"Keanu, independant...Whoa.","Date":"16 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Man, Dan Ackroyd sure has chosen some interesting projects in his life time. One of which being this dumb, dumb, dumb, dumb, dumb film entitled Feeling Minnesota. The film's premise is dumb. The writing is dumb. The scenery...dumb. There's not a whole lot to say about this silly, violent flick, so I won't.However, it is worth pointing out a few things#1) This was one of Keanu Reeves' worst films. I mean, there all bad, but this one is pathetic. After this, He'll make The last time I committed suicide and other moronic things before stumbling upon The Matrix#2) Cameron Diaz appears too. She's cute and grungy, but won't show her energy until My Best Friend's Wedding.#3) Tuesday Weld, an actress that I haven't really seen a whole lot in films appears as Keanu Reeves' mother. She's memorable, but, from what I've heard, she supposed to be brilliant.#4) The Director Of photography is very strange and must not be too experienced...These are all just opinions of mine, but everyone seems to agree. "},{"Title":"Mediocre Film That Tries So Hard To Be Hip And Funny, But Is Just Flat-Out Terrible","Date":"19 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What a waste of such a talented cast. This movie is p***-poor, wannabe hip comedy that is never hip or funny. It just is a bad Tarantino knockoff. Keanu Reeves and Cameron Diaz, who I usually like, are bad in this film and have zero chemistry. The story isn't bad, but the film is so poorly acted and directed that it's hard to like and tough to sit through (I couldn't stay up through most of it). Skip it. "}{"Title":"Lamps were harmed  in the making of this film","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I don't remember too much about this movie except that there was a distinctly gratuitous destruction of luminaires (lamps). Almost every fight scene included the unnecessary and wanton destruction of useful light fixtures, even if outfitted with cheesy, '70's-style, cylindrical shades to keep with the time setting of the story. On one occasion, raucous lamp destruction takes place in a domestic fight scene between the brothers in both the living and dining rooms of their mother's house, with fixtures in both rooms being taken out. Yet, the most malicious destruction occurs moments later in a bookie's office and includes, but is not limited to, the toppling of a fixture with a ceramic horse-head base, which is consequently disintegrated, and the severe denting of a cylindrical shade as a guy falls back into it during another fisticuffs fight. Later, that lamp is toppled as well when the guy is shot, incurring further damage to the plastic-coated shade.While this movie encourages a particularly wasteful attitude toward lamps, one should keep in mind that lamps, regardless of their cheap construction or gauche, top-heavy appearance, are still valuable for the illumination that they provide. However, if you ever feel the need to vicariously smash a lamp, I would highly recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Was funny the first time.","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The first time I saw this film it was with this cute girl I was attracted to. we had a lot of fun laughing at it and generally making fun. So my impression was that it was terrible but watchable for cheeseyness value. Then, as part of our anniversary, we watched it together again on video. As it turns out, the movie is just terrible and unwatchable. It's amazing how cute girls can change the way the world looks. "},{"Title":"The great love of two brothers!","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  «Love is a burning flame».I found that movie to be very original even though it's no 4-stars. The opening credits are well done and highly irregular. I felt like watching the trailer for a new release.The acting was good, especially the lead characters Cameron Diaz and Keanu Reeves. I also liked the location where most of the film was shot St-Paul-Minneapolis, Minnesota.In all, not a great movie but still enjoyable to watch.Out of 100, I gave it 74. That's **½ on a **** stars rating system. Seen at home in Welland, June 2nd, 2001. Marko Roy. "},{"Title":"Pretty good loser movie","Date":"28 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" In a way it's like Laurel and Hardy in that the two main characters are a couple of idiots always fighting. Keanu Reeves and Vince D'Onofrio play two feuding brothers who want the same women. The women, played very sexily by Cameron Diaz, likes Reeves but is married to D'Onofrio and has eyes on his money.Some people get murdered but the show is really more of a comedy. The three leads do a great job as do the supporting actors like Dan Aykroyd and the always watchable Delroy Lindo. You think of Reeves as being a handsome guy but not here. With his awful hair style and drunk attitude, he's really got loser wrote all over him. Midway in the movie his character does something really clever when he wakes up and finds a dead body in his room and then gets a call saying the police are coming up to talk to him. But he finds a way to fool them. "},{"Title":"Fifty Canadian cents was too much for this dog","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I spent 50 cents renting this thing. 50 cents Canadian, that is ! Even that was way too much. Wooden Keanu must do something for the ladies as his acting in this film was as brutal as ever. The movie was boring and moved so slowly that I longed for the end. I felt sorry for the Replacements, whose '80's classic I Will Dare was butchered by Reeves and Diaz in one of those cliched bonding moments Hollywood loves. Don't waste your time with this movie. "},{"Title":"A waste of talent","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It hasn't even been two years since I first saw this film, and yet, I can barely remember a thing about this movie.  Needless to say, I found it to be VERY forgettable.  Of what I do remember, nothing stands out as particularly good.  A talented cast is wasted in what I suppose was meant to be a dark comedy, but if that is the case, it fails miserably.  At best, this film is mildly interesting.  At worst, the seemingly omnipresent overcast skies are more interesting than the storyline.  If you like watching films where it always seems damp and cool, then I guess you may find something to like in this picture.  Just try to ignore what else is going on, because it is barely watchable. "},{"Title":"This movie is absolute crap.  It is not entertainment.","Date":"28 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  WARNING! SPOILER! This movie is absolute crap. It is not entertainment. I haven't the words to describe the disgust that I felt at the end.This is a badly made movie about the scum of society. During the whole movie I kept waiting for it to get better. It didn't. Instead, it just kept getting worse and worse.When I see a movie that is as bad as this one I always try to find at least one good thing to say about it. In this case it proved impossible. I have not one good thing to say about it. How bad did it get? Well, here's an example Towards the end Dan Akroyd smothers and kills Vincent D'Onofrio while Reeves and Diaz watch! This is not entertainment!  "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Awful sentimental tripe about a loser who returns to his old hometown and steals his brother's girl. Keanu Reeves, Cameron Diaz, Vincent D'Onofrio and even Dan Aykroyd as the annoying cop are all seriously flawed and unlikable.What a disappointment. "},{"Title":"Dark, dark comedy, fun if you are in the mood!","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  With the possible exception of the minister who performs the wedding, every character in Feeling Minnesota is seriously flawed and not quite able to have a normal take on life. Keaunu Reeves, Vincent D'Onofrio, Dan Ackroyd, Cameron Diaz, Delroy Lindo, and even Tuesday Weld as the mother who dies during the wedding reception all play their roles to the hilt to create this hodge-hodge of ultimately quirky characters. There's no meaningful message here, except perhaps to remind us that we aren't doing so badly with our lives, if there really are characters like these out there!I bought this as a budget DVD, the picture is fine and has Doldy 5.1 surround sound. However, there isn't too much in the surround channels. The extras are spartan, so it is primarily the 95-minute film and nothing else.  Critic Ebert has a very accurate review of Feeling Minnesota.  I enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"Pretty rotten movie","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I tried very hard to like this movie but unfortunately I failed.  While it appears to try to be a black comedy it simply appears to be black with very little comedy attached.  The performances are good for the most part, but it is really difficult to like a movie when every single character in it is so damned unlikable.  I mean really, not one single character in this movie had a single redeeming characteristic.  Isn;t the purpose of cinema to be our ability to relate to the characters on the screen, in this case the characters are so awful we couldn't care less if any of them lived or died.  I watched it once, and then rented it again to watch it again (perhaps thinking it would grow on me the second time) but I turned it off round about the motel blow job scene when I really got very bored with the whole thing.  Apart from the fact that the actors act their socks off in this movie there is very little to say for it.  (and is it just me or does Keanu Reeves wear that same damn suede jacket in EVERY movie he is in?  I mean do these movies not have wardrobe in their budget?)   "}{"Title":"Feeling like I shoulda watched something else.","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Trying to capitalize on the Pulp Fiction fad, they fail miserably.  The star, Keanau Reeves, robs a gas station, steals a car, and in general is a jerk.  I think we're supposed to have sympathy for him because he's in love with the slutty blond female lead.  But we don't.  Actually, every character is an a**hole.  We can't relate to any of them. Add to that more than one preposterous suppositions (cops don't notice the stolen car, a cherry 1966 Ford, no less), & it just doesn't work. "},{"Title":"The story of a woman married to the brother of the man she really loves","Date":"19 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  How to qualify this film, simply HORRIBLE. It is badly done with poor dialogues, Reeves played as bad as ever and Cameron Diaz competed with him. Do not waste your time watching such a film although a big waste of money has already occurred to make the film.    "},{"Title":"Worth the rent!","Date":"6 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed this film. While it did have its flaws (one twist too many, some big implausibilities), it had a nice down-to-earth feeling and the black comedy works very well. Cameron Diaz, putting in one of her more subdued performances, is very effective as the girl in need of rescue from the bad position she's put in. Keanu is much less wooden than his usual self and actually fits the part perfectly as the guy who has to rescue her. But the real scene-stealer here is Vincent D'Onofrio. He plays his part for laughs and really pulls it off (check out the scenes in the diner with Courtney Love!). Great chemistry between the actors, cinematography (it's always cloudy and gives it a nice depressing feel to the movie) and a decent ending add up to make this an enjoyable viewing experience.P.S. I loved the opening credits. Captivating! "},{"Title":"K. R.  is so dang hot","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I loved this movie! Saw it with my grandma, but i kinda fell asleep halfway through. Hey it was on at like, midnight! It was the first time i saw Keanu Reeves, and i fell in love instantly. There's something about a guy with his looks and a makeshift bandage wrapped around his head, obviously in a bit of pain, that's appealing to me. Plus, he looked like he was agood kisser. I've looked for this movie forever after that, and I've FINALLY FOUND IT!!!!!! YAY!!!!! My mom freaked when she found out I watched that kind of movie, saying I was like 9, and she didn't know that I knew what sex was. I'm not stupid mother. So, years have passed, and i remain in love with K. R. Not even Elijiah Wood or Daniel Radcliff can climb to that high on the list. I read once that humans are attracted to negativity, and that was miserable enough. Great movie...I still enjoy movies where two men fight over a woman; Phantom of the Opera ( as mine name states my opinions on it )is a great example. Not so great in real life, though. My two exes blame me for getting them suspended. OK, got to go. Another reeves movie is on; The replacement. DROOL. I LOVE KEANU!!! "}]