[{"Title":"You think Life of Brian is funny?","Date":"8 May 2003","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When I was growing up in the 80's, there were basically three camps of movies that were so incredibly funny that they were legendary among my peers and my generation. Those movies were the Monty Python films (Holy Grail, Life of Brian, Meaning of Life), the Mel Brooks classics (Blazing Saddles, Young Frankenstein), and the Airplane! movies. Kids in the Hall Brain Candy is an awesome example of how funny a movie can be, and I hope that some day more people will see it that way and that it will achieve a cult status as a legend of great comedy. It did terribly at the box office, but that was just some unfortunate oversight. Brain Candy features uncanny wit, rollicking absurdity, hilarious zaniness, immaculately understated social commentary, and some of the best comic performances ever filmed (my personal favorite performances are Mark as Don Roritor and Scott Thompson as the clueless closeted gay guy). I believe that the particular kind of comedy in Brain Candy is not easy to enjoy during the first viewing, which is why you should watch it a few times. When the Kids'  masterpiece starts sinking in to your head, you'll start getting a whole lot of laugh-returns on your investment. "},{"Title":"Not what you'd expect.","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film meant more to me than just 'a feature film featuring the comedy troop, The Kids in the Hall'. I am a Kids In The Hall fan. Their first feature length film theme was a good one. They took on one of the biggest things of 1996 and poked fun and holes at it Depression.You have to remember, by 1996, depression drugs were being dispensed at an all time high. People were sad and wanted to be happy all the time so prescriptions were running wild for these depression drugs-- Prozac being the top one. So the Kids went after this theme. Remember, this is The Kids in the Hall taking on this, not the book Prozac Nation. This film may seem silly to some, or even awful for those who expected the same kind of Kids work as they had done in their series, but I did like it and I like the way they went about taking on a popular subject at the time most people didn't wish to admit how popular it really was.Look back at Brain Candy, well, may seem a tad bit dated now that in 2003 we should know better. Do we? But again, I gotta hand it to the Kids in the Hall for being sharp enough to tackle this..and the WAY they tackled this. Think about it...is your health less important than corporate profits? (We beat -- penicillin!!!!)And how about the summary at the end of the film by the taxi driver...it's Okay to be sad...sometimes.The Kids in the Hall were a very talented Comedy troupe of gentlemen and to some degree many expected something more comedic from them with their familiar characters and material for their first film fare, but again, I thought this was a more creative way to go, a more daring and brilliant way to go. Sometimes it strayed, but it all came back to the central theme. This is NOT for everyone's taste, but for those who want to venture into something different from a comedy troupe..maybe along the lines of the Monty Python's troupe fare of Monty Python and the Holy Grail -- who's theme too was way out there for a comedy troupe. It's enjoyable, pick this one up, see it for what it is. "},{"Title":"Really good","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you're coming to this site trying to decide whether to rent BRAIN CANDY or not, let me put your mind at rest and tell you to run to the video store right now and get the DVD.  At least all these mediocre reviews here don't set you up for disappointment, as can be demonstrated by my shock at its hilarity when I first saw it.  That was actually a wonderful surprise. It's of course overlooked, but isn't that always a little bit nice with a gem? Kevin McDonald garnered an awesome soundtrack (Pixies, Odds, Cibo Matto, Pavement, etc), they all turn in great SUBTLE (!) performances, the writing is never low brow or cliched (THANK YOU!!), and last but not least its the Kids for God's sake, and everything they touch always turns gold.  There are so many quotable lines in this movie that it's insane, and PLUS it stays with you for a long time.  When I first saw it, I wasn't even that familiar with the Kids and still enjoyed it a lot.  It actually got me more interested in them.  It has pitch black humor, is intelligent, and has a message (It even left me feeling guilty on my opinion on antidepressants)! And not only are fans treated with new, well thought out characters but with recurring favorites.  Basically, it has everything you could ask for in a movie. "},{"Title":"A gleaming review. Woo hoo.","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Okay. Where to begin?It's phenomenal. If you've ever watched a single Kids in the Hall episode and caught yourself stifling a guffaw for you feared laughing at an orgasming, androgynous chicken-lady(?) might classify you as a lunatic, go see Brain Candy.If you haven't experienced that, go see it anyways.I personally think it's the some of the best modern comedic writing there is out there. The troupe collated their ability to create off-the-wall scenes with a Monty-Python-esque flair of weaving the same actors into decidedly varying roles, and thus spawned a seriously non-serious satire of man's eternal search for happiness.I saw this movie first in the theater, and the odd things is, I didn't laugh once during the entire showing. The true hilarity of the flic hit me several hours later as a friend and I mused its elusive intricacies in a coffee shop. We were nearly falling out of our chairs with just the simple mentioning of many of the scenes.I made a point of seeing it again, and have never regretted adding it to my 'all time favourite' list.Go see it.Booyah. "},{"Title":"Hilarious Even WIthout Knowing The Show","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The TV show was funny as hell, although it was sometimes hit-and-miss ; but what sketch show isn't. This movie contains a well planned plot executed by a diverse but motley crew of characters. It makes you think that the BBC show League of Gentlemen isn't as original as you thought it was! Also, the impersonation of Lorne Michaels is spot-on, and makes you think the Dr Evil character from Austin Powers isn't as original as you thought either (as they are both spoofing Mr Michaels - who produced both SNL for Myers and Kids in the Hall).Great fun... and try not to laugh out loud at the 'cancer boy' character. "},{"Title":"Very Enjoyable, Quotable Cult Classic","Date":"27 December 2009","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A group of researchers for a pharmaceutical company release Gleemonex, a drug that brings people's happiest memory to the surface and cures depression. All is right in the world, at least until the drug is discovered to have some side effects down the road.The Kids in the Hall had a great show, and it's no surprise they were able to make a great movie. With a very limited cast, they play dozens of parts and keep the humor rolling from the very beginning. If there's a group that is the spiritual successor to Monty Python, it is probably KITH.Some of the best jokes are just throw-aways a cop that dreams about sex with toast, a therapist who doesn't speak German, and a scientist who develops a drug that gives ex-girlfriends worms. One of the running jokes throughout the film is a man who is obviously gay but is unable to admit it. He is consistently funny, even after he comes out in the middle of a musical scene.Some people allegedly thought that including Cancer Boy was insensitive and not funny in the slightest. I disagree. If it's okay to make fun of depression and homosexuals, I think cancer should be perfectly acceptable. I may not be easily offended, but I think this was fine.A couple other things made this film great a great soundtrack with bands like They Might Be Giants and The Odds. One of the earliest film appearances of Selma Blair. Seriously, the only way you would not find this funny is if you had a stick up your butt or you were a flipper baby. "},{"Title":"Finally on DVD!","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  KITH's full feature film!!  It's our five favorite clearly insane guys from up north.  What else can you ask for?First, the story does NOT have your typical happy bears skipping, nutty bunnies frolicking kind of ending.  The concept of pharmaceutical drugs being able to make life a better place is very thought provoking.  Think about how we rely on drugs to treat colds, headaches...of course, we can discuss society's views on 'other' drugs, but that's a different monologue onto itself!!Anyhoo, the origin of the drug's name is hilarious!!  I have to admit, the Kids really spoof the corporate world well.  Bruce and Mark really play their eccentric characters to a T. RED SOCKS, repeat, RED SOCKS!!  Although limited, Dave does a great job playing the straight man (I don't understand German).  Kev is his manic awesome self and Scott's best role is probably that of closet case Wally.I haven't even touched upon Grivo, the cabbie or any of the other characters in the film.  Don't forget about Bellini!  PLUS cameos too!  KUDOS to the guys for not caving in and taking out C.B. (for those who haven't seen it, I don't want to spoil it) from the film due to pressure from the P.C. laden bigwig movie execs.  I also enjoyed the moral (twisted though it is true) of the movie and there is a lot of subtle humor...just a tad darker than their TV series.The last time i saw this was probably 1996.  Watching it again on DVD makes me really appreciate (and miss) the guys' film.  Sure, it may not have done great in the box office or achieved the big bucks.  Usually, I tend to avoid mainstream blockbuster poo, so Brain Candy is definitely cult material.  But then again, aren't Kids in the Hall?*Sadly, the DVD is bare bones with the movie in widescreen format, chapter search and audio/subtitle.  It's really great to just have this gem in my collection.  Hey, I recently heard that KITH were discussing doing another feature film.Hmmm.... "},{"Title":"Unexpected delight","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Having only ever seen one episode of 'Kids in the Hall' in my life and having only a vague idea about the group (Canadian Monty Python being the easy comparison), I think it's fair to say that I came the film as somewhat ignorant when it came to all things 'Kids'.I have to say that I was able to enjoy the film for what it was, rather than have any expectations of what it could be. What interested me most of all was it's darkness, something a lot closer to League of Gentlemen territory rather than Monty Python. On an alternate note does anyone else notice a similarity between Don Roritor and Doctor Evil? "},{"Title":"Love it!","Date":"19 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When I first saw this movie I had never seen the TV series, so I didn't have any preconceived ideas about what this movie was going to be like. I belong to a group of people who question the pharmaceutical industry and the premise of the movie appealed to me. Every time I see this film I find new funny details. At my house we have shown this movie to our friends and they all seemed to love it. Each actor portrays several characters and they are very distinctive. I also think the message throughout is important and this movie is worth watching! It's too bad some people didn't like this movie. I think since the movie wasn't heavily publicized it didn't reach the potential but it's a cult favorite in my circle of friends. I'm surprised Scientology hasn't promoted this movie because it portrays psych meds in an unfavorable light. "},{"Title":"One last sweet dose of the Kids In The Hall for who knows how long?","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The audiences and critics seem split on the solitary feature effort from the Canadian comedy troupe Kids In The Hall. Even Siskel and Ebert had a split love/hate feeling, respectively, about the film. But I was and shall remain a major fan of the television show and welcomed Brain Candy with open arms.When the show aired it's final episode in 1994, I felt a sense of sadness overcome me. But without a doubt in my mind, I knew these five talented guys would continue to entertain the masses in some other forum.Not too long after the conclusion to the five year run, I was dining in Toronto with my wife and I had the occasion to meet Bruce McCulloch and chat briefly with him, much to my wife's embarrassment. For the record, I feel that I chose an entirely appropriate time to approach him, not interrupting a conversation with his friend or his meal. After receiving an expression of my appreciation of the show, he answered an inquiry about future plans by telling me of a feature film project involving the whole cast. It wasn't until a couple of years later that the film was finally released, and I had been basically anticipating it the whole time. That said, I was not let down whatsoever.I had heard in interviews with various Kids that their intention wasn't to re-use some of the old characters from the show at all, but as the script evolved, their were a number of instances where they just fit perfectly in to the story line. Also in such interviews, it came out that the troupe wasn't exactly always getting along perfectly which was part of the reasons for the group's disbanding. It seemed from such comments that this was a final farewell, but some of the members stated that they were not adverse to the idea of another one in the future.Aside from the familiar masterful antics from the five comics, there are numerous shots of Toronto locations that show in more ways than one their prominent sense of Canadian pride about the whole production. For more elements of Canadiana, Craig Northey of Odds, a favourite band of the Kids, provided the score for the film, and the whole band collaborated on a couple of songs featured in the film as an important part of the story line. The only thing missing from the film, but not from the great soundtrack, is the familiar theme from the show, Having An Average Weekend by Shadowy Men On A Shadowy Planet. The opening bars of the theme always signified simultaneously something great and something sad about TV for me It meant Kids In The Hall was either beginning or ending.Another aspect of integrity that the Kids In The Hall maintained was the refusal to cut certain scenes that would be considered by many to be just on the edge of completely tasteless humour, particularly one character named Cancer Boy. On CBC, they had their restrictions with content and subject matter, but in many ways they enjoyed much more freedom than many other shows ever experienced. But on HBO broadcasts, I presume they had a bit more free reign, especially with the language used.And so all the Kids have all left home to do their own thing in various arenas of North America. As far as I'm concerned they're a national treasure as much as Monty Python is to Britain. We'll always have syndication. "}{"Title":"It's Too Bad.","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"    As a huge fan of the Kids, I was awaiting with much anticipation their first feature film. Unfortunately, it might also turn out to be their last one as well. Brain Candy has a strong idea for the plot line, but it doesn't seem like they knew how to carry it out for two hours. I was disappointed with the film because I think that they probably could have made something much smarter and funnier if they had had the right ideas and the right people letting them do. Dave Foley is practically non-existent in the movie, which was a downside for me. There are some funny moments, but watching an episode of 'Kids in the Hall' will indubitably make you laugh more. I hope however, that someday they get back together and perform again because this comedy troupe is like no other. See the movie if you are a KiTH fan, there are some good moments. If you are not a KiTH fan, don't judge the guys on this movie. Believe me, there usually a lot worse. In a good way.      "},{"Title":"for Kids in the Hall fans","Date":"16 April 2016","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Roritor Pharmaceuticals is in financial trouble. It's losing money and budgets are getting cut. A group of scientists in the Depression Project has discovered a possible antidepressant. The drug is rushed into production before testing is complete and named Gleemonex. The problem is that the drug eventually puts the patients in a coma of their happiest moment.The Kids in the Hall delivers a somewhat chaotic script. The movie is held together by the guys themselves doing small great bits with various characters. The story is easy enough. The laughs are intermittent but are big when they come. It's a lot of weird silly characters. For fans of the skit show, the off-center humor is familiar and comforting. "},{"Title":"Candy for the Brain.","Date":"3 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Kids in the Hall Brain Candy (1996) Dir Kelly Makin / Cast Kevin McDonald, Mark McKinney, Scott Thompson, Bruce McCulloch, Dave Foley Clever comedy about the unsatisfactory lives we lead. Title suggests either physical or mental garbage we intake to give the illusion of wholeness. A small orange pill called Gleemonex is invented to cure depression but side affects exist. An angry musician rages against society but after taking Gleemonex he makes a video called Happiness Pie. A husband who masturbates to gay porn cannot face the fact that he is gay. He pops the Gleemonex and marches into the street singing, I'm Gay! Vulgarity is outlined with facts one may not acknowledge about themselves. Interesting concept with directing by Kelly Makin. David Foley, Bruce McCulloch, Kevin McDonald, Mark McKinney, and Scott Thompson plays multiple roles as the famous Kids in the Hall troop. McDonald plays scientist Chris Cooper who invents the drug after his father's suicide. He is met with fame as well as the desire to correct the side affects. McKinney plays villain Don Roritor as a somewhat Steve Martin impression. He forces the drug and will be defeated by it. Scott Thompson plays two hilarious roles as gay husband and senile lady. Dave Foley is also featured as an assistant whose greatest dream is urinating in his boss's coffee. Colorful visuals parallel artificial solutions. Score 9 / 10 "},{"Title":"Brilliant Cutting Edge Comedy","Date":"22 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Sadly comedians find themselves in a difficult climate these days as they have to watch what they say for fear of invoking the wrath of the general public. This brilliant satirical comedy is so on target; it is a must see. Sure the gay scenes, as well as the cancer boy clip will bother people, but the movie is so prescient for those times where SSRI's were marketed and advertised as life changing & comfortably numbing solution for life. In the late 80's and 90's so called anti- depressants were the cure all solve all drugs. Now since the early 2000's the same tactics are used to sell anti-psychotics and re-purpose them as the cure all for what ills society.Lets face it if Sam Kinoson, Joan Rivers, Jerry Lewis, Lenny Bruce, Gilbert Gotfried, Dice Clay and Marty Allen were starting out in their careers they would not have a chance. For example Jerry Lewis and Marty Allen were really taking on the personas of retarded persons (now called developmentally challenged) which would be considered taboo these days. Just watch how Roger Ebert overreacted in his 1996 review-now on Youtube. Many of the themes in this movie and the work of Kids in the Hall can be seen in Arrested Development. How dare someone be offensive to anyone! "},{"Title":"watch as prescribed","Date":"18 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" i realized that i would never be happy and i am much happier because of it. I remember when I first watched the film many years ago (on VHS) I didn't think much of it and years later I gave it another go because I am a Kids in the Hall fan. It turns out there are many who prefer the movie who have given it a second or more viewings. The movie is silly (which is one thing I love) and also quite brilliant. I have to say it has earned the title of being a cult classic and is up there with the Monty Python movies. Much of the dialogue itself is funny and the characters just add so much humour to the screen. The only real problem I have with the movie is the DVD. The DVD lacks completely of special features (and is now out of print). Where is the trailer? (which is totally worth seeing over and over again). Where are the deleted scenes? (There happens to be several deleted scenes). What about the alternate ending (Which is worth watching). Maybe the movie could have been funnier if some of the removed scenes had made it's way into the movie. But still the movie is fine the way it is but again the DVD should feature the removed content in order to appreciate this movie even more. I've seen the work print of the movie and of course the movie itself and yet the trailer has moments that is in neither. What is that all about? Anyway I think the Kids have done a great job here and this movie is perfect for a good laugh but it makes me sad and depressed to see all the missing content from the DVD. Then again watching this movie is a great cure for depression. "},{"Title":"The Kids are really good.","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you love the Kids in the Hall, you will love Brain Candy, but if you hate them, you will hate this. I am a big fan of the group and this is just like a very good episode that lasts 89 minutes with a bigger budget and more freedom than on television. Some characters like the hilarious Cancer Boy could never have been shown on TV. All the members of the group are there and they are as good as usual. I just don't get people who don't laugh at Kevin's(my favorite member) face when he plays the suicidal father of Chris or Mark as the spiritual cab driver. And just who could resist Scott as a man who refuses to accept the fact that he is gay. And Bruce has some of the best roles, such as the rock star and Cancer Boy. David Foley seems to have gotten the weakest characters, but he is still funny. His best moments are in episodes of the show, not in this. The absurd humor of the show is there, but it is a bit darker. And sure, the directing is not very subtle, but it gives that special Kids in the Hall feel that this movie had to have. And for those who have never seen material by The Kids in the Hall, I strongly suggest that you see this or episodes of their TV show, since they are just hilarious and you may very well get addicted to their unique kind of humor. Personally, I love them, and this movie is very funny in my humble opinion.87% "},{"Title":"Positively Priceless!!!!","Date":"21 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" As this is the only full-length movie of one of the smartest comedy ensembles ever, this is indeed a classic already and worth every second. It is amazing the wealth of characters The Kids in the Hall are capable of drawing upon which further fuels a very well-written satire on society's eagerness to address and cure any and every thing via a pill - notwithstanding the side effects. To be sure, some of the routines may be uncomfortable, especially because they end up being so funny (most notably Cancer Boy) but sometimes this is the only way - either confront a particular societal flaw with a harsh unfunny reality or, in this case, make them laugh so hard they are bound to see the absurdity in a given situation and thus be able to move toward rectifying it. For KITH fans, this is a must; for those of you who enjoy cutting edge comedy, you will not be disappointed!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Absolutely Freakin' Awesome!","Date":"18 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Holy god! Can comedy get any funnier? I am an absolutely enormous Kids in the Hall fan and although at first this movie didn't strike me as a Kids masterpiece like their series was I soon came to realize that the reason I was somewhat disappointed was because I didn't get to see appearances from the legendary Head-Crusher or Buddy but once I kept watching past the first few minutes and got to catch a glimpse at the classic Don character and of course who can forget Bruce McCulloch as Cancer Boy? So if you don't get to see some classic head crushing bits, what do you get to see? Well, I'm going to answer my own question. You get to see Michael McDonald finding the formula for happy, Bruce McColloch rockin' out to Happiness Pie and giving us an amazing Whistle if You're Loved performance, Mark McKinney playing one of my favorite characters (Don), Dave Foley's awkward moment as the New Scientist, and Scott Thompson dressed up as an old lady spinning around in a giant and pointless testing machine.Probably my favorite scene in the entire movie is Chris Cooper's flash back to his depressed father coming home from working and having trouble shooting himself (which he finally does after 2-hours worth of tries). And then of course there is the kiss shared by Michael McDonald and Bruce McCulloch at the end of the movie.But does this mean that the Kids have strayed away from their roots? Of course not! There is still plenty of cross-dressing, jokes about business men, jokes about Scott Thompson's sexuality, and of course, many absurdly random moments (bird flying into Bruce McCulloch's eye).So if you are a Kids in the Hall fan or a patient diagnosed with depression there is no way you can miss this absolutely hilarious, clever, absurd, and well-written performance by our friends from up North. I can safely say this is classic comedy worthy of Groucho Marx Level praise.WATCH IT! "},{"Title":"One of my Top 10 Films Of All Time","Date":"13 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It'll make you laugh, it'll make you cry, and maybe - just maybe - you'll learn something about yourself... ...Seriously!This movie just blew me away on so many levels. First level Being a longtime fan of the Kids and getting to see many familiar characters once again was a gas. Not to mention some of the new ones they cooked up for the film. Second level As an exercise in the absurd (Cancer Boy, the gay guy coming out in a big neighbourhood production number, the German psychiatrist). Next level Satire and stereotype (the CEO screaming, MY... EMPIRE... IS... CRUUUMMMMBLINNGG!, the punk rocker, the talkshow hostess). Yet another level Makes a HUGE statement about the corporate-media-industrial complex and its usurpation of contemporary culture and mores. And so on, and so on...Finally, the film, while purporting to be a comedy masking itself as a tragedy (or is it the other way round?) and beneath that pretending to send a negative message about the human condition (like the cabbie says, This is not a happy story), manages to have a positive message as well.This movie is an enigma. And as such it's basically indescribable It'll move you in about six different directions at once. And it might even make you think about a few things.If you've never seen it, get out and rent the bloody thing already. "},{"Title":"Brilliantly funny","Date":"11 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Certainly one of the few excellent films that I have seen David Foley in. I saw this, quite by chance, on television and I was amazed that I had not even heard of a film this good. It is several years since I saw it, and 8 since it was made, but this is truly worth seeing.The plot is fairly run-of-the-mill comedic insanity, but the characters are what truly makes this so fun. The writing is very very good and I think complaints of bad language are bizarre in the context of this movie, because if you don't like the language how are you going to enjoy the sentiment...One character's key fantasy is being sent in to bugger enemy soldiers on maneouvres.My favourite scene is the brainstorming session with the Ultra-Cool A**hole Advertising Executive who comes up with their slogan. "}{"Title":"Funny, but a little over the top.","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What can I say, everything the Kids in the Hall do is funny, and this movie is no exception.  I don't know where all the advertising was when this was released in the theaters, but oh well.  This movie pretty much has everything the TV show did, but just a little more over the top.  Don't get me wrong, I like it that way, but characters like, say, Cancer Boy, border on just plain wrong (I still laughed, but felt a little guilty later).*** out of 4 *'s-rob "},{"Title":"A Truly Amazing Film!","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The first time I ever saw a Kids In The Hall sketch, I didn't like it; And the first time I saw this film, I didn't like it.  I didn't hate it, of course, but I was disappointed, as were my fellow KITH fan friends.  I rented it one night, watched the entire thing, laughed a bit, then felt like I was let down.But then, after returning the tape, little things from the movie kept popping into my head Mark's Lorne Michaels-esque character, Don; my favourite Kid Scott's closeted husband and father, Wally, doing his big musical number; the KITH characters that appeared in bits of the film; Dave's 'yes man', Marv; Kevin as Wally's exasperated wife.  These things soon had me wanting to see the film again.  So I bought it (hey, it was only $12!).The second time I saw the film, I liked it.  The third time, I fell in LOVE with it.  It's so genius and intelligent.  They don't just throw the comedy at you in hopes for a laugh; they make it subtle and smart, so you have to pay attention.  The Kids don't take their audience for granted; they let us know that they think we're intelligent enough to get their jokes, so they don't make their humour stupid and obvious.  I blame my not initial love of the film on the TV shows and movies that treat their audiences like idiots, shoving the humour down their throats without allowing them to judge it and see it for themselves.This film is not for everyone, but no film is.  Yes, it will offend and turn away some people.  It was even bore some people.  But for a lot of people, it will make them think, laugh, and learn.  Despite what critics say, this film is excellent and amazing and wonderful and hilarious, ect., ect., ect.  See it if you haven't yet.  Better yet, buy it and watch it over and over again; it's just that good. "},{"Title":"Great movie, after a few viewings.","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I bought this movie on laserdisc, figuring it would be worth the money since it was Kids material.  I was severely disappointed, at first.  While discussing my purchase and let-down with a friend, I had to share a funny moment I remembered from the film.  Then, I had to go back and watch it again... and I enjoyed it more.  Eventually, it became one of my favorite comedies ever...This movie *is* going to offend some people.  If you are sensitive about people's feelings, and if you think disabilities or medical problems are a serious matter, you're never going to be able to enjoy this film.  However, if you're morbid, or just have a weird sense of humor, this movie will provide you with more laughs than anything Hollywood usually puts out. "},{"Title":"A must-see for KITH fans and great for everyone else too!","Date":"23 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A fun comedy about a scientist, Dr. Cooper, working for a drug conglomerate, Roritor.  Dr. Cooper develops an anti-depressant that is immediately marketed without testing for side effects.  Soon Dr. Cooper is dealing with the unforeseen problems of his popular drug and the controlling power of the conglomerate and its ego-manical founder, Mr. Roritor.This movie is surprisingly layered.  Beyond being a great Kids In The Hall vehicle, it is a shrewd satire on the American obsession with magic drugs. The movie also explores the cult-of-personality that surrounds anyone in the news, whether they be movie stars or scientists.The KITH provide their normal nuttiness, but without most of the popular characters from the TV show.  This may be a slight disappointment for fans, but it makes the movie accessable to new viewers. "},{"Title":"Eh...","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was disappointed. I expected it to be a lot funnier. The show always has a wide variety of sketches and jokes, the movie did not. The show is always outrageous, the movie was not. It was actually almost tame compared to the tv show. Yeah, it was more explicit, but at no point during the movie did my jaw drop, much like it does when I watch the show. The scenes at the rock show were too long and wholly unfunny.Good things The scenes with the pharmy mogul and his yes man were very funny, I guess the kids poke fun at corporate life best (in the movie).Bad Usually the kids come up with great 'gay' humor. the gay jokes and the crossdressing were rather run of the mill and not spectacular. nothing new.No scott thompson monologues.overall rent it if you're REALLY bored and/or a HUGE fan. "},{"Title":"Cleverly Canadian","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  First of all, the Kids in the Hall should rule the world. Honestly, they should. (Along with Will Ferrell.) If you are a fan, you don't even have an option, seeing it is a must. And who else but a fan would recognize Sid and Sharisse, and the Bigot Cabbie? This is a film only truly appriciated if you love little Bruce, and have a healthy respect for Mark's amazing command of fake accents. And if you can't stop staring at Kevin's hair, because it never ceases to amaze.Besides... they're Canadian. Who doesn't like Canadians?The short version if you watch this, you will laugh. If you're a fan of KITH, you will laugh even harder. I can't get Happiness Pie out of my head, and you won't be able to either, because it's an ingenious song, (and no, I'm not high.)Bruce is short and moody. We all love Bruce. Mark can make funny faces. We all love Mark. Kevin does that little high-pitched squealing thing. We all love Kevin. Dave is obviously addicted to caffiene and other mood-altering chemicals. We all love Dave. And Scott is very, very gay. So, of course, we love Scott.It all just works out.SO, SEE IT! It will feel like it's 72 degrees in your head, all day long. "},{"Title":"Made me want to watch it over and over and over and over","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I think that this is one of the Kids best works.  Every one of them did great.  You gotta remember when watching this film, it is a situation comedy. Have pacience with it and you just might get some of the jokes!Kids in the Hall... Best thing to come out of Canada since...... hockey! and I guess, the only things. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"5 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought this was a great movie, but I had to watch it twice in the same night to get it.  I think to like this movie, you defenately have to be a Kith fan. You might enjoy it even if you aren't a kith fan, but you might get the humor better if you are.  I liked the characters, especially Cisco and Greivo.  I'm glad they didn't have too many recurring characeters because I like to see more bizzare characters they could come out with. 9/10  "},{"Title":"Okay film, but since it's KITH it's a masterpiece","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm a huge KITH fan, and this movie lived up to my expectations 99%. The amazing thing about this movie is that although it features few of the lovable TV show characters, it was still awesome, and true to the KITH's style. I would have liked to see Buddy or Cabbage Head or the STEPS boys in it, but this movie was still great. I think you may have to warm up to the show before you can enjoy the movie, but it manages to be funny on its own.I laughed out loud at many unforgettable moments Wally's army flashbacks; the short appearance of the feuding white trash couple; and the German guy confessing to the psychiatrist (Subtitle The nipples of mother hope have run dry).When I discovered Brain Candy on DVD, I snapped it up- and I recommend you do too, if you're a fan of KITH or Canadian comedy in general. I hope KITH live on...perhaps a third tour, another movie...and I would love to have the series in a DVD boxed set...hint, hint. "},{"Title":"Funny with some thigh slapping moments","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I had never heard of KITH before, but this film was on late at night when nothing else was on so I watched it, and I was pleasantly surprised.The film is at least funny most of the way through, with some parts that had me rolling around laughing out loud. The guys in drag actually adds to the hilarity of the film rather than detracting from it, and as a bonus there is some VERY biting social commentary in the film as well.I will certainly now be tracking down their other works, and if I can that film with the bat and the pig as well. "}{"Title":"Funny, funny stuff!","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Kids fans should get a real kick outta this!There's lots of funny sketches, irreverent humor and insight into politics here.Could be the most aggressive comedy of the 90's, in terms of subject matter. Love the coming out scene, staged as a big Hollywood musical number. My sides still hurt. "},{"Title":"Funny, but too long for the troupe.","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The Kids in the Hall are a great sketch comedy group and that is why I tried the movie, and while it was very enjoyable, especially since there are little bits of the show throughout, it also shows some awkwardness in them trying to handle a feature film instead of the usual 5 minute skits.  But while it is not quite as enjoyable as watching a few of their shows is, it is still better than most comedies on the market so for any KitH fan it is worth renting.  But I don't think people who haven't seen the TV show will enjoy the movie much as they would likely not get it. "},{"Title":"feeding of our tapeworms","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you haven't seen this yet, DO IT!!! You're only missing out by having never seen this. It his hilarious, and there is no other way to describe it than that. The way they bring back some of the old characters is brilliant. To have thought of this concept in itself is jacked up enough, but that they have the characters to back it up is what makes it all so tight and smoothe. the different characters in this film crack my stuff up, and though there is no way to choose a favorite performer in this troupe, Thompson's gay family man is definitely my favorite character by far. Do yourself a favor and watch this movie until your eyes bleed. It's worth it, and The Kids In The Hall might thank you for the royalties, but don't be offended if they don't; I think Lorne Michaels gets most of it anywho.  "},{"Title":"It gets better every time","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  After watching Kids in the Hall re-runs on Comedy Central, I looked it up on the internet and found out that the Kids had made a movie.  I had no idea about this because I probably a little young at the time.  I rented this movie, having no idea what to expect.  After I finished viewing it, I thought it was merely okay.  Since then I have watched it a couple more times and now I think it's an extremely great movie.  In fact, I've recently even purchased my own copy.  I don't know why it gets better, but every time I watch it, I like it more and more.  I think that it was a very funny movie and hopefully we'll see another one sometime in the future. "},{"Title":"So funny I can't stand it.","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a fantastic flik.  Totally funny.  Kids in the hall at their best. I only wish they would get together and do another movie.. If you like Python..  say nothing further. "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  1996 had so many good movies. This is another one of them.I had never seen any of the work of TV's kids in the hall before watching this movie so I had no idea what to expect. In short, I got 89 minutes of laughter.Like so many other good comedies, always something funny is going on. Whether it's a quick one-liner (I still love the 'toast-f---ing' joke), and (No, Luke SKYWALKER, you f---ing inbred!), to full length funny scenes (any scene with the cabbie).I was surprised to find that this movie only made $3million in the box office, but I hope many have discovered it on video. If you haven't already, you should! "},{"Title":"Smart & Funny","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Yes, it has that inverted feeling of the later years of their show, so long-time fans will definitely get more out of it than casual comedy audiences.  But it still has more than enough for anybody amused by light-hearted satire of dark subject matter (and vice-versa) to get a kick out of it.  This movie was not a financial success, but creatively it seems they hit most of the right notes. "},{"Title":"It May Be Gone, But It Will Never End!","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have only been a kith fan for a little while, but knowing that something from Canada is so great, makes me happy. This fab 5 seeped into my soul and somehow made me strong, making me realize what i have been missing in life. After I had seen all the episodes, and I found out they had a movie, and i said I have to see it! Then i remembered back in 1996 when it first came out, i saw the preview on tv and i always thought it looked weird. After i saw it, i watched it another 5 times, falling in love with it. Since i saw it, i have been looking for it everywhere, just to finish my collection. This movie is only for those people who laugh their heads off at the show. You can't just think the show is Fair and expect a great movie. You have to love the show enough to love the movie. It just works that way....... In closing, this is one of my all time fav movies, and all i have to say is the show and this movie may be in the past, but no matter how hard anyone tries, it will never end. Cause really, that's all there is.....That's really all there is ! ) "},{"Title":"The Kids are alright","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The kids in the hall are comic genuises. Along with the obvious comedy there is alot of underlying and clever humor in their work. Although they did not reprise their oringinal and exceptionaly funny characters they were able to make some new ones in Brain Candy that were just as funny. The bazzar plot of the movie is just like most KITH skits. It's a must see for any kids' fan. I loved it. "},{"Title":"Funny as hell!!!!!!!","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Please, if you are a fan of comedy or a kids in the hall fan do yourself a favor and see this movie.See these 5 professionals act as over 40 diffrent caracters in this nonstop comic picture.When I first saw it I loved all the characters, there was 2 who left me holding my sides.The 1st Bruce McCulloch's Cisco who cant go 5 sec. w/o saying f**k.The other is Scott Thompson's Wally will leave you cracking up untill his coming out of the closet scene when he leaves laughing to death on the floor.And if u see this movie and love it I suggest you watch the kids in the the reruns on comedy central.Come on ,see it!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  "}{"Title":"This movie surpasses all expectations.","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I wasn't sure what to expect out of a Kids in the Hall movie - I mean, sure it would be funny, since that's what they do, and sure I would probably like it at least a little, since I love KitH, but this movie definitely blew me away.  It was funny, touching, thought-provoking, and the kind of movie you can watch over and over, because you keep noticing things you didn't catch before.  Even the soundtrack was great - it fit the movie perfectly, and most of it's now stuck in my head.  I only hope for the sake of their fans and the general public that the Kids in the Hall make at least one more movie together. "},{"Title":"A Really Wonderful film, too subtle and genius for the masses!","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The Kids in the Hall made a great film.  The humor is very subtle, the film pays extraordinary attention to detail.  It is very funny, but I don't know that it fits the comedic structure of your average 'comedy' film.  The humor is much deeper, darker, and not so obvious.  When it came out I knew I had to see it but I knew there was no way the Kids in the Hall could stick to the fantastic formula that made them such a cult hit and still appease the mainstream audience that makes movies like 'Home Alone' & 'Titanic' hit films. Thankfully for fans of the 'Kids', the movie is true to their television humor - and takes it many steps further. "},{"Title":"A fabulous somedy... though fans are split on it's merits","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Brain Candy is a great film... it's surpassed all my expectations, and I'm a huge fan of the Kids' TV show.   However, many people - including others TV fans - didn't admire the approach the five took to their feature debut.  First, it is not an out-and-out wacky comedy - the laughs are subtle and steady, relying more on character and atmosphere than punchlines (though there are some classic punchlines).  Free of the constraints of TV, the film also indulges in some of the darkest humor the Kids ever deployed.  All five turn in great performances, though David Foley, while appearing throughout, has a little less to do than the others (punishment for not contributing to the screenplay in lieu of work on NewsRadio... perhaps his cut scenes and characters will make it to a future Deluxe Video or DVD version).  Plus, it is very brave for them to write a comedy which did not rely on using all their old, well-known TV characters... a lesson Saturday Night Live could stand to learn.  As a side note, Mark McKinney's portrayl of pharmaceutical magnate Don Roritor is a not-at-all-disguised lampoon of SNL producer Lorne Michaels.  A great, sadly underappreciated gem of a film.  A must for those with a taste for bizarre humor! "},{"Title":"Its pure comedy.","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  How can any KITH fan NOT like this film? Once you've seen this movie a few times, every movement, you see that every gesture, every spoken line is LACED with comedy. This movie isn't just about a drug, it IS a drug. My friends and I had heard there was a movie out, and we had seen a few episodes of KITH and liked them, so we went out to rent it one lazy weekday. We had some trouble finding it (didnt know the title started with KITH) and had heard some mixed reviews, but once we saw it, we were hooked. One of my friends has a web site dedicated to this film, its become a staple in my group.  "},{"Title":"One of the best comedy movies","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have always loved the Kids' comedy style.  It was quite new when it was first brought out in the late 80's.  The run that SNL had in the early 90's with Adam Sandler, Chris Farley, etc. was, in my opinion, a ripoff of what the Kids did.The movie allowed the Kids to be more free in what they could have and say. I thought that the CBC in Canada gave them a lot of creative freedom. Many of the references to homosexuality and dressing in drag were unheard of before.  NBC would never of allowed that on SNL.Anyways, back to the movie.  It was great that the Kids for the most part created new material for the movie.  It made new fans of their comedy style. It also provides a good message in this time when we create drugs to make our lives better.  A great movie!  If you want more info, go rent it!Oh one more thing, since Newsradio got turfed perhaps Dave Foley and the rest of the Kids may get back together and restart the Kids in the Hall  "},{"Title":"Oh I can't stop","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Oh god I can't stop laughing. How can somebody not think this movie is pure genius. Everything about it reveals our society's stupidity which in itself is funny. Too good to miss. "},{"Title":"A rather nice film from a great cast.","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  In a way, this film was a little bit of a disappointment to me.  It was good, but I feel the boys could've done much better. Kids in the Hall is one of my favourite television shows, so when I caught this movie on some movie channel I was expecting yet another dose of pure genius.  Although I found it rather funny, at the end I felt like something was missing that I just couldn't put my finger on.Not to imply that it's a horrible and unfunny film -- it's packed with the great KITH humour, has an AMAZING soundtrack on Matador Records and deserved to make a lot more money than it did.  Also, the moral implied, being that people should consider putting down the anti-depressants for once and live life as it really is, is something that I whole heartedly believe in. However, the film just didn't seem to be as great as I was hoping it would be.But it's still something that I'd suggest catching if you ever get the chance -- it's not the best movie ever, nor is it the funniest, but it's a fitting hour and a half of humour from one of the best comedy troupes ever. "},{"Title":"Could've been good","Date":"7 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"   Deep inside the heart of this film is a very cunning satire on the need for happiness and prozak type drugs.  The need for things to be perfect is a lie-nothing's ever totally perfect, and if there was no more room for improvement what would be the purpose of doing anything?    Somewhat ironically this is the problem with the movie- it's nowhere to being perfect. It's far below Kids in the Hall standards. And if it weren't for the problems they had to face in completing it, this would have turned out to be a real classic instead of just the small cult classic it became. If Dave Foley wasn't pulled to the states all the time, if the writing had the same competitiveness as they had in their show, and if they were together more often then it would have worked. However, they still seem to share and support each other in performance as usual. But there's just too much of one thing and not enough of the other. Sometimes it seems like Scott Thompson wrote the whole thing himself. Not that the parts with Wally aren't funny, but there's just too much of it. There's too much sexual humour that it spoils the joke, just like too much water can ruin the broth.     This is still a good film for any fan's collection. But if you want to delve into what the Kids were really like besides their show, Same Guys New Dresses and Tour of Duty are probably what you're looking for. They;ve always been better live anyway.  "},{"Title":"The funniest movie ever!","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I've always loved Kids in the Hall they rock!  This movie is so funny that my side aches from laughing every time I watch it (and I've seen it, at least, 20 times).  I mean, you can't tell me that a drunken police officer talking about having sex with bread isn't funny!  You have to been in the right mood (silly, yet still intelligent mood) to watch it, or else you just won't get it.  If you have a sense of humor, it is a must buy. "},{"Title":"This Movie Rules!","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  REVIEW KIDS IN THE HALL BRAIN CANDY ****  I saw this movie over the summer after becoming a full-blooded fan of watching the KITH TV show. This movie, for some, will take a few viewings to appreciate, but when you do appreciate it, YOU LOVE IT! This is one of those movies where every single line of dialogue, every character, every frame, is a true classic. The movie spoofs our obsession of being happy all the time, making a Prozac-like pill called Gleemonex. The drug is discovered by Chris Cooper (Kevin MacDonald) and is named by Cisco (Bruce McCulloch). Meanwhile, the boss, Don Roritor (Mark McKinney) is taking advantage of the drug and...well I won't tell you the rest. But trust me, it is an awesome movie. Go rent it NOW! NOW NOW! However, it is best if you are a fan of the series. Only fans will get Cancer Boy. "}{"Title":"*Sigh*","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  *sigh* Some things that are great concepts on television just don't transfer to the big screen.  Especially the kind of great absurdist comedy like Kids in the Candy.  This is my favorite TV show and the movie is essentially one sketch blown up to two hours.  And directing just doesn't work as a movie, it would have been funnier just to have four episodes at random stuck together, with some thin link.  Only a 5. "},{"Title":"Great job!","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have seen the kids in the hall tv show it to me it seemed lame. I was surprised to see that this movie was hilarious! I figure that the restrictions on time and set etc. for the tv show cramped the kids and when they made this movie they obviously had plenty of time on their hands. I was not a fan of the television show, but after seeing this movie i may reconsider. "},{"Title":"very disappointing","Date":"10 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I really like the the kids in the hall show but this movie is not funny at all. I thought that because the guys that were in kids in the hall were in it and because they wrote it that it would be hillarious but it was really boring. If they do make another movie I hope that it is nothing like this one. I would not recommend this movie to anybody.  "},{"Title":"Are you Mental??????","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the worst films ever to grace the screen. If ever there is justification that TV series don't translate well to movies then this is it.I would suggest a colonic irrigation would be much more enjoyable than this waste of space, and to think Brendan Fraser is associated with it as well.Sheesh!! "},{"Title":"All time classic!","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie, I thought it was sort of stupid.  But then my roommate and I were drinking one night and started watching it again, and it was hilarious.  After that, we started watching it every time we drank together.  Eventually, ever line in the movie turned into one of those cool lines we'd say to each other in public that only we knew (or fans of the movie knew) what we were talking about.  Today, I can watch the movie drunk or sober and still laugh my ass off through the whole thing even though my wife can't stand to watch it.  So if you have a weird sense of humor, or you're just bored or drunk, this is a great movie to watch many times over and over.  It's a classic! "},{"Title":"I haven't been this happy since they said it wasn't malignant!","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is sooooooo funny!  The first time I watched it, I chuckled. The second time, I snickered.  The third time, the full hystericalness of the flick hit me, and i was dying with laughter!!  Just thinking about the parts coming up made me howl with laughter!!!  Esp.  the Happiness Pie bit, pure genius!  Since then, everytime I watch it it gets funnier and funnier!  Do yourself a favor, and watch this movie now!!!!  Go, buy it!!!Even better than the TV show, twice as sick and twisted! "},{"Title":"The Kids are alright","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Brain Candy is my favorite movie. It's the Kids in  the Hall at their best! Brain Candy is not only a  hilarious movie, it has a terrific message. Brain Candy tells the story of Dr.Chris Cooper  (Kevin McDonald),a nerdy scientist who invents a  wonder drug that cures depression. The drug, called  Gleemonex gets released without proper testing, and  soon the public is hooked. But they find there is a  terrible side effect. And now it's up to Chris to  fix his mistake.  The message in Brain Candy is that you can't just  buy happiness. The great thing about this movie is  it's not preachy. It gets its point across and  entertains at the same time. The cast, Dave Foley,  Kevin McDonald, Bruce McCulloch, Mark McKinney and  Scott Thompson are excellent! This movie is dear to  my heart, because I went through a period in my life  where I was depressed. I wanted to take a pill and  make everything better without putting out any kind  of effort. This movie helped me realize that I  couldn't be happy all the time. I had to do  something about my life and not just expect a  miracle drug to cure everything. Now I'm off the  medication and I'm finally comfortable not being  happy constantly. Like Dr.Chris Cooper says People  are supposed to be sad sometimes.  I recommend this movie not only to Kith fans, but to  all fans of intelligent comedy.    "},{"Title":"simply marvelous","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  how could one not enjoy such a display of raw comedic talent?  i truly believe those who show such dislike for such a great movie can not comprehend its magicalness.  maybe i am just nostalgic, but seeing the kids again...  oh, such a fun event to watch.  if you are reading this to see if you SHOULD go and rent it.. go now!! run! get in the car and head to blockbuster! I am positive there is a copy sitting on the shelf waiting for you... its saying watch me.. please!!!don't let that voice be mistaken... it is only God.  that's all... have a nice day!  "},{"Title":"All and all a great, funny movie","Date":"3 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you never saw The Kids in The Hall before, you probably would >still understand the movie, but it might not be as enjoyable as >it would be for people who watch the show. This movie is >hillarious and fun to watch. I've seen it about 50 times and I >still laugh. All 35 or so characters are very well developed, >even tough only 5 people play them. It has a well done and >unusual plot with an excelent script. If your a very big Dave >Foley fan, you'll probably be some what dissapointed because >they cut out most of his characters. I saw the workprint of the >film, and I really liked Dave's character of the 'Fry Man' or >what ever his name is. I really wish they kept that character. >Other than that this is my absulute favor "},{"Title":"I thought it was great!","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you are a fan of KITH, like me, then you will love this movie!  I loved the characters (it's a wonder Mark McKinney didn't do that Lorne...I mean, Don character on SNL), the plot was good, and there are some really funny bits!  Wonderful job! "}{"Title":"a HUGE disappointment","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I was a fan of THE KIDS IN THE HALL. Yeah, sometimes the jokes went a little flat, but so often it was gosh darn funny and always was quick to take a risk or poke fun at nearly anything. Unfortunately, once the series ended, they decided to make a farewell film. In hindsight, they should have just left well-enough alone. Boy, was I disappointed. So often, when TV shows go to the big screen, the basic chemistry and formula that made them great is adulterated--this is truly the case with this film. Instead of being weird and funny, it was only slightly weird and not the least bit funny or entertaining. I would have been much happier if they had just strung together three episodes as the movie, instead. "},{"Title":"May appeal to KITH and Python fans but annoy those looking for a linear plot","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A group of scientists develop a pill called Gleemonex that locks onto your happiest memory (chemically!) and keeps it with you to maintain a constant happiness.  However before testing it complete the company releases the drug to the public.  At first the success is great and gives fame to all the scientists but there are side effects.Really the story doesn't matter jack.  It's all an excuse for a pile of set pieces and characters to come on screen.  As a satire of big business, it sort of works but not totally convincingly.  However the scenes are mostly quite funny and the characters are all pretty funny.  If you liked the TV show then you'll probably like this.All the cast clearly grew up watching Python and take multiple roles as men and women.  Everyone is familiar with their characters and are good.  The films only real weakness is that it may only appeal to fans.  Outside of fans there is no real plot structure to talk of for anyone else and some may get bored.Not as good as I hoped but it's surreal, funny and different and quite entertaining. "},{"Title":"Good, but not great. Should have been better.","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The Kids in the Hall tv show has to be the funniest sketch comedy show of all time. You'd think they could have made a funny movie, right? Well they didn't succeed in this viewer's opinion. Don't get me wrong, this film had some very funny moments (Cancer Boy, anyone). Although as a whole this movie just kind of drifts along. If you want to see a sketch comedy troupe do cinema justice, I have to recommend Life Of Brian, The Holy Grail and even Wayne's World over this comedy. The fact that there are no plans to make another Kids In the Hall movie should speak volumes about how this movie succeeded. "},{"Title":"more kids on the way...","Date":"30 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  season one of kids in the hall is finally being released on dvd.  i'm not one to buy tv show seasons on dvd, but i think i might actually purchase this one.  it's about time there is something a little more available since comedy central turned dumb all of a sudden and we don't see the show anymore.  so coming this spring...dave, kevin, scott, bruce, and scott in season one of the best sketch comedy show ever.  "},{"Title":"Sub-amateurish, non-talented and puerile","Date":"18 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A 1 because there's no way I can rate this a minus 10. Though alive I was figuratively turning over in my grave every time someone likened this 'thing' to a Monty Python show or movie. The Python writers/performers were all brilliant and could skewer society and culture either with a broadsword or a stiletto. These dopes, less talented than Moe, Larry and Curly, can be summed up with one word and that word is unsubtle. If there was a god of comedy, bolts of lighting would fry the people for uttering the heresy of comparing them to Python. Anything this amateurish and unfunny makes me either reach for my pistol, walk rapidly to the exit or push the off button on the remote in an excessively heavy manner. (Actually I disliked this movie so much I wanted to do all three things simultaneously.) 'Kids' is the absolute bottom of the comedic barrel and could be the worst comedy in motion picture history (maybe there is a god after all because some Force has intervened and determined that they will never make another movie and so thank you Jesus, thank you Muhammed, thank you Vishnu, thank you Buddha!). "},{"Title":"Neat movie ruined by pornographic mouths","Date":"13 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This would of been an enjoyable comedy, but for the fact the foul language really ruined it for me.  Why use such, it added nothing.  The acting was good, the movie funny with a neat plot. I gave it a 5. Nuff said. "},{"Title":"Awful, nothing like the great TV show.","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought this movie was awful!  One of the worst I have ever seen.  I was a huge fan of the TV show and this stunk in comparison.  A real disappointment!  "},{"Title":"This Film Is Gay","Date":"13 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  KIDS IN THE HALL ? This is a sketch show I remembered being broadcast in the wee small hours in Britain on channel 4 . I didn't think much of it . No strike that - I hated it . It was composed of a bunch of Canadian MONTY PYTHON wannabes who dressed in drag more often than not and made sketches that fell flat . I can remember the  I'm crushing your head  character because of the simple reason it was so unfunny and it's no surprise that Canadians I know much prefer British TV like THE OFFICE and DOCTOR WHOBRAIN CANDY is a feature length film by the KITH troupe and as many people have already pointed out you'll only enjoy this movie if you're already a fan , if you've never heard of these kids you will probably dislike with a vengeance with the humour being either underdeveloped or plain crude like the scene where a NCO orders one of his men into battle  You see these two men beside the wall ? You run over there and f*ck them while we stay here and masturbate  I also couldn't help thinking that because BRAIN CANDY is a spin off from a sketch show the screenplay lacks cohesion , events and scenes happen without any rhyme nor reason like for example a scene cutting to a music award show where Cancer Boy performs a song only for the action to then cut away to another location with Cancer Boy then absent for the rest of the filmI certainly didn't enjoy BRAIN CANDY and unless you're a KIDS IN THE HALL fan or someone who enjoys watching men dress up as woman it's highly likely you'll feel the same way  "}]