[{"Title":"A Pleasant Surprise, Especially Dunaway","Date":"2 May 2006","Score":"28 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":" This was surprisingly entertaining and with a few minor exceptions, very inoffensive family fare. It's another one of those adults-and-kids can enjoy flicks with a number of lines that border on being too much for kids but are still tame for adults - close, but safe. There are also some funny special effects and some good slapstick humor.Being basically a kids' film, the main child, played by Eric Lloyd is cute but a little too spoiled for me but he's tolerable, as is his brother. Jason Alexander is the father, a very likable subdued guy but a little too lenient.The real surprise in this cast is Faye Dunaway. Usually playing hard-edged types, she is the opposite in here which is kind of refreshing to see. She shows a nice comedic touch. The chimpanzee is probably the most entertaining, which is the idea, but so is the villain played by Rupert Evert. In other words, there are a lot of likable characters in this movie.This a sleeper an underrated film that a lot of people would enjoy. I'm sorry it never got much press. "},{"Title":"Funny","Date":"1 September 1999","Score":"22 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":"  First, let me say what this is not. This is not a movie with high artistic quality. Even when one reminds oneself of the fact that it is meant as a simple comedy, probably a family comedy, it still has a plot with too many coincidences (so many that they become predictable - now the monkey is here, she will not be looking, but when it's gone, and the man comes in, she will) and flat, caricatural characters. But it also is not supposed to be a high-quality movie. It's supposed to be funny.And funny it is. The movie is full of funny ideas, all worked out in a good, classy manner. Even the basest of jokes are done in good style. Just relax - and laugh. And you'll keep laughing through most of the movie. The monkey (that's a negative point - technically an urang utan is an ape, not a monkey) is well in its place as a comedy actor, and as said - the ideas are good, the working-out is even better.Not 'the best movie you'll ever see', not even close. Not a 'must-see movie'. But a very pleasant way to spend 90 minutes. And enjoyable for both adults and children, that's worth something too.  "},{"Title":"One of my son's favorite movies!","Date":"11 April 2005","Score":"18 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":" Very unique plot, well acted, well directed and highly recommend! Good film for the entire family! The title and leaders might be deceiving, but what kid (or adult) doesn't love a monkey making a monkey out of snooty adults? Jason Alexander (George from Seinfeld being the responsible, single father of two boys and manager of a major hotel is stretch, at least initially due to his stereotype; however, after watching it a half hour you forget that it is George and get involved with the other characters.Another reason to watch is to see Faye Dunaway's amazing post-op face lift and Pee-wee Herman as the Animal Catcher? Good, clean fun for the whole family! "},{"Title":"A triumph","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":" 1995 and 1996 were clearly the years for movies dealing with primates. Ed in 1996 taught us that heroes come in all shapes, and all sizes. Congo (1995) taught us that apes could be both intelligent and evil. Let's not forget 1995's Born to be Wild, where a teenage boy and female gorilla's near bestiality captured all our hearts. However, not since the original Planet of Apes has a movie captivated our attention, and made us feel what it's like to be a monkey. Dunston Checks In set the bar for years to come. Sam the orangutan's performance as Dunston is both hilarious and heartbreaking. Blockbuster actors such as Ben Affleck and James Franco could learn a lesson or two from Sam. You think Ben Affleck was emotional when he said I love you to Bruce Willis in Armageddon? Think again. When Sam looks at the picture of him and his now dead brother, his expression alone brings a tear to ones eye. You think James Franco was in pain in Spider-Man 2 when he realized his best friend was the man who killed his father? Try watching Sam when he is getting a piece of glass torn from his flesh. Sam's connection with the audience is so great you almost feel the glass being ripped from your own hand. This is not to mention the other wonderful qualities this movie has. Amazing slapstick comedy, alcoholic older women, Jason Alexander cursing, Faye Dunaway's fall from grace, an orangutan spanking a prominent socialite, and a cameo from Paul Reubens that can only be explained with two words Oscar worthy. The fact that this film did not win any Academy Awards is shocking. Five for sure Paul Reubens beating out Cuba Gooding Jr. and James Woods for Best Supporting Actor, Dunston Checks In narrowly defeating The English Patient for Best Picture, Ken Kwapis for Best Director, Best Music Robert Blackwell, and lastly, a landslide victory for Sam, the orangutan for Best Actor. It is criminal that the Academy shafted this great film in 1996 with no Oscars and zero nominations. Although it was given no Oscars this much can be certain it set the standard and paved the way for future primate movies. Where would MVP Most Vaulable Primate and MXP Most Xtreme Primate be without Dunston Checks In? In some Hollywood executive's trash, that's where. Because of pioneer movies like Dunston Checks In movies like MVP and MXP enjoy much commercial success. So grab your kids, round up the neighbor, pop some popcorn, and get ready to laugh, and cry at one of the best movies in the last twenty years Dunston Checks In. "},{"Title":"Dunaway Checks In!","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":" This film is obviously never going to be a monumental classic for all time, but it's quite underrated just the same. The story is simple. A four star hotel (run by Alexander, who lives there with his two sons) is up for a prestigious fifth star in the ratings guide when a jewel thief comes to visit, utilizing an orangutan as his accomplice. The fire-breathing owner turns on the heat to succeed while all hell breaks loose thanks to the primate. There seems to be something for everyone in it. The film begins with a lot of class as the various accoutrements of the hotel are featured. Kids should adore the orangutan Dunston and be able to identify with young Lloyd as his pal. Seinfeld fans should enjoy watching Alexander face all sorts of turmoil and hubbub as the harried hotel manager. Everett is comic in a grand, old-style sort of way with wrinkles, false teeth and a very threatening cane. There are a number of very talented supporting players who add to the comedic flair of the movie (Shadix, Bassey.) Even former Pee Wee Reubens has a cameo as a very aggressive exterminator. The end-all, be-all, though, is Dunaway. As the Leona Helmsley-esque, ultra-demanding, hyper-glamorous hotel owner, she walks off with the film and shows a rare funny side. It's not every day you see Dunaway with pink cake and icing all over her face. She cuts loose with a game, vivid, aware comedic performance which echoes all the neurotic, bitchy roles she used to play, but gave up after the stigma of Mommie Dearest wouldn't wear off. Somehow this missed at the box office, but it is perfect family entertainment for home video. "},{"Title":"Dunaway checks in, out, and around","Date":"14 January 2008","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":" After a career entailing Bonnie and Clyde, Little Big Man, Chinatown, Three Days of the Condor and Network, might it seem really low for Faye Dunaway to act in a movie like Dunston Checks In? Maybe, but the movie pretty much understands what sort of movie it is silly, harmless fun. As it is, Faye Dunaway plays the same kind of character that she played in Network, only bitchier. And if it seems that I try too hard to analyze a movie like this, so be it. Above all, I still consider Faye Dunaway REALLY hot! And I'm sure that I always will.Also starring Jason Alexander, Rupert Everett and Paul Reubens (aka Pee-Wee Herman). "},{"Title":"The definitive monkey movie","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This is one of the finest films I have ever seen.  Jason Alexander, Faye Dunaway, and Rupert Evert are all brilliant actors who make this thing work. Paul Reubens puts in a hilarious performance as the crazy animal control specialist La Farge.  I guarantee than anyone who sees this movie will laugh from start to finish at all the monkey-mayhem created by Dunston, the lovable but mischievous orangutan.  Everyone should see this movie. "},{"Title":"Watch out for the Orangutan!!","Date":"15 June 2004","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The story goes like this--Robert Grant (Jason Alexander) is a father to two kids, Kyle Grant (Eric Lloyd) and Brian (Graham Sack). He is the Manager of a hotel that's owned by Mrs. Dubrow (Faye Dunaway) and she promises Robert of some days holiday and a hike in pay and scale if he can convince a visiting undercover reviewer that their hotel is suited to be 6 star. Here enters into the frame Lord Rutledge (Rupert Everett), a thug and crook with intention of stealing jewelry and along with him comes his partner - an orangutan named Dunston!! All the drama unravels when Dunston tries to get out of Rutledge's world of crime and in his mission he gets help from Kyle and Brian. Of course the most appealing part of the film is the Orangutan. He really looks cool and has performed superbly . The other guy who adds an element of humour to the story is Lionel Spalding (Glenn Shadix), the real undercover reviewer. Overall, the film is simple, a bit humorous with no exceptional performances. You only watch this movie for the monkey as apart from that there is nothing new to watch out for in this movie. You can give it a miss if you are expecting a bit too much !!!  "},{"Title":"Orangutan at a ritzy hotel makes harmless fun for children...","Date":"27 December 2006","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":" This is the sort of light caper that is nothing special but does provide some harmless fun for kids who will undoubtedly get more of a kick out of an Orangutan's shenanigans than an adult will--although there are some very clever moments that fill the bill for young and old.JASON Alexander is expert as a hotel manager with two bratty kids who seem to have nothing better to do than make mischief as they cavort around the hotel with an unexpected guest. Seems that a jewel thief (RUPERT EVERETT) has checked in with his pet who's been trained to steal. This sets up the structure of the plot which has the kids and the Orangutan as the main focus of attention.It's fun to see FAYE DUNAWAY enjoying herself in a comic role and everyone else enters nicely into the spirit of the whole thing. Easy to take and passes the time quickly with a few very clever moments among the many vignettes involving some cute stunts. "},{"Title":"Better than Monkey Trouble?","Date":"23 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":" I don't know about being better than Monkey Trouble, however it is UP THERE. DCI better known as Dunston Checks In, is by far one of the best movies ever. We all know monkeys have a special place in our hearts but Dunston manages to steal EVERYONES hearts, criminals and mean people alike. He gets in this silliest predicaments and can make a mess of anything! (But hey that's what monkeys do, right?) Anyways, at the movie-renting place (am I allowed to type Blockbuster?) tonight I was very tempted to rent this film, however, I had to stick with Baby's Day Out. But DCI has my vote for sure next movie night.To sum it up, if monkeys could speak, they'd be hollering DCI! for years to come. "}{"Title":"great cute movie for the kids and family","Date":"29 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":" I have seen this movie it was a great movie. Sam as Dunston the orangutan was very cute. Jason Alexander as Robert Grant was very good at this film. Eric Loyd as Kyle Grant was very nice in this film. Paul Rebuns (pee wee) as Buck LaFarge was funny. Faye Dunaway as Mrs, Dubrow was very beautiful. Whats sad that Dunston has a piece of glass on his hand. Dunston was scared about his hand. Whats terrible that Dunston does not have Samson anymore. Jennifer Bassey as Mrs. Dellacroce was very nice. Glenn Shadix as Lionel Spalding is funny. Rupert Everett as Lord Rutledge was very interesting That movie is funny, cute, and great you will like this movie so does Dunston the orangutan. "},{"Title":"Check it out!","Date":"21 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":" A manager and his two sons live in a hotel. The sons must not go to school at all because they are always causing trouble in the hotel. It really bothered me that they didn't go to school. Anyway, the youngest son finds this ape and the ape is part of a jewelery robbery. The movie was similar to Monkey Trouble in the sense of stealing apes or monkeys. It was a pretty cute movie but it was cheesy too. In some parts, I just wanted to fire the father and in other parts I just felt sorry for him. The poor guy couldn't even get a vacation and on top of that he had this kids who were just brats.It was a heartwarming family kind of movie that shouldn't be taken too seriously. Watch it with a banana split. "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I've just seen this movie tonight as it was shown on Malaysia TV. It totally rocks! It was touching and funny at the same time. I loved Sam's (Dunston) acting. He was like so professional! Even better than some human actors. Lol. Anyway, I strongly recommend this movie to people who hadn't watched it, even though it's already 7 years since it first came out. And may I add that Eric Lloyd was so adorable in it! ) "},{"Title":"The Ape - Faye Dunaway - The Cake! It works on so many levels!","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":"  When I tell people this is one of my favorite movies, they look at me as though I'm nuts. Okay, Citizen Kane it ain't, but even after repeat viewings I still laugh out loud. Pure escapism; who hasn't wanted to have an entire luxury hotel as a private playground? The villains are larger than life (terribly polite Rupert Everett as the monkey-abusing jewel thief, plus Faye Dunaway all but waving a wire hanger as the ultimate Evil Boss), the kids are cute without being gooey, and Jason Alexander does a good job as the hotel manager, playing it straight but enjoying the ride (the long climactic scene, with a mano-a-mano fight in the hotel kitchen, is the closest thing to a live cartoon). Hiss as mean Lord Rutledge threatens the monkey! Cheer as the fat guy falls on top of a frosting-smeared Dunaway! Laugh as the crazy red ape dresses up in lingerie and blows kisses at himself! "},{"Title":"A neglected film","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This film is certainly not Oscar material - far from it and I am sure that was not the producers intention.  However, judging from the small number of votes cast  an comments made for this film it seems like it has not been widely seen. It is an excellent family film with enough slapstick to keep the children happy but plenty for adults too.  I have seen a lot worse comedies that have been hailed as masterpieces.  All the performances are excellent and as usual Rupert Everett dominates every scene he is in. "},{"Title":"Good kids movie","Date":"21 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":" I give this movie a seven because I think kids would really like it. When I first saw it in theaters, at the age of nine, I loved it, as did my younger brother.I haven't seen it in years, but I do remember some great moments. The best one is Paul Reubens as an animal control official, who chases Dunston the Orangutan into a greenhouse. He fires his gun off and startles two old ladies sitting in an office, who then see him out a window looking into the greenhouse. For a few seconds the two ladies stare at him and he stares back. It's funny. The one kids will remember most will probably be Dunston jumping on Faye Dunaway and she falls backwards into a giant cake. Paul Reubens is definitely a highlight in this movie.Like I said, I haven't seen the movie in years, and I imagine I would feel differently about it now. When I was a kid I didn't know that Faye Dunaway was a movie legend. Now that I've seen Bonnie and Clyde, Chinatown, and Network, it might be a little weird seeing her in this role.So I feel that the kids and the kid-like will enjoy this movie. The older people, probably not so much. "},{"Title":"More 'Tang Please.","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":" Ding Ding Ding! Is that the sound of another guest checking into a luxury hotel run by a larcenous ape? Fraid not friends. But it IS the sounds you heart will make when a lovable orangatang named Dunston first shoots you his unique yet hideous monkey smile. Dunston Checks In is not your run of the mill boy- meets-ape- ape-causes-mayhem -mayhem-ruins-everything -for-boys-father- until -boy-father-and -ape-realize-the -meaning-of-life -love-and-friendship flick of the week. Rather, Dunston is part Dirty Harry, part To Wong Foo, Thanks for Everything, Julie Numar--a sultry blend of playing with fire mixed in with some serious wigs (as worn by the rarely moving, but always trying really hard Jason Alexander). Ed, Air Bud, K9-Cop, Turner AND Hootch--bow your heads to the master. Dunston may check in, but he'll never check out. Of your heart.Two lost luggage pieces way up! "},{"Title":"Monkeying Around.","Date":"9 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":" Searching round on Amazon UK for a good,live-action family film to watch during the holiday season,I was surprise to discover a family movie from the mid 90's,that starred Faye Dunaway and Jason George from Seinfeld Alexander!.Which led to me deciding,that for this season,I would go and cheek in with Dunston.The plotBeing told by the owner of The Majestic hotel,that he has to make sure the quality at the hotel is absolutely perfect,due to the hotel epecting an impestctor to secretly pay them a visit,and hopefully give them a 6th star.Taking hotel owner Mrs Dubrow's words to heart,hotel manager Robert Grant begins to solely focus on making the hotel's upcoming ball the best that it has ever heldAs Robert begins to focus less on the current hotel guest,and more on arranging the ball,Grant's son Kyle,begins to suspect that one of the suitcases recently brought in by a new guest (called Lord Rustledge) actually contains something secret,that will cause The Majestic Hotel a huge amount of trouble.View on the filmWhilst the screenplay by John Hopkins and Bruce Graham does rely on typical clichés, (such as having Rupert Everett play an English,upper class twit) and also some pretty big plot holes. (where did the diamonds go?) The writer's smartly use the film's brisk 88 minute running time to smoothly cover most of the flaws,by having most of the film shown from Kyle's (played by a good Eric Lloyd) point of view,that helps it to go from a wonderfully slap-stick diamond heist adventure,into being a little bit more dramatic,as Kyle attempts to save his new friend from being hurt.Backed by delightful supporting performances from a boo-hiss Faye Dunaway and a bumbling,but well meaning Jason Alexander,director Ken Kwapis (who has since gone on to direct some brilliant episodes of the US Office) smartly makes Sam's (who sadly died of a heart attack in 2010) performance as Dunston the centre of the movie.For being his debut,Sam gives a wonderful performance that most humans can only dream of!,which goes from some genuinely hilarious moments,as Dunston is forced to do Lord Rustledge bidding,to giving the movie a huge dollop of charm in the scenes showing the growing friendship between Dunston and Kyle,which leads to this being a terrific legacy,that Sam should be proud to have left behind. "},{"Title":"kids love monkeys/orangutans","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Robert Grant (Jason Alexander) is the manager of The Majestic, a large five-star hotel. Grant is overworked and wants to take his two boys, Kyle (Eric Lloyd) and Brian (Graham Sack) on a vacation, but when the owner Mrs. Dubrow (Faye Dunnaway) hears that the hotel is being considered for a six star rating, it falls on Grant to see that everything is perfect when the rating staff arrives. Since the staff will arrive unannounced, Grant has to be extra nice to anyone who looks like they could be on the staff, so he finds himself giving star treatment to Lord Rutledge (Rupert Everett) who is actually a jewel thief who has come to the hotel to take advantage, he brings his pet orangutan, Dunston, who has been trained to steal. Dunston gets lost, Kyle finds him and discovers he makes a cool playmate, which makes things more difficult for his dad. I liked this movie, but it is a kids film all they way you know how kids like monkeys/orangutans. Dunston Checks In is a film that you should watch with your little ones to keep them entertained. "},{"Title":"great movie!","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":"  i just love this movie! it is so funny, and such a great film for kids AND adults. it is way underrated. i seriously think that anyone would enjoy this movie because in my heart, it's an instant classic! DUNSTON LIVES FOREVER! "}{"Title":"HIGHLY AMUSING","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":"  As a child I had a bit of an interest in monkeys and apes and since that time I have made it my goal to see any film with a monkey/ape theme.(POSSIBLE SPOILERS)Dunston Checks In was a highly amusing movie which made good use of it's top actors/actresses such as Jason Alexander, Glenn Shadix, Rupert Everett and Faye Dunaway. There really are some comical scenes in the movie such as when Dunston is set loose in the hotel and enters a ladies massage room. The end scenes in the dining hall really are amusing.Rupert Everett plays one of his best parts as the snobbish and villainous Lord Rutledge who employs Dunston as a thief. Glenn Shadix (remember him in Beetlejuice)keeps getting slapped by women as he plays Lionel Spalding and Jason Alexander and Faye Dunaway provide some good scenes as well.An underrated film which kids will love. "},{"Title":"Greatest Anime to come out of Japan!","Date":"9 March 2016","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":" Easily Hayao Miyazaki's finest work. It tackles such hard-hitting questions, such as drug addiction and seal clubbing, but does it in a completely respectful manner. The Animation is glorious, reaching such detail captured in other glorious pieces of Japanese Animation, such as Seinfeld and Cory in the House. You can see practically every hair on Dunston! The story is a little lacking, but it is still a wonderful piece of work. I can only give it a 9, since it made a very costly gamble by trying to roast Shrek and doing it rather poorly. However, this does not distract from the rest of this absolute masterpiece of a film. RIP Hayao, 1941 - 3. You will be missed, and your work will be appreciated for all time! "},{"Title":"Dunston Should Check Out","Date":"24 April 2015","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":" Dunston Checks In (1996) Dir Ken Kwapis / Cast Eric Lloyd, Jason Alexander, Rupert Everett, Faye Dunaway, Paul Reubens Ridiculous family film about an orangutan forced to steal for its ruthless owner at a hotel. Since Dunston is an orangutan it is indicated that certain mischief checks into the hotel. One thing that definitely didn't check in was a decent screenwriter. The title symbolizes behaviour although Dunston means well. He encounters a boy who happens to be the son of the manager. Everything must go smoothly because an unnamed visitor is evaluating the hotel. When priceless items are stolen Dunston is blamed and an exterminator is summoned. Unoriginal concept with repetitious storytelling before certain identities are revealed in the climax. Characters are basically props for Dunston's antics. Among the cast are Eric Lloyd as the boy who befriends Dunston and gets in trouble. Jason Alexander as his father is total cardboard. Rupert Everett as the thief is a letdown considering that he is more talented than this juvenile junk. Faye Dunaway is the biggest disappointment seeing that she has won an Oscar and this is the thanks she receives. Paul Reubens was in on the joke when he played Pee Wee Herman. Here as an exterminator he is the bunt of a career joke blunder. Director Ken Kwapis references old style films but this is forgettable family fluff. Score 3 / 10 "},{"Title":"Funny and a great film for the whole family","Date":"1 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":" Dunston checks in is a funny, entertaining family flick with plenty of laughs. Jason Alexander (Seinfeld) plays 5 star hotel manager Robert Grant along with his two sons Kyle and Brian (Eric Lloyd and Graham Sack) who like to get into mischief around the hotel. Faye Dunaway (Chinatown) plays the snob of a hotel owner Mrs. Dubrow, and her hate for young children. Everything seems well until the beloved Orangutan Dunston checks in, along with his snobbish owner Lord Rutledge (Rupert Everett). Soon things get a little out of hand and all hell breaks loose through a comedic way that will have you in stitches.The acting was quite surprising especially from young Eric Lloyd after the smash family hit The Santa Clause. Faye Dunaway surprises again with another well player role as well as Rupert Everett's well played role as the bad guy in the film. One thing a personal loved about this film was seeing Paul Reubens (Pee- wee's Big Adventure) play an extremely funny and stupid exterminator. I also loved Glenn Shadix role as Lionel Spalding who seems to always get hurt, from either someone slapping him or just falling over, and the conclusion of Lionel Spalding. I also couldn't stop laughing, where Dunston breaks into a hotel room owned by Mrs. Dellacroce and goes through all her clothes and drinks her perfume. Many will like this film for the comedy or you have a family with young children. If you like Jason Alexander or Faye Dunaway or you just love Orangutans or all three and enjoy comedies this is a film you will sure love. be warned Jason Alexander does sneak the words Holy S*** although is used in a comedic way. A great family classic, Dunston checks in, is a great one for kids, If there into monkeys they will love it, and is one for the whole family to enjoy. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"4 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":" The film is simple, a bit humorous with no great performances. It is plagued by plot holes and inane dialog. The movie itself is nothing that special, but it has some good stuff. It is a pretty unnecessary film. If you are looking for a good movie with decent acting this might not be for you. While this isn't a great film by any means, it is entertaining. It is difficult to watch and has no shortage of abuse and neglect. If you love silly, this should be a rewarding experience for you. Granted, most supporting characters were one-dimensional. There's something very nostalgic about it. I urge you to see it with an open mind. It will either surprise or disappoint you, depending on what your expectations are. "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews","Date":"9 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":" Dunston Checks InThe way to tell if a monkey has been in your hotel room is the feces that you had left on the bedside table is now on the wall.However, the orangutan in this family-comedy is toilet trained better than most humans.Kyle (Eric Lloyd), the son of the Majestic Hotel's manager (Jason Alexander), befriends Dunston, an orangutan who has been trained to steal by his master, a jewel thief (Rupert Everett).Mistaken for a critic by the hotel owner (Faye Dunaway), the pickpocket is permitted to go about his business unobstructed.But when word gets out that a primate has checked into the establishment, the hotel's 5-star rating and Kyle's dad are threatened.A madcap escapade embellished by slapstick shenanigans and puerile pranks, Dunston Checks In is as goofy as expected but surprisingly endearing and amiable.Furthermore, it's refreshing to finally find a non-decomposing ape in a hotel room.Yellow Lightvidiotreviews.blogspot.ca "},{"Title":"Jason Alexander & an orangutan, what could possibly be better?","Date":"4 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I generally enjoy movies featuring orangutans and other primates, and this is perhaps my all-time favorite monkey film.  The on-screen dynamics between Jason Alexander and Dunston are not only hilarious but a truly a work of perfect casting.  I strongly urgre all of you to rent this opus. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie I ever had !","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Did everyone like this movie ? It's a wonderful time I spent on this flick. Eric lloyd was very good !!!!The Gorilla made some tricks -D It amused me & my family!!!He's so lovely !! I've just finished this movie last night and I can say it now it's one of the best comedies I ever had !!!! I'd get the DVD & tell my friend about this movie !!!! "},{"Title":"A good time was not had by all","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Watched this with three of my nephews, aged 11, 9 and 7.  By the end only the 9 year old and I were left, the others wandered off due to extreme lack of interest.  The movie starts out okay enough. Actually I was ready to settle in for a good movie, it had all the makings. But, again, by the end it loses anything it had going for it.  The children were not endearing enough, the actors are trying hard but failing and the only thing that is consistently good is the production design.  Every set is gorgeous, and since you never leave the hotel at all, that is at least something to ponder when the action is less than noteworthy.  Either Faye Dunaway likes working all the time, or owes the taxman big time, but either way she was supposed to turn down this movie.  Kathleen Turner could have done it just as well and since most of her recent career moves have been mediocre, at best, no one would have noticed.  I did wince a little at the sight of Bonnie Parker getting a piece of cake in the face. Jason Alexander, Rupert Everett & Pee Wee do not muster up much laughter.But poor Glen Shadix gets it worse than anyone, except for the audience.  "},{"Title":"Some Mrs. Dunaway","Date":"21 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":" DCI has to be one of the stupidest, worst comedies ever&#151;nothing is funny; yet it is worth seeing for Mrs. Dunaway as a delicious blonde&#151;she looked delicious.She might be one of the finest looking women on the screen in the '90s. See,in this very film,her ass,her legs&#151;as much as they are visible.The rest of the cast is bad.Mrs. Dunaway is of course underused in such a film.Hope it doesn't sound too libidinous&#151;if you're interested in a comedy, it's rubbish; if you're interested in Mrs. Dunaway's derrière, it might tempt you. (Anyway, do not look for too much, as Mrs. Dunaway's beauty is not really explored and exploited here.)From Faye, it's just funny, glamorous overplay. "}{"Title":"great cameos by paul reubens, glenn shadix","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":"  i thought this movie was fair, even though many people did not enjoy this movie too much. i love the scene with Jason alexander, and paul reubens as la farge and glenn shadix having this silly conversation together. i thought it was so silly, when Eric Lloyd had a pet monkey. "},{"Title":"A good time was not had by all","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Watched this with three of my nephews, aged 11, 9 and 7.  By the end only the 9 year old and I were left, the others wandered off due to extreme lack of interest.  The movie starts out okay enough. Actually I was ready to settle in for a good movie, it had all the makings. But, again, by the end it loses anything it had going for it.  The children were not endearing enough, the actors are trying hard but failing and the only thing that is consistently good is the production design.  Every set is gorgeous, and since you never leave the hotel at all, that is at least something to ponder when the action is less than noteworthy.  Either Faye Dunaway likes working all the time, or owes the taxman big time, but either way she was supposed to turn down this movie.  Kathleen Turner could have done it just as well and since most of her recent career moves have been mediocre, at best, no one would have noticed.  I did wince a little at the sight of Bonnie Parker getting a piece of cake in the face. Jason Alexander, Rupert Everett & Pee Wee do not muster up much laughter.But poor Glen Shadix gets it worse than anyone, except for the audience.  "},{"Title":"Terrible!","Date":"6 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":" A little boy who lives in a luxurious hotel (his father, Jason Alexander, owns it) has no friends and lives a miserable life until a monkey (or, to be more accurate, an orangutan) walks in one day and becomes his new best buddy.Cue lots of stupid physical humor, shots of surprised guests shocked at the prospect of seeing a monkey in a rich hotel, more shots of disgust from the struggling father (Alexander doing his George Costanza), and Faye Dunaway looking old.This is a really terrible movie for children. It says that if you don't have any friends, you should get a monkey and be really destructive and ruin your father's business - because rich people suck. "},{"Title":"Possibly the worst...","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Watching this film made me realise just how interesting paint drying can be. In fact, this film should be counted as a torture method.  If you like humour like 'beethoven' then you'll be ok.. otherwise, stay RIGHT away from this film!!!  "},{"Title":"The absolute worst film I've ever seen (and I've seen a lot)","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This is the worst film I've ever seen, and I'm not kidding. Alexander, Everett, and Reubens all fail, the sets are good, not much else to say, execpt not to see this stupid film.all in all no stars out of four (absolutly horrible) "}]