[{"Title":"A  completely  underrated  comedy","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"65 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Kingpin, (despite what you may think) is a ground breaking comedy. Don't let the unpopularity of the people's recognition of this film missguide you; it is a truly hilarious film.Woody Harrelson plays the ultimate dead-beat. A washed up ex-professional bowler. A man who's become a disgrace. A man who would rather float around in his existence as a mortal wound of obscurity and drink himself to death, than possibly making something of himself again. He meets up with a dense amish kid named Ishmael. Ishmael's so stupid, so naive and oblivious of what's going on around him--that he makes it funny. Bill Murray appears off and on in this twisted picture--and all of his screen time is absolutely precious . Kingpin is a piece of comedic gold, that many have overlooked.... "},{"Title":"I Almost Died Of Laughter","Date":"3 February 2009","Score":"44 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" This of course is not a great movie but I just have to give it a 10/10. I have never laughed more in my life. Even the jokes that aren't funny are funny. This film's comedic build up is about the best you will ever see. It doesn't even matter what the punch line is, its how they get to it thats hilarious.Now this cast was perfect. Anytime you have Randy Quaid in a film you just know the film is going to make you life just by looking at him. Kingpin couldn't have shown this any better as he plays an Amish man who just happens to be amazingly talented at bowling. Woody Harrelson plays a has-been ex-professional bowler who makes a comeback with managing through Randy Quaid. Together they go on a ride across the country making money left and right. Along the journey they are great supporting comedic performances given by Bill Murray and Vanessa Angel who certainly makes the look of the film more appealing.The Farrelly brothers in my opinion give their best direction they've yet to have. Yet it is the writers who so perfectly set up one joke after another. It seems as if the script is so sharp that their are jokes within jokes. The Farrelly brother handle this material so well by virtual unknowns.As I have said before this is not a great film but I would highly recommend this if your in the mood of watching something spontaneous. It may not be the most technically sound movie ever made or the deepest but I have never laughed so much in life and that in it self is what comedies are about. "},{"Title":"An abrasive comedy that is not for all tastes","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"44 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Kingpin should be approached with the same kind apprehension that any sane person would approach any Farrelly Brothers film. Expect a procession of jokes at the expensive of the main characters, fused with an simple storyline and that's exactly what to expect from a Farrelly brothers film.Woody Harrelson plays Roy Munson a washed bowler that had potential to be a professional Bowler but his dream comes to an end when he encounters Ernie McCracken, played to perfection by Bill Murray who ends up costing Roy Munson his bowling hand. Cut to mid-90's Roy is now an alcoholic, in serious debt. A chance meeting with Ishamel Boorg, played by Randy Quaid, an naive Amish man at a bowling alley leads to the pairs cross country trip to save both their respective futures. Along the way they met Claudia, played by Vanessa Angel, a tough talking con woman with her own mission. Together the three form an unbreakable bond and come face to face with their adversary Ernie McCracken.I like my comedy to be intelligent, and Kingpin is one of the few movies of its kind that actually makes me laugh. It made me laugh when I first saw it in 1996 it made me laugh till I was sore and now ten years on in 2006 it still makes me laugh. The cast are brilliant and it's their talents that really keep this comedy from dating. Randy Quaid is always solid, Vanessa Angel is devilish sexy and cunning, Woody Harrelson is suitably vexed and Bill Murray reminds us all why he has remained Hollywood's main comedy actor long since all his peers disappeared.Kingpin is definitely for an adult audience and it is worth watching some night that there is nothing on the television or at the cinema. Not for all tastes but damn it is good and it is one of the Farrelly brothers better films in my opinion. 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Low-brow +disgusting equals fun!","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"34 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Before There's Something About Mary or Me myself and Irene there was Kingpin. Kingpin is a comedic masterpiece-not many comedies make me laugh out loud like this one. If the Farrellys were not attached this movie wouldn't be half as great as it was (This film was originally written by Barry Fanaro, and Mort Nathan) Roy Munson was a bowling champion in the late 1970s. Roy retires after a dirty trick pulled by Ernie McCracken costs him to lose his hand. Roy becomes an alcoholic and sinks very low going as far as sleeping with his repellent, disgusting Landlord. He meets up with Ishmael Boorg (Randy Quaid) in a bowling alley. After some convincing talks him into driving down to reno and enlist in a bowling contest. This is the Farrelly's second movie after dumb and dumber, and is some ways, a lot funnier. Bill Murray is genius and ad libs most of his lines. Woody Harrelson does a great job; He goes as far as shaving his head and goes all the way to look like a dead-beat. Randy Quaid is innocent and funny. **** stars. "},{"Title":"Now I Know Why I Quit Bowling","Date":"16 August 2005","Score":"35 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" I say this in a good way this film captures bowling's underbelly, where even the pro stars sometimes have to supplement their income the old-fashioned way by taking it directly from obviously weaker bowlers who somehow manage to be convinced to risk their money. Just as poker games are often won with guns, bowling for money has hazards all its own, something I learned even as a junior bowler hustling games after the league on Saturday.Roy E. Munson (Woody Harrelson) is such a loser that acting like a total loser is actually called being Munsoned. The term is named after an incident where some victims of a bowling hustle relieve Roy of his right hand in a gruesome manner which involves bowling equipment. Somehow, even THAT manages to be funny, which speaks to the quality of this film, a film smart enough to have its three main stars on screen for most of the time. The 1979 accident was the result of Roy taking the fall for the hustle engineered by legendary bowler Ernie McCracken (Bill Murray).Fast forward to 1996, and Roy stumbles across an Amish bowler named Ishmael Boorg (Randy Quaid), the most talented bowler he's ever come across. He offers to coach Ishmael for a $1 million tournament in Reno, Nevada that can save his family farm, but Ishmael is conflicted (the deepest emotion of the film) because he has strayed from the Amish country. Ishmael's brother is the requisite family member sent to bring the stray relative back home, and Vanessa Angel is extra-hot as the love interest for almost every guy in the film.If you think this is a parody of bowling, the joke may be on you. Hang around enough lanes, in certain places, and you just might see these guys or something very close to them. Just be careful if they look drunk and want to play for money. "},{"Title":"This film is rude, crude and very funny","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"31 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  When this film first came out, I had no use for it. Then I was home sick one day and caught it on cable. I laughed my butt off. This is a crude, rude and down right funny film. It also helped that I grew up near the Pennsylvania Dutch and plenty of bowling lanes. Two seemingly safe areas that the Farley brothers attack it without mercy. Sometimes it gets down right disgusting and many cannot stomach, but overall, its very funny.Bill and Woody were funny as anything. The Disco-era beginning makes me laugh like crazy. The commercial Bill Murray does is to die for. This film will offend alot of people, and many references played for humor may make folks feel uncomfortable, but I loved it. If you are easily offended, this is NOT the film for you. But for everyone else who likes rude, crude and deviously funny -- often at the expense of others kinda humor, this is a gem to see. "},{"Title":"Bowling anyone?","Date":"25 August 2005","Score":"26 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Bobby and Peter Farrelly, the directors of Kingpin show a great flair for this type of comedy. Not having seen it when it first was released, we were lucky to catch it on cable the other night, and frankly, it proved to be a happy choice. The Farrellys had a good screen play by Barry Fanaro and Mort Nathan to work with, as they showed a talent for assembling a wonderful cast to make this a winning comedy the fun and exciting film it is.The best thing in the film are Woody Harrelson and Bill Murray. Mr. Harrelson plays Roy Munson, the man who love bowling, but through an unfortunate incident, loses his ability to play the sport he was born to play. Woody Harrelson is wonderful in his portrayal of Munson. Bill Murray's role is much smaller, but he does wonders with it. Best of all is the way we see him at the bowling tournament in Reno with his teased hair in disarray.The rest of the cast is good. Randy Quaid as Ishmael Boorg, gives a funny reading of his naive character. Also the attractive Vanessa Angel plays the woman who has an interest in the game. "},{"Title":"great cast = great laughs","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Back in the '70s, Roy Munson (Woody Harrelson) was a bowling phenomenon. He was none too sharp about picking friends, though, and the champion he had to beat, Big Ern, takes him under his supposedly friendly wing. Big Ern (Bill Murray) shows him the high living lifestyle, and induces him to go on the road with him, hustling small town bowlers. A couple of the men he bilks take exception to the scam, and show their displeasure with Roy by mangling his hand. Twenty years later, Roy (who now has a hook in place of his hand), earns his living as a salesman. On a visit to a bowling alley, he cannot help but notice the incredible talents of an Amish boy, Ishmael (Randy Quaid). Bowling is not part of the Amish lifestyle, but Ishmael occasionally sneaks into the bowling alley and plays a frame or two. Roy takes Ishmael under his wing, and together with Vanessa Angel they begin a quest for bowling success. Kingpin is funny, due to a great cast and good writing, gotta love Bill Murray.  "},{"Title":"Bill Murray at his best!","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Bill Murray pretty much steals the show every time he's on the screen. He's sleazy, he's smarmy and he's very funny.  With that comb-over going nuts at the big game, and his victory dance at the end makes Kingpin that much better.  That's not saying that the rest of the film isn't good, it is. Woody Harrelson, Randy Quaid and Vanessa Angel make a very odd partnership. An Amish bowling whiz, a one handed ex-bowler, and a very sexy hustler scheme and dream to make it to Reno, but of course they have to beat Big Ern.   "},{"Title":"I Haven't laughed THIS hard at the movies too often","Date":"22 July 2006","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Young Roy Munson has been raised to be a bowler.It's what he does best. In 1979,at the age of eighteen,Roy(Woody Harrelson from here on out)is at the top of his game and a bona-fide star in his Ohio hometown. After he beats Ace pro ErnieThe Big ErnMcCracken(Bill Murray,smarmy and snarkly as ever)in a match,he is raked into Ernie's con game and pays a dear price for it.Seventen years later,Roy is anything but the local hero he once was. He lives in a seedy apartment in small town Pennsylvania,does odd sales jobs and has to satisfy his decrepit landlady to avoid the rent. It's at one of the bowling alleys that Roy does routes to that he witnesses one Ishmael Boorg(Randy Quaid,backing his scene stealing performance in ID4 with this bravura turn),a sweet,gentle Amish man-child who has a natural knack for bowling. Needing money and smelling a chance at scoring big time,Roy decides to take Ishmael under his wing.On the way to a Million dollar tournament in Las Vegas,Roy and Ishmael pick up a comely stowaway and ally in a gangster's moll(VAnessa Angel) and bond from mishap to mishap.There's nothing particularly brilliant or especially sharp about this offering,the second from the brothers Farrelly,but its uniqueness and lack of restraint on the gross-out humor make this movie a very easy watch(for those who love that kind of stuff,of course). Harrelson,Quaid,Murray and Angel move effortlessly through this flick,which may explain why it's so good. Since this film,the Farrellys have steadily moved away from the almost merciless gross-out gags of their films and has made seeing their films a little less riotous and fun,so this movie is a healthy reminder of what a little imagination(I mean,honestly...a movie about Bowling AND the Amish?)and mischief can make. A great cheap rent or cable TV movie. "}{"Title":"It's produces chuckles from time to time","Date":"15 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Directors Bobby and Peter Farrelly don't have much of a filmography but after they produced Dumb & Dumber (1994), they were pretty much set. Since this week was the recent release of the Farrelly brothers' long awaited sequel to Dumb & Dumber (1994), Dumb & Dumber To (2014), it seemed appropriate that we visit another early Farrelly brothers' work. I was amazed to see that this is the only time Woody Harrelson collaborated with these directors. After being in and proving in other films that he still can be a comedic actor, I thought he would've made another movie with them. Guess Harrelson has had other plans since.Here, Woody Harrelson plays Roy Munson, a bowling prodigy who worked hard at being the best. That is, until one day after making a dangerous gamble, he loses his best bowling hand. Feeling ashamed and embarrassed, he leaves home to live a secluded life from society with poor living conditions and unkempt neighbors. Struggling to maintain any kind of order in his life, especially after losing his hand, he stumbles upon an Amish man named Ishmael (Randy Quaid) who reminds him of his youth and realizes that he has some unrecognized bowling skills and decides to take him under his wing. Along their travels, the two also stumble into a abusive rich man's wife that decides it's time for her to get out. The actress playing this vixen is Vanessa Angel. This is also probably her most memorable role in her filmography to most people who recognize her.The three actors do have their moments that are funny but it's not often. Harrelson carries most of the weight because of how his character tries to be better than his current social status. Quaid's character isn't all that funny but does work occasionally too. Of course, Angel's character is one that probably won't be ignored since much of the physical humor is centered around her bosom. Thankfully, not all the physical comedy relies on Angel. Harrelson's character uses a rubber hand in replace of his metal hooks and watching him fiddle getting ready or doing other things people normally do with their hands brought up some laughs. However there are some gags that are more gross than comical. I'm sure that's apart of the Farrelly humor, but if you're a viewer who doesn't like that kind of humor, it won't be that funny.Bill Murray even has a fairly major role in the story too, playing a bowler named Ernie McCracken. Man does Murray's hair get wild. In fact, his personality altogether is a bit too wild. Murray is more of an actor who can play a funny role in a deadpan fashion, not over-the-top. Most likely Murray fans will have a fun time but he does get to be too much at times. The two gentlemen behind the screenplay have more TV series writing under their belts than acclaimed comedy blockbusters, which could explain why several gags amount to very little. Also the characters for what they are, aren't the most likable. Yes, they're weird in their own way and have their moments, but they don't come off as characters that viewers would remember easily.Shockingly, a number of the less important characters are extremely blind or stupid. The character of Ernie McCracken is vulgar along with his strong hubris. McCracken gropes women in public and yet no one sees this? How is it that the women being groped is OK with this? It's not like McCracken is Elvis or something. One character even called the man a role model for future generations. Are you kidding? Of course it's supposed to make the McCracken character seem unstoppable but how do these people not see this on public television? It may baffle viewers. Editing and cinematography is OK but nothing special. One time composer Freedy Johnston's score was barely noticeable. Much of the time, the music was provided by music parodying or directly paralleling the situation being displayed. It was alright at points, while others not so much.The comedy is frequently hit or miss, with its forgettable characters and repetitive gags. Woody Harrelson is the key to what helps makes watchable though. "},{"Title":"very good","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  this is one of the funniest movies i have ever seen. i recommend seeing it if your looking for a laugh or if you have never seen it before. i have watched it about 20 something times and it never gets old to me it just gets better and better every time i sit down and watch it. "},{"Title":"A True Landmark - the 2nd of the 3 steps that changed comedy","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Kingpin is a movie beyond comparison. In fact, the only movies that can be compared to 'Kingpin', are the other two Farrelli masterpieces, 'Dumb and Dumber' and 'There's something about Mary'. The fact that American Pie was more successful than Kingpin, doesn't make it a better movie. Also, it is utterly insulting (to art) when anyone uses the Farrelli movies humor as a reference to 'Scary Movie'. 'Kingpin' is the second part of the Farrelli's comedic trilogy that changed the world of comedy and inspired EVERY other comedy that came in the new millennium. The story is about an ex-bowling player on a road trip, to find his lost dignity. Woody Harrelson is brilliant as the leading actor and Randy Quaid is great too. Bill Murray is one of best  comedians of our times and delivers as usual, but the supporting cast is great as well. You see, 'Kingpin' is really dependent on performances, because despite of what some might believe, all Farrelli movies are emotionally intense. It is this emotional intensity that makes the extreme scenes so funny; the audience cares about the characters and whatever happens to them.It is the craftsmanship of the Farrelli brothers that made the transition from the humor prior to 'Dumb and Dumber' to today's movie humor so flawless. Unfortunately, it also give license to the opportunists, to offend their audience by including gross out scenes in their movies, without having the aesthetic taste to achieve it properly.Still, the acceptance of movies like 'Scary Movie' ('Kingpin' scores barely one point over 'Scary movie' on imdb), created a field of competition that destroyed even the latest Farrelli creations. We will have to wait until someone comes up with something as brilliant as the Farrelli movies of the 90's, in order to get rid of this situation.10/10 "},{"Title":"Bowling It Can Be A Crude Sport!","Date":"14 July 2006","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" What a strange comedy this turned out to be. Of course, that's not a shock considering you have Woody Harrelson, Randy Quaid and Bill Murray starring. Now there's a stable, conservative trio!! This actually has some very funny moments. At first I was afraid it was going to be too irreverent to the Amish - and there definitely was some of that with Quaid's character, who is made to look like a total dimwit, who has no knowledge of the Bible and is easily led - NO characteristics of an Amish person, BUT the film really isn't mean-spirited and it does show respect for the Amish in a number of scenes. However, it's still very much a sleazy film and the writers wouldn't have done this with any other non-Christian character.All the characters in here, including the profane female lead played by Vanessa Angel (who?), are fun to watch. The most outrageous, in a minor role, is the female landlord who has to be seen to be believed.Bowlers will especially like this film since a good part of it centers around that. A number of PBA members put it cameo performances. One scene, with the fake hand attached to the bowling ball as it returns from the ball rack had me almost in tears laughing, for some reason. Murray's take on the flamboyant bowler (and there have been a few over the years on the Pro Bowlers Tour) is hilarious.Crude, but a funny film for the most part. "},{"Title":"The Amish and Bowling. Brilliant!","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Only the Farrelly brothers could envision a story featuring a down-and-out has been bowler, played to perfection by Woody Harrelson, and the Amish, specifically the naive bowling prodigy played by Randy Quaid. I'm not really sure what brought these two world together in the Farrelly's mind, but whatever it was, I'm glad they thought of it. A very funny movie exploring what people will do when they have nothing to lose, not even their shame. Harrelson plays the once famous bowler Roy Munson who fell off the map in the 70s when his bowling had was removed from his body, coining the phrase Munson-ed, meaning to be at the top and throw it all away. To help pay the bills, he meets Isheael (Quaid) who has great natural talent at bowling and is convinced by Munson to go to Reno to play in the national championship. Between the Amish settlement and Reno, the two go through various adventures that often pay tribute to Ishmael's Amish naiveté, such as the confusion over who actually has to pay for a lap-dance, and famous scenes from other movies, most notably ones from The Hustler. Kingpin also features Bill Murray in one of his fantastic roles, this time as the swarmmy bowling champion Ernie McCracken. We get the sense that all of the characters in the movie are desperate, either for money for his people, Ishmael goes along on the trip to win money for his Amish settlement, or to reclaim fame and fortune, Munson, or to just be known as the best, McCracken, and it's the desperation that leads to the comedy and the human touch. The film also features Vanessa Angel as a bimbo who helps Munson and Ishmael out of tough spot, and Jefferson's on Ice! perhaps one of the funniest TV parodies in a movie. Just look at Weezie go! "},{"Title":"Crude but hilarious","Date":"26 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  If you've ever seen a Farrelly brothers movie the chances are you know the type of humour they are famous for so will know what to expect here.Of their comic masterpieces of the 90's I would place this movie third just behind dumb and dumber (funniest movie ever) and there's something about mary.Its full of quirky characters with excellent performances from woody harrelson as the crippled washed up ex-bowling champ, and randy quaid as his prodigious amish bowling protege.Without doubt though it is Bill Murray who steals the show as the fellow professional bowler who appears like a saint on the outside to the media but who is really a nasty (but hilarious) individual with the worst comb over ever.Throw in the beautiful Vanessa Angel and a host of quick fire and sometimes squirm inducing gags and you have one of the funniest films of the 90's.My rating ****/*****.  "},{"Title":"The second one of the Farrelly brothers and definitely not bad","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Kingpin was the second movie that's directed by the Farrelly brothers. I wonder what the hell makes their films so bloody lovable? After all these blokes squeeze humor out of everything that's unsuitable, objectionable, disgusting and vulgar. Somehow they possess the talent of still keeping it all extremely genial and sympathetic. Therefore their films doesn't only make the audience laugh but also feel good and warm.Unfortunately I haven't seen all of the six flicks these lads has directed so far but luckily enough I've seen the first four and Kingpin is certainly at least better than their mildly too provocative debut Dumb & dumber. Woody Harrelson makes a pretty successful performance as Roy Munson and Randy Quaid is fabulous as Ishmael. Still, Bill Murray alone makes this a film worth watching. And the hilarious dialogue.One of my favorite lines is so utterly stupid I simply can't help of loving it. Claudia (Vanessa Angel) states that since Munson has a hook for a hand it must be hard to spank your monkey. Ishmael hears this and with a sincere innocence in his voice asks you have a monkey? All and all, Kingpin is a great comedy. There's something about Mary and Me, myself and Irene are both better but if you like the type of a humor Farrelly brothers prefer you'll love this one too.Naturally there were couple of scenes that were too tasteless even for my taste (is it that necessary to show how Ishmael shoots pieces of food in the bathroom mirror with a dental floss?) but I guess that's exactly what the directors wanted in the first place. People have to feel sick of laugher and disgust when they watch Farrelly brothers flicks and Kingpin does it. Actually it's perhaps the most decent movie they've ever done. "},{"Title":"Another dumb comedy. All right!!!","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I loved Kingpin, simply because it was a dumb comedy. I like dumb comedies like Half-Baked or Bio-Dome, because they're just plain fun to watch.Roy Munson is a former champion bowler who has become an alcoholic after losing his hand. One day he meets an Amish bowler named Ishmael and offers to teach him to bowl and they head for Reno for the National Bowling Championship.Woody Harrelson, Randy Quaid and Bill Murray are as always hilarious. I think I can honestly say this was Murray's best movie after Ghostbusters.Turn off your brain and enjoy. 8/10. "},{"Title":"A really funny comedy","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This is a hillarious comedy,which goes where no comedy has gone before.Nothing is to weird for this comedy.Bill Murray and Woody Harrelson are great in their roles and the story is so simple that it is funny.It is about winning a bowling tournament. This movie is directed by the Farrelly brothers,and I think that explains it all. Go and see it now.  "},{"Title":"The Funniest Film I Have seen!","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Although not as well known as the farrelly brothers other films, Kingpin, in my opinion, surpasses them all. It has everything a good comedy needs and at the top of the list is Bill Murray. He is superb as 'Big Ern' McKracken. He is a totally despisable, womanising cheat with no morals but he is as funny as hell. Woody Harrelson is also great as a once great bowling champion who's loss of his hand turns him into an also despisable, seedy guy with no morals....wh oalso has a drink problem. Watch this film and I guarantee you will laugh out loud for 90 minutes! "}{"Title":"One of the funniest movies I have ever seen","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"     This movie is brilliant.  It's about a run down drunk of an ex bowler (Woody Harrelson) who won a state championship almost twenty years ago, but now he's barely making his rent money.  He no longer bowls because he's missing his hand...so he's left with nothing but a hook.  Thru a series of events, he meets up with Randy Quaid who plays a really stupid Amish guy who happens to be a very good bowler.  Eventually they get together for an adventure thru the country, making their way to Reno, Nevada for a bowling championship.   The movie is one of the funniest I have ever seen, and Harrelson is hilarious.  If you buy the DVD version, it's rated R as opposed to the regular PG13 version, and I must say the R version is better.  I think they have 17 mins of added footage on the DVD.  A lot of people will see this movie is somewhat gross in spots, but I don't mind it at all, and I think it only goes to make it funnier.  Vanessa Angel, who I know from Weird Science the USA series some years ago, is pretty funny in this movie as well.   I think it's a gem, and I'd definitely give it a 10/10. "},{"Title":"Arguably the funniest movie ever made.","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I was in the mood for something funny, & saw Siskel & Ebert's 2 enthusiastic thumbs way up on this one.  Although I usually disagree with S&E, I couldn't stop laughing at this one. Disrespectful & politically incorrect, but absolutely hilarious in so many spots! I think that Kingpin & Planes, Trains, & Automobiles & Midnight Run are the funniest three movies ever filmed. "},{"Title":"Really laugh-out-loud funny","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I went to see There's Something About Mary and liked it so much that I decided to rent Kingpin for the hell of it. I'll probably get into some heat for saying this, but, I actually liked this one more than Mary. Harrelson, Quaid, Murray, etc. are all funnier than Dillon or Diaz or even Stiller, I think they have a lot more comedic talent than any of Mary's various players. Don't get me wrong though, I liked Mary, I just loved Kingpin. It's a shame that Mary turned out to be the money maker and almost no one's ever heard of this one. I hope that when people go see Mary, they'll do their research on the Farrelly brothers and check this one out. I just have one request to the brothers for their next film, don't hire that Chris Elliot guy, he just really sucks. "},{"Title":"10","Date":"10 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Why would a sane person give a 10 to a movie which the plot is about a handless man and an Amish guy that want to win a bowling competition? The answer is simple. It is a hilarious movie and one of the best comedies I ever seen. It has the same sense of humor of films like the Naked Gun, and the cast is great.Kingpin is a cleaver movie with a different plot(where did they came up with the idea of making a movie about a former bowling player that nowadays has a rubber hand, teaching an Amish guy to play bowling so they can win a competition that pays 1 million).Definitively one of the greatest comedies I've ever seen. It's too bad that it is not a very known movie here in Brazil, but be sure that the people that have seen it thought it was great. "},{"Title":"highly funny film.","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" This movie has long been one of my favorite comedies. We follow the story of a down and out con man who befriends an amish bowler and the hilarity ensues. Despite the fact this movie has many predictable jokes, its never fails to make me laugh. No matter how many times i see it, i can't help but laugh and randy quaid's naive amish person, and my personal favorite Bill (Big Ern) McCracken. He really steals the show as the unbelievable A-hole. Needless to say, Kinpin is a funny comedy that may be crude but succeeds on many levels. If you check most of my other posts, you'll probably see that i'm much more likely to rip a film, but i can't find a single bad thing to say about this movie. "},{"Title":"best comedy ever.....ever!","Date":"13 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" how this film can be rated any less than a ten is beyond me. the tragic character of Roy Munson is genius in itself but the true golden star of this film is Ernie McCracken played by bill Murray. an egotistical, vindictive bowling champ who's only ambitions are to bowl and fondle! the film is chock full with gags and more importantly original ones. the film takes us through the effervescence of young Roy Munson and his god given gift (bowling) and hammers us down with his sad demise. he find solace in booze and ...well more booze until he hits the jackpot with the sound of one strike. through Roy's struggle to climb out of the gutter his tormented past comes back to haunt him and the story evolves into one of courage,friendship and extreme stupidity. the best selling point i can give to people who have yet to indulge is simply this, i very rarely laugh out loud at a film but my sides were in agony after watching this and i think i may of ruptured something. "},{"Title":"I Love This Movie","Date":"7 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I don't understand why this movie has such a low rating on this site, but then again, I tend to believe that most people don't fully understand Kingpin.  There are a lot of people out there that will say this is a slapstick movie, full of fart jokes and low-brow humor.  Those kind of comments frustrate me, because it's my contention that Kingpin is the best of the Farrelly brothers' movies.  In fact, Kingpin is one of my favorite movies of the 90's.  Not only is the humor in the movie a lot more complex than some people realize, the story is original, honest, and entertaining.  I highly recommend this movie to anyone, and if you enjoy it half as much as I did, believe me, you won't be sorry you watched it.   "},{"Title":"Very Funny!","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This is the best comedy of the 90's. Woody Harrelson really steals the show! The jokes are crude,yet very comical. The Plot is perfect,one of the best plots for a comedy ever! Roy Munson is great. All those jokes about his rubber hand,can get tiresome,but the movie is hilarious. Bill Murray also is a great supporting cast member. See this if you are in a laughing mood,because you'll be laughing a lot!5/5 "},{"Title":"One of the funniest, Slapstick Movies Ever","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I don't know if I am alone in thinking that this is a very funny movie.  I have seen people destroy this movie but I can not.This humor is very low brow and very politically incorrect which is exactly what makes me laugh.  I laughed so hard I cried.  I loved this movie from the Milking of the Bull to the Pancake Nipples at the Freezer.If you have not seen this movie and would like a good laugh try this one. "},{"Title":"best Farrelly Brothers movie","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  only because this came out prior to Something About Mary did this movie not get the attention it so richly deserves.  It would have made $100 million + at the box office had it been released after the Farrelly Brothers became known.  Absolutely, one of the funniest movies I have ever seen. My wife and I could watch this 100 times and still laugh everytime.  If you're looking for a great comedy, look no further and rent this movie immediately. "}{"Title":"Truly amazing humor...","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Well, I'd say if you're a fan of comedies, better stop at your local blockbuster and pick up this fine little gem. Kingpin, starring good ol' woody is probably the funniest comedy of all time. Sure, people call it a gross-out comedy, but it isn't. It's more a of road trip film and it has deeper meaning than dumb and dumber. rent it,. "},{"Title":"Classic Comedy","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This has got to be one of the funniest movies made in a long time. Woody Harrelson and Randy Quaid make an funny odd couple in this original comedy. There were enough laughs in this to make my stomach hurt! And lets not forget the uncanny Bill Murray. His dry humour is like no other. He alone at times stole the movie portraying his character, Ernie McCracken. I cannot begin to describe how funny he was in this movie. With the combination of slap stick and witty gags, this movie is guaranteed to be a favorite for any one who loves a good comedy. And just to let you know, this is not one of those lame slap stick, idiotic comedies that do anything for a laugh. This movie actually has an original plot and creative and funny comedy.This truly matches up with other comedies such as Dumb and Dumber and Something about Marry..also by the Farreli Bros. I give this 10/10. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Hilarious","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This is my most favorite comedy of all-time (Happy Gilmore is a close second)...The casting was perfect and the plot, simple and clear...Munson'd will forever be a part of my vocabulary....I agree with a previous post - If you don't like this classic, lighten up!! "},{"Title":"A comdedy gem!","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Along with Tootsie, this is my favorite comedy of all time.  The Farrely brothers are at their best in this over-the-top comedy.  The performances here by Woody Harrelson, Bill Murray, and especially, Randy Quaid as an Amish boy are hilarious.  There is a gag in here concerning the Harrelson character and a bull that could be the funniest in movie history.  One of the few movies that had me laughing throughout, a must see.  See the Roger Ebert review of this movie to support my recommendation.  Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"why is this not in the imdb top 250??","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Ok this movie is terrific! It has everything, a cute original fun story, great characters, and a hot woman! Vanessa Angel is so hot in this movie I wish she'd be in more movies, oh well. I like Woody and Randy and they did great in this, and Bill Murray did very good too. Woody plays a bowler who could have been a legend but gets his hand cut off so he finds a young Amish bowler played by Randy Quiad who he takes to Vegas to win a tournament so he can save his town. This movie is so hilarious I really think this should be in the top 250 easily! 9/10 "},{"Title":"Big Bill rulez!!","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Superb film. A real piece of art. We all know who makes this film so there is no need to beat about the bush. Bill Murray is totally magnificent as usual. You put Bill Murray in a movie, any movie and you are guaranteed quality. He is talent. Naturally gifted, naturally funny, and also very intelligent. The man is King. I cannot praise him enough. No matter how hard I try.  "},{"Title":"Long Live the Comb Over","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I thought this movie was great.  It has a fantastic cast made up of Woody Harrelson, Randy Quaid, and Bill Murray.  I agree with other users that this film has not been rated fairly.  You simply have to take it for what it's worth, and I personally think it's wonderful!Woody Harrelson plays Roy Munson, a drunken, former pro-bowler trying with much difficulty to earn a buck.  He discovers a young Amish man who may be his ticket back to bowling prestige (if that actually exists).  The two bowling hopefuls proceed on a road trip to win the grand prize in a bowling championship in Las Vegas.     This movie is truly hilarious!  Woody Harrelson does a fantastic job in the role of the sad sack ex-bowler with a rubber hand.  He seems to have aged ten years in his portrayal of this character.  Bill Murray is his adversary, Big Ern McCracken, whose bad toupee seems to have a life of its own.  Murray is wonderful in this role with his cocky and pompous attitude.  There are certain scenes of his character in a television commercial that are quite literally, marvelous.  Finally to finish off this stellar cast we have Randy Quaid as Ishmael, the Naïve Amish man who could quite possibly be the next Bowling legend. I must also mention the gorgeous Vanessa Angel as Claudia.  Her character is under developed but she still has the charisma and sex appeal to ignite her scenes.This movie must be viewed for what it is worth.  This means, it is not Oscar material but it is a very funny movie.  So watch the film with this in mind and enjoy all the hilarious scenes and great performances. 7/10 "},{"Title":"One of the funniest comedies of the 90's","Date":"24 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Kingpin is a film that might not match up to the Farrelly Brothers masterpieces like Dumb and Dumber and There's Something About Mary, but it comes close.  The movie stars Woody Harrelson as a once great bowling champ who's career is ended by an injury to his hand for which he must spend the rest of his life with a hook.  But then he finds a new kid, Amish, but promising bowling guy (Randy Quaid) and finds hope for a new future.  Sounds like the setup for a corny drama, but the Farrelly's take no wrong turns in delivering big belly laughs for the overall scope of the movie.  Harrelson, Quaid and even the seductress Vanessa Angel (you might remember her from TV's Weird Science) deliver good laughs, but it is two people who steal the show and make this film utterly hilarious- Bill Murray who gives a new meaning to the word comb-over, and Chris Elliot who gives one of the funniest moments in 90's comedy in a cameo.  A "},{"Title":"Eddie McCraken rules OK!","Date":"6 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  What a totally mad fim! Woody Harrelson is just brilliant as the one handed Munson, Randy Quaid is excellent as the naive Ishmael, even if he does seem a little old for the role, and Vanessa Angel........enough said! But it's Bill Murray who steals the film as the lascivious, crooked and thoroughly revolting Eddie McCracken. What a tour de force.If you're looking for a sophisticated, light hearted comedy, then this isn't it. To say the comedy is crude, is an understatement but it is typical Farrelly brothers and hilariously funny, non PC and very crude. It's one of those films which, when you explain the storyline to someone who hasn't seen it, sounds totally ridiculous, confusing and pointless and leaves them with a bemused look on their face - a sure sign of greatness! "},{"Title":"one a hell of a movie","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"21 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" this is a great movie , the jokes so smart , and very nice 60-70 sound truck , the movie is a combination of a road movie and self definition movie. bill Morey plays the bad guy and he adds his touch of comedy , Ishmael and his jokes are historical, especially one Ishmael end up working as a female striper, and when he discover a small tattoo one the chest not noticing the side to side tattoo at his back. some parts may be considered a bit racial , but all on all this movie is very funny. the scene where woody Harrison milks the bill is eternal. the end as always a happy end. in Iraq this movie was a hit , and still available at video rent shelfs.not much cgi, Vanessa Angel definitely plays a nice part and she is a very hot one, the scene of fight between her and woody was to much and you can see the sub performing. "}{"Title":"Decent Gross-Out Comedy","Date":"13 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" A star bowler whose career was prematurely cut off hopes to ride a new prodigy to success and riches.The two big comedies from this team are Kingpin and There's Something About Mary. Both have some gross-out humor, and this one definitely is not afraid of poop, vomit and bull fluids. I could probably do without all that. And this is probably the lesser of the two. It succeeds in making Lin Shaye, a wonderful person, into a horrifying monster.Funny? Yes. And definitely a different sort of role for Randy Quaid. Bill Murray shines (as always). I always feel a little bit weird when Amish folks show up in films because they seem to be the butt of jokes, and they are probably not even aware that people make fun of them. "},{"Title":"It has a bit of an aimless feel to it at times, but there are some big laughs and the film also has some heart to it as well","Date":"21 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Woody Harrelson plays Roy Munson, a former tenpin bowling champion who falls on hard times after he loses his right hand following a disagreement/misunderstanding with some thugs. 17 years down the line, Munson's life has taken a turn for the worst - he's turned to alcohol and owes a large amount of rent to his landlady (Lin Shaye). However, Munson believes his luck is about to change when he discovers there is a competition in Reno where first prize is $1,000,000. Due to his injury, Munson doesn't want to compete and by chance he stumbles across a shy Amish man called Ishmael (Randy Quaid) who shows a real talent for bowling. Believing that Ishmael is the perfect ticket to win the money, Munson befriends Ishmael and the two men set off on a journey that neither man is likely to forget.The Farrelly brothers show in this film (and with the original Dumb and Dumber film) that they could still make films that were funny and fairly good natured. Yes like Dumb and Dumber some of the humour is a bit crude (it's a Farrelly brothers after all), but for me most of the funny moments revolve around Ishmael's naivety when Munson pulls him into the 'real' world outside of his Amish community. It perhaps also helps that Randy Quaid gives an absolute stellar performance and does an excellent job at captivating this vulnerability. It does feel a bit mean-spirited at the start, but the bond and respect that develops between the two men is quite touching and the film has a lot more heart than I thought it would.The only minor issue I had with this film is that the narrative is a bit aimless and meandering. I got the impression that a lot of the scenes in the middle could have been edited and that the whole film could have been cut to around the 90 minute mark (which probably would have made it a bit more enjoyable). However, this is a minor quibble and Kingpin more than makes up for it with the big laughs that are on offer here. Randy Quaid was the star of the show here, but Harrelson and Murray were both excellent as well. The supporting cast were also good and Vanessa Angel looks great here.Kingpin plods and drags its heels at times, but it's a fine film with great performances, lots of heart and many very funny moments. "},{"Title":"No Gutter Balls Here.","Date":"21 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Kingpin (1996) Dir Bobby Farrelly, Peter Farrelly / Cast Woody Harrelson, Randy Quaid, Vanessa Angel, Bill Murray, Lin Shaye One of the best comedies of 1996. Woody Harrelson plays champion bowler Roy Munson who quests to regain the potential he once had. He was betrayed seventeen years prior, which resulted in his rubber hand. Unable to regain the spotlight, he sets his sights to train an Amish citizen who bowls in secret. They are eventually joined by Vanessa Angel who flees from an abusive relationship. Directed by Peter and Bobby Farrelly who scored big with the very funny Dumb and Dumber but the screenplay here is tighter and much more detailed. It has effective sight jokes but more importantly it has an ending of unpredicted satisfactory. Harrelson plays off the desperation to be a winner and we can sense his pain and regret. Randy Quaid is hilarious as the gullible yet sincere Amish bowler who desires to champion his family during financial crises. Angel plays off toughness with vulnerability as she remains one step ahead of Munson. Bill Murray steals scenes as a competing bowler who betrayed Munson and displays no signs of remorse that isn't met with sarcasm. Lin Shaye makes a hilarious scene stealing cameo as Roy's angry landlord whose methods of payoff leave Munsion puking his guts out in a toilet. Hilarious comedy about restoration stamped with a rubber hand. Score 10 / 10 "},{"Title":"Witness this","Date":"14 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Peter Farrelly and Bobby Farrelly made their names in crude comedies that pushed the envelope. In Kingpin they display more of their trademark zaniness and crudeness that they showed in Dumb and Dumber Woody Harrelson plays tenpin bowler named Roy Munson, a potential champion who ended up losing his bowling hand after being tricked by a fellow bowler (Bill Murray).Many years later living a deadbeat life where he does not have enough money to pay the rent. He meets a devout Amish man called Ishmael (Randy Quaid) who he sees as a potential champion and gets him to leave his community and head to Reno to take part in a championship where he meets up again with Bill Murray, now a sleazy bowling superstar with a bad comb-over.The film has plenty of crude humour with Harrelson getting into mishaps with his fake hand and hook. There is low brow humour such as milking a bull believing it to be a cow. Murray pops back at the end with hair that has a life of its own.The film starts off brightly, its refreshingly silly and funny. However it loses its absurdity once they hook up with Claudia (Vanessa Angel) and tries to add depth to the characters. It loses its spontaneity and only becomes sporadically amusing. "},{"Title":"Pretty low humor raised to a pretty high art.","Date":"9 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" I know how insensitive it sounds, but I was thinking to myself, I haven't bowled in years and watching grass grow is more interesting than watching bowling. At least it's not golf. Really, how good can a comedy about a crippled bowler be? Still, I reasoned that this film is by the Farrelly brothers and it's about to come off streaming, so at least I should give it a try. Just goes to show how wrong a guy can be. A perfect mixture of sentiment and low and somewhat higher-brow humor, not to mention flawless performances and brilliant cinematography. A totally pleasant surprise. Definitely a new American comedy classic. "},{"Title":"Two Guys Walk Into a Bowling Alley....","Date":"22 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" This often-amusing piece of trash begins with a scene out of Paul Newman's The Hustler. Bill Murray sees the latent bowling talent in Woody Harrelson, cultivates it, and they set out hustling small-town rubes. Harrelson pretends to be drunk and is faced with an impossible frame. Everyone bets against him and when he makes the spare, he and Murray split the money. That is, until finally some clot of rubes wakes up to the scam and grinds Harrelson's bowling hand off, while Murray cheerfully speeds off alone.A tragic tale. Harrelson is a real down-and-outer in Baltimore, forced to service his landlady in lieu of the rent. She has a face like Euryale the gorgon and he vomits voluminously after the bout.Then he gets a lucky break. He spots a young man, Randy Quaid, from a neighboring Amish town who has the same talented touch with a bowling ball, and persuades him to take to the road. They hustle their way to the million-dollar championship bowl off in Reno, Nevada, picking up some enemies along the way, not to mention Vanessa Angel. The two final contestants are Harrelson, bowling with his hook instead of his hand, and the egomaniacal Murray.I didn't think it was as inventive as There's Something About Mary. There is no equivalent of Ben Stiller's arrest at the roadside tea room. Yet it is funny and it gets funnier as it meanders along. Some of the gags are silly and pointless -- the burly Quaid dressed in tights and doing a pole dance. But there's wit in some of the visual gags -- Harrelson bending over a cute baby, making goo goo sounds, and chucking it under the chin with his hook while the mother's eyes bulge with anxiety.And the dialog has its moments too. You know, you're not the most intelligent person on earth. Oh, yeah, and who are you, Alfred Einstein? Then there are the performances, uniformly professional. We'll begin with Vanessa Angel. Yes, let's begin with her. The English-born actress has a mellifluous voice, a little throaty, and is strikingly attractive, a paragon of pulchritude. Oh, yum.Quaid is a large, clumsy actor but his role rather suits him -- the stolid, God-fearing, son of the soil, who takes his first automobile ride and shortly afterwards is taking hits from a long blue bong.Harrelson doesn't exactly have an actor's elocution. He has a weak voice and usually sounds as if he's reading his lines from some off-screen cue card. But he excels at light comedy, especially when the comedy has a slightly deranged quality, as it does here.Murray plays it straight at first but the final confrontation in Reno gives him a chance to unwind. He is absolutely hilarious, seen on television in a parody of one of those ad miseracordiam commercials for Unified Way. Little Charlotte here has never eaten a hot dog in her life. She lives in poverty and depends on your donations to keep her alive. Meanwhile, Murray is copping feels from the local mothers and daughters. I laughed out loud when Murray wept with joy at the prospect of beating Harrelson at the championship bowl off.I'm glad we see a little bit of what looks like Reno too. Reno is a pleasant, laid back little city. I've spent many cozy nights there at the elegant Mapes Hotel, sleeping in the lobby. "},{"Title":"audacity to keep trying","Date":"10 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" It's 1979. Roy Munson (Woody Harrelson) was raised by father to be one of the best bowlers in the world. He beats Ernie McCracken (Bill Murray) at the 1979 Odor-Eaters championship. Ernie puts sugar in his car engine and convinces the naive Roy to hustle a bowling game. Ernie leaves him behind as the angry mob grinds off his bowling hand. 17 years later, he's reduced to a traveling salesman. He discovers Ishmael Boorg (Randy Quaid) at a bowling alley. He's a nice Amish guy whose family would disown him for bowling. The Farrelly brothers keep trying and trying. Most of the jokes don't work but they keep trying. The premise and the setups are all ridiculously stupid. The characters are marginally compelling and one could root for Munson. "},{"Title":"Don't be put off - it gets a lot better","Date":"2 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" I almost stopped watching this movie. The first 40 minutes or so are incredibly bad. Unfunny, gross-out toilet attempts at humour and silly, pointless plot.But then, from a point, it gets better. The jokes become cleverer and funnier. There is suddenly a depth to the characters and there is even a semblance of a plot.This all culminates in some great bowling scenes, with Bill Murray at his entertaining best.On that note, Bill Murray, while only being a supporting performer, is great in this movie and almost steals the show. Woody Harrelson and Randy Quaid give solid performances and Vanessa Angel adds the eye candy, but Murray takes the movie to another level. Another thing that keeps the movie going is the soundtrack. Great music, especially the outro by Blues Traveler. "},{"Title":"Roy Munson is a Hero, a Gen-u-ine Hero","Date":"16 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Kingpin's way up there among my favorite comedies, now, let's see, well, um, there's Dumb & Dumber (which was made by the Farrelly brothers & is my undisputed favorite comedy), there's Me, Myself & Irene (that was made by the Farrelly brothers), There's Something About Mary (made by the Farrelly brothers), and Shallow Hal (the Farrelly bros), Stuck On You, too (the Farrelly brothers made it!), aaaaaaaaand, oh yeah, Kingpin (made by, who else, the Farrelly brothers!). Wow, the Farrelly brothers make truly great comedies, don't they? These two brothers are incredibly funny as well as incredibly talented too. There's Something About Mary and Dumb & Dumber, I mean, those two alone. Those two alone are two of the best comedies ever made! And Kingpin is not too far behind them. Kingpin is just about the funniest movie. I love it. It's so good and funny all the way through.Woody Harrelson is simply golden as Roy Munson, former state champion bowler. Roy Munson is a tragically lovable soul. Woody is a real good and funny guy himself. Randy Quaid is hilarious as Ishmael. Randy Quaid was meant to do comedy; he really shines on screen. Vanessa Angel is gorgeous as Claudia. Vanessa is really so smoking hot in Kingpin. Her outfits that she wears, oh my God, they're too much. I tell ya, if I was given the power to create a beautiful woman all from scratch, you know, out of thin air, like with my computer or something, while I'm wearing a bra on my head, I am pretty sure that I'd create Vanessa Angel. She's unbelievable. (Note to self, go buy Weird Science DVD boxset immediately, is that available?) Listen, I don't want to make this entire review all about how hot Vanessa Angel is (oh wait, no, yes I do), but let me just say, I crush hard on Vanessa. She's something special. Somehow, I don't think that I'm alone.Kingpin is one classic comedy. If you can't believe me, just go watch it yourself, I mean, there's so much to laugh at! I gotta rate Kingpin a 7 but a strong 7, I mean, it's like honestly a 7.998, just barely under an 8, and mostly due to its story not being meaningfully heartfelt enough, that's the point I'm trying to make, Kingpin isn't meaningfully heartfelt enough to be a great 8, but it's oh so close. I love Kingpin, like I say, it's one of my favorite comedies. So all in closing, let me again say, I love Kingpin, Woody Harrelson is great, Roy Munson is a genuine hero, the Farrelly brothers are incredible, Randy Quaid's hilarious, Vanessa Angel is deeply hot, and Kingpin is way, way freaking laugh-out-loud funny! Go see for yourself! Thank you!(Oh and also, I about forgot, there's this one other man who is in Kingpin, he goes by the name, Bill Murray, and Bill's about the funniest, sweetest guy on the planet, and in Kingpin, Bill plays Ernie McCracken, who's like, the funniest, meanest guy on the planet) "},{"Title":"Brilliant!!!!!!!","Date":"10 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" King Pin is one of my favourite comedies of all time. I've played it to so many people over the years and it's never failed to draw belly laughs and tears.One of Woody's best roles.......how one succeeds to be that funny and touching at the drop of a hat I can only marvel at. It is something rarely seen and I'm glad I've witnessed it at least once. It's in my collection and I know that over the years it'll keep being pulled out on a regular basis....film!Briefly A bowler doesn't fulfil his youthful promise and disappears into obscurity and the bottle only to be inspired years later by a young Amish man with a strong right arm and the prospect of coaching him to the final of a million dollar tournament. A road movie ensues with Vanessa Angel providing much more than a female interest.There's no nudity to speak of but a lot of sexual and bodily function based humour....Hey! It's a Farrelly brothers movie! That isn't the only source of the film's humour and........ Bill Murray is the icing on the cake...the epitome of the cynical, hedonistic, self centred, insensitive comedy villain. If you haven't seen it.......you gotta!!! "}{"Title":"You have a monkey?....","Date":"16 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Roy Munson was the best bowler in the world. But a fellow bowler, Ernie McCracken and a misunderstanding with some rough punks, left Roy with the loss of his bowling hand.He gets a prosthetic hand and becomes a travelling salesman. But it's really all down hill for him from that night on until he meets Ishmael who is Amish and sneaks away from the farm to bowl.Roy convinces Ishmael to let him be his trainer and he'll make him the best bowler the world has ever seen.Reluctantly Ishmael agrees to go on the road and shortly afterwards actually finds that life outside the farm is quite fun. Soon their paths cross that of Ernie McCracken who is still a top ranking bowler.While Roy's career and life have landed in the toilet bowl, Ernie is still drawing huge crowds....Whilenot as good as Dumb and Dumber, the Farrellys comedy still felt pretty fresh and new for it's time of release.If this was released now, it wouldn't have has the plaudits is had, it would probably end up on late night TV, and wouldn't have the great cast.Harrelson is great as Roy, but cannot hold up to Quaid and a brilliant Murray, whenever they are on screen, the film really shines and becomes funny.Sadly, the rest of the film relies on horrid toilet humour and scenes that try and push the boundaries for a '12' movie, it doesn't work and the film has aged badly.That said, the hair is great in this movie, and while the Farrellys haven't really made a good original film for fourteen years, they proved with their first three movies they were a little left-field. "},{"Title":"Funny enough comedy,but slightly dry,","Date":"8 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Kingpin is a funny movie with some laugh out loud scenes,a well thought out storyline and some pretty good actors,but I feel the movie goes on a bit,being two hours long and most animated films would only be an hour and a half,and find a lot of the humor to be a bit dry,not the Farrelly brothers finest work.A former bowler named Roy who hasn't bowled for over twenty years meets Ishmael,who is a natural bowler,Roy wants to get him to bowl for some professional games but it is hard to get him to take part because Ishmael is part of an Amish community,Roy eventually gets to Ishmael when pretends to be Amish himself. "},{"Title":"Best Comedy I Have Ever Seen","Date":"19 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" I take my comedy seriously (no pun intended). I grew up watching the original cast of SNL, three stooges and actors like Gene Wilder. They all had something special, and I think remain extremely special 30 years later. Kingpin has that rare something special. I had to watch this movie a few times before I fully appreciated the once in a lifetime performances by Harrelson and Murray, and outstanding writing by the Farrelly brothers.This movie, unlike most other comedies I've seen, continually provides genuinely funny moments throughout the entire movie. There are very few comedies I have ever watched that I can say the same about. It's like all the stars in the sky aligned for one perfect moment and in that moment they filmed Kingpin.Now, this film may not be for every one. It's crude, rude and in your face comedy. It's typical Farrelly brother fare. If you like that, or even if you don't and just like the silly comedy of Bill Murray (before he went all serious) - then this movie is well worth a watch. Definitely a 10 out of 10 in my book. "},{"Title":"bowl me over","Date":"23 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Following their success with Dumb and Dumber, the Farrelly brothers directed Kingpin, about a mangled bowler (Woody Harrelson) who trains an Amish man (Randy Quaid) to bowl. Since this is the guys behind There's Something About Mary, there are naturally a few scenes with no purpose except to have a gross-out gag. But it is pretty funny throughout most of the movie, with a lot of mild gags. I suspect that the Amish didn't like it. But I liked it, and I recommend it.Also starring Vanessa Angel, Bill Murray, Chris Elliott, William Jordan and Lin Shaye (the sunburned neighbor in TSAM and the retiring flight attendant in Snakes on a Plane). "},{"Title":"Perhaps not The Farrelly Brother's best, but hilarious.","Date":"28 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Roy Munson is a character that you think you're gonna like but don't then do again. Munson is played by the great Woody Harrelson. Kingpin is a movie that with some of the characters, you think you're not gonna like but you do anyways. Like with Claudia(Vanessa Angel). she seems nice at first, then turns into a bitch, then turns into a user, then redeems herself in the end. Kingpin is a hilarious comedy from The Farrelly Brothers(Dumb & Dumber, which I love, and There's something about Mary, Which I also love). This is the second film by The Farrelly Brothers and by their second film they proved how great they were. The Farrelly Brothers still do good movies now days. Kingpin is a movie that I never would've given a chance. But I bought it because I wanted to see what it was like. This was a couple of months ago. I laughed incredibly hard. There are many hilarious scenes in Kingpin including a fight between Vanessa Angel and Woody Harrelson. There are a lot of great performances by Bill Murray. Bill Murray isn't in it that much, but the scenes that he is in funny. If you weren't satisfied with The Big Lebowski(You have to be high if you weren't), then see Kingpin.The Plot Famous bowler Roy Munson's life is destroyed when a fellow enemy bowler rats him out after they scammed some bowlers. Years later, Munson is a loser living by himself with a hook and has a bald spot. One day he stumbles across Ishmael, an Amish man who he spots bowling and thinks that he is good. so Munson tries to convince Ishmael to bowl in a competition for money. "},{"Title":"Come for the bowling--stay for the hair","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Watch this movie, if for no other reason, than to see Bill Murray's MOACO (Mother of all comb-overs) in the final bowl-a-rama.  You can't get your hair done like that at just any old hair salon.  No sir.  Woody's would ordinarily win the blue ribbon, but in this case is a distant second to Bill's. "},{"Title":"Lighten up folks!","Date":"28 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Jaysus!!Not every comedy has to be (or even come close to) Annie Hall.Some can be good and silly (we're all kids at heart, aren't we?)Yes there are a number of crude jokes, so what?  There is a dopey little love story masked by the crudity, in case you missed it. In spite of it's satirical nature, the treatment of the Amish is no worse than than in Harrison Ford's highly overrated Witness.While it's not the best road movie ever(by a long shot!) , Harrelson and & Quaid make do (quite well, thank you) with a weak script; you gotta give them their props for taking a risk on this project. This is satire for G*d's sake; Not Bergman. The joke is on the (re-)viewers.Jay Leno's humor is much cruder yet millions stay up late to watch him and sponsors pay big bucks to advertise on the show.  Howard Stern draws huge numbers daily by appealing to the 12 year old male mentality(aka lowest common denominator). What does this say about our opinions?It appears that many reviewers think There's Something About Mary is a better/funnier  movie. The hair scene in that movie is allegedly funny even tho it's 2 cuts below Bill Murray's ever-wilder hair/rug in Kingpin.Many of the reactions to this movie here demonstrate that film snobbery is alive and well in America.  "},{"Title":"Demented, Flawed, but Very Funny","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Cruel, gross-out humor for the most part, but it it is very funny at times. Lin Shaye steals the show, as she always seems to in these Farrelly movies,and is single-handedly responsible for one of the grossest and funniestscenes.   Not as good as There's Something About Mary, but close.  Worthseeing.   "},{"Title":"You Will Die Laughing!!!","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This movie is one hell of a funny movie and who wouldnt disagree because it was made from the farelly brothers.These people give excellent proformances and the Farelly brothers should be recognised for their excellent piece of film.After watching this movie i felt sympathy as well as to many cramps from dying of laughter.I recommend this movie for those who have not seen it.....get out of your seats NOW..and go rent it!! "},{"Title":"Idiosyncratic's Rhetoric","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Readers Information about the film's plot/outcome may be revealed in the following review.I felt that Kingpin was a hilarious picture about a man down on his luck.  Woody Harolson portrays Roy Munson and he does a great job in doing so.  The Farely Brothers have done it again with their will to use stupid humor to add to the film's hilarity.  A perfect example of this is the constant flailing around of Roy's and Earnie's colm over.  It was a perfect way to, while nothing funny was going on, be able to laugh at the stupidity of their hair. The fact that Ishmail was a big omish guy who loved bowling and had virtually no clue as to what is going on in the world, gave the film that certain attribute that ignorance is funny.  Even the simplest things that he didn't know were amusing, for example, the scene in which Ishmail insists on getting the beer for Roy instead of Claudis.  Ishmail's nipples harden, which defeats the whole purpose of the distraction by Claudia.  He just doesn't understand, and that is what is funny.  Randy Quade gives a performance that brings out the fact that his character is innocently ignorant. The fact that Bill Murray's character is such a jerk gives the film an additional sort of humor.  You laugh so hard for the soul reason that you can't believe the kinds of things he says and does.  For example, in the scene in which Roy and Earnie are sitting down for lunch after Roy's car broke down, and Roy is eating so obnoxiously, Earnie tells him to go outside and finish it.  The only reason that the viewers are laughing is because they can't believe how big of a jerk he is.  That is exactally the kind of humor the film needed. I recommend that if you haven't already seen this film, that you consider checking it out.  I believe that it is a true comedic masterpiece. It will keep you laughing the whole way through.  The Farely Brothers have provided the film culture with another picture that will always be good to turn to if a laugh is needed.J. D. EvansP.S.     If you enjoyed my rhetoric, so to speak, you may want to check out the comments about Midnight In The Garden Of Good And Evil in the near future, Great Film.  "}{"Title":"Bill Murray in one of the funniest comedy scenes ever","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I enjoyed this film a great deal. There were many hilarious gags and some clever satirical sideswipes, and the main performers were excellent. Woody Harrelson and Randy Quaid made a superb team, and both were quite moving at times.However, I must mention the extraordinary comic genius of Bill Murray here, as in this film he provided me with what must be one of the funniest scenes in the history of movies -- a very simple gag that was really bound to happen, yet I wasn't expecting it. It is the climactic scene where he and Harrelson are the finalists in the tournament, and twice involves his comb-over ...I can't go any further. I'm laughing so much. My sister and I missed the rest of the film as we bust our guts in absolute hysterics as Murray performed little victory dances (one involving his shoulder-blades almost killed me) while totally oblivious to the state that his hair was in ...I don't want to spoil it for you. Just rent out the film, watch it with a friend, forget that I mentioned this scene, and when it happens it will catch you unawares and you will hopefully laugh yourself silly.Ernie McCracken really was the biggest loser in the film, as he thought he was cool and suave, yet he had a terrible hairstyle (two, actually) and was a disgusting, selfish and unfeeling pervert. He plays a big role in the plot, but Murray's outstanding performance makes him so self-absorbed and bereft of any real humanity that he is almost completely separate from the movie -- there really is no point in him being there, apart from to provide us with enormous laughs and upstage everyone else and all the important things in the film. He just exists for himself and his own satisfaction, and everything about him is insincere. When you watch it you will know what I mean when I say that he really seems to be one of the most unimportant important characters I've seen. Murray really is in a league of his own when it comes to cynicism and wry, dry and ironic humour; his gift is his ability to allow his casual arrogance to remove all pomposity and sentimentality, and mock everything that's important, so you can't do anything but laugh. When he re-entered the film, I really couldn't care less what the outcome was going to be. I just laughed as he signed an autograph for a beautiful female fan and whispered to her what room he was staying in; and as he jokingly apologised for the appalling damage he had inflicted on Roy Munson (Harrelson), which had completely ruined his life 17 years earlier, and then selfishly began to make light of the matter, before avoiding a few punches from Ishmael (Quaid) and running off quickly while telling Claudia (Vanessa Angel) what room he was staying in.And all the while, he has a hairstyle that is worse than Munson's and Ishmael's put together. Man, that's some good tasting comedy. "},{"Title":"An impressive sendup of more things than you can keep track of!","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Hilarious! How it's producers managed to launch both professional bowling and the Amish into outer space in one flick is beyond me. Woody Harrelson's funniest role so far, Bill Murray is on that spacebound rocket, Randy Quaid is perfect as the Amish natural born bowler, and all of them are decorated nicely by the very sexy presence of Vanessa Angel. This is a down home, just fun, rude movie, and the sight gags alone are worth the price. Everyone I've spoken to who's seen it once has gone (or rented)it again. Much fun ending, to boot. Not cinematic art, but a truly enjoyable show. See it uncensored if you can. "},{"Title":"Funny stuff","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" 	The Farrlley Brothers Kingpin is a funny and impudent movie that you can watch at least yearly and find that it doesn't lose its risible qualities.  The script is well crafted and the cast is felicitous.  Bill Murray is particularly unfettered in his abject role.  Among a myriad of humorous moments two stand out Roy's (Woody Harrelson) toilet-hugging `after the loving' scene and Ishmael's (Randy Quaid) contretemps at the men's room urinal.  A good choice if you simply want to mentally disport.  "},{"Title":"raunchy comedy full of laughs, but also a heart too","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I first went to see this movie expecting lots of sick and cruel jokes (I personally like that stuff) and was not disappointed.  If you are a sensitive type that gets offended by films like Dumb and Dumber, you won't like this film.  If you can appreciate rapid-fire jokes and shameless attempts to get a laugh out of anything, this is a great film to see.What surprised me about Kingpin is that, beneath all the raunchy humor and satire, there is a real story behind it all.  Roy Munson (Woody Harrelson) once had a promising career go down the tubes due to one unlucky night and for years becomes an alcoholic loser.  By the end of the film, you can see positive changes in his life, as well as in his new friend Ishmael (Randy Quaid), a harmless Amish man who wants to gain the respect and admiration of his community. "},{"Title":"Don't Overlook","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  While generally regarded as the weakest of the Farrelly brothers movies to date, which also include Dumb & Dumber, Something About Mary, and Me, Myself & Irene, this movie is far better than it's lack of critical acclaim would lead one to believe.For the most part, this movie has been written off because the story is extraodinarily dark for a comedy.  Additionally, much of the humor, at least superficially, appeals to the lowest common denominator.  But this movie also strikes a chord on a much deeper level.  The story, while sophomoric at times, is also thoughtful and intelligent.Woody Harrelson continues to show his versatility, this time playing a slightly dim witted ex-bowler, who takes on a naive Amish protege played ably by Randy Quaid.  Billy Murray absolutely steals this movie playing the conniving, egocentric Big Ernie McCracken. "},{"Title":"Crude and juvenile; not a bad way to spend 2 hours","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I was surprised, there are some funny moment in this picture. The humour is crude, but man, it's soooo funny at times. Of course, not every joke will work, but the film as a whole is very enjoyable.The story is simple, but I think, Woody Harrleson and Bill Murray make this picture work, they are excellent in their roles. Bill's deadpan humour is fantastic. Woody's character is plain fun as well. The opening sequence in excellent, terrific music, really captures the era nicely.Vanessa Angel is eye candy, plain and simple, her character doesn't have the depth or is interesting but great to look at.Randy Quaid is pretty good, he does his job very well.The film does lose it's way in the last 30 minutes, a shame really, the characters seemed to die. It really needed focus towards the finale.The film does have a message, but you'll need to think about that one when the credits rollTechnically, the film is shot very nicely.An enjoyable picture, nice way to spend 2 hours on a Friday night with your friends.  "},{"Title":"The Farrelly brothers' worst film","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  To start off with, Kingpin is OK. It's not hysterically funny, yet it raises a smile from time to time. Yes, it is the Farrelly's worst film to date (including Me, Myself & Irene), but as said before, it's still alright.   Roy Munson (Woody Harrelson) was a sleazy but well-known bowling champion. However one night, his 'friend' Ernie McCracken (Bill Murray, as ever he is brilliant) sets him up and Roy is attacked, eventually having his hand sliced off. 17 years later he is living a peaceful life. Until he meets Ishmael (Randy Quaid, who is quite annoying in this film). A 'Dumb & Dumber' style road trip ensues, where Ishmael earns some money with his bowling skills. They meet Claudia (Vanessa Angel, who is wooden in this one) on the way as well.    Overall it's alright, with some good bits (I'm all nippy.), but overall slightly disappointing. "},{"Title":"Besides Caddyshack, one of the greatest comedies ever penned...","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Kingpin is as funny as a movie gets.  I put it up there with Caddyshack and Naked Gun in terms of laugh of loud funny. When I read that Siskel and Ebert put it in their list of Top 10 Movies of 1996, I knew this was no ordinary bathroom humor flick. The Farrelly Brothers are so slick at hiding great jokes into ordinary dialogue. The best parts are hidden and the more you watch this movie, the more jokes you will find. So, if you watched this and did not find it funny, rent it again. I am telling you, this movie is fantastic. Harrelson is terrific as a bald, dim-witted bowler with a hook for a hand. I mean, come on now, that description alone makes me laugh. This movie blows There's Something About Mary away. Great soundtrack as well.  "},{"Title":"a good movie","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I've read all of the reviews here and I don't have much to add except something I learned when I listened to the director's commentary on DVD. If you don't want me to spoil this, go on to the next review. The directors said that Bill Murray would take the script for the day's shooting, tear it up and ask the Farlleys' what was the gist of the day's shooting.  EVERYTHING he did, he improvised.  Just a tidbit I thought I'd share here.  If you have DVD capability, GET THE DVD!!!! "},{"Title":"I can't believe I'm the first one to comment on this hilarious movie!","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This is one of the funniest movies I've seen in the last five years. The humor is consistently tasteless and always provides a good laugh. The old landlady makes me sick every time. Kingpin has very good casting and a downright side-splitting script. Woody and Randy are a funny pair as the handicapped ex champ and a talented, naive Amish boy respectively. Vanessa Angel is pure eye candy and fits nicely into trio.  Bill Murray gets a gem role once again, playing the cocky, deceitful reigning bowling champion. If you want some big belly laughs, you gotta see this one. The Farrelly Bros. have their finger on the funny button and don't let up from beginning to end. "}{"Title":"See the R-rated version","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This is one of the funniest movies of all time.  Extraordinarily underrated. Woody Harrelson is brilliant, Randy Quaid is outstanding, Roger Clemens gives an outstanding cameo, but there is no doubt that Bill Murray steals this movie.  He is only on the screen for about twenty or thity minutes, but he doesn't waste one second.The R-rated version is certainly superior to the PG-13 movie released in theaters, if you get the DVD it is in the R-rated format.  A few new scenes are added, and WOW is all I can say.  Check it out. "},{"Title":"A Triumph from The Farrely Bros.!","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Kingpin is one of those great movies that makes you think about the movie for days after you see it. It's one of the funniest movies out there and sometimes it ventures into drama territory but not all of the time. How can you not like a movie where Bill Murray is an insane slime ball...WITH A COMBOVER! I don't want to spoil any of the movie's great moments but one of the best ones is the notorious Cow Milking Scene and the part where Roy is trying to get the horseshoes off. Puts the Ill back in Hilariouty! Best Quote I'm unable to have children. Nasty cheesegratin' accident as a young man. "},{"Title":"5 Out Of 5 Stars !!!","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I am not a fan of Bowling Movies , however the Farelly Brothers have done a superb job with Kingpin , This movie is so funny I nearly fell off my chair watching it .Woody Harrelson plays Roy Munson , A very promising bowler in the 70s ,  As you see in the beginning of the film ) , he comes across Ernie Mc Kracken played superbly by Bill Murray , who talks him into betting on a bowling game , they win , however the guys that lose get pretty mad and decide to put Roy's right hand in the ball return , therefore cutting his hand off , Bowling Career Done ?Anyway 17 Years Passes , And Roy is now living in a run down apartment , selling condoms , and dodging his landlady , this leads to some very funny scenes , Than 1 day he meets Ishmail ( played by Randy Quaid ) who is a very promising bowler , and Roy wants to manage him , The story goes on from there , eventually meeting up with Claudia ( played by Vanessa Angel ) , this gives the film a sexual twist .I would highly recommend this film to anyone over 17 .Fox video has just recently released a Director's Cut of this film on Video , with bonus footage not to be missed , If you are a fan of the Farelly Brothers films ( DUMB & DUMBER  & There's Something About MARY , )  You don't want to miss this film !!!! "},{"Title":"There is more to the surface than meets the eye.","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Warning small spoiler....This movie is about what you should expect from the Farrelly brothers. Crude and juvenile humor based on bodily functions yet at the same time a subtext of sophisticated cultural references and fleeting brushes with true drama. Woody Harrelson and Bill Murray are excellent as two feuding professional bowlers. Roy Munson(Harrelson) is a small town hero who's ticket to fame ends when he loses his bowling hand due to the Ernie McCracken(Murray). Bitter and resentful Munson lives a sad and pathetic life in exile. Harrelson plays the role of Munson to painful perfection with his pitiful comb over and reliance on booze to get him through the day. I only get sick when I don't drink., Munson says to Ishmael(Randy Quaid), the Amish bowling phenomenon in whom he places his hopes of redemption. Along the way to Reno and the bowling championship Roy and Ishmael pick up Claudia(Vanessa Angel). In spite of her obvious beauty Claudia isn't any better off than the wretched Roy. These three losers reluctantly rely on each other to attain their own idea of redemption. Ultimately this is a story about the characters struggle with failure and their ability to forgive themselves and move on. The most poignant scene of the move comes when Roy returns to his home town in Iowa. When he returns he finds the town's fortunes haven't been any better than his own. Set to the haunting Freedy Johnston song This Perfect World this scene would be at home in any respectable drama. As Roy drives through the town his memory returns to the town of his childhood only to dissolve back to it's current desolate state.  In spite of all the laughs and gags this is the scene that resonates. The laughs are present in abundance but don't let that fool you; there is more to this move than that, if you want to see it. "},{"Title":"a classic","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I can't believe the low rating for this movie.  I suppose it could be viewed as being cruel, but it's a COMEDY for god's sake.  The cruelty is part of the charm.  Some of us are intelligent enough to realize that the cruelty in this movie is not meant to be taken seriously.  If you insist on condemning the cruelty and vulgarity in this movie, then look at it this way  life is often cruel (and vulgar) and you might as well just laugh at it rather than bemoan it.  Anyway, this movie is, for me, that funniest movie of the decade.  It's more consistently funny than Something About Mary,  which got all the acclaim and money.  Perhaps this movie was released a few years before its time, as cruel humor seems to be all the rage now (Austin Powers 2 and South Park).  Unless you're a humorless, uptight stick-in-the-mud, you should laugh hysterically at this movie.   "},{"Title":"A very funny movie","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I wasn't too sure about this film when a friend recommended it but after watching it I realised that this was a very funny movie. It does get serious in a few scenes here and there but otherwise its comedy all the way.There were quite a few scenes where I just couldn't stop laughing. I won't give anything away at this moment. Just watch the movie and find out. "},{"Title":"very funny!","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  there's something about mary may be a tad funnier,but kingpin is a little more entertaining,and the characters in kingpin are a bit more likeable than the ones in there's something about mary. kingpin is also kind of gross in some scenes. but the movie is so funny you over-look the gross parts. i give kingpin *** out of ****  "},{"Title":"Funny , witty and worth it, just for Bill Murray's comb-over","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I haven't seen a very funny movie like this for a while. Although I agree with the other reviewers that some parts where bordering on cruel. It was overshadowed by the excellent and witty laugh out loud humour and portrayals by Woody Harrelson, Randy Quaid and of course the maestro Bill Muarry with that comb-over hairstyle that only added to the laughter. If you can relate to the off beat humour you'll enjoy it. Give it a try and judge for yourself.  "},{"Title":"Outstanding!","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This is a terrific film, if you are an uptight person,you should look elsewhere. If you want to laugh, then this is for you. Yes, the humor crosses lines that are seldom broached, but so what, the performances are terrific. Bill Murray is at his best, and he takes the ball and runs with it, as a phony self-absorbed, skirt chasing hustler. Woody Harrelson has a gift for comic timing, and is alternately despicable and lovable. Randy Quaid fits perfectly here and chemistry is so crucial in comedy films. This film has a great soundtrack, and is chock full of cameos, that add to the appeal, most notably Chris Elliot. Many quick comic references that may be missed the first time around, so watch it again and again, as I did, and enjoy. Bravo! "},{"Title":"A belly laugh movie if there ever was one. Don't miss it.","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Kingpin is one of those films that will be loved by some and hated by others, similar to Ace Ventura Pet Detective. A well respected reviewer, that I usually always agree with, gave this movie an extremely low rating. All this being said, don't miss it. Bill Murray's performance alone is worth the price of admission. I laughed all through Kingpin and I think you will too. "}{"Title":"Not Bad","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Not the funniest Farelly brothers movie.. but it did have the best line. Woody says,I milked your cow this morning and it took her a while to get her started but once she did, she wouldn't stop. The Amish guy looks at Woody and says We don't have a cow.. that's a bull. I am still laughing from that line. Classic.. purely classic. "},{"Title":"This is a screaming laugher","Date":"6 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Sitting around with nothing better to do, my wife and I thought we'd give a 1 1/2 star Woody Harrelson movie a chance. Terrible reviews. No one saw it. No one heard of it.In the first half hour we were in pain from laughing so hard. Only people who saw it will understand the following I milked the cow. She sure was hard to warm up. It took me 15 minutes to recover from the next few seconds of punchline. I had to roll off the couch and get down on the floor before I FELL on the floor.There are about 15 BIG laughs and maybe 30 smaller ones.I went into IMBD the next day to read what real people (not critics) had to say. Critics didn't like Ferris Bueller or Airplane either. IMBD clued me that this was made by the same guys who did Dumb & Dumber and There's Something about Mary. If those two screamers aren't to your taste, you'll be with the critics on Kingpin. Comedy works differently for different people.Full of truly original humor. RUN don't walk to rent it. I have 1153 movies on tape and am kicking myself for not taping this for visitors who ask me to show them something they may have missed. "},{"Title":"A Good Time","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Kingpin is a hilarious, laugh at loud comedy. But what Farrelly Brother's movie isn't. See this and every other movie they made. "},{"Title":"It's a STRIK.....OK no pins...i mean puns","Date":"21 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" I've only recently decided to somewhat commit to participating in contributing reviews to IMDb and reality hit me in the face when realising that it was 17 years ago when this classic came out. 17 years, and boy do i miss these kind of films, When the Farrelly brothers made great comedy movies. Of course they have taken their feet of the pedals, but their first 4 were instant classics.It may not be a laugh out loud film that has you giggling all the way through, but it has a certain charm to it (despite the crudeness) that keeps you smiling throughout. There are plenty of hilarious moments and great one liners. Bill Murray is fantastic as Big Ern and gels brilliantly with Woody Harrelson. The rest of the cast play their parts to make this a must see film. "},{"Title":"One of the Funniest Movies Ever Made","Date":"4 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Bowling legend Roy Munson (Woody Harrelson) loses a hand to a group of drunks after trying to con them with fellow bowler Ernie McCracken (Bill Murray). Now a drunk promoter with a fake rubber hand, Munson is a shadow of his former self until he hears the fateful sound of a strike. Amish prodigy Ishmael (Randy Quaid) stands to be Munson's shot at winning the largest tournament in the country, but the road there is paved with consequence.This is one of the funniest movies ever made. The Farrelly brothers have given us countless laughs, but this is their best. It brings together some of the most unexpected actors, many out of their element in a comedy, to flawlessly turn a script into a comedic work of art. The laughs are typical Farrelly gross out while remaining truly, deeply funny.Woody Harrelson turns in one of his best performances as the down-but-not-out Munson, wearing a ridiculous wig, outdated clothing, and always his fake rubber hand. Each scene he's in is a lesson in how to lead a comedy, and reminds one of his early days on Cheers as the bartender Woody Boyd. His co-star in Quaid is the same; whether it be the murderous, greedy Sheriff is Hard Rain, or here as the hilariously simple sure relative of the Vacation movies Cousin Eddie, Randy Quaid proves his ever surprising versatility as an actor.Bill Murray also fires on all cylinders as the over the top McCracken, Harrelson's arch-nemesis. Murray's last scene is one of the best in the movie; with his hair tossed every which way and his eyes flooding with tears he makes you shocked that he's only been nominated for one Oscar. Vanessa Angel is mostly eye candy but she doesn't have to make up for any acting downfalls.Kingpin is well-casted, well-written, consistently engaging and always funny. It brings together a diverse cast and a great script to make one of the funniest movies of our time. Strike it off your bucket list. "},{"Title":"Hangover cure","Date":"9 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" This film is absolutely hilarious, deadpan stupid at times, and more reserved and subtle at others - its the perfect hangover cure. Harrelson is fantastic as a hard-done-by bowler who got done over ('Munsoned' is the phrase later used, which is his actual name in the film to his annoyance) and is out for another shot at the big time. His sidekick is an innocent religious countryman whose style contrasts well with all the others - Murray is just great, but could have been in it more. One scene, for me, really stands out. Certainly in terms of Gramsci esque masculine humour - Murray is in a eaterie with Harrelson and tells him to 'go outside and eat that', then he tells a waitress to come back after washing off her perfume, finally he says 'hi' to a fit bird sat across the way. Her mum says 'hi' and Murray says 'not you - hi'. The younger fit bird smiles and says 'hi'. This film is just great. "},{"Title":"If you like bowling, you'll like this.","Date":"14 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" For all of you who are looking for a good comedy, I recommend Kingpin. This is a movie that consistently makes me laugh.The main character is Roy Munson (played by Woody Harrelson), a man whose promising career as a bowler was cut short after a hustle attempt led to the loss of his bowling hand. Nearly twenty years later, he is an alcoholic who sells bowling supplies to local alleys. One day, he meets an Amish man named Ishmael (Randy Quaid) who impresses Roy with his bowling skills. Later on, Roy reads about an upcoming bowling tournament that is to be held at the National Bowling Stadium in Reno, Nevada, with the grand prize being one million dollars. Believing Ishmael could have a legitimate chance in the contest, Roy heads to the Amish community where Ishmael resides, finding him and telling him about the opportunity. At first, Ishmael passes on the idea because he does not want his family to find out he bowls. However, once he learns that the community is in financial trouble, he agrees to go to Reno with Roy.Roy becomes Ishmael's trainer, teaching him what is necessary to claim victory in the tournament. Along the way, they meet up with a woman named Claudia (Vanessa Angel) at the home of her boyfriend Stanley, with whom Ishmael has a bowling match with in an effort to win some money to get to Reno. Things go awry at Stanley's, and Claudia leaves there with the duo and they make their way across the U.S. to Reno, where Roy discovers that Ernie McCracken (Bill Murray), is bowling in the event. McCracken was involved in the situation that ultimately cost Roy his career, and this is the first time they have met face to face since that night. Ishmael has an accident and breaks his wrist, which of course eliminates any chance of him competing in the contest. This leads Roy back to the lanes, bowling for the first time in years. How will he do?Kingpin makes one laugh in different ways. To start with, there are plenty of laughs generated by Roy's hook and prosthetic hand. The film itself is a spoof of The Natural (if you've watched that, you'll see what I mean). Randy Quaid is good as Ishmael, and Ishmael's lack of knowledge about life outside his home leads to some pretty funny moments. Bill Murray is talented at playing obnoxious characters, and he is perfect as Ernie McCracken. Vanessa Angel of Weird Science fame is also well cast as Claudia. There are funny lines throughout the movie and there are some gross out moments (you have been warned). Overall, this is just pure comedy that is enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Very clever and rather original slapstick comedy","Date":"19 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" It's not hard to imagine the kind of comedy you're going to get from a film that combines amateur bowling washouts, rubber prosthetics and the Amish. That's what Kingpin delivers Lots of gags and quirky, dumb characters. Impressively enough, however, the Farrelly brothers make slapstick feel fresh in this film with tons of obscene, crude and even plain old disgusting humor. This not a film for those who find no humor in stupid, for those who do, Kingpin is a very enjoyable film.Woody Harrelson stars as Roy Munson, the 1979 Iowa amateur bowling champion whose life goes south when he gets cheated by Ernie McCracken (Bill Murray) and it costs him his bowling hand. 17 years later he meets Ishmael Boorg (Randy Quaid) in a bowling alley and sees an opportunity to turn his life around. After convincing Ishmael to leave his Amish community, the two set forth for Reno's $1 million bowling tournament, teaming up with Claudia (Vanessa Angel) along the way.This is a cross-country (Pennsylvania to Reno) comedy adventure where each scene has a bunch of obvious gags, but they're clever (not overused) and usually short and sweet instead of drawn out. That, and the Farrelly brothers also supply some unspoken humor like Roy and Ernies' hair flying in several directions throughout the film. So there ends up being a lot to laugh about in this film, which helps a lot with the sort of aimless plot.Harrelson and Quaid are great in the film, though Billy Murray is the actor who really takes this film to the next level. The film's climax is all about utilizing his talents as a comedian and he helps make an okay scene (the climax to an aimless plot) way more tolerable to get through. The rest of the cast is pretty bad with the exception of Lin Shaye as Harrelson's landlady, a scene which deserves no spoilers. Angel is pretty terrible (other than her looks). She lets her British accent slip out a lot and I didn't know she was from the UK before I watched this film.This is a great movie in you're in the mood for some really creative silliness. A fun comedy with enough to keep you entertained the whole way. "},{"Title":"KingPin is easily the best comedy/movie on planet earth!","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Thumbs up!way up! I only wish the Ferrally brothers would re-unite with the original cast members in the near future and produce a sequal to this most outlandish slapstick comedy of the century.This movie is hands down the funniest movie on planet earth!5/5  "},{"Title":"Most Subversive American Film Of The Nineties","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  A sort of amalgam of The Hustler and Witness this film has no wit, a creaking storyline and the most unattractive cast in Hollywood history. It's also one of the funniest films I've ever seen. The humour is crude and rarely rises from the gutter. It's a good reminder of how humour is the most subversive of genres and it works because it totally avoids camp - compare with the pathetic films of John Waters. A perfect antidote to Woody Allen and the endless stream of romantic comedies.  "}{"Title":"Funny stuff...","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I can totally understand why some people would hate this movie.  This is a particular, specific brand of humor that doesn't take itself seriously at all.  It's rude and crude and generally scrapes the bottom of the barrel for laughs.  To quote Heinlein, People laugh because it hurts, the humor in this movie undeniably has a victim every time.  Probably the only people who will enjoy this are those who don't take themselves too seriously, those who have a bit of a cruel streak, and those with a seriously seriously immature sense of humor.  I gave it an 8.  ) "},{"Title":"It's cruel. It's disgusting. It's gross. But, gosh-darn-it, it's hilarious!","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Okay maybe Kingpin is nothing more than another perverted comedy from the Farelly brothers. But even so, who cares? It's funny, which has become a sad rarity among the latest teen comedies (such as the meaningless American Pie films and the hypocritical Not Another Teen Movie). I have always been a fan of Randy Quaid's (especially in the Vacation movies) and his role as an Amish bowler is probably his funniest so far! Woody Harrelson is equally hilarious, and -- of course -- Bill Murray will have you laughing hysterically (especially when his hair starts to fall out... literally!). The only performance that perplexed me a little was Vanessa Angel's, their cheerleader with huge... tracks of land. At one point in the movie she's emotionally fragile and weeping mournfully, and the next minute she's cracking jokes and distracting other bowlers with her body. But, set aside the static characters, Kingpin is a laugh-a-minute marathon that ALMOST holds up for all of its two hours. The part where the movie fails is about 90 minutes into it, when you find yourself checking your watch every five seconds and waiting impatiently for the credits to start rolling. For that rather long gap between the bowling tournament and the ending punchlines on the Amish farm, the up-till-then hilarious script seems to have put itself on hold. Once that portion of the film is finished, however, you'll start laughing again. A couple parts might require a strong stomach (I think everyone shuddered a bit at Roy's landlady), and there are several moments that are just plain cruel (i.e. the removal of the horse's shoes), but if you don't like it all, you might just have to face the fact that you don't have a sense of humor.Overall rating 7/10 "},{"Title":"right there with caddyshack","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  it is a tragedy kingpin doesn't have a rating of seven or higher.  there are as many classic slapstick lines in this film as there are in caddyshack. i honestly believe that this film was the spark that helped revive bill murray's career.  I am dead serious when i say that he should have received consideration for best supporting actor in a comedy/musical for his portrayal of big ernie mccracken, who was one of the most despicable, but belly-achingly funny bad guys in film history. Sugar, could you do us a favor? Wash off that perfume before you come back to our table.Come on, this is a great comedy. "},{"Title":"A classic.","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This movie is a classic.  I am glad to give 2 hours up to watch this movie. KINGPIN is one of those movies that get better each time you see it. Great for good laughs.  Do yourself a favor if you haven't seen it  rent it and watch it a couple times.  You won't regret it. "},{"Title":"An absolute gem..","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  The Farrelly brothers knew what they were doing here... Never mind their other films, this is the crudest and most wonderful film they have ever produced. Not only are there lots of jokes, but the actors stand out so well. Without taking anything away from Woody or Randy, the most memeorable performance here is from Bill Murray.Rumour has it that he even provided his own wardrobe for the film!If you think that Dumb & Dumber and Mary were OK, then don't miss this film. "},{"Title":"Gets better as it goes along.","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"     This is a comedy that at the start threatens to become overburdened by - of all things - a plot.  Too much time is spent on developing the characters and manouvering them into the situation that will become the driving force of the movie.  About halfway through, when all of this has been done, the movie's tone finally settles down into a steady stream of gags.  The rewards that follow make it well worth the effort of sticking with it during the opening.  There are at least three jokes over the running time that deserve to be recognised as all time classics, if not more.   As has so often happened, the Farrelly brothers have managed to extract creditable performances from all four leads.  Bill Murray steals the show, but then, I don't think I've ever seen a movie where he hasn't.  The guy is a comedy legend, 'nuff said.  Quaid manages to imbue a real sensitive sweetness into what would otherwise be just a stupid character.  Ishmael IS stupid, but he's stupid with a heart of gold, and the Farrelly brothers again manage to handle the material with enough sensitivity that most moviegoers will be shocked, but not necessarily offended.   This, Dumb & Dumber and There's Something About Mary are the Farrelly brothers' GOOD movies.  Me, Myself & Irene is not in the same class. "},{"Title":"An ALL-TIME classic!","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Anyone who didn't like this movie or was offended, needs to lighten the hell up! It's one of the funniest comedies in history ... much better than other more revered films ... For some reason, this was the only Farrelly brothers flick NOT to be a big hit.Woody and Bill are at the top of their game, with one hysterical moment after another and knockout Vanessa Angel is even suprisingly good at comedy.If you've never seen it, do yourself a favor and rent it right away. I can't imagine anyone not laughing their ass off at this one, from begining to end! "},{"Title":"The Farrelly Brothers Do It Again! spoilers","Date":"7 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  KINGPIN is the second movie that Peter Farrelly and Bobby Farrelly have directed. There first movie was DUMB AND DUMBER, which was one of the funniest movies of all time. Now in KINGPIN, the Farrelly brothers have made another one of the funniest movies of all time! It's about a bowler named Roy Munson Woody Harrelson who loses a hand and can no longer bowl. Years later, he meets a man named Ishmael Randy Quad. Roy thinks that Ishmael has what it takes to win the championship so he decides to train Ishmael for the championship. They both are determined to win since they both need the championship money. Just like DUMB AND DUMBER, KINGPIN is full of crude humor, gross sight gags, sex jokes, loads of slapstick, and millions of laughs so if you liked DUMB AND DUMBER, you will love KINGPIN. There are two versions of the movie. One of them is rated PG-13 and one of them is rated R. I saw the R-rated version so I don't if the PG-13 version is as funny or not. I'd suggest seeing the R-rated version though. "},{"Title":"wierd comedy like kids in the hall","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  funny,crude,and wierd good movie to see if your board but if you dont like gross out comedies see Its A Mad Mad Mad Mad World great movie by the way. Anyway this and dumb and dumber are the only good Farelly brothers movie after this they got to full of themselves and made total cap me myself and irene especially. "},{"Title":"And You Call Yourselves A Bowling Alley?","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Just on principle, any movie about Amish bowlers should be funny.  Kingpin, which is a Farrelly Brothers film about an Amish bowler, is not only howlingly funny, it's also sick, twisted, and one of the most underrated comedies of recent years.  While not quite up to the lowbrow genius of the Farrelly Brothers' other films (Dumb and Dumber, There's Something About Mary), there's enough crude humor blended with a genuinely engaging story to create a film that's remarkably good.Roy Munson (Woody Harrelson) is a promising young bowling champion who has the audacity to defeat the king of the local lanes, Ernie McCracken  (Bill Murray, in a delightfully sleazy, love-to-hate role). Ernie decides that Roy needs to learn a lesson in manners, one thing leads to another Three Stooges style, and Roy's bowling career is suddenly ended by a freakish injury, one which costs him his bowling hand.  (The sheer fact that the manner in which this is done is hysterically funny is a tribute to the Farrelly Brothers' gift for comedy.)  Fast forward ten years to a fat, bitter, and balding Roy, who suddenly spots Ishmael Boorg , a kid with a real gift for bowling . . . a sweet, innocent, Amish kid.  Roy takes the kid under his wing, and in a crude, darkly funny series of events that oddly seems to parody The Color of Money, Roy begins to teach the kid about bowling . . . and about life.Kingpin isn't exactly the most intelligent comedy ever made -- one of the best jokes in the film involves X's efforts to milk a bull -- but it is darn funny.  Like other Farrelly Brothers films. there's also a certain level of sweetness mixed in with all the bawdy humor, which gives the film some depth and makes it more than just a 90 minute R-rated Three Stooges routine.  As stupid as some of these characters are -- and there's plenty of stupid to pass around in Kingpin -- you actually care about what happens to them.  They aren't just walking punchlines.Of special mention is Bill Murray, who brings new dimensions to the word slime.  With his sequined shirts, plastered comb-over, and condescending sneer, Murray looks and acts like a cross between a used car salesman and Hitler.  As Ernie McCracken , Murray relishes being loathed and hated, and man, he gives you plenty of hilarious reasons to hate him.Highly recommended, if you appreciate fun, dumb, politically incorrect jokes.  B+ "}{"Title":"Kingpin is the king","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  What a great film. The Farrelly brothers hit the nail on the head. Dumb and Dumber was alright. There's something about Mary was alright, but this--this is a classic. Overall great story. I couldn't have thought of a better one. The acting was good enough to get the job done. Extremely funny! Watch it! Own it! Love it! It's the best! 9/10 "},{"Title":"This film bowled me over... (sorry) You'll love it or hate it..","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I found this to be one of the funniest films to come out of Hollywood. To others this will one of the most crass. Kingpin is a film you'll either love or hate. It's more subtle than Dumb and Dumber and less commercial than There's Something About Mary. This is the Farrelly Brothers best film. The film pulls no punches and paints some pretty real characters. Our heroes are total losers. Woody Harrelson plays the bitter, balding bowler Roy Munsen and Bill Murray has a riot as the smarmy and salacious conman Ernie McCracken. The script goes from one nasty joke to the next, breaking as many taboos as it can. Kingpin is a combination of all our nasty character traits rolled into one film and that's what I love about it. It's honest and blunt. It deals with bitterness, paranoia and betrayal. Kingpin shows you what happens when people live truly for themselves. Be warned, Kingpin's answer might not be the one you wanted to hear...  "},{"Title":"Kingpin - a good combination of comedy, beautiful woman, and a romantic sub-plot.","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  A movie about ten-pin bowling may not sound very interesting to most people. But Kingpin was pleasantly surprising.  The more obvious comedy of Woody Harrelson as Munson, and Bill Murray as McCracken, combined with the subtle comical lines of Ishmael played by Randy Quaid, results in non-stop laughs. The addition of the very beautiful and sexy Vanessa Angel enabled a romantic sub-plot to develop with Munson.  Kingpin has a bit of everything for everyone.  There have been some rather average comedy movies produced in the 90's.  Kingpin is definitely not one of them.  "},{"Title":"This movie does for bowling what Midnight Cowboy did for male whores.","Date":"30 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  over the top bowling comedy has hilarious gags and gross out jokes. Everything from the rubber hand jokes to the milking the cow jokes are very funny.Rating**** (out of five) "},{"Title":"Hilarious Movie!!!!!","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Well while this movie does have its gross parts, it is easily one of the most enjoyable and funny movies I've ever seen.  My friends and I all love it, and have watched several times.  Bill Murray delivers an outstanding performance, and had me laughing uncontrollably.  He has some classic lines that have kept me and my friends laughing for days.  And there is a very neat scene in the beginning of the movie where Roy Munson does a great intro in the bowling alley.  If you like bowling, these actors, or just funny comedy, then you'll love this movie, I sure did. "},{"Title":"A fine parody I greatly enjoyed","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Kingpin is a parody of the Paul Newman Hustler movies, though it takes plenty of shots at other films.  Kingpin captures the bowling culture in a way that few, if any, other films have ever wanted to.This story of an over-the-hill hustler trying to get back in the fast lane is a must see if you liked the Color of Money or the Hustler.  The humor is often base and it's definitely not material you should admit to laughing at, but the movie is well worth the few dollars to see on video. "},{"Title":"Kingpin is an awesome movie and thats all I really need to say.","Date":"27 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Kingpin is one of Farrely brothers early movies which makes you laugh from start to finish. The movies is about Roy Munson(Woody Harrelson) a bowler who may just be the best ever for the sport. After a freak accident caused by Ernie Mcracken(Bill Murray)he can never bowl again. After 17 years he meets Ishmael(Randy Quaid) an Amish who secretly bowls at the local shack and of course takes him under his wing the only way the Farrely Brothers know how. The movie is hilarious the whole way and even though could of risked putting Bill Murray in a bit more it was definitely one of the best Farrely Brothers movies. Overall the movie is a must watch for any fan of such movies as There's something about Mary, Dumb and Dumber and other movies along that line or if you just wanna watch a movie that will make you laugh. I rate this movie 73%. "},{"Title":"The golden age of the Farrelly-brothers","Date":"21 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" I liked the Farrelly brothers for a while. If it was something they knew it was how to make comedy that was sometimes downright nasty, but still with so much heart and love for their characters. Lately they've lost that touch (as well as almost all the other qualities they had), but this movie is still one of my favorites from their golden age.Actually i would rate this as their best film along with Something About Mary which says a lot. The story in Kingpin is nothing spectacular, but the actors all seem to enjoy themselves. Randy Quaid is awesome as the unwilling bowling Amish, Woody Harrelson great as his con-man manager and finally Bill Murray is as usual brilliant as the antagonist. Just like most of the work from the Farrelly-brothers this movie constantly uses cheap tricks and nasty comedy to get laughs from the audience. Often below the belt, often mean, but always with a tongue-in-cheek that makes it work.When it comes to the combination bowling and comedy, this is number one next to The Big Lebowski. Silly, sure, but also very very funny. And seeing this movie today almost brings a tear to my eye when i think about the huge and disastrous failures that are Stuck On You and Shallow Hal. I rate this 7/10. "},{"Title":"Over-hyped and Forgettable? Yes. Still Worth Seeing? Probably.","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Kingpin &#150; 1996 &#150; Rated PG-13 for crude sex-related humor and a drug scene.The film fades in. We are in Ocelot, Iowa. It is 1969. Roy Munson (Woody Harrelson) is an aspiring bowler, who is told `You can apply everything about bowling to your daily life.'' Little does Roy know that in ten years he will be the winner of the Odor-Eaters Bowling Championship&#133;It is a day come true for young Ray, who instantly has high dreams for his future. But just as quick as they come, they disappear, as Roy meets Ernie McCracken (the always hilarious Bill Murray) who is not only a con man, but a man who Ray desperately wants to be like smooth, cocky, smart-aleck and easy-going. Perhaps that is why Ray enthusiastically (but unknowingly) carries out McCracken's con, which is hustling an alley full of bowlers. This act leads to Roy Munson's hand being shoved into a ball return by the bowling gang, which is then chopped off by the ball return device. Ouch! And so ten miserable years pass in Roy's regrettable life, whence Roy is so bankrupt and down-on-his-luck that he must sleep with his fifty-something landlady just to keep his room. He has since covered his stump with a rubber hand, which he puts his bowling ring on to be reminded of the good &#145;ol days. And then, in one instance, everything changes in Roy's life.Down at the bowling alley, Roy spots an Amish man named Ishmael (Randy Quaid) with a talent for bowling, and a very good talent at that. Roy approaches Ishmael and makes him an offer. Roy will represent Ishmael, be his agent, or something like that, in exchange for a certain percentage of the profit Ish makes. Unfortunately for Roy, Ishmael refuses the offer and leaves to go home. Roy finds out later that the whole thing is a secret from Roy's family, who would never let him bowl if they knew the truth. So, Roy finally convinces Ishmael to leave his roots and they start a cross-county journey to the bowling championship, where Roy will meet an old friend by the name of Ernie&#133;This film was directed by Peter and Bobby Farrelly, who have brought us `Dumb and Dumber,' `There's Something About Mary,' and `Shallow Hal,' some politically incorrect films, two of which were funny. (`D & D' and `Mary&#133;') It is no surprise that these are the men behind `Kingpin,' which is another irreverent comedy. However, it wasn't nearly as irreverent as I hoped, not funny enough to recommend.The cast works with what they can; Woody Harrelson, fondly remembered from TV's `Cheers,' is believable as Roy, whose dreams have been completely shattered after his hand is amputated. Randy Quaid might not be quite as convincing as an Amish man, but he sure as heck is funny, and that's all I need in a movie like this.  Bill Murray, however, is the best of the cast. He is at the beginning of the film, which proves to be very funny, and the end, which proves to be funny. The problem is, the scenes without Murray just drag along without any great jokes so to speak. Murray makes the film, what little he is in it.I remember watching `Kingpin' on television not too far back. I remember being bored, waiting for the movie to end. I watched the whole thing for two reasons (a) because I always watch a movie I start (b) because I wanted to review it with the full film's picture in my head and (c) Bill Murray was in it. I had to see it, just for his sake.So now, I am reviewing the film, and here is my verdict`Kingpin' is worth seeing, but it is not great. The jokes work occasionally but mainly fall flat. If you do see the movie, if for nothing else, see it for Bill's sake.3/5 stars -John Ulmer  "},{"Title":"Underrated comedy from Farrelly brothers","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Roy Munson (Woody Harrelson) was the state champion in bowling in 1979. Roy's career sadly ends when he loses his hand after he tries to cheat the wrong guys.17 years later he finds a real bowling talent, Amish man called Ishmael Boorg (Randy Quaid).They both start bowling together.Soon they are on their way to bowling contest where they can win 1 million dollars.On their way these two dummies meet Claudia (Vanessa Angel) who is a real hottie.Bill Murray plays Ernie McCracken who is Roy's biggest bowler enemy.Bobby and Peter Farrelly's Kingpin from 1996 is a hilarious comedy with great actors.I found myself laughing several times.I think this is an underrated movie.This didn't do so good at box office like the smash hits Dumb and Dumber and There's Something About Mary.The Farrelly bros know how to make you laugh.I recommend Kingpin for everybody with a weird sense of humor.  "}{"Title":"Kingpin scores a strike!!!!!","Date":"5 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" KingpinStarring Woody Harrelson, Bill Murray, Randy Quaid and Vanessa Angel.1996Review Ah yes. I remember seeing this movie and I still enjoy it now. This is a laugh out loud, crude, and a little touching comedy. The story is pretty good. If you like bowling, this is for you. Even if you don't enjoy bowling, see this anyway. The comedy has, giggles, laughter, and belly-laughs. The cast here is great. The humor does not get old. One more thing, Randy Quaid has some of the best facials in this movie. The ending is quite good and fresh too.The Last Word See this movie. A very funny movie. If you don't laugh while seeing this, you have no sense of humor. Period. "},{"Title":"There certainly are laughter-inducing scenes, but it's no Dumb & Dumber","Date":"4 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" This was the Farrelly brothers' (Peter and Bobby) follow-up to their 1994 theatrical debut, Dumb & Dumber. I first saw Kingpin in 2000, four years after its release, and again in 2003. I didn't like it at all either time, and it might have been even worse for me the second time than the first, really leaving a bad taste in my mouth. After that, I obviously hoped never to see the movie again, but that eventually changed. Seeing Dumb & Dumber twice in 2007 and liking it both times was probably major reason for that. Over six and a half years since my second viewing of this follow-up, I've finally watched it for the third time, and the first time without anyone in the room with me. This was after watching Peter and Bobby's 1998 smash hit, There's Something About Mary, which really left me puzzled about that film's appeal. I can't deny that watching Kingpin again was definitely better than the first two times I saw it, above average this time, but it still wasn't always funny.Roy Munson grows up bowling, learning how to play the sport from his father at an early age. In 1979, he becomes a professional, but doesn't get very far, as fellow pro bowler Ernie McCracken gets him to participate in a bowling hustle, which leads to the amputation of Roy's right hand, the one he bowls with, by a group of thugs! Seventeen years later, he has not bowled since then, and has been drinking a lot. He has prosthetic hook and a rubber hand to wear over it. For a living, he sells bowling alley equipment, but is not very successful and struggles to try and pay his rent to his scary landlady. However, one day, after failing to make a sale, Roy sees a man bowling at the alley who seems to have a lot of potential. This man's name is Ishmael Boorg, and he lives in a nearby Amish community. He has secretly come to this alley to bowl, even though it goes against Amish beliefs. Roy comes to the Boorg home disguised as an Amish man to try and convince Ishmael to enter a tournament in which the winner will get $1,000,000. After Ishmael learns that his community's land will soon be taken unless they come up with $500,000, he agrees to take part in this tournament for a good cause, with Roy as his manager. On their trip, they are soon joined by Claudia, the abused girlfriend of a ruffian named Stanley, and also meet up with Ernie McCracken, Roy's sleazy rival from 1970's who is still a popular professional bowler, unlike him! The first time I saw this second Farrelly brothers movie, I think it looked promising around the beginning, but in the end, I was not impressed. I'm not sure what I thought around the beginning the second time, but the third time, it seemed nothing more than mediocre at first. However, I found that it eventually improved slightly, and there were some very funny gags through the film's run, as well as some mildly amusing ones I guess. One highlight I can think of is the staged mugging, and Roy's landlady catching him with the man who posed as the mugger. A memorable gross-out gag (something the brothers are renowned for) is the lead character throwing up after having sex with his landlady to pay her, and the landlady saying things that make him throw up more. I know it's juvenile, but I thought most of this scene was amusing the third time. I laughed a number of times during the rest of the film, sometimes with the awkward relationship between Roy and Ishmael, and some of the things Ishmael does on the trip, such as acting as a female stripper and waking up with tattoos! Unfortunately, despite all the funny parts, the film isn't quite consistent enough with the gags, plus I found some parts perhaps a little too mean-spirited, and I don't think the film features the greatest comedy characters I've ever seen.Lots of modern-day comedians/comedy filmmakers are known for their crude humour, with lots of jokes involving sex and bodily functions, and the Farrelly brothers are among these. It's a type of comedy some people can't stand, but I think it can be really funny, and that may sometimes be the case in Kingpin, though not as much as it is in Dumb & Dumber. This 1996 bowling comedy doesn't have as much appeal as its predecessor, nor can it match the appeal of There's Something About Mary, another 90's Farrelly brothers comedy. I know most people would probably disagree with this, but I personally think this film comes somewhere in between the other two in terms of quality. At least this one doesn't have any gag as disturbing as the genital/zipper one in the 1998 box office smash! Then again, I've never seen ANY other gag that disturbing! To me, Kingpin could have been much more consistent with the laughs, but if you're old enough to watch it and like crude humour, I won't say skip it. It would probably help if you're a fan of the sport the film focuses on as well. "},{"Title":"Funny, but not downright hilarious","Date":"1 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Roy Munson(Woody Harrelson) is a bowling prodigy and wins the 1979 Iowa state amateur championship and plans to leave his hometown to make it big by going on a Professional Bowlers Tour. But his dreams comes to a halt when he comes across Ernie McCracken(Bill Murray) who tricks Roy and uses him as a pawn while Ernie runs off with all the money he got from conning. The angry people that got conned takes there anger out on Roy, and he gets his hand amputated. Yrs later Roy who was a innocent boy has a hook for a hand now where he used to bowl with and is now a con man himself, since he is in debt with the landlady and soon is forced to have unwanted sex with her. But a ray of hope comes for Roy when he meets Ishmael who is a talented bowler himself and tries to recruit him for the $1,000,000 winner-take-all tournament in Reno, Nevada. The thing is Ishmael is a Amish boy. This film was a bit darker than I expected and flows with some crude and rude humor, but it's actually quite funny at times, despite it being a bit dark. And the humor in this might offend some people even if it's not the most repulsive comedy out there or even comes close but since it sort of seem like a kid friendly comedy some may get offended. This is a funny road movie, that will keep you laughing or at least grinning in some scenes. It wasn't the most hilarious movie I ever seen but I got some good laughs out of it. The direction the creators went with this is ambiguous and isn't the stereotypical and predictable comedy, and the ending did not sit right with me and sort of made me angry. But it just shows the reality of life even if a lot of this film is down right outrageous. Soon Claudia(Vanessa Angel) is in the group as well, but I found her character more annoying than funny, she is a whore and that is the bottom line no matter what she does at the end. It just wasn't believable and it seemed like she had some other ulterior motives or just forced. I don't know about anyone else but I don't particularly think that a girl that constantly act like a hooker throughout the whole movie to be attractive. Plus in my opinion she has a butter face but maybe I am shallow. And to top it off she wasn't sexy even if some do disagree, she was only on the ride for the money and that is basically the main thing she saw at the end as well, cause her character change was just not believable. Especially since the characters are more serious compared to other comedies where the characters seem to be from another planet or just way too bizarre, stupid and retarded which sometimes adds to the comedic value, but that ain't the case for this film. I found how they turn any serious situation that are suppose to be dull into something funny which is a nice touch. Just about the entire cast was special and put on a great and funny performance. So it's a funny comedy with some crude and rude humor, just nothing downright hilarious and the comedy in this seemed a bit tacky sometimes.7.2/10 "},{"Title":"Farrelly brothers bowl over audiences....","Date":"9 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" An admittedly raunchy, somewhat crude comedy, this film none-the-less satisfies because it does what so many films fail to do, provide the yuks. Here is a simply constructed story. Young wonder kid bowler has a life of luxury and stardom ahead of him, until a naer do well rival involves him in a con game that takes a tragic turn for the worse. Fast forward years later, and our young star has become a laughable, bald, and prosthetically challenged individual. He's basically a bum with a fake hand. Out of this misery he discovers an Amish wonder kid, a bit aloof, but full of potential. He takes him under his wing on a madcap trip to the World Bowling Championship under the auspices of saving their amish farm by winning the million dollar, winner takes all prize. Bill Murray's performance as the shallow, smarmy, and completely phony nemesis of Woody Harrelson, is worth the price of admission alone. It just goes to show what adding an understated comic genius to a film does for putting it over the top, and into priceless comedy. "},{"Title":"Cool Woody Harrrelson Flick!","Date":"26 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" I love Farley Brothers movies and am a big fan of Woody Harrelson. Randy Quidde is funny as well. Woody Harrelson always does different characters and can be creepy in this movie or The People Vs. Larry Flint which also a good movie. I remember this movie coming out in the mid nineties and thought it was funnier at the time. Some of the jokes have lost a little connotation for the time. Bill Murray is always awesome and played the bad guy this time around. Both Harrelson's and Murray's characters are old 70's professional bowlers competing in present day 90's in a tournament for a lot of money. I didn't find the Amish jokes offensive they were in good fun on a culture of people who exist among us in small country communities preserving the way of life they feel is the way to live. Kingpin is creepy, gross, funny. "},{"Title":"continuity gaff","Date":"8 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Sorry to be such a dork for noticing such trivial matters,but seeing as someone also noticed the smoking Gaff I thought i would add my two cents worth.Did anyone else notice Ishmael has the heart tattoo on his chest when he's in his drag queen's outfit in the back of the car?. This is before they arrived in Vegas(I THINK)went and got roaring drunk and Ishmael also got the huge tattoo of the Cowgirl on his back. This aside,Kingpin is one my favorite films,Bill Murray's character is a total sleaze and cringingly funny,the bit where he's doing the commercial is hilarious.Vanessa Angel has to be one of the sexiest women in the world,and to end the movie your treated to the Legendary John Popper doing his funky thing to the Blues Travellers'But Anyway'. So apart from the slight continuity mistake,Kingpin shall always remain one of the films i'll always watch on a regular basis. "},{"Title":"Bowling made funny","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Of all the sports to make a movie about, bowling is probably just a tick better than darts, curling, and synchronized swimming; which is why this movie was so fantastic. They took a very boring, uneventful and unwatchable sport like bowling and made it into a fun movie. A lot of credit has to be given to the writers, because this movie was hilarious. But I guess laughs are what you get when you mix an Amish man, an old washed up bowler with one hand, and a hot looking gangster's girlfriend. Everyone of the main characters was funny Woody Harrelson as Roy Munson, the has-been bowler that lost his hand after having it shoved into a bowling ball return machine. Randy Quaid as Ishmael Boorg, the quiet, naive Amish man just trying to do what is right. Vanessa Angel as Claudia, the beautiful rich gangster's girlfriend trying to escape. And who can forget Bill Murray as Ernie McCracken, the selfish, womanizing, kingpin bowler with a TERRIBLE comb over. The movie was just very funny all around. "},{"Title":"The second best bowling-movie.","Date":"24 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  The second best film I've seen about bowling, The Big Lebowski is by far the best. This one is about the ex-star bowler (Harrelson) who wants to reclaim his former glory by helping a promising talent (Quaid). Bill Murray (very funny!) plays his biggest rival. Most of the jokes here are about sex, but somehow the Farrelys make it work without making it cruel like a whole bunch of other films, they actually seem to like the characters the movie is about. Kingpin is maybe not as good as There's something about Mary but it's still a great movie and it's well worth your attention.8/10 "},{"Title":"Lowbrow but not cliched","Date":"28 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Luckily, I hadn't seen 1994's Dumb & Dumber when Kingpin came out or I probably would have skipped the Farrellys' second picture. In all the areas I felt Dumb & Dumber failed (interesting characters, adequate plotting, creative uses for potty jokes), Kingpin excelled.The story is a redemption plot for Roy Munson (Woody Harrelson) after he follows Ernie McCracken (Bill Murray) down the dark path and it costs him his dream. Years after his downfall, Munson sees a chance to develop Amish simpleton Ishmael Boorg (Randy Quaid) into a champion bowler, reclaiming his professional and financial success.No surprise, Bill Murray is the highlight of the film as Munson's protagonist. In fact, some of the biggest laughs were actually Murray's ad libs.Still, if base humor offends you, you should probably avoid this film. The comedy is decidedly low brow but original and often well executed (Think hair gel scene from 1998's There's Something About Mary). Generally, I keep this sub-genre on a short leash. Kingpin won me over with its quirky characters and a superb comedic performance by Murray.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Funny","Date":"23 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  The Farrelly brothers did it again. Comedies are supposed to make you laugh. This movie made me laugh, so, mission successful.Maybe one difference with some of their other movies is that I didn't laugh all the time. Therefor this movie might not be as good as some of their other movies, but still better than your average comedy.Good acting, funny plot... worth watching. "}{"Title":"Royal Laughs","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  KINGPIN (1996) ***1/2  Woody Harrelson, Randy Quaid, Vanessa Angel, Bill Murray, Chris Elliott.  From sibling directors, Peter and Bobby Farrelly, the makers of Dumb and Dumber comes an even more brain-dead comedy a la The Color of Money meets The Naked Gun bowling phenom used-to-be Harrelson (perfectly unscrupulous) realizes his loser status can change thanks to protege Amish Quaid with the help of smarter-than-she-looks sexpot Angel on a quest of a jackpot bowling tournament in Reno with only one obstacle Murray, the smug pro who was responsible for Harrelson's road to nowhere including the loss of his hand (used to the ultimate running gag).  Bathroom humor rules in this hilarious anything for a laugh and in questionable good taste that is ultimately refreshing in an all too politically correct world.  The ridiculous wigs are worth a belly laugh or two.  Laugh yourself silly!  "},{"Title":"Somewhat bizarre and off the wall,but it has it's moments","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" This is perhaps the most unusual comedy film I've ever seen,but I've always said that uniqueness is a good quality in a film.I mean,who else would have thought this up?The story is unique,Randy Quaid and Woody Harrelson use their comic skills to perfection,and it's definitely good for more than one laugh.The humor is somewhat raunchy at times,but hey,funny is funny.The Indecent Proposal gag is a complete riot,with Harrelson poking a little fun at a past role.This is by no means a classic comedy,but it's good for basic laughs,and if you are looking for a good comedy to add to your comedy section at home,you'll do OK with this one. "},{"Title":"I am sure Monty Python's killer joke was written by a Farrelly","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  So what if this movie is crude or low-brow? Funny is funny. In my humble opinion, if I laugh non-stop while watching a COMEDY, then it is a great movie, whether it is My Man Godfrey, Some Like It Hot or Dumb And Dumber. And now, Kingpin. To me, the Farrelly Brothers are god-like. After my boyfriend and I went to see this in the theater (we swear we saw the R-rated one) we quoted it for days. Bill Murray is absolutely hilarious, as usual. I loved Randy Quaid as The Kid, and Vanessa Angel was fine too, but I gained new respect for Woody Harrelson for allowing himself to be seen looking so BAD. He is very funny, but also very touching at times. The Farrelly Bros. always populate their movies with lovable losers, so I actually care what happens to them. They also appear to be squeamish about their characters showing too much emotion, like little boys would, which is fine with me. Leave the schmaltz for Robin Williams!  "},{"Title":"Side-splittingly disgusting","Date":"15 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Not to put too fine a point on it, but this is easily one of the most tasteless, disgusting, disturbing, disheartening, wretched, mean-spirited, nauseating, sickening, unsavory, base, gross, crude, rude, offensive lowlife movies I've ever seen.  It's also funny as hell. "},{"Title":"I felt guilty laughing, but it *is* funny!","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Yes, this movie is rude, crude and cruel. But it's also funny and you can't help it! ) It's just great - well, perhaps with the exception of Murray. I can't stand this wooden guy and his annoying acting. But even he didn't spoil the movie too much... ) "},{"Title":"One of the funniest films ever","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This is the film that came after Dumb and Dumber, and before Something About Mary.  It didn't make much money, and most critics hated it.  When people speak about Farrelly movies, they rarely mention this movie, and that's a shame.  I'm a fan of all of their movies, but this one is my favorite.The reason it is my favorite is because it has one of the funniest performances I have ever seen.  Bill Murray as Big Ern McCracken is amazing.  He is such a b*****d yet, he's so funny.  Check out the diner scene between he and Woody Harrelson's Roy Munson(another great performance).  There are four things that Bill Murray does in this scene that are perhaps the funniest things I have ever seen.  I couldn't stop laughing when he tells the waitress(who has just delivered their drinks)You wanna wash that perfume off before you come back to our table.  The look on Bill's face, and the delivery of that line are truly inspiring.I would rank this performance right up there with Rodney Dangerfield and Ted Knight's performances in Caddyshack.  This is why Bill Murray is one of the greatest comedic actors ever.  "},{"Title":"Makes me want to run & buy a bowling ball","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Very funny movie and Woody Harrelson gives a great performance.  He isn't afraid to show something of his acting talent and does not phone it in at all.  You feel sorry for him at times and at times hate him.  Just like a real person.The movie is a laugh riot for most of its running time.  Even the jokes that are unsuccessful are not horrible, just not funny enough.  With the Farrelly brothers, it seems like you get everything plus the kitchen sink, so some of it will fail and most of it will make you laugh. "},{"Title":"Sputtering bowling farce","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  * ½ (1½ out of 5)KingpinDirected by Bobby Farrelly, Peter Farrelly, 1996Idiotic and slow paced screwball, that outstays its welcome early on. This bowling movie should stick to the gutter. The Farrelly brothers clearly intended to mix their own recipe (Dumb and Dumber) with the sports movie formula, but fail miserably.  Bill Murray practically saves the day as the ultimate bowling sleaze; insincere and cocky. Murray is deadpan hilarious. "},{"Title":"Harrelson and Murray are fantastic in this truly great film. Best Farrelly brothers movie.","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This is the best Farrelly brothers film. It is extremely funny but also has a great plot, unlike There's Something About Mary, which was not very funny anyway. Woody Harrelson is perfect as the down and out bowler Roy Munson. His nemesis is Ernie McCracken, or Big Ern, played by Bill Murray in one of his funniest performances to date. A tremendous film with tremendous laughs. "},{"Title":"It's Okay...","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I wasn't that impressed by the movie.  There were certainly funny moments, but sometimes they went for obvious laughs (i.e., Munson's hand coming off during his opening frame in Reno), where you can see it's coming and it's _still_ not funny.  Bill Murray and Randy Quaid seem to be having fun overacting, but Vanessa Angel is pretty much a non-entity, demonstrating here why Weird Science - The TV Show is probably going to be the pinnacle of her career.  Harrelson basically plays an unlikeable bastard.It also strikes me that the ending is somewhat flawed.  Even in most slob-type comedy movies, isn't there a requirement that the bad guy get his comeuppance?  The only triumph of the climax we're so divorced from that through most of the movie that there's no impact when we find out about it.When the gags click, they're very funny.  The whole Amish community sequence in the beginning is hilarious.  However, there's an awful lot of blank space or duds between the gags that do work.Overall, Kingpin is relatively funny, but it's not as insightful as Ferris Bueller, nor does it spit out the gags the way that Airplane! does. "}{"Title":"Not so good...","Date":"20 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This really wasn't as good as I thought it would be. I don't know why - there were a few bits that really made me laugh, but it didn't seem quite up to standard against, say, dumb & dumber. I don't think this was one of Bill Murray's better roles, they just went over the top with all the hero thing, it just got sickening. Anyway, quite amusing and worth seeing if you've got nothing better to do - 5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Preach the word Brother Hezakiah","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  There's two great things about this movie. One, is that it is extremely funny, hilarious even. Two, it is the best movie about bowling ever. I happen to love bowling, so this is right up my alley. (Pun not intended) This movie has so many funny things beginning with the fact that it displays some of the worst haircuts in cinema history with gleeful pride. It also has the only breast boxing scene I've ever seen. Vanessa Angel is super hot and super nippely in the freezer part of this movie. And who can possibly forget Woody Harrelson's land lady. Bit part by Chris Elliot hits the mark and Randy Quaid's Amish bong-pulling sequence is monumentally famous among stoner's. This is probably the best comedy since Top Secret!   "},{"Title":"In bad taste, yet very funny.","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I'm not the kind of person who likes most of the comedies that come out today, but Kinpin is one of the very few that is actually funny.  It's by the Farrelly Brothers who also made the moderately funny Dumb and Dumber and the hilarious There's Something About Mary.  Of those three, Kinpin is definitely the best.  The laughs keep on coming, even when watching at home on video.  Naturally there are a few gags that didn't work for me, but they can easily be overlooked.  All the gags that work, work very well and receive long, loud laughs.  Another surprise, Chris Elliot is actually funny. He's only in it for one joke, about five minutes, but it works very well. See this movie if you aren't easily offended, and like big laughs. "},{"Title":"Bill Murray having a ball!","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Contrary to many critiques of the film, I think Kingpin hits the spot.  This outrageous comedy from the Farrelly brothers (their best effort in my view) is a road movie with a difference! Brilliantly cast Woody Harrelson guides the delightful Vanessa Angel and dutiful Randy Quaid across the U.S, dodging sex starved fogies and robbing sheep-loving yokels to reach the mecca that is Reno.  Having sampled Ms Angel's pins, we get caught up in the 10 pin duel between Harrelson and the undoubtable star of the movie..Bill Murray. The genius of Murray is on show for all to see, and he simply cannot be beaten for sheer comic timing.  The final bowling scenes are terrific, with Murray - clearly enjoying himself - playing the crowd for all its worth. "},{"Title":"One of the most cruel but funniest movies I've seen","Date":"23 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  A movie that begins with a bowling player whose hand gets torn off is a strange way of introducing a humoristic story. But it is humoristic. All the actors are outstanding, but Bill Murray is in a league of his own. Some of the scenes are gruesome but the farce involved in it is truly witty and amusing. Pay special attention to the tribute to 'The Graduate' between Woody Harrelson and the hideous landlady.  "},{"Title":"One of the Greatest Comedies!","Date":"15 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" This great comedy made me laugh a lot; it is really one of the best comedies that i have seen sort far; Bobby and Peter Farrelly definitely are masters in this genre, that maybe is one of the more hard to achieve. I think that pulling tears from the public is hard, but pulling laughs from the audience is as hard or harder than that!, this movie did it masterfully. I really was amazed of how Bill Murray as Ernie McCracken could perform such a hateful character, he does, and the impression that i felt was totally of hate for McCracke, great for Murray's performance!; the music is simply spectacular, the song played by Blues Traveler is great!, this movie also have a soundtrack worth to buy; some Urge Overkill song is heard in the movie too. But the thing that finally i liked most was that this movie, being a comedy, give a good lesson for life, for honesty and care for the others; you have to see the movie to the end to understand this!. Some scenes that i loved where the bully milking, the strip dancing of Ishmael, the hand on breast, etc, I laughed in this movie, and when i think about it some smiles come again.ABOUT THE MOVIE Woody Harrelson is Roy Munson a great bowler trained by his dad since he was a child and who was the Nevada state champion of 1979 beating the hateful Ernie McCracken (Bill Murray), after this in some incidents with bets with some bad guys Munson lose his right hand, and his career was spoiled, he isolates and start to drink, wasting his life. 17 years after that, he mets an Amish man, Ishmael Borg (Randy Quaid) who show a special talent for bowling, he tries to convince him to compete, but for his traditions he prefer to stay at home. Munson see in Ishmael a chance to go back to success and try by all means to convince him to compete. They start to live trough some great and funny situations while trying to earn some money, in their way the met the beautiful Claudia (Vanessa Angel), whose love for money make her join to the party and share with Roy and Ishmael some funny moments while they want to get to the Bowling 1 million dollar Championship.Great, totally great funny movie! 8/10! "},{"Title":"Great comedy","Date":"23 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" I have heard quite a bit about Kingpin, about how funny it is and how great the actors were together, this film was on the top 100 funniest films of all time and not to mention that I heard a lot about it from my friends. I thought that it was a pretty decent comedy that I had fun with, especially the finally bowling scene with Bill Murray, he was the one who truly stole this film. But the entire cast was so great and special, I think anyone could laugh a few times from this film.Roy has been brutally disfigured in a bowling game when his partner, Ernie, leaves him to a horrible disfiguration of getting his bowling hand cut off. Years and years later, he finds Ishmael Boorg, an Amish farmer who bowls extremely well, but he doesn't want his family to know that he can bowl, but after begging and begging, Ishmael decides to be with Roy in a huge tournament for a huge cash prize. Through the trip they make, they become the most unlikely of friends picking up a hot woman, Claudia.Kingpin is one of those films you don't forget and I will guarantee the minimum of one laugh, especially when you see these grown men have comb overs and are acting like little boys in the the competition together. I would recommend it for a fun afternoon with the friends, it's good film and it looked like the cast really had a lot of fun together.7/10 "},{"Title":"The Combover, Big Ern, and total Cheesiness, i LOVE IT","Date":"16 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" The movie is simply about a out of luck ex-prodigy in the world of bowling, who now 20yrs later is a drunken one handed loser to be blunt. Roy Munson, the main character played by Woody Harelson is a no luck bum who meets an amish bowler, i 4get how (completly blazed), but anyway they go to Reno Nevada to win 1million bucks and he can save his amish farm. On the way from Amish Pennsylvania, Munson shows him the underbelly of bowling, by hustling every lane they go to. To keep it short, cuz its coming back from commercials, the movie is OK until Bill Murray appears on screen, then it becomes AMAZING. Big Ern McCracken is possibly one of the best characters in any movie, he is the sleaziest, cheesiest, and most hysterical character in the movie. With the clear bowling ball with a rose in it, to the rhinestone studded outfits changed after every strike, Big Ern takes this movie from a 4 to at least a 8. Given that Woody Harelson is pretty funny as his sleazeball character, Bill Murray takes the cake and steals the movie hands down "},{"Title":"A hilarious film about Bowling, Farrely brothers are good here.","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" This is a hilarious comedy by the farrely brothers about a washed up bowler(harrelson) who takes on a prodigy in order to settle a score with long time rival, ernie mccracken (Murray). This film is well written, funny and very entertaining. Woody harrelson shines in this role as it is perfrect for him, he is both funny and entertaining. Randy Quaid was also great to see. But as usual BIll Murray stole the show, absolutely hilarious as the antagonist. I like to see both these actors as well as Saturday night live's Quaid, all giving good performances with a funny script. This film is great for what it is, its not an Oscar movie, but sure is funny as hell. This is one of the better Farrely brothers films. 9/10 "},{"Title":"KINGPIN (DIDIER BECU)","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Made by the creators of Dumb and Dumberer...so this says enough! The story is about an ex-champion from bowling Roy (Woody Harrelson) who due to the influence of a magnificent Bill Murray ripped off people by telling them he was an amateur while in fact he's the king of the bowling...but good songs never last long and as some people took revenge, the king of bowling is now a sort of Captain Hook as he lost a hand. The rest of Roy's career is just a sum up of alcohol till he meet the hilarious Ishmael (Randy Quaid). Ishmael is a complete stranger to this world as whole his life he lived in a Jewish community that even don't know the existence of a hotel.... All what follows then are ultrahilarious situations in where Woody Harrelson, Randy Quaid and Bill Murray play one of the best roles in their lives...almost every joke is superb, especially the part in where Roy (Harrelson) is offered 1 million dollar by a millionaire if he may sleep with Ishmael...of course this refers to his role in Indecent Proposal. Food for the dumb? Yup but a comedy must make you laugh and Kingpin does that 90 minutes so.... "}{"Title":"A very funny film.","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Kingpin is a very funny film. Although it leans toward very tasteless humor, I don't think anybody could watch this one without laughing out loud. The humor is way over the top and this has to be one of Bill Murray's best performances. Great movie. "},{"Title":"Bill Murray Steals The Show","Date":"10 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Very funny gross out movie that manages to keep the humour going and avoids the sappy cliché ending. Woody Harleson and Randy Quaid work well as a pair and are extremely funny in places but Murray steals every scene he's in as Ernie McCracken, a genius comedy creation comb-over and all, this really is Murray on top 'laught out loud comedy' form it's a shame he doesn't have more screen time. As it stands Kingpin is a good gross out comedy with a few good performances and one of Bill Murrays best comic appearances. I think the film maybe could have done with some trimming down a few scenes cut here and there to keep the pace up but there are far more hits than misses here. Who would have thought ten pin bowling could be funny ? 7/10 "},{"Title":"Extremely Funny movie and Bill Murray'second best role","Date":"18 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"                                Kingpin is hysterical. The comedy in this movie is excellent, pure fun, and definitely entertaining. The plot is even funny as Roy Munson a one handed star bowler goes along with an amish man and a rich good looking woman to Reno to compete in the Bowling championship. Bill Murray, Woody Harrelson, and Randy Quaid were the funniest characters throughout the movie especially Bill and Randy as Ernie and Ishmael. They had very funny lines and Bill's hair and cockiness was the greatest along with Woody's hair. Ishmael had very funny lines about his amish laws or rules. I think you will definitely enjoy this movie as much as I did.9.5/10   "},{"Title":"If you give a little, you can get back a who-ole lot more","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" In a rare instance of the UK getting a movie before the US, Kingpin was a surprisingly pleasant discovery on a Saturday afternoon back in the sunny July of 1996. It has since gone on to be one of my favorite comedies and showcases Bill Murray's evil, sarcastic humor at it's finest.Woody Harrelson is Roy Munson a young, up-and-coming bowler who falls foul of 'Big' Ern McCracken (simply by beating him). Ern executes a cunning revenge on Roy which results in the loss of his precious bowling hand. Flash-forward 17 years and Roy is living a truly grotty life and is a complete and utter loser. His hustling attempts fall flat and it looks like he's destined for a future of failure until he meets naive Amish 'boy' Ishmael, who just so happens to be a bowling prodigy. Roy and Ishmael team-up and head to Reno, Nevada for a big bowling showdown with the diabolical 'Big' Ern.Part road movie, part profound life journey, Kingpin is probably the most mature Farrelly Brothers movie and certainly their best effort so far. The script is just jam-packed with brilliant dialogue and gags, and Ishmael (or 'the kid' as they keep calling him despite the fact that Randy Quaid was 45 at the time of filming) may just be the sweetest character of all time and may even rival Cousin Eddie as Quaid's funniest role. But it is Bill Murray as 'Big' Ern who steals the movie and runs away with it. Apparently he just threw the script away and decided to ad-lib, and you can tell. He keeps the rest of the cast on their toes and enjoys himself way too much. His Unified Fund TV commercial is comedy gold.It may well be one of the most underrated comedies of all time, but Kingpin is a far superior film to the likes of There's Something About Mary or Me, Myself & Irene. It's lack of success or popularity is not a reflection on its brilliance. "},{"Title":"Crude, rude, silly and........hilarious","Date":"2 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Can't believe this isn't rated higher, I have always loved this totally silly movie since I saw it in the theater years ago. There are some lulls here and there and maybe too much character development (if that's possible) but Woody is spot on, Murry is just insanely funny with his hair don't, and the rest of the cast is great too. Ishmael's slow decline into every vice there is is great. I'm sure this is not to everyones taste and I'm glad, not all of us are into bull seamen and oral sex with old lady jokes but for those who are you will be quite content. Even the bowling is funny in this early Farrelly brothers film. "},{"Title":"Kingpin","Date":"13 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" I knew about the leading actor, I knew the premise of the film (about bowling, although it sounds like a gangster film), but I didn't it was directed by Bobby and Peter Farrelly (Dumb and Dumber, There's Something About Mary). Basically Roy Munson (Woody Harrelson) was raised by his father at a young age to be the best bowler in the world, and in 1979, all grown up, he was growing as a champion. Unfortunately his talent was cut off (literally) when fellow bowler Ernie McCracken (Bill Murray) and him got into a misunderstanding, and Roy lost his bowling hand. Years later, Roy is now living with a metal hook, and a connectible rubber hand, and works as a travelling salesman, but he is going downhill, until he sees the opportunity to get back into the bowling world. One night he sees a skilled bowler, Ishmael Boorg (Randy Quaid), an Amish who secretly went away from his farm to bowl (and he would get disowned if the other Quakers knew). Roy convinces Ishmael to let him be his trainer to make the world's best bowler, and Ishmael is actually finding life outside the farm quite fun. Roy does soon encounter now top ranking bowling champion Ernie, now obviously his nemesis, and Roy gets his chance to prove he still has his skill (even with the rubber hand) when Ishmael breaks his hand, and he takes over at the ultimate bowling championship. In the end, you don't expect Roy to lose (by one point), but at least he gets the girl, Claudia (Vanessa Angel). Also starring Chris Elliott as The Gambler, William Jordan as Mr. Boorg, Richard Tyson as Owner of Stiffy's, Lin Shaye as Roy's Landlady, Zen Gesner as Thomas Boorg and Prudence Wright Holmes as Mrs. Boorg. Thsi wasn't as funny as I hoped it would be, I could recognise the spoofs of Witness and The Color of Money (with the hustling), but the jokes are a little repetitive, such as the rubber hand and gross landlady in mirror, but not an awful film. It was number 45 on The 50 Greatest Comedy Films (it beat Bridget Jones's Diary, Carry On Cleo and The Producers!). Okay! "},{"Title":"Funny movie from the Farrelly brothers","Date":"19 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" If you ask me, KINGPIN is a funny movie from the Farrelly Brothers. The only things that made me feel uneasy were when Roy (Woody Harrelson) got his hand cut off and when he got sick to his stomach. If you ask me, this movie had very funny humor, even though it was a little vulgar at times. The things I liked most were the road trip and the bowling games, including the Reno tournament. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say, If I ever have kids of my own, I'm not going to let them see this movie until they're at least teenagers. Now, in conclusion, I'd like to say, Parents, don't let your children see this until they're at least teenagers! "},{"Title":"Entertaining, at moments very funny movie with some serious flaws","Date":"22 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Kingpin isn't a bad movie. In fact, it's pretty entertaining for a, if i can put it like that, standard comedy built around a certain theme (bowling). I'm not getting into the story, since so many others have done that before me already. Let's get to the characters. I'll immediately say that I liked Bill Murray the most. He was awesome, close to being g@y but gallantly maintaining manliness through the entire movie. With his character, the movie kind of insults the viewer though. For instance, how can we expect the audience to actually like him? Don't get me wrong, he's a great character, but he's supposed to be the bad guy and he doesn't have what it takes to come over as the lovable kind. That's all good, but during the bowling matches it's just not right that the audience seems to like him. His arrogance and cockiness are spread throughout and should be a reason for the crowd to despise him, not like him. I understand that for the sake of the underdog argument, he's supposed to be liked by the masses, but it would have made the movie so much better in my eyes had he been just been despised by the crowd. Harrelson is under-doggy enough already, we don't need to have that emphasized any more. That said, Bill Murray's still a great watch.Randy Quaid, as the naive Amish, is great but slips up miserably at some points. The idea of having a naive Amish is lovely, it's just that at some moments, he's portrayed as plain stupid - in sharp contrast to just naive. For instance, there's a point where Harrelson says something like Holy sh!t and Quaid goes something like Where do you see sh!t? I don't recall the exact situation anymore, but such things happen in this movie while they shouldn't. The love triangle was kind of excessive to me. Please explain to me this evil lover is abandoned by chick -> lover meets chick again and although it is flat out OBVIOUS that the chick didn't like him, the evil guy still falls for her again after a few cheesy lines of 'let's get back together and make things good for the both of us, I never really wanted to leave you'. The 'evil lover' was underwhelming also, the 'good guys' were afraid of him but they never really had a reason to. It would have been so much, so much cooler had the evil lover type had a bunch of mean looking gangster types with guns around him. Over the top, of course, but so much more awesome. There is a problem with the lady also. The first few times we get to meet her, she seems like a hard-a$$ chick who can handle herself. Then at some point, when she says something to insult the evil lover guy, the tone of the scene shifts incomprehensibly to a situation where she gets abused by her evil friend. It just made no sense to me. She shows no depth in her acting either. In the scene where she and Harrelson visit Harrelson's hometown, Harrelson holds up very well but she just lacks what it takes to make the scene really work. To be honest, the lady just slowed the movie down, while not putting anything meaningful to the table. Harrelson was great, I liked his character and he put down his role pretty well. Some jokes with his fake hand were well done, sometimes fooling the viewer in a good way but also failing the gimmick once (I only saw it go wrong once, might have been more often).All in all, this movie is pretty fun but with a few adjustments, it could have been so much better. "},{"Title":"question about the final bowling scene","Date":"21 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" In the final bowling scene when Munson is playing against McCracken in the tournament for the million dollar prize, the scene cuts out in the middle and you see Munson and Ishmael standing against a wall, naked, in a line with a bunch of naked guys. Then someone calls them a scumbag, and a guy begins spraying the line of guys with a firehose. This goes on for a few seconds and then jumps back to the bowling alley and the tournament resumes as if nothing happened. i don't get this scene. i don't know what significance this scene had in the movie and i don't know why they were being sprayed and i was wondering if anyone could possible explain this to me? "},{"Title":"Is it Urge Overkill who performs the national anthem?(Kind of a spoiler...)","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Hi all First of...Kingpin is one of the most funniest movies i've ever seen.I own a copy, which have been viewed to almost destruction.I do have one question though..When the tournament has reached its final match-up between Roy and Big-Ern, the national anthem is performed.Now correct me if I'm wrong, but isn't it Urge Overkill who performs it? And is it really not possible to get a English Bulldog with TWO testicles for the large sum of 500 dollars? Many regards..Emil Egelund "}{"Title":"A Classic !!!","Date":"30 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" If you want to see Bill Murray at his comedic best this is the movie. Big Ern McCracken is so hilarious. I love the commercial he does about Kids Without Fathers where the little kid with the fox momma says Sometimes when i wake up Mr. McCracken is already here and then Ern says at the end that by helping these kids you give a little but you get a whole lot back. Another is when a lady reporter is interviewing him on camera and she asks if he wants to respond to a paternity suit a woman filed on him. He says, yes i want to make it very clear. I pulled out of her really early. LOLOLOLOL.And after he wins the championship match and tells the reporter he was worried because he didn't want to get beat by a guy with a hook. The reporter says was that a slam at the handicapped? and Murray says I don't know, what do i care, I'm rich LOLOLOL.Gotta watch this one. I have seen it 15 times at least and i laugh out loud every time. "},{"Title":"Hysterical stuff...","Date":"1 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  KINGPIN is an early highwater-mark for the current kings of filmed comedy, the Farrelly Brothers.  While DUMB AND DUMBER is probably their best, (and possibly the funniest film of the 1990s), KINGPIN might be the Farrelly's silver medalist.  The pitch alone is worth a laugh a one-handed bowler (crippled by thugs after a fixed bowling game!) takes on an Amish protege and heads to Reno for the national tournament.  And the cast elevates this ridiculous premise to comedy-heaven. Woody Harrelson gives a hilarious performance in the lead, and his character is surprisingly well-rounded. And Bill Murray has never been better than as the smarmy Ernie McCracken; he steals every scene he's in without breaking a sweat. "},{"Title":"The Farrelly brothers best comedy","Date":"25 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Bill Murry gives his most hysterical performance in this wacky bowling comedy. Woody Harrelson and Randy Quaid are sold in carrying the film, but it is really Murry who steals the show. His disturbing comb-over and victory speech are ones which may never be forgotten. The Farelly brothers to a good job incorporating the Amish theme into the movie. Vanaessa Angel's jokes are lame and her main purpose seems to be eye candy. The storyline is solid and imaginative and will leave you surprised in its conclusion. When I first saw this film, I rewound the tape and watched it over immediately. This film has extraordinary replay quality. With many memorable quotes, you will be talking about this movie for months to come. "},{"Title":"Kingpin bowls 300 game","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  What can you say about a film that features such lines as I think I tore my sac ? Only  that it's my favorite movie, and a modern comic masterpiece. Kingpin is not the Farrelly  brothers' most family friendly feature. However, I believe, Kingpin is their greatest  achievement in comedy, content, and cinematography. Despite the ridiculous concepts  and events in the film, Kingpin manages to create strong emotional connections  between characters and audience. The triple ball-hit towards the end of the film may be  the greatest moment in modern slapstick humor. See this film if you love to laugh - let  this film pass by if you are offended by anything. "},{"Title":"A Sexy Looking Film","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Woody Harrelson appears in this small town American film about a talented kingpin player whose arm gets seared in a scuffle with some mobsters. He is forced to leave town to reinvent himself, coming across hilarious situations along the way (milking a cow only to discover that it is a bull having already drank its discharge). The female lead arouses a few sexual emotions at face value. "},{"Title":"KINGPIN-- A","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" What makes a great comedy?  Funny scenes.  Funny characters.  Funny dialogue.  Kingpin has all of these qualities and in large doses.  It's one of the top ten comedies of the past ten years, and in my opinion, the crowning achievement of the Farelly brothers thus far.Dumb and Dumber was hilarious.  There's Something About Mary took the romantic comedy to a new level.  But Kingpin stands out as the most bizarre and likeable film of the Farelly trilogy.  Much like the Billy Madison of Adam Sandler films, Kingpin is not so much funnier than the rest of the Farelly Brother's movies, as it is more weird and awesome.There are some scenes that drag, and I don't think Randy Quaid's character is as funny as it should have been, but everything else here is gold. Woody gives a great comedic performance.  Vanessa Angel has a great chest (and those babies are real!)  Uncle Willie, Chris Elliot, and the landlady are superb.I could write an epic poem on the greatness of Bill Murray in this movie, but I won't.  Suffice it to say that his performance in Kingpin is best thing he has ever done.  Its the best part of the movie.  He's not in it nearly enough, but that only makes you cherish his scenes all the more.However, the most underrated character in this movie, and in cinematic history for that matter, is unquestionably the Great Stan (Vanessa Angel's boyfriend).  He represents everything that is enigmatic of the human condition.  He's simultaneously slick and weird.  He wears black turtlenecks and has a gray streak in his hair.  He beats women, and makes fun of the beating of women, while respecting the beauty of the natural woman.  He is violent and depraved, yet he frowns upon cheating.  He drinks Coca-cola. He has some weird friends.  And last, but not least, he has a bowling alley in his basement.  Modern psychology has yet to fully comprehend such a character.  Perhaps it never will.  But one thing is certain  the Great Stan is the best thing to ever come out of either art or reality.Kingpin is a great movie. "},{"Title":"You gotta be kidding me","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I'm a huge Bill Murray fan, but even he can't lift this one up.  I read someone saying the same type of snobs who hated this hated FERRIS BUELLER'S DAY OFF and AIRPLANE!.  Well I loved those movies, but I really don't see anything funny about this one.  Especially Randy Quaid, who, as he did in INDEPENDENCE DAY, seems more concerned with condescension and goofiness than creating a character and being funny.  I just don't get the Farrelly brothers, I guess. "},{"Title":"Beautiful and bleak","Date":"9 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Not unlike Harrelson's other masterpiece, White Men Can't Jump, this comedy certainly promises laughs and repeated viewings. On the other hand, there is a constant feeling of desolation and sadness. Ultimately this film could be described as being real. The performances from every cast member serve to create distinct and memorable characters, including the genius Bill Murray as the veritable king of the pins. Depending on who you are speaking with, this movie may have even spawned a dictionary worthy term, although I will leave it out of this review in the interest of little disclosure. 10 frames, that's for Quakers! "},{"Title":"Howlingly funny!","Date":"10 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Kingpin is either the grossest funny movie or the funniest gross movie I have ever seen. Few comedies, even good ones, can make me laugh so hard that I cry, but this one did. Half the time I was laughing; the other half, I was shaking my head at the raunchiness of it all. If you can watch this movie without laughing uncontrollably, you should consider replacement surgery for your funny bone.As others have said, the cast is perfect. Vanessa Angel is so hot I was afraid my VHS tape would melt. Randy Quaid (looking a lot like a much larger version of the Little Dutch Boy) is dopey and lovable. Woody Harrelson is smooth and cocksure when he should be, and pitiable when the situation requires it. And the always amazing Bill Murray might be the most detestable (but hilarious) egomaniac on celluloid - it is no small feat to be both detestable and hilarious.I have no idea how Kingpin qualified for a PG-13 rating. Even an R is a stretch, although there is no nudity or graphic violence.The movie has a kick-ass soundtrack, but perhaps a few too many songs. Music should enhance a film, not overwhelm it, as it sometimes does in this case.In the midst of all the vulgarity and chicanery, there is even a moral. After spending seventeen years drunk and in denial, Roy (Harrelson) comes to realize that, in the end, we have no one to blame for our problems but ourselves. "},{"Title":"Stupid fun","Date":"30 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" This is an odd concept for a film--a movie all about bowling! Who would have thought you could make a decent comedy about bowling and who would have thought it would actually be funny? In many ways, the weirdness and irreverent style are very similar to the much later film, TALLADEGA NIGHTS--another sport that takes well to parody.Was this a brilliant film--probably not. But, in a very low-brow way, it does make you laugh and that is enough some times. It gets very high marks for bizarreness (such as the fake hand and the whole Quaker angle) but also loses marks for, unfortunately, losing steam from time to time with needless plot. When the film tried to be meaningful or didn't go for laughs, it fell a bit flat. "}{"Title":"Why filmmakers decide to mix sport with COMEDY is beyond me and Kingpin is a good example of why not to.","Date":"14 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Something I've found with sports films is that the less funny they are, the better. When I say 'less funny', I mean when they're not attempting to be comedies. Some of the best sports films from down the years have been the ones that don't show sports as a joke; films that don't send up the sports and films that don't try to be funny. Raging Bull, The Hustler and The Colour of Money are amongst these examples with The Hustler and The Colour of Money particularly relevant examples. When it comes to humour in sports films, Happy Gilmore is probably the only one that I actually liked and which was supposed to be a comedy; odd how it too features a mentor with a false hand. Because of this, that means Kingpin is, in my opinion, a failure.This is quite a bump landing for Woody Harrelson who went from Natural Born Killers in 1994 to this junk with the mediocre but fun Money Train in between. Here, he doesn't play a cross country killer but a cross country bowling coach called Roy Munson as he coaches a protégé called Ishmael Boorg (Quaid). This is where the references to The Hustler and The Colour of Money come in &#150; Kingpin is a failed and flawed version of these two films but with bowling replacing pool right down to the way the final tournament (in The Colour of Money) is started as each competitor simultaneously takes the first shot in their respective match.Kingpin has several basic things wrong with it that makes it disgusting, unfunny, badly paced and frustrating. I feel the biggest problem is the casting of Randy Quaid as the shy, innocent and all round good guy Ishmael. There's something I can't quite put my finger on that's wrong with it because the guy's delivery is flat and unfunny and the character in general is just too inconsistent. He's oblivious to the world despite his age yet can give monologues about life and how bad smoking is to people and inspire them to think differently. The fact he's also a complete idiot doesn't help the consistency of the character either. Also, the humour in Kingpin is rather pathetic yet at the same time, grotesque the 'milking' of a bull scene was disgusting, the sex with the old landlady and the subsequent shots of Roy vomiting was uncalled for, the kissing of the elderly relative with the huge beard was nasty and topping it all of was Ishmael/Quaid himself dressed as some sort of drag queen stripper. None of this was funny or even pleasant to look at so you can imagine how very surprised I was when I realised that the script was actually written by someone over the age of ten.Kingpin tries to have a heart as it forces its protagonist to face former demons back at his home town about half way through. The reason these scenes are good is because the film isn't relying on dumb humour but also because the last time we were at these locations was in the opening which was very well done. The scenes of Roy as a boy bowling in is yard, the 1979 tournament and the way the camera and the disco music combines as he enters the alley is fun and very effective so how ironic that when Roy suffers his past tragedy, the film turns into a different type of beast. How very quaint that Roy also manages to give the definition of a mentor when he's trying to convince Ishmael to become his protégé without actually saying 'I'll be your mentor'. Also, how very quaint that thanks to weak cause and effect a love interest manages to worm its way into the plot. Kingpin is perhaps fun for the first fifteen minutes but then misses the mark more times than it should with gross, unfunny humour; bad characterisation of the protégé and just a really bland feeling that it's trying too hard to be funny as well as tragic. "},{"Title":"tries very hard to be funny.","Date":"3 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" I'm sorry. I love love LOVE Woody Harrelson and I love comedies and I really like Bowling! So I wanted to really really like this movie. But I didn't.It's tough to say why but just a few thoughts are....this movie tries REALLY hard to be funny. I felt that immediately. I didn't think it was though nor did I think the story was that strongly interesting. I found certain things funny but never hilarious and the movie sometimes seemed to be just creeping along. Although Harrelson is great, I prefer him in Dramas.I did enjoy the scenery and the bowling theme. I just didn't get into the movie itself, many clichés and the humor was very forced. I wouldn't call Kingpin dreadful(it's gotton some pretty bad reviews.) But it'll never go down as my favorite either. "},{"Title":"Some Will Love It and Some Will Hate It","Date":"8 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Roy Munson Woody Harrellson is a one handed bowler. He teaches Ishmal Randy Quaid how to bowl better than he can. Just so happens that the Amish community needs money and Roy needs to pay rent. So they go off with Claudia Vanessa Angel to get the community and rent payed off. They play money bowling games and win money each game they play by cheating. Then when they get to Reno for Ishmal to play the Reno Open Ishmal breaks his hand thanks to Ernie McCracken Bill Murray. Then in her room Claudia steals the money and takes off with her old boyfriend. Leaving Roy to play the open since Ishmal has broken his hand. Roy and Ernie are in the final and Ernie hits 3 strikes for the win. Roy of course is devastated. Ishmal's brother had come during the last round and took Ishmal home and Claudia had left, so Roy was alone on the final frame. When Claudia comes back with a check for a thousand dollars to split 3 ways. Roy shows a check from Trojan condoms that is half a million dollars. Roy pays his rent and they both give money out of their checks to Ishmal and his community to save the area. This is a historic comedy and the humor is just classic. You will love it or hate it. "},{"Title":"Probably the best Farrelly's Brothers film ever made.","Date":"12 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Roy Munson (Woody Harrelson) is a has been pro bowler, who have been given a second chance to teach an Amish Bowling Whiz by the name of Ishmael (Randy Quiad). Together, they have a chance to win the Million Dollar at the Reno Bowling Tournament. Along the way, they meet Claudia (Vanessa Angel). She's a beautiful woman with brains and attitude. In their road trip, they become the best of friends and they would do anything to keep each other happy until an old nemesis of Munson by the name of Ernie McCrackin (Bill Murray), who is responsible for losing the left bowling hand of Munson's. Who is also playing at the Reno Bowling Tournament.Directed by Peter & Bobby Farrelly (Dumb & Dumber, Stuck on You, There's Something about Mary) made their best comedy yet. DVD has an fine anamorphic Widescreen (2.351) transfer and an Pan & Scan is also included. DVD also has an good Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. This DVD is the R-Rated Director's Cut with four minutes of additional footage. DVD also has an amusing commentary track by the directors, original theatrical trailer and an collector's booklet. Do not miss this outrageous comedy from The Farrelly Brothers. Written by Barry Fanaro (Men in Black 2, The Crew) and Mort Nathan (Boat Trip). Super 35. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"Nothing Much","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Even though there is so much talk about the movie, it doesn't proof what it is. Certainly I don't really find this movie to be as funny like people said it is but overall it ain't that bad.Set in 1979, A State Champ Roy Munson got his bowling hand chop off by jealous runner up. 17 years pass by Roy a useless salesman came across an Amish man, Ishmale. Who Roy thinks capable of becoming his hand and play for him for a money prize. Ishmale accept the offer in-need of money for the family farm before road trip with Roy to various places to get the hang of it before the big competition. The movie is fun to watch but not that funny, you do get the few laugh for sure. The plod is a little different from most romantic comedy movie - so that good thing. Recommendation For Fun Only Especially With Crude Joke At Time.Rating 6/10 (Grade C) "},{"Title":"Bill Murray is crazy!","Date":"2 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" This movie is one of my favorite comedies. There is a great cast, characters and story that are good for some serious laughs.The movie has a high pace and doesn't slow down for a moment which is in this case a positive thing. It also has as result that the jokes come very fast after each other, some are better than others of course but that's just a matter of taste and the good jokes make more than up for the bad ones.But strangely the strength of the movie is not in the jokes; It's in the casting. Woody Harrelson gives a top performance and he and Randy Quaid form an odd and because of that wonderful comical duo. But the show stealer is once again Bill Murray. He is crazy! Every scene with him in it is funny and he puts down yet another crazy character on the big screen.Further more, the story is filled with some crazy character that can only come out of the genius comical minds of the Farrelly brothers.An underrated comedy.9/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Not my cup of tea","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I don't get this movie at all, I find it plain uncomfortable to watch. Is it supposed to be a funny Color of Money?  I'm not a Woody Harrelson guy, the Amish are the world's tackiest comedy target, even the Bill Murray character is a little too bizarre to really enjoy.  Gutter ball.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  A very disappointing film from the Farrelly Brothers, who have produced some excellent comedies in more recent years. Here, however, their crude jokes and stereotyping seems to fall flat and the film remains not only humourless but somewhat devoid of an interesting plot. "},{"Title":"not a good comedy","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I thought this honestly was a terrible comedy.Randy quaid who is usally annoying ,is worse in this movie then any other he's been in,and woody harrelson proves how pathetic he is when he tells 11 year old type jokes.The only scene I thought was good was when woody harrelson got into a brawl with a bunch of rednecks and one of the rednecks turned out to be yankees pitcher roger clemens. "},{"Title":"Funny movie, but tails off at the end.","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I like this one about as much as I do There is Something about Mary, unfortunately it didn't get near the revenue at the box office.  Still though I enjoyed it as I saw it at the theater.  I went to the theater to see this movie with my friend, but I really didn't want to see that movie so I thought I would give this one a try and I was pleasantly surprised as I had a good time at this one.  The story is a washed up bowler who lost his hand tutors an Amish guy who wants to save his farm.  The movie is very funny with jokes flying.  Unfortunately, it is a Farrelly brother movie so it has its dead spots of no humor.  Here the last 20 minutes of the movie loses the energy and pace the rest of the movie has and there are only a few chuckles to be had.  The cast is great as Quiad, Woody, and Vanessa Angel are great.  So is the small role of Bill Murry as a rival bowler.  All in all a very funny movie, that might have benefited if it was a bit shorter than it is.  Though it is worth checking out. "}{"Title":"Gets Crowned and Not in a Good Way.","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Upcoming bowling superstar Woody Harrelson crosses aspiring player Bill Murray and pays a heavy price by having his hand cut off. Fast forward a few years and Harrelson still needs money and he eyes Amish phenomenon Randy Quaid and decides to take the equally dim-witted player with him on the road to bring home lots of riches in this terribly obscene and ugly film from the usually dependable Farrelly Brothers. A great-looking Vanessa Angel is the only reason to watch this mess. 2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Hit or miss","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Kingpin is a harmless but overall unsatisfying comedy from the Farrelly Brothers.  The premise is great, and it's nice how the Farrellys didn't let the gag involving Woody's rubber hand run its course, but it could've been handled much better.  I still have no clue why Roger Ebert voted it as one of the funniest comedies ever.  There are gags that work, and there are also gags that don't.  And there are lapses of dullness between each gag.  The cast is good.  You can probably recognize certain Farrelly regulars like Lin Shaye and Chris Elliott.  Woody Harrelson is terrific in the lead role.  Then again, Woody never ceases to please.  Randy Quaid is a perfect choice as the dim-witted Amish bowler.  Vanessa Angel is great to look at, though her accent noticeably drifts at times.  One thing I do have to criticize Peter and Bobby Farrelly for--and this even pertains to their good movies--is they always choose dorky music for their soundtracks.  I liked the hip opening, set to Disco Inferno, but from then on it's nothing but depressing easy listening tunes that only your grandparents enjoy listening to.  Did they forget they were making a comedy???  We need something a tad more upbeat.  The only cast member I can say was wasted was Bill Murray.  He tries to get a few chuckles, playing an ultimately mean-spirited character, and he has very little screen time.  I'm not placing the blame on Murray, I'm placing the blame on the screenwriters.  If he had some good material, his appearance would've been more memorable. There are only 3 scenes that made me laugh out loud, one being the hilarious barn-raising scene where Woody lets go of the ropes and the barn comes toppling down.  Now, I don't exactly think the Farrelly's are comic geniuses, but they have talent, which doesn't fully show in this hit-or-miss comedy.  My score  6 (out of 10)      "},{"Title":"Three strike, you're definitely out","Date":"20 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" How fun.. no, how unfunny was this movie? This movie was so unfunny, it was unfunny. This movie, was such a monstrous disappointment I never saw coming, as loving Dumb and Dumber, still the Farelly's Brother's funniest movie. This is the Farelly's unfunniest movie, even though unfunniest isn't a word. It almost took a year to hit video, which angered me more. The moments of laughs that are scarce as shark sightings, actually came as a relief in a near two hour movie, you just couldn't give two hoots about. Harrelson, a bowler with promise who was robbed of his golden moment, as well as his bowling hand, hits back years later, teaming up with the most likely of partners, an insecure Amish man, played by character actor, Randy Quaid, this unfunny mess of a comedy, not the first film, he's been wasted in. They also met a hot pro, with a nice heart, on the run from some bad guys, (yeah, shades of Dumb and Dumber) where a romance blossoms between her and Harrelson. Harrelson returns to the bowling scene, getting back at his nemesis, Murray, in fine devious form, an actor you have to witness to appreciate his method. This too long film, although Quaid, is fun to watch, is just an opposite misfire to the Farelly Brother's former hit. If a Farelly fan, and you haven't seen this, you're doing yourself a favour, snubbing this one off, believe me. "},{"Title":"Grab a seat, have a few beers...and start laughing !!","Date":"18 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" My favorite actor once wrote in one of his best movies  All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy ... That's how I felt about this movie. I love a decent and serious drama or epic but sometimes I just feel like laughing silly and lower my brain activity. And Kinpin is one of the best films to do this. Sprung from the mind of the Farrelly brothers, this comedy about the bowling world is hilarious. Well acted by respectable actors and filled with great jokes and quote-material. Just the right doses of sentimental elements and (almost) never over the top. Back in 1979, Roy Munson (Woody Harrelson) was a very gifted bowler. Due to the bad influence of Ernie McCracken (Bill Murray in a great role) his bowling hand was mutilated by villains. Now 17 years later, Roy is a schmuck and a drunk. He meets the very naive Amish guy Ishmaël ( Randy Quaid ) who is a great bowling talent. Roy wants to take him to Reno where a bowling contest is held. At first Ishmaël doesn't want to cause it doesn't fit in his Amish way of life but when his fathers tells him the community needs money he finally agrees. The way to Reno and the search for money causes a lot of hilarious situations. They meet a gorgeous woman, Claudia (Vanessa Angel) and she joins them to their trip to Reno. All the actors give a terrific performance. All that Vanessa Angel has to do is being sexy, of course, but she does that like no other woman could. Randy Quaid is cast perfect in the role of the Amish son of a farmer. His naive way of life give us the funniest scenes in the movie. I'm a big fan of Woody Harrelson and I think he can handle comedy as good as the serious roles he played in Natural Born Killers and The People vs Larry Flint. OK, he was in the funny sitcom Cheers but the this is a whole other kind of comedy. The supporting roles are very good as well, and the landlady is the first that comes to mind. Great, I tell you !! This is my personal favorite of the Farrelly bros. Although I laughed very hard with Dumb & Dumber and Something about Mary too, this film has something special. I can't really explain what that is. Anyway, this film is highly recommended to everyone who can appreciate a good comedy and isn't easily offended. People may claim that it's vulgar, but I think that's rather relative. I think it's a lot less vulgar than those typical high school comedies like American Pie. It's more accessible for people too in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Not Much Of Anything, And Too Arrogant In What It Is.","Date":"13 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Woody Harrelson and Randy Quaid are tragically funny in this vehicle wherein a washed up, one-handed participant of the national bowling circuit recruits an Amish farm-boy nobody to help him pull various scams to get to a bowling tournament in Reno with a million dollar payoff, all unbeknownst to the Amish nobody.Harrelson is the star, with Bill Murray taking the part of his competitional nemesis. Harrelson actually surprised me with his performance herein. I do not know what I expected really, but his performance surpassed those unknown expectations. Randy Quaid is so not Amish that it was amusing watching him as a man who is not Amish, trying to pretend to be Amish, convincingly, and not. But he did not mean to be convincing. It's merely the tenor of his performance which makes you half buy into his Amishness (if you can dig it).The weakest element here was Bill Murray. I hate to say that, as I have been a fan for thirty years, or so, but he is not nearly as great as his ego makes him believe, and his arrogance in this vehicle lost its humor when the character's megalomania too closely approached his own, thereby rendering the character a non-character in my book, and negating his performance as a performance.All in all, this is amusing, but not highly so, and is seriously overrated by the users here at IMDb. The greatest comedy of the 90's it isn't! It rates a 4.4/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Obnoxious and unfunny","Date":"23 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Kingpin in obnoxious comedy about a low life ex-master bowler Roy (woody Harrelson), who has stopped bowling after he has lost his his bowling hand. He discovers a natural master Ishmael (Randy Quaid), who is a Amish and very trusting person, who he then decides to exploit to win big bucks in the championships.kingpin throws jokes about anything, just like every Farrelly bros movie before this one. That's why I was surprised, that I didn't like the film. There are more misses than strikes in the jokes and, though I did got couple of laughs, the timing of the jokes is mostly very bad and the acting is obnoxious rather than funny.Film has some pretty good actors, but unfortunately the jokes just don't work even with them. Like Bill Murry, who succeeds in being totally bore in the film. Vanessa Angel is used only as a dumb bimbo / angry bitch joke. The breast punching bag scene is a biggest miss I've seen in any comedy.For me there was only one laughing out loud joke and a couple of smirks, but in all, I was more bored than entertained. "},{"Title":"Pitifully unfunny gross-out film.","Date":"16 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Kingpin wants to be the film that people talk about and grimace with a smile.  It wants to be the ultimate in politically incorrect, tasteless, gross-out comedy, but it fails miserably.  There is virtually nothing in this film that warrants two hours of the discriminating viewer's time OR the usually gifted cast.  A waste of celluloid.  As forgettable as it is unfunny.  "},{"Title":"Mostly unfunny.","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Many people found this movie, the second outing from the Farrelly brothers, to be hilarious, but I thought the funny moments were few and far between. Most of the time, this is a depressingly UNfunny, occasionally tasteless farce, that follows, and supposedly spoofs, the Rocky and the road-movie formulas, and has references to other recent movies (like the Indecent Proposal, in one inspired little bit). As for the offensive factor, it's pretty low, despite its being hyped-up; the only really disturbing scene is the aftermath of a dreaded sexual encounter. Woody Harelson does give a decent and believable performance, though.  (*1/2) "},{"Title":"Maybe It's Just Me But....","Date":"19 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Kingpin is possible the most dimwitted comedy ever made. This is not a good thing. Every second of this film is occupied by crude and gross-out humor. No wonder the best votes for this film come from kids under the age of 18. It took no skill to make this film and it is a disgrace to filmmakers everywhere. THIS FILM CONTAINS THE TYPE OF MISTAKES THAT DIRECTORS AND WRITERS SHOULD NEVER MAKE AND BE AWARE OF! I feel that my time could have been better spent watching a dry and witty comedy like Bottle Rocket, but thats just me. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies ever","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I found the cruel and overly obscene humor of the movie appalling.   The top notch actors made it seem appealing, but I feel the script went out of its way to offend.  I am a very liberal movie goer and not easily offended or disgusted, however this movie truly rates my worst movie list.A warning to parents  when I went to see in theater, there were many parents and children there.  I highly suggest that you do not rent for your children to view.   "}{"Title":"s is  for SUCK","Date":"5 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" I couldn't even get past the first half hour. This movie is painful to watch. In fact, I think I like vomiting better. Not funny. Not even remotely funny, in any way. Just...gross and sad...oh and it gets worse as the film goes on! Highly recommended to rent if you don't like someone. Woody Harrelson fits into this pathetic role almost too well (he's a great actor!) but it was a vile role to see him play. At first it seems quaint, but as soon as Bill Murrays character shows up you can see the bad times start, and it goes downhill from there. Sad sad sad waste of everything. The characters are people who in real life disgust me so watching an ENTIRE MOVIE about disgusting sad people seems too masochistic for me. Couldn't do it. Can I just say wholeheartedly ugh!?!? Get me a bucket? "},{"Title":"Big Laughs from a Terrific Cast","Date":"6 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Kingpin (1996) *** (out of 4)Bowler Roy Munson (Woody Harrelson) has everything in front of him until another bowler (Bill Murray) sells him out to a group of men they've just hustled and they end up cutting off Munson bowling hand, which puts an end to his career. Seventeen years later Munson is a worthless drunk who sees his chance back in the hopes of a Amish man (Randy Quaid) who he plans on getting to Reno for a big tournament. This was the Farrelly brothers follow-up to DUMB AND DUMBER and unlike that film, this one here wasn't a huge hit out of the gate and instead it took sometime to build up its cult following. I'm really not sure why this movie didn't hit it big when first released but time has been quite friendly to the raunchy comedy as it's certainly one of the better comedies of its period thanks in large part to a terrific cast, a nice story and plenty of big laughs. I think the story itself really isn't anything too special as it's pretty much your typical road movie with the biggest difference being the bowling subplot. I think what really makes this film so special are the three leads who are so perfect in their roles that you really can't imagine anyone else in the world playing them. Harrelson has always been an underrated comic actor and he does a very good job here and manages to get laughs out of the smallest stuff. Just the way he laughs or looks at someone can get a laugh but even better is the way he sells some of the jokes including a hilarious bit on the Amish farm where he pretends to know what he's doing, which leads him to milking a bull. Quaid can play an idiot like no other and make it look very easy. The way he brings this Amish guy to life is a lot of fun to watch because you really do feel as if you're watching someone real and someone experiencing the real world for the first time. Murray does what only he can as that type of comedy isn't easy and I can't think of anyone else who can pull it off. Apparently Murray ad-libbed just about every word in the film and the way he pulls this character off really helps bring in the laughs. Vanessa Angel fits in with the boys very well and manages a few nice laughs of her own as does Chris Elliott in his brief scenes. I think the film would have benefited had it lost about ten-minutes worth of footage because at just under two-hours the film is a little too long. The stuff with Angel's boyfriend isn't the funniest bits here and everything that happens with him in the second half should have been left out. The great thing about KINGPIN is that it never really delivers the type of laugh that you might expect and that's why the film works so well. The movie will have a scene set up and you might think you know where it's going but the funny part is seeing how different it plays out. The movie has some fairly low-taste laughs but the brothers were clearly just warming up as THERE'S SOMETHING ABOUT MARY was just two years away. "},{"Title":"You call this funny?","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" A promising bowler leaves home to become a champion the town folk can be proud of. Idealistic and naive he falls prey to a rival bowler's plot to remove his competition and ends up losing a hand. Interesting plot so far. What is done with it is supposed to be a rip roaring slap-your-knee laugh fest. Well I've laughed more at online postings than I did well watching this. Maybe I just don't get the Farrelly brothers type of humor if that's what you call it. There's a bunch of sight gags that go nowhere and look really lame. There are jokes that you see coming a mile off and just repeat themselves. There are some usual disgusting scenes that make you cringe. What this movie doesn't seem to have is any originality. OK so there's an Amish bowler but he comes off as stupid just so we can laugh at the predictable stupid things he does. Like the other characters he's two-dimensional and not that likable. It's a shame that a otherwise talented cast is stuck with this turkey on their resumes. "},{"Title":"Probably the stupidest film I've ever seen.","Date":"6 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Consider this a warning. If your IQ is above that of a toad, and frankly, whose isn't, you'll find this movie completely idiotic, and not in a funny sense.  It's filled with bathroom humor and jokes with completely flat punchlines.  My kids hated it, and they like low brow humor a la Adam Sadler and Paul Shore (although they're growing out of that).  The premise of this movie is absurd.  The acting is pretty bad.  Woody Harrelson walks through it with zero expression.  Bill Murray has a small role and it's not his best.  The lead actress is not bad to look at but her acting is completely forgettable.Do yourself a favor.  Don't waste your time on this unfunny idiocy. "},{"Title":"1996's Top 10 Worst Comedies !","Date":"26 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Yes, I'm years late. But being late is better than not showing at all. And being unfunny comedy is worse than being any other bad movie !10_(Multiplicity)  I know, I know. It's such an original idea. Directed by (Harold-Ghost Busters, Groundhog Day-Ramis). And that (Andie MacDowell) never looked sexier. But as a whole it wasn't that comic or big as its idea. And (Michael Keaton), who's a natural comedian, was much better in other movies (rather any of his movies !).09_(Bulletproof)  one of the least interesting buddy-cop movies in the era. Whether as a comedy or an action, both ways it's languid. Even its laughs were perfectly gross-out. Who can forget putting the gun up Adam Sandler's naked butt ?!!08_(Space Jam)  not every cartoon is funny, not every sport champion is qualified to be in a movie, and this cartoon isn't a champion or funny movie at all !07_(The Nutty Professor)  smart remake, dumb comedy. The repulsive sense is all over it. The movie's purpose is well meaning, but the jokes aren't. Sometimes the fart gags are many in a movie, this time they're HUGE ! It puts a contest for itself to be too disgusting, and guess what ? It won !06_(Carpool)  one of the best plots for a comic action, and it got message as well about the relationship between father and his kids. But (Tom Arnold) was there ! I'm sad to ever put this movie in this list, it got great and historical car jump. Though, the final feeling about it makes it weak, well the memory of (Arnold) alone does it !05_(Larger Than Life)  actually, it's larger than anyone's endurance. There is No comedy, No action, No meaning, No nothing. At times we say Hey, it's just for kicks. Now this movie isn't useful for kicks, kids, or even kits !04_(Fled)  it's poor man's The Defiant Ones, poor man's Lethal Weapon, and poor is the man who sat to watch it ! The interplay between Laurence Fishburne and Stephen Bladwin&#x85;Hmmm, you can say that Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde had better chance ! Basically, who the hell might think that (Bladwin) can do comedy (or else !) ? There are many references to many movies, but don't think of it as parody, otherwise it puts rod in parody ! This movie defines dry. If you didn't watch it; FLEE for your life!03_(Feeling Minnesota)  Black comedy ?! I don't think so. White comedy ?! That's a white lie ! So WHAT WAS THAT ANYWAY ?! I'll tell you, it's torturing time as a comedy or anything ! Don't let some of the names fool you. The only truth in this dreadful movie was  Cameron Diaz's sexy beauty, and this movie's fact as dreadful !02_(The Cable Guy)  another comedy about extremely silly guy, but the thing is that dear (Jim) WAS extremely silly in it ! Enough said.01_(Kingpin)  not the worst comedy in 1996 only, it's one of the worst in the history of cinema ! Just ask yourself why I'm doing it this way (writing a list instead of a comment ?) simply because if I wrote an independent review about it, I'd curse in a way the IMDb will certainly ban. The first word that comes to mind about it, and not filthy, is Horrible. It's something to begin with when it comes to describe everything and everyone in here! For Bobby and Peter Farrelly putting message or meaning in a movie will be something they'll do later, because at the days of (Dumb & Dumber &#x96; 1994) and (There's Something About Mary &#x96; 1998) they were in the dumb zone, playing the adolescent game of who can come up with dirtier stuff than the other ?! They were determined not to make nice time, only an ocean of sperms & spews (which stands for nice time for them !). If being a comedy means making me laugh, then this one didn't make me laugh or smile. It made me feel how sickening that was, and how easy making nauseating comedies is ! It's the top bottom of the list, and what a stinky bottom it is indeed ! "},{"Title":"Quite Possibly the Worst Movie Ever Made","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Seriously, I skimmed the comments for this movie, and I only found one guy who said that this was the stupidest movie ever. What's with that? You people are messed up.This is extremely absurd, considering, including me, I know at least five people who are of that opinion, and dozens more who just hate this movie. I - and I'm not kidding you here - almost got laughed out of a conversation for admitting to having paid to see it in a theatre. And no, I don't live in Snobland, but thanks for asking.Why is this movie so bad? It's not funny. Simple as that. Is a guy getting his arm torn off in a bowling-ball-shiner machine funny? No. Mind you, getting an ear bitten off isn't particularly funny either but both Mike Tyson and the Big Lebowski made it work.  This movie doesn't make anything work at all, I've rarely seen so many minutes without a laugh - hell, even dramas usually have more funny scenes. Now that I've mentioned Big Lebowski - there's an excellent, excellent, hilarious... err... excellent movie - and it involves bowling too. But this? This aggression on movie-making will not stand. Sincerely takin' er easy for all us sinners,Marmaduke Grove "}]