[{"Title":"It's even better if you understand Czech","Date":"15 October 2004","Score":"56 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I like this movie very much and I am glad to read that most of you like it too. However, some comments here describe it as predictable and having the funny parts far from one another. It is not true. There are two more things that you cannot appreciate 1) The background. I am a Czech myself and I remember the times which the film speaks about. There are many little details that probably come and go unnoticed for the foreigner eye but each of them is a symbol - it carries meaning that is so obvious for a Czech viewer. 2) The language is FUNNY! Sverak (the author) is a well known writer here. He is a GENIUS with the language, it's full of sweet little word puns that can never be translated into another language. You can translate the data, the information - but you lose the atmosphere. Believe me, even in the parts that look boring, there is something hidden between the lines - it's either funny, emotional, powerful... There is another great thing with playing with the differences between Czech and Russian. The languages are similar (to some extend) but there are differences that can result in misunderstandings - and they use it in the movie too. Czech people used to learn Russian language at schools so they can appreciate it.I am so sorry that there is no way that you could enjoy even these parts of the movie. (Unless you'd want to learn Czech of course -)Just please, please, bear in mind that this is not just a shallow romantic movie. Yes, it is lovely - but there is more than that. "},{"Title":"Heart-Warming, Charming Film","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"39 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Set in the twilight of Communist rule in Czechoslovakia, we find Louka, a 55-year old confirmed bachelor, blacklisted concert cellist, and womanizer, struggling to make ends meet. He's slipping further into poverty when he agrees to participate in a scam to save a Russian woman from deportation&#133;by marrying her. She promptly flees to the West, leaving Louka with her 5 year old, Russian-speaking son, Kolya. Predictable, with Disneyesque warmth, Kolya is still a very effective movie. Well directed and acted it does not rush Louka's slow realization of his capacity to love, pried out by his young, innocent ward. Setting the story against the backdrop of the approaching Velvet Revolution emphasizes Louka's spiritual growth. As good as this movie is, I'm surprised how poorly it is perceived by IMDb's younger viewers. It deserved its Academy Award and deserves a rental.  "},{"Title":"Magical performances in a touching film","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"32 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Take the old formula of two mismatched people being forced to live together, and rejuvenate it by losing the cliches and adding excellent script and direction, and utterly superb acting by all the cast, especially the two leads (the grouch and the boy). The characterisations are just spot on.Whenever I see films like this I end up both very glad to have seen such an outstanding movie, and extremely irritated that practically no-one knows about this gem of a movie, yet films like 'Godzilla' rake in money.My thanks to all involved with this movie; you have produced a work of art.  "},{"Title":"Excellent film","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"30 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I did not think this film was at all sentimental (if you are using the word in its pejorative sense).  In reading the comments on this film, I noticed the Czechs who responded were rather lukewarm about it.  This surprises me.  Kolya works as a film on several levels at once -- political, artistic, personal, etc. and I do not think it is at all predictable.  The performances are magical and the entire film is encased by music of very great beauty and humanity by Dvorak and other great Czech composers.  Music from Dvorak's Four Biblical Songs is at the heart of the film.  It is the song that Klara sings at the funerals and the song Kolya is singing before and during the closing credits.  The vintage film footage of Kubelik conducting Smetana's Ma Vlast at a concert at the end of the Russian occupation is a wonderful touch.  Although I'm sure many other Czech films deserve Oscars, I am glad Kolya was recognized.  I hope this film is released on DVD soon. "},{"Title":"Magic!","Date":"14 October 1998","Score":"24 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I saw Kolya at the cinema during the film festival here in 1997, and recently rented the video so the rest of my family could see it.  The ending may be rather predictable, but the characterization is just magic.  Best scenes  Kolya's funeral for the puppet, and the lump-in-the-throat moment when Kolya tries to call his babushka in the bathtub. Give that kid another acting job!  A beautiful film.  Even if you don't generally watch subtitled films, this one's worth it.  My family and I all agree--this is a 10/10 film.  They don't come any better. "},{"Title":"Great acting!!","Date":"12 August 2004","Score":"23 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I watched this film last night on a open air cinema in Sundance and absolutely loved it!! The story is pretty simple and not very original, yet the film manages to be unique!! (it is very similar to the film Ponnette) But what I considered to be the best part of this movie was the little boy's performance. The kid is just the best kid actor I have seen in a long while. His acting not only is fabulous but REALLY touching and convincing.I highly recommend this movie to anyone that wants to see a well made European movie that can make you laugh and cry at the same time.  "},{"Title":"A Thoughtful, Luminous Film","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  What is a man to do who has resisted marriage until late middle age but then enters into a fraudulent marriage of convenience and ends up solely responsible for a five year old in the bargain?  That is Franta Louka's dilemma in this beautiful film.  Louka, played by Zdenek Sverak who also wrote the screenplay, is a onetime philharmonic cellist who has lost his orchestra job because the Soviet era Czech communist powers-that-be deem him unreliable.  As a consequence Louka has been reduced to playing at weddings and funerals and re-gilding cemetery tombstones.  He has no car and is deeply in debt.  In order to finance a car and reduce his debt Louka lets a coworker from the cemetery convince him to marry a Russian woman so that she can emigrate to the West. Louka reluctantly agrees and married the woman but the Russian decamps.  This ultimately results in Louka becoming solely responsible for the woman's five year old boy -- who only speaks Russian.  Louka and the little boy's relationship is both believable and moving.  Kolya is very nearly a great film.  Highly, highly recommended.  9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A beautiful film","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I've seen a number of U.S. movies filmed in Czechoslovakia, but this is the first Czech film I've seen.  Seeing this makes me understand how Czechoslovakia could have a fairly booming film industry.This movie came on on cable network IFC and it first grabbed my attention because I didn't recognize what language the characters were speaking.  Within a couple of minutes, however, the movie itself had hooked me, though it's not the type of story I'd usually seek out.  Indeed I was late to work and really wanted to get going, but I was unable to tear myself away.Beyond the great writing, acting, and directing, this film has some truly amazing cinematography.  There are occasions where the filmmakers seem to have commanded the universe around them to get these shots.  In one scene, the lead character looks up through his car's windshield as he's driving, and in perfect synchronization the reflection of the airliner he was looking at passes across the windshield.  Even more amazing was the shot from well up in the air, with the lead characters' car driving up the road, a train going up a track in parallel to them, and a hawk (or eagle?) hovering right in front of the camera and then diving off to the side -- and they got this shot right at magic hour.  In Hollywood CGI surely would have been used to coordinate this ballet of elements.There were also many shots incorporating wonderfully poetic imagery.  One of my favorites was the lead character staring into the reflective doors at the airport which close and reveal him to himself, standing there utterly alone.One more comment -- another reviewer called the ending predictable, but I'd have to disagree.  I really didn't know where the movie would end up, and in fact it was portrayed so subtly that I had to rewind the final scene to be sure what had happened, and then go back and re-watch a prior scene that contained a seemingly throwaway line that bears on the ending. "},{"Title":"tender. loving. amazing.","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Kolya combines a big, pulsating heart with a wide range of visual creativity. It is touching, it will make you weep. But the tears that you shed aren't cheap. They don't flow from your eyes because of average schmaltz. This is a genuine masterpiece full of emotions, and Sverak has a fingerspitzen-gefühl that makes him a master filmmaker.  "},{"Title":"A good Czech film--but there are better ones","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I am neither Czech nor European. I grew up appreciating the fine Czech cinema of Milos Forman, Jan Kadar and Jiri Menzel. While Kolya is refreshing compared to American standards, it lacks the maturity of say Kadar's Lies my father told me (Golden Globe winner for best foreign film in 1976) made in Canada&#151;a film in English with a Czech heart and soul or Forman's Loves of a blonde (also about music and musicians).Czech cinema gives a lot of importance to classical Western music. In Kolya, the emphasis is on Dvorak's Biblical songs&#151;The Lord is my shepherd being one. The film might not appear to be religious but interestingly many of Czech filmmakers seem to use religion without making it obvious. (In neighboring Poland, Kieslowski loved to do this to the extent that he made a series of 10 films called Dekalog linked to the Ten Commandments.) In the film the child inexplicably swears Jesus Christ in Russian. The underlying analogy of a child redeeming the life of wayward adults with no purpose in life is not a surprising turn for east European directors who couch religion in non-religious ambiance. Is it a coincidence that church steeples are visible from the windows and crosses are drawn by a child? As a film, this is at best a good Czech film--nothing more. There have been better Czech films unknown to American and West European audiences. "}{"Title":"We measure time in funerals...","Date":"11 October 2007","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" For a lecherous old man who fairly wallows in his own lechery, who fiddles at funerals and touches up tombstones, the introduction of a wife (however temporary) and a step-son who doesn't even speak the same language proves most inconvenient. As it no doubt would for most of us. The political schism only makes things worse. Where you Russians march, he tells his young charge, you stay. It's a statement (especially when made to so young a child) that's as harsh as it is funny. It's learning to communicate (and to love) that ultimately matters. Differences (especially in ideologies) are, in the final analysis, insignificant. Early on in the film, driving past a trio of young women he is ogling, the boy's unsuspecting, yet-to-be step-father doesn't bother to turn to look at their faces as he passes. His companion does, and remarks that their fronts don't hold up to their backs. I didn't look back, the old man says So, for me, they'll be beautiful forever. In his dealings with the boy, KOLYA, he learns to look beyond the superficial- and, in the end, can't help but look back. "},{"Title":"A great film but not for Americans","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"17 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Kolya is a great film which was filmed in 1996 by Jan Sverák, the son of the actor, director and screenwriter Zdenek Sverák who played the main character in this film. We can see a great deal of work done by Zdenek Sverák who is a great director. Despite the fact that even american consultants were involved in the film in order to make Kolya understandable even for the Americans, I do not think that Americans could understand it in as properly as we Czechs do. It is also very much the games with language, which is based on the similarity btw. Czech and Russian, which makes the film very difficult for the Americans to understand. Another factor is the  plot which a non-Czech does not understand if he or she does not know about the historical background. So I would recommend the following. Read something about the period of the Czech history btw. 1968 and 1989 and then watch the movie. It´s great!  "},{"Title":"Touching story with political commentary","Date":"28 June 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This is a variation on the theme of an older man whose emotional life is reawakened by his being thrust into unexpected parenting of a young child. Many have complained of the exploitation of such time-worn subject matter, but the worth of Kolya lies in the particulars of how its themes are developed. After all there are still good movies made about underdog sports teams prevailing, and even the exact same material (thinking Shakespeare here) can be made fresh through different productions.The man in question here is Frantisek Louka, the place is the Czech Republic, and the time is 1988 (just prior to the Velvet Revolution). Financial constraints tempt Louka to enter into a bargain to marry a Russian woman so she can get Czech citizenship and, it turns out, escape to West Germany to be with her lover. This leaves Louka to care for the child Kolya. One thing that makes this movie stand out is the quality of the acting by all involved. In particular Andrei Chalimon as the Russian child is very natural and will win your heart as he does Louka's. But it's a slow process.Another thing that sets this off is the political backdrop. I knew about Russia's occupation of the Czech Republic after World War II and the non-violent overthrow of the Communist government in 1989, but that is about as far as my knowledge went. This movie portrays what it was like to live in that environment in a concrete way that a history book cannot. A lot of little scenes exemplify the underlying tensions, such as Louka's being expected to display both the Czech and Russian flags in his window, Louka's mother refusing to let some Russian soldiers in to wash their hands by lying about her having no water, and Louka's purposeful refusal to learn the Russian language. So, this movie provided a small increment in my knowledge of Czech history and that's better than nothing. How the political situation drives the action makes for a singularly interesting story.The musical score that contains works by the Czech composers Dvořák, Suk, Fibich, and Smetana adds a special quality.Don't be turned away from seeing this because it touches on familiar themes; it is a quality film with unique characteristics. "},{"Title":"Piece Of Cake","Date":"2 April 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Kolya, they story was very simple, and has emotion in the right content. The characters didn't over play, the little boy was excellent, specially the scene where he talks in the bathtub to his his grandma over the phone was heart pounding. He was so matured for his age, only few come to my mind doing something like this. The locations was great, the way certain shorts were taken was absolutely beautiful. The music in the film is good, and i like the way the comedy was placed through the movie. I have to admit that i don't know the language, i managed it with the subtitle but still the movie was hilarious. I really kicked my self for not knowing more language to feel certain films like this. "},{"Title":"Will rip your heart out.","Date":"20 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Who knows what you will do when your back is against the wall? Survival makes you do some things that you would never try. In this case Louka (Zdenek Sverák), a confirmed bachelor, marries a Russian woman to get her Czech papers and to get him some money to buy a car and fix his house and pay some debts.As soon as they marry, she heads to Germany. her son, Kolja (Andrei Chalimon), a little five-year-old, ends up with Louka, who soon finds that he is bonding with the boy.It is a beautifully touching story with some outstanding performances by the two leads and Libuse Safránková as Klara.It is fascinating that star and writer of the screenplay is also the father of the director. I cannot imagine how that worker, but I bet it was interesting at times. "},{"Title":"Excellent!! deserved its Acad. Awards - compelling w/narratives at 3 levels","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" From another user comment, I gather that this film is packed with humor and references that will only be apparent to those familiar with Czech language and history.Despite that, to me it was an eminently satisfying film.There are three inter-related, connecting narratives, all intensely interesting, that propel the film and our attention.One is that this largely captures the time just before the revolution against Soviet occupation. It delineates very well what it was like to live within an occupied state with foreign rules and prohibitions. Among them, the way some people do (or do not) ally themselves to the foreign presence and support it for their own profit as well as quickly give it up when that's no longer profitable. And a little of what it was like in the transition to greater freedom.Another narrative deals with the life and times of a bachelor professional musician, a cellist, who long ago had to decide between having a family OR being a serious professional musician. He chose the latter route. Since that did not require him to be celibate, he developed excellent seductive skills which were perhaps near the level of his musicianship. His caring for Kolja changes him.The third major narrative to develop is the experience of Kolja, the eponymous subject of the film. He is the child of a single mother, Russian, who is determined to emigrate across the Iron Curtain. As a Russian she cannot. BUT, if she marries a Czech, she can. Due to a realistic but complex series of events, Kolja cannot accompany her.The film deals with trying to accomplish that and its aftermaths and consequences.I thought Kolja did a good job of showing SOME of the pain that a child -- separated from biological father, biological mother, biological grandmother, etc. -- would feel and what reactions would occur. But I'm a retired PhD psychologist who worked with scores of children in circumstances somewhat analogous to Kolja's. MY experience is that children placed in Kolja's place would almost always have far more destructive, harder to handle, reactions than Kolja did in the movie. I think it's understandable that Kolja was presented as NOT having those so intensely. This movie would have been rated by me a 10 if only they could have accomplished that but -- to do that, an entirely different movie would have to have been made. But, as it is, it shows the power of a relationship to transform those in it, of his developing love for the child humanizing the musician. "},{"Title":"Holy Crap!!! What a wonderful movie!!!","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" THis movie is great! all of the actors should be frozen to be kept alive, it such a great story. It's about a playboy who gets stuck with a four year old boy for two weeks. in the beginning the only time they interacted was when they slept in the same bed, but by the end they couldn't be separated. if you've consider seeing this movie, you should!!!!!!! it is incredible!!!! it has such emotion, when it was over i just sat there for two hours, just thinking and sometimes crying, but golly gee it is so great. i can't believe anyone could not enjoy this. even satin himself would have to take his pitchfork out of someones heart and sit down and think about the values of this movie. it is so good!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! it truly deserves all of those exclamation points. "},{"Title":"TEN out of 10 movie!","Date":"23 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This film is an absolute mastership of movie making. The plot might seem simple to some - older man taking care of a child, but the epicness of this drama lies in the historic setting of this story which is amplified by the absolute mastery of displaying the scenes both through the eyes of a 6 yrs old as well as as the portrayed every-day struggles of a grown individual in the normalizing era of Czechoslovakia. The film will captivate you from it's beginning to the end, throughout the whole story in it's heartbreaking moments as well as by the easy set scenes. I do not write reviews often, but just I saw this movie when I was like 16, then sometimes in my 20ies, and being 33 these days I find this one probably the maximum level where a family movie can make it. I have no doubt you will enjoy. "},{"Title":"Emotional it is!","Date":"11 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I just watched this film for the sixth or seventh time and I ended, as always with tears running down my cheeks. It is astonishing how all the bad comments here, are almost exclusively posted by Czech people and, the strongest argument of almost everyone, is that there are other better Czech films out there; most of them referring to the New Wave of the 60's and 70's. Furthermore what is very interesting is that most of the people that have posted their critique, whether it is good or bad, mention the fact that it won the Oscar. For you who don't like the film and state that there were better films, if they were Czech films in the past, or that the other films that were nominated the same year were in fact better, you contradict yourselves since most of you acknowledge, just as I do, that the Oscars are just a waste of space and time but, at the same time you state that another movie was so much more worthy of the price. Everyone knows that the Oscars are all about political correctness and praising movies that treat subjects that are hot, or just on the agenda, for the moment. However, not any too deep or too subversive subjects are welcome; the most important issue is still selling the movie, so no real surprises can be accepted. And the fact that the movie takes place in a communist, Warsaw-treaty country, just when the wall is about to fall down, and the whole communist project with it, is definitely the main reason for why it won the Oscar. Anyway...if we just disregard of any external factors when looking at this movie, I can't really see how anyone can dislike it. I have to say, I am not Czech born, but I am Swedish born with a Czech mother and a Slovak father, and my knowledge of the Czech and Slovak languages is quite good. I understand most of what I hear but I don't speak very well. But, even for me, I realize that so much of this movie is lost if you don't know the language, the history, the culture etc. of Czech, Slovak, Russian or any of the central European countries. I laugh and cry throughout the whole movie, but maybe it has to do with my incomplete knowledge of the language and, the fact that I have a very nostalgic approach towards this movie or much of the Czech or Slovak movies I see.Yes I agree, that there are some banal elements in the film and that the creators may have consulted various Hollywood people in order to make it more fathomable and appealing to the US market.However....the movie is not boring, it is not overly melodramatic, and since it doesn't pretend to make any deeper comments or analysis on how it was to live under authoritarian communist rule, it is merely making minor humoristic observations on some of the absurdities in the day to day life that emerged within such a society. And also, may it be cliché and banal, that we are all people and that no one wanted what had become of the Communist Party apparatus and its since long lost global socialist revolution, whether it be Russian, Czech, Slovak or any other of the included. I am not saying that what replaced it was some kind of salvation, but at least, people are free to think and act. Most of the comments from Americans here in IMDb are very naive and quite hollow, especially when it comes to these Oscar-winning, real life political movies. If you go and look at the comments about the movie Hotel Rwanda for example, there is a huge amount of people, almost exclusively US citizens, who have given it 10 out of 10, and many state that the movie has opened there eyes, or made them reevaluate the meaning of life. I myself think it is a horrible movie, with it sole purpose to clean the conscience of the western world and the entertainment industry. The extremely complex and intricate historical and political aspects of the conflict were hardly mentioned, and the only emotions that it wanted to awake in the viewer, was guilt and pity. I am sorry for straying from the subject here, but I just wanted to somehow, even though I am aware that it has been done kind of vaguely, make my point which is that a movie doesn't have to dig as deep as it can, if that is not its aim. The story in Kolya is quite ordinary, but what is important is that to love and care for those who are in need of it, is not absent in any of us (obviously with the exception of sociopaths, and those who suffer from various mental disorders). And that is what, may it be at sometimes too obvious and cliché, the two Sveraks have accomplished. And obviously the little boy is such a big part of the whole feeling, he is absolutely brilliant. He breaks my heart every time I watch the scenes of when his spirit, albeit a very strong one, brakes down. And to you, I think you were a Brit, that thought the movie was too sentimental, and that the scene where Kolya tries to ring his Babushka in the bathtub, was ridiculous; I just wonder, where is your heart? A little boy losing his whole foundation just like that, having to live with a strange man in a strange place where (almost) no one understands you, even though his spirit is strong, suddenly breaking down and calling for his grandmother.... I thought that scene was very emotional, and that is what is the strength of the whole movie, meaning that it never tries to play on the pity of us viewers. Kolya almost never whines or cries but, when he does it's because he really can't take it anymore. "},{"Title":"Charming and kind. Just like Sverak himself.","Date":"26 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I feel sorry that all the reviews coming from Czech Republic are so negative. Yes, I also prefer some other movies from Svěrák, but meant for international success or not, I don't think he compromised his standards. The effort to make the movie more understandable for foreign audiences might have upset some film critics here, maybe even make some jealous with all the awards and positive responses it got.I personally am in love with all work of Sverak. Humble approach and subtle humor are just genius. I think that performances of all actors in this movie are great and camera work and music is just enchanting.So 10 points coming from Czech Republic. "}{"Title":"Could this possibly be the cutest thing ever made?","Date":"7 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  All I can say about Kolya is nice. Very nice. This is sort of the Czech version of Big Daddy--only better. This movie is so bloody adorable, I recommend it to everyone who likes foreign stuff and wants to have fun, fun, fun and gain a bit of knowledge of Czech movies. "},{"Title":"Watch this movie if you are looking for some thoughtful, calm and light-hearted entertainment","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  The emotions and inevitability of human relationship effortlessly transcend the cultural and linguistic barriers. Kolya, a 1996 Czechoslovakian movie by Jan Sverak makes this point very beautifully. The movie is set in Soviet-occupied Czechoslovakia. Frank Louka (played by Zdenek Sverak who is also the writer of the movie) is a cellist who used to play for Philharmonic (the state symphony orchestra) but now plays at funerals, paints graves and leads a fairly playboy-ish lifestyle. In desperate need of money (to buy a car), he marries a Russian girl half his age and with a young son, Kolya, to get some money in lieu of helping the young lady secure the Czech citizenship. This is very much a marriage of convenience but things take an unexpected turn for him when his wife leaves his country for her lover at West Germany and her mother, who has been taking care of Kolya, falls ill. Kolya's grandmother needs to be admitted to the hospital and he is left to the care of his stepfather. Louka is at a loss as to what to be done with this latest addition to his single-person family. The language barrier does not make the task any easier. Kolya too is not comfortable and he spends his initial time at the strange surroundings sobbing and looking out of the window. Louka makes all the efforts, in vain, to find an alternative to Kolya staying with him - such as social welfare offices or with his mother. Gradually, each person's loneliness and needs bring them closer. The depiction of the gradually increasing proximity is subtle yet strong such as Kolya taking Louka's hand while crossing the road or desperation showed by Louka when Kolya gets lost during a train ride. When their relationship starts hitting a higher note, come government inquiries into Louka's marriage and a representative from the social welfare office. When it appears that the government may not let them stay in peace, Louka, alongwith Kolya, sets off (in the same car that he afforded after the marriage) to go far away from their reach. It is during their stay as outlaws that the public representations begin against the political unrest. Kolya is, un-willingly, re-united with his mother and Louka is back to a life without his stepson. The parting is tragic but Louka seems to have found some direction - he is again playing at the Philharmonic and his companion is now pregnant with their child.This is a very well made movie that brings out the subtlety of relationships with great ease and humor. Both the actors playing the lead characters have given very realistic and down-to-earth performances. "},{"Title":"A film not to be missed","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This  is a film not to be missed.  The photography is a pleasure; the story line, well, a bit predictable in places, but not jarringly so; the acting from all principals, including the little boy, utterly convincing; and the background is the Czech countryside (masking its pollution with beauty, as shown in a strange scene in the otter-less Otter Creek), the incomparable Prague, and picturesque villages.  Listing the qualities of the film does not capture the magical quality that lifts Kolya from the ruck, and the filmgoer from the mundane. "},{"Title":"A great movie!","Date":"23 November 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  It's a great movie! It's so funny and beautiful! With no sex or violence! It has great actors and a lovely soundtrack! The best movie of 96! It's better than a lot of American movies! Believe it!  "},{"Title":"pretty darn good","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I never saw a czeck film before this and I really wasn't sure what to expect. But it was really great and it was fantasticly balanced. Everything, the war, the russians, the home life, the job, the kid, the love interest, the mother, it was all in there and it really blended well. I hope I see many more movies as good as this. The script is great the acting great and it was really funny. Some parts were truly ROFL funny. Amazing picture. "},{"Title":"A beautiful foreign film.","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This was an excellent movie on many levels.  It excellently depicts the economy of the U.S.S.R. right before the revolution and is funny at the same time.  Kolya,the little boy played by Andrei Chalimon, is an outstanding actor.  An especially good scene in the film is at the beginning, when you see Kolya looking out the plane window.  The cinematography in the film is excellent and I recommend it. "},{"Title":"A touching story","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Louka (Zdenek Sverak), a 55-year-old, self-centred, womanizing, bachelor Cellist enters a fake marriage-of-convenience and ends up alone with a 5-year-old boy, Kolya (Andrej Chalimon),  to look after.  Through the experience, the man matures and becomes ready to take on a real wife and child. Chalimon gives an amazingly convincing and touching performance. The film won the Best Foreign Language Film Oscar for 1996. "},{"Title":"enchanted by this movie","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" my husband and I watched a video of this movie the other night and were enthralled, touched and charmed. Previously I think I had overlooked it with the impression that it might be too saccharine. Nothing could be further from the truth. Many have written on this forum that it is not the best of this writers work or that one can not truly understand it unless one is Czech. Sorry, I am American and can only view it from that perspective. I thought the acting was wonderful. The story, not contrived as some people have said comparing it to Three Men and a Baby and Heidi (and I might add Silas Marner!) I found totally believable. After all how many stories are there in the human experience? The child was a wonderful actor, all the characters were likable and understandable. Also as non-Czechs we welcomed seeing what life, under an occupying, totalitarian force is like. Unbearable Lightness of Being also gave this gut wrenching impression of being occupied but I'm sorry and can't remember if that was Hungary or Czechloslovakia. We will definitely look out for more films by this director or films from other Slavic countries. Oh, also liked seeing Prague. Is that the city in one of the segments from Aria with the beautiful sculpture? "},{"Title":"Nice movie. Loved the direction.","Date":"19 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Enjoyed the movie. Really liked the direction. Watched the movie with Subtitles and I wish I knew Russian or Czech to understand the language barrier between the characters. Found myself smiling through the subtle comical moments in the movie. It is a heart warming story which focuses on relation between a 55 year old man - Louka - a lady's man, who is dedicated to bachelorhood and a concert cellist struggling to make a living and a 5 year old Russian speaking boy - Kolya forced to look-after due to circumstances post a fake marriage in exchange of money. The characters were nicely built and the acting is superb. Wish more movies like this were created and appreciated, a work of art. "},{"Title":"What a tearjerker!","Date":"11 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This Czech film is worthy of all the accolades. Set in Prague on the end of communism, a Russian mother marries a Czech musician to become a Czech citizen in a marriage scam. Franta Louka is a lifelong bachelor and heterosexual who lives alone in an apartment. When his wife leaves for the West, she leaves her five year old adorable son to a relative who becomes ill and is handed over to Louka. Their relationship progresses as the reluctant father takes a liking to the boy. The film also shows how communism and soviet resentment in Czech. The film is both light hearted and serious. I couldn't help but feel sad by the end. The cast is first rate especially the young boy who played Kolya. "}{"Title":"Unforgettably touching! Unique!","Date":"12 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This is perhaps, my third review here. I am not the type of person who spends her time writing movie reviews. Yet, considering how marvellous this movie is, and the fact that it doesn't have many reviews I wanted to share my own views here.I want to be brief. I can simply tell you that it was an unforgettable experience! If you watch it you won't regret it, for it is meant to be cherished. I can, perhaps, put it at the same level of Cinema Paradiso, for both stories explore love, innocence, and friendship, but at the same time they are very different, for they deal different aspects of life.Kolya is a profoundly beautiful film. It is not just one more Art House-because there are good, mediocre, and bad Art House movies. Kolya is soul, delight, love, and sunrise! "},{"Title":"A surprising, heart-warming film.","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I was discussing movies with an acquaintance of mine when he handed me a video of a film I had never heard of before, Kolya.  When I was through watching it, I was very pleasantly surprised.  The script is very funny and very touching.  I was also struck by how beautiful the cinematography was; even Louka's apartment seemed to take on a rich texture of its own.Even if you're not into foreign films, I would recommend giving Kolya a try.  I can't imagine anyone not enjoying this movie. "},{"Title":"Lovely, adorable, perfect...","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I honestly couldn't hold my tears while watching Kolja. You won't regret watching it if you have a heart and if you have any taste on movies. Everything is realistic in the movie, blended with fabulous pictures and flawless acting. It's entertaining and very well qualifies as an art film too. It has everything one could want in a drama. A lot of feelings in the first place. Pictures how a child can change a crazy man into an excellent father, pictures how love overcomes the nasty feelings toward a particular nation due to occupation, and outlines the real life situation during the last breaths of communism in an iron curtain country. An absolutely fascinating film in general. I'd watch it again anytime. "},{"Title":"Hurray for Kolya!!!!!!  Excellent Film!","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is a heartwarming, funny, and well made film.  I highly recommend it for everyone.  It's well written with an excellent cast.  It's not often that a film touches its viewers on so many levels.  Rent this film, you'll be glad you did! "},{"Title":"Needed relief from the excesses of Hollywood.","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Kolya, an award winning Czech film set in Prague, is a sweet and sentimental story about a boy (the title character) and a male cellist who, through circumstance, becomes his guardian. Set against a backdrop of Czech countryside and the architecture of Prague, this well crafted and wistful tale is a worthwhile 100 minute watch for those in need of relief from the numbing excesses of Hollywood blockbusters. Potentially enjoyable by all, Kolya will be most appreciated by mature audiences, particularly those who favor European films. "},{"Title":"10/10","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Straight to the top of best film list. Saw this film at the Glasgow Film Theatre - not a spare seat nor a dry eye in the house. PERFECT MOVIE. "},{"Title":"cute movie","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie had a lot of heart. We watch an aging womanizer learn how to be less selfish, and humor the idea of domestic life when he gets stuck with little cherubic Kolya. It doesn't have the sense of grandness or levity that I'd usually associate with an oscar winner but it was enjoyable nonetheless. Everything in this movie was pitch perfect, from the acting to the dialog. The kid was adorable! My favorite scene is Kolya with the escalator.  I don't know much about that part of the world, and I am glad I got to learn a little bit about Czechoslovakia- even if it is through a movie. It was cool listening to their language too. At first, I was watching the DVD in French with English subtitles- until I noticed the words and mouth movements weren't matching up! woops. "},{"Title":"A work of beauty!","Date":"6 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Louka, a poor Czech musician, agrees to marrying a young Russian woman, in order for him to get some cash and for her to be allowed to stay in Czecho-Slovakia. One must keep in mind that this takes place in 1989, before the fall of the Soviet-Union and the split of Czecho-Slovakia. Louka's new wife soon moves to Germany, leaving a relative to take care of her five-year-old son Kolya. When she falls ill, Louka has to care for Kolya. This leads to big difficulties, as Kolya only speaks Russian and Louka only Czech. This may sound like a really boring movie, but don't be put off by the fact that this is a Czech movie and that you probably have to read the subtitles. Kolya is a sedated, but beautiful movie. It's without a doubt one of the best movies I've ever seen. It shows the world through a child's eyes, especially noticable in the scenes when Kolya is sick. It features wonderful photography, clever lines and both funny and moving scenes. This movie is a work of beauty! "},{"Title":"familiar material handled in a new and more mature way","Date":"5 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" The general plot of this movie is certainly not new--a confirmed bachelor having a small child dumped into his lap and the subsequent growth of this individual as a result of raising a kid. However, unlike some other similar movies, this movie never became cloying or overly sentimental (the biggest problem with similar movies). Plus, although this COULD have been a do it by the numbers film, it diverged into unusual directions (particularly setting the movie in the waning days of communist Czechoslovakia) and the ending was NOT so predictable as well.The acting, pacing and direction were excellent and I had no complaints about this. The only real complaint I have is that although this type of film is usually intended as family fare, KOLYA is DEFINITELY not--as it has a very brief nude scene. It's a real shame because many who would enjoy this most might not get to see it due to this one extremely brief scene. It DID help the plot along, but was certainly NOT necessary. "},{"Title":"lovely cute boy","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is a lovely movie about a cute little boy.  But I don't call it a kid's movie.  The most real human emotions are exposed.  There are so many wonderful, moving scenes there, see Louka's large hand holding Kolya's tiny little hand, this can be a token picture of showing the main theme of this movie.  Then Kolya's kissing Louka, calling him papa.   The scene when Kolya's making a phone call to his grandma, with actually a shower sprinkler.  This can express Kolya's actually feelings towards his grandma, how much he misses her.  And this did burst me into tears, almost.   And a shot close to the ending Louka waved good-bye to Kolya, then the door slides shut, and Louka's own reflection shows in the mirror-like door...   Also, there are many funny scenes about this little boy his hip got caught by a automatic slide door, but still made his way in; and his interesting behaviors at the escalator, being afraid to step on and off. "}{"Title":"One of the most wonderful film of all time.","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This film is so wonderful, it puts one out of words.  It is a swisswatch in thecnical quality. Everything about this film is perfect in myview.  I think it brings out the same transformation in the audience asin the old womaniser in the film.  Also I think it has had an importantpolitical effect all over the world. Specially in the Check republicwhere it has helped people to take a stand to their oppressors afterthey left. It is not people that dictate and opress, its politics. People are the same inside all over the world and through all times andthe communists ruled by fear of the people. Everyone would probably haddone the same in the beurocrats and soldiers shoes had they been on thatside at that time.  Thats the scary thing with political utopia. Kolya made peace in his innocence and transformed the minds of people as Elian changed the situation between Kuba and USA. It takes a pure heartto free people from prejudism and pessimism. The story of Christ isalways repeat "},{"Title":"The Modern Czech Film","Date":"8 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Franta Louka (Sean Connery) is a concert cellist in Soviet-occupied Czechoslovakia, a confirmed bachelor and a lady's man. Having lost his place in the state orchestra, he must make ends meet by playing at funerals and painting tombstones.Although I am by no means well-versed in Czech film, I have seen a few of the New Wave pieces and have been impressed. Here, we see a much more modern, realistic approach. If the characters spoke English, this could have passed for an independent 1990s American film. (Maybe it is just my bias, but I tend to think the 90s were the best decade for indie film, second to none except maybe the 1970s.) The Velvet Revolution or Gentle Revolution was a non-violent transition of power in what was then Czechoslovakia. The period of upheaval and transition took place from November 17 to December 29, 1989. Do Americans know about this? No, because we are rather ignorant of European affairs (which may or may not be a bad thing). Setting the film in this time creates an interesting dynamic, because Czechoslovakia has a nice distinction of being between the Western world and the Russian world (yes, Russia is part of Europe, but only in the most literal sense). "},{"Title":"Hearty drama with comic elements","Date":"2 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Local films on local topics are interesting as for cultural aspect at least - especially when a country is not widely known (as Czechoslovakia was - even for socialist allies). The beautiful city of Prague provides additional value. Luckily, they are not the only virtues of the film - smooth and logical script (still with pleasant turns and realistic ending), talented performances (particularly Andrey Khalimon as Kolya and Zdeněk Svěrák as Louka), and depiction of nonsense of communist times (in fact, totalitarian and miserable when people had to wriggle and invent various options to survive and enhance quality of life as little as possible) compose an integral enjoyment, where comic and tragic elements are in place and balanced. In spite of the time and environment, the film is neither dull nor arid, there are multiple interesting twists with sophisticated solutions, and those were the times when a connection between an older man and young boy (even sleeping in the same bed!) was not automatically considered pedophilia... I am sure it's Academy Award came deservedly as general human values never become timeworn. "},{"Title":"Charming","Date":"26 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Strapped for cash, a Czech cellist enters into a fake marriage with a Russian woman but finds himself in charge of her little son after she emigrates to Germany. This Oscar winner for Best Foreign Film is a sweetly gentle movie that mainly focuses on the budding relationship between the 50-something man and the five-year-old boy. While it is predictable and runs out of steam about midway through, it does have an easy charm about it. Zdenek Sverak, the director's father, is quite believable as the life-long bachelor who has his life disrupted by the little visitor. Chalimon, who was only six at the time of filming, is adorable as the youngster. "},{"Title":"A mature man, a boy ... and two countries","Date":"30 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This movie is simply great and deserved the award. Yes, it uses quite a lot of the established machinery of the romantic movie industry. Two strangers come together, and there will develop some sort of positive relationship, because at last we all humans. But this time the strangers are a mature Czech and a fragile Russian kid. Russian means one of those, that years before crossed the border with tanks. And stayed with their tanks. So Louka would rather like to keep a distance. But the plot doesn't allow him so. To me the movie is about historical understanding and forgiveness, described on the level of individual human relations. I haven't seen this kind of movies before.Well, may be I'm simply wrong. "},{"Title":"A very sweet story","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Kolya was an amazing little film. I was taken completely by surprize because normally I can't stand those sweet tender-hearted films. The acting is phenomenal as well as the cinematography. I wouldn't go as far as saying that this was one of my favorite films, but it was good. A pretty average nice film. Unfortunately it was pretty predictable and that was a shame.  "},{"Title":"Kolya, one of the first movies where I could empathize with a man three times my age.","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Excellent movie in every way. One of the few movies where I can empathize with a man three times my age, but also a third my age! Everyone is unbelievably believable in this movie. The actors are not acting, they simply ARE the persons. A movie almost free of 'bad guys'. Instead everything is shades of grey, just like in real life. The only downside is of course the language, which makes reading subtitles necessary. "},{"Title":"Well deserved Oscar & Golden Globe Winner","Date":"20 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This is a Czech film, The awards it won & was nominated for were all very well deserved.It is about the true meaning of family.Coincidentally the lead actor ZDenak Sverak also wrote the wonderful screenplay & his son Jan Sverak skillfully directed.KOLYA (the title character is a 5 year old Russian lad Andrei Challman, this was the first appearance by this very bright boy, who is now appearing in a Russian TV series,He is now of course a teen stealing teen age girls hearts like he stole ours in the film.The time period is 1988 & the end of Communism,Thankfully there is very little political stuff in the film.The little boy is adrift & is helped by those around him mainly this middle aged lonely man.There is much humour,some sadness & most of all a true sense of what family means.The film is superbly acted & made. I highly recommend this.One word of caution, the very beginning is slow,stay with it & you will be glad you did .Ratings ***1/2 (out of 4) 95 POINTS (out of 10) IMDb 9 (Out of 10) "},{"Title":"A film your grandmother would love","Date":"24 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I'm puzzled why Hollywood never attempted a remake of Kolya. While I was watching it I kept imagining Billy Bob Thornton in the role of Louka, the lead character of the film. In fact, Zdenek Sverák, the actor who plays Louka, actually resembles slightly the Hollywood actor.All kidding aside, Kolya is actually pleasant viewing, the kind of sentimental middle-of-the-road, life-affirming fare that Hollywood seems to embrace when it comes time to pick out the Best Foreign Language Film nominees (See France's The Choir and Joyeux Noel as examples). This is not to denigrate its modest virtues, but really, this is the kind of film your grandmother would love.Kolya is about a 55-year old confirmed bachelor who despite his age, can still score hot chicks half his age that look like they came from the pages of Playboy Czech Republic edition (probably not surprising since Sverák also wrote the screenplay of the movie). Denied a place in the national philharmonic orchestra for not being politically correct enough, he makes ends meet with a variety of odd jobs, including playing for cremations and restoring headstones. Still, Louka is heavily in debt, he needs a car and his mother is nagging him for money to repair the family house.A gravedigger friend of his offers him the chance to make some serious money by entering into an arranged marriage with a Russian woman who wants to stay in Czechoslovakia longer. But the deal goes wrong when the wife defects to West Germany, leaving him in charge of little Kolya (played by cute but not too cute Andrei Chalimon), a kid he can't even talk to since he's not conversant in Russian.One of the most notable things about this film is its subtlety. Unlike a Hollywood movie, it does not rely on too-obvious characterizations to show the transformation in Louka. In fact, Louka does not have that far to go in his character arc from commitment-phobic bachelor to potential family man material; he's not a mean man, he simply does not want the responsibility of taking care of a child, in the same way that he has avoided getting married to avoid commitment.This subtlety extends to the ending, which follows its premise to its logical end. I won't tell you what happens, but you can probably figure it out. There are no big surprises at the end. But the filmmakers also allow for a happy ending for Louka, in a brief shot that you may miss if you blink.My irreverence toward Kolya does not mean that I didn't like the film. It's pleasant enough viewing, not great but not bad either. Its probably most notable for the pitfalls it avoids, rather than what it actually achieves. Perhaps it's good that the film was never remade by Hollywood after all. "},{"Title":"Those crazy musicians.....","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This just confirms how nuts musicians are.  Franta seducing virtually every woman he meets and the others fomenting revolution.  They're all nuts.  Not that there's anything wrong with that.  Crazy is good.  This is a wonderful movie and well, I don't know if the above mentioned behavior is really that unusual.  Against the backdrop of the Czech Republic's move for democracy, a womanizing cellist in dire need of some money marries a woman to make a quick buck and ends up with her little five-year old.  The musician is a very focused and serious guy when it comes to music; and women too; it doesn't seem likely that this confirmed bachelor will be much of a guardian.  However he proves to have a deft hand with the kid and the relationship is wonderful to watch.  The reunion with the mother at the end was tough luck for our musician friend but I suppose it was to be expected.  Nevertheless, the moments that cement their friendship are great  the kid walking in on the guy and a young student who are about to get intimate, the kid kissing the musician, calling him Dad, asking him questions about trout and otters, taking the name of the Lord in vain.  The relationship is really nice.  Great movie.   "}{"Title":"not so bad... but still worst film by Sverak","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This film is compromise between excellency of Sverak and expectations of Americans (sorry -). If it didn't get Oscar, I think not many people here in Czech rep. and Slovakia would be interested in it... there are much better films. "},{"Title":"Coal Miner's Daughter","Date":"21 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" As a previous reviewer has pointed out there's nothing new either here or under the sun for that matter. Personally I can trace the kid-foisted-on-an-unsympathetic-adult back to Shirley Temple's Little Miss Marker by way of Damon Runyon, this was remade to a certain extent as 40 Pounds Of Trouble back in the days when Tony Curtis was trying vainly to master the art of acting (he never made it if anybody asks you) and in recent years we've had Brazil's Central Station, France's Le Papillon and from the Czech Republic this entry, written by and starring Zdenek Sverak and directed by his son Jan. I remember seeing and enjoying it on its release and now that it's available on DVD I am able to enjoy it all over again. Again I have to agree with that same previous reviewer, there IS nothing new here, there ARE predictable set pieces and we can forecast the ending so that leaves us with just the journey and as journeys go I've travelled far less hopefully. First class as opposed to steerage. "},{"Title":"Worth watching but keep the fast forward near.","Date":"28 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Koyla started out full of promise and had my full attention in the beginning. There's a fair bit of suspense and fun as we try to work out who our man is and how his womanising is going to turn out. There's a fair bit of humour and nice cinematography and you get a nice feel for the country. But then after Kolya the boy turns up it starts to get a bit slushy. There are some nice tender moments but for me it all got too much and you need some drama to balance that out. Only when our man is being interrogated do we get any further suspense. But from then on it's just more of the same, nice filming, child caring and 'sweet' moments but it all got too much for me after a while and I began tuning out. The main actor didn't really express much range of emotion either and he and the film just began to come off as a bit one dimensional as the film dragged to its predictable conclusion. "},{"Title":"Sentimental Comedy","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Zdenek Sverák (playing Louka) is the greatest star of Czech cinema as screen-play writer and actor. 'Kolya' is not bad and I cried at certain moments both times I saw this movie. However, 'Kolya' was made by Zdenek Sverák and his son, director Jan Sverák, with the intention to get international success. This caused the film plot is predictable and sometimes embarrassingly didactic. Not only in my view, another movie written by Zdenek Sverák deserved Oscar I mean 'Vesnicko má stredisková' directed by Jirí Menzel, a film with much better actors than Kolya, less stupid plot, but not less human and touching. If you want to see a really excellent comedy about the situation when somebody has to help, because he is the only one who can help, try to get 'Vesnicko má stredisková'. "},{"Title":"Not the best of Czech cinematography.","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Having lived in the Czech Republic for 18 years I can tell all the non-Czechs out there that Kolya is not the best of Czech cinematography. It is good, but really nothing spectacular; the fact that it won an Oscar and many better Czech movies did not only shows how little meaning the award has. Kolya is certainly a type of movie that you don't see come out of Hollywood. As I said it is good (I rate it 7/10), but fails to hold on repeated viewings. Certainly not something worth buying. "},{"Title":"Not great movie from great director","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"10 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Zdenek Sverak is one of best Czech directors and his movies belong to classical movies of Czech film archive and lots of his movies are connected to people brains and hearts very much. But those movies were written without any hidden purpose, just to make movie, and they were great (but with Czech humor and based on Czech mentality and history, it means the movies were not targeted on the international scene where they could not get much understanding). On the other hand, Kolja is movie made for commercial purpose for international scene, it is not Sverak's movie, but it is movie how Sverak expected people in US and western Europe would like to watch. It is too sweet and too heart breaking story. I do not have to see this movie again and I voted for it by number 6. "},{"Title":" An enjoyable film, even if you don't speak the language!","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I saw film on my TV's cultural channel. It was in Chek with spanish subtitles, although my spanish is not all that good and I probably missed some the finer points, it was so well done  as to be enjoyable inspite of the language difficulties. Did anyone else notice how much the chellist looks like Sean Connery? "},{"Title":"See 'Kavkazskij plennik' instead of this.","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"   Yeah, it was probably cute, heartwarming, tearjerking, funny, happy, what have you not, but it lacks any technical achievement or story originality to deserve a Foreign Film Oscar. Take Cinema Paradiso, remove the plot about movies, add the concept of Three Men and a Cradle and that's essentially the plot of Kolya.  Prisoner of the Mountains ('Kavkazskij plennik') was also a nominee in the category that year and I can guarantee you that it was a million times better, original, and sophisticated than this movie. Check it out on the database, read up on the user comments, plot, and make your decision from there.For those who want to judge criticism of this film and use the straw man that it was hard for Americans to understand, give me a break. The film was distributed by Disney(!) and the plot was blatantly simple. "},{"Title":"Not worth the Oscar","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Frankly speaking, this movie isn't bad at all. It has much more interesting moments than those pointless teenager movies released every summer. The cinematography is breathtaking. The image of Czech is so lively, so vivid. White cloud, red tree, green roof, I felt like a new born baby visiting colours for the first time. The score flow through the movie like a old man reading poems. The young Kolya did a fine job here. Most of the time he shows the nature of a kid, exploring the bitter world mess up by the grown-up with a sense of innocence. But there are a few scenes he is too self-conscious. e.g. The crying bath scene. Ya, we know he is just acting.What I don't buy is its formula. The formula to manipulate the audience, obviously imported from Hollywood. The sweet feel-good ending. The cute kid method. The shallow bashing of communism. The superficial life-changing experience. All of that made up a Hollywood movie with subtitle. Where goes the true understanding of human nature? Where is the deep, unbiased analysis of social system? Is that once the Wall is down, the people stop thinking?Right, it got the best foreign movie from Academy. Maybe I am wrong from the beginning. The Academy (a.k.a the Hollywood family) choose best movie not by its greatness, but by the acceptance of US audience, by the coherence to Hollywood taste. Oh, nearly forgot, anything dark, need thinking isn't good for the awards, even for foreign movies. That's why they choose this instead of Prison of Mountain. That's why they like Life is beautiful. And don't like movies who dare to speak the truth, the core part of the truth, like Underground. Compared to same year other domestic academy entries, Fargo, Sliding blade, Secret & lies, Shine, this movie is not even in the same level. Maybe choose this can make Hollywood crowd feel more superior?If you want to see extraordinary kid performance, go to see the neorealism Iran movies. If you want to see the destruction on a family by the communist system, go to view To Live, Blue kite, The thief, and Underground. There is lot more to offer.  "},{"Title":"Too sweet, too nice","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Well, *eh*, like a Czech citizen I couldn't say, that this film is bad. It's a well-done work of the young Sverak, but every time I read comments like wonderful, best movie or something like that, it makes me sick. You all the film fans from the USA, Australia and other non-european countries, just try to watch some of the Lubomir Lipsky comedies - now THAT is HUMOUR ! Or -if you prefer art movies- watch the magically amazing black and white pictures from the New Wave O slavnosti a hostech - for example, including Forman's Czech films /of course/. KOLYA IS NOT THE BEST FROM OUR CINEMATOGRAPHY !!!  "}{"Title":"Insufferably boring.","Date":"10 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Here's a well-worn movie formula. A man who is either socially withdrawn or recklessly womanising (our hero is somehow both) suddenly has a small child dumped on his doorstep. The child is in some contrived way his and thus can't be gotten rid of easily. Man at first dislikes child; then child effortlessly changes man's life. Cold heart becomes all warmed up by bundle of cuteness. Does the inside of your mouth feel sticky now?It's worth bearing in mind that the above formula of this inexplicable Oscar-winner is the same one used in the Burt Reynolds turkey Cop and a Half and the recently released The Game Plan, starring Dwayne The Rock Johnson. Quite an artistic pedigree.The eponymous child in this film is actually an appalling dullard who almost never speaks and scarcely does anything interesting for the whole film. So it is a small mercy that a third of the movie is over before the boy makes his appearance (with an extreme close-up of his runny nose). By the time I was into the final third of this film I found myself gazing around my living room in boredom. Soon I was fast-forwarding over every three minutes of footage. (Pity the poor cinema-goers who had no such advantage!) At every place I stopped nothing interesting was happening. The ending tries to inflate itself into importance by using the fall of Communism in Prague as a backdrop, a manoeuvre that's as objectionable as all the attempted viewer manipulation that preceded it. "},{"Title":"Starts slow and goes nowhere.","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I was genuinely disappointed with this film. It is so difficult to find a story that is not filled with violence and gore today. Kolya looked like a real possibility. I was hoping for a funny film with warmth and charm. But I found a choppy story line more like a documentary than a woven story. Humor spots were disconnected and far between each other. Forget this one. "},{"Title":"Horrible movie!!!","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This movie is just so bad! It is all fake - technically good, but fake.... As a Czech I agree with all the Czechs before me who noted that this film was intentionally created to be effective in the west. Sverak seized his opportunity and used the historical fact that people in the west may be interested in a story like this at that time. This is a Hollywood style made movie that is apparently created by a Czech for non-Czechs and as can be seen from the previous contributions - it found its viewers - people who call it Czechoslovakian - although it is purely Czech, people who believe it describes life in USSR - we were never part of the USSR, and even people who believe it was political and helped us to fight the Russian oppression - the movie was made in 1996, long after the revolution.....after all it shows the communist reality so unrealistic - so sweet....full of romantic pictures....so that the stupid Americans who need to see the world black and white can understand it....it is a well packed sweet product from a far away easteuropan country which explains in pictures how it all was.....I absolutely hate this film and think that there are hundreds of better Czech movies, especially from the 60's, but I am not sure that the people in the West, especially in the US would ever get them - they are too realistic and it takes time and requires some intellectual curiosity which most of them are missing.....The worst thing is that once, years from now, people will look at it, none of them will have a direct experience with communism and they will cry over this story and think of how bad, but actually interesting times they were!....I can literally see the annoying tourists coming to Prague these days and bearing in mind this movie with its cute pictures, music, universal story and a very interesting period called Communism....I am going to stop now - this movie make me angry even now! "}]