[{"Title":"Really funny but...","Date":"8 November 2004","Score":"50 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" You have to watch a few other movies first to really appreciate this. The main two movies you have to watch first is Menace II Society and Boyz N The Hood. 'Don't Be A Menace To South Central While Drinking Your Juice In The Hood' spoofs these two to the max but if you haven't seen these two movies most of this movie will be lost on you. It pretty much is good from beginning to end and i can't think of anything bad to say about it. I particularly like the scene with Officer Self Hatred. This movie isn't a total spoof of movies with a couple of original jokes here and there. The Wayans brothers are good in whatever movie they are in so go watch 'White Chicks' and the first two Scary Movie's. If you like this then i also recommend 'CB4' which is equally hilarious. 9/10 "},{"Title":"This movie shows that stereotypes can be funny.","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"35 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Spoofing practically every growing up in the hood movie, Don't Be a Menace to South Central While Drinking Your Juice in the Hood is a laugh a minute. Following the adventures of Ashtray (Shawn Wayans) and Loc Dog (Marlon Wayans) in LA's black ghetto, it's one joke after another - the way that a Mel Brooks or Leslie Nielsen movie is. Probably the funniest scene is when they enter a convenience store. The owner, convinced that African-Americans would only enter his store to steal things, follows them around - while a rich white man comes in and proceeds to empty the place. Containing virtually every imaginable use of the N-word, DBAMTSCWDYJITH is pure hilarity. Those Wayans brothers have it down. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"24 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is wonderful. It points out all of the absurdities of the earlier 'hood movies. You need to have seen most of the movies being parodied in order to see the true depth of the humor in this movie.Absolutely one of my favorite light comedies with I'm Gonna Git You Sucka and Half Baked. I can't put it in a category with Airplane because that is the standard by which all other parodies are measured. "},{"Title":"Better than Friday","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"35 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie has the privelge of being better than the movie Friday, it has taken the spot for top ghetto comedy movie ever. The story isn't what's great, but the acting an great spoofs of serious ghetto movies is! Making fun of many movies, Don't Be A Menace... takes a back seat to no comedy. A definite must see comedy. "},{"Title":"timing is everything","Date":"15 April 2007","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I was watching an old Honeymooners rerun with a friend and we came to Jackie Gleason's Ralph's inevitable To the moon, Alice! expression of frustration with his wife, and suddenly I realized that it WAS inevitable, so why were we laughing, having heard it a dozen times before? My friend pointed out that Gleason's timing - the manner in which he held his slow-burn, the widening of his eyes, the sudden Bang! Zoom take off into the line - was what always made it funny. We weren't laughing at the line so much at the performance of it.Don't Be A Menace is the most obvious collection of predictable gags and bits I have seen in a long time, but it is by far the funniest. The Wayans are rather stuck - the genres they parody here have very rigid conventions, so much so that there is usually only one or two gags one can use to mock them - e.g., when a young gangsta warns us that many young men in the 'hood don't live to see their 21st birthday, we all know what's coming next. So the Wayans handle it in a manner that delays the punchline while emphasizing its obviousness. Thus we laugh with them, appreciating the way they pull it off, and recognizing the gangsta genre limit that's getting parodied, rather than at the bit itself.Just about the whole movie operates on this level, and for this reason has become one of my favorite comedies. The Wayans capture every moment with a dead-on rhythm that blends the gags into a kind of music. Shawn plays the steady bass while Marlon does some wild riffing. Other characters and bits drop in and out like improvisation and sound effects. Keenan Wayans drops in every now and then like the voice on a scratch dub. The tempo could have been a little swifter, but the rhythm itself is excellent.Comedy like this is very tricky, and I personally didn't think the Wayans' efforts in the Scary Movie films were quite as successful - but here they move it right along.It's rude, it's crude, it's in-yor-face - and it's just a delight to watch. "},{"Title":"The Wayans brothers do it again.","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"18 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Besides having a title that is funny in itself, Don't Be A Menace To South Central While Drinking Your Juice In The Hood is one of the funniest movies this decade. It spoofs such black films as Boyz N' Tha Hood, Dead Presidents, Juice, Menace II Society, and South Central with such hilarity that you'll be repeating its many classic lines over and over again for months. Wayans brothers who started on In Living Clor and made the hilarious 1988 movie I'm Gonn Git U Sucka do it again with this long overdue spoof of movie that are extremely serious. Classic lines and memorable scenes saturate this movie beginning to end. All characters are well acted and comic pacing and sight gags are at a peak not reached since Top Secret or Naked Gun. Multiple viewings add to the fun. Hilarious. I was foolin` y`all! Those was jokes! "},{"Title":"Hits more often than it misses","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Shawn and Marlon Wayans, along with director Paris Barclay, have created a very humorous satire of the flood of films recently dealing with African-American life in the ghettos of inner-cities of America.  Boyz in the Hood and Menace II Society are among the films at which the Wayans brothers poke fun.  Don't be a Menace... follows the story of Ashtray(Shawn Wayans) as he wades through a series of episodes in Barclay's hood.  He lives with his father, who is only a couple of years older than him.  Among the lessons his father teaches him are  No smokin' my shit, no drinkin' my shit, and if you bring any of them hos up in here, make sure I fuck 'em first, and (drinking and driving)That shit is fun, man!  No stereotype or politically-correct boundary is too sacred for the Wayans brothers to poke fun at.  Some of the jokes hit, some miss, and the fun will definitely be increased by those who have seen the films that Don't Be A Menace... frequently jests.  Not extremely culturally-important fare, but a good laugh, nonetheless.   "},{"Title":"Excellently funny, not to be missed","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film is one of the best spoof films i have seen in a while. The Wanyes brothers bring their unique comedy style to a great comedy. i suppose you have to have seen all of the films which they are making fun of to fully appreciate the comedy but once you have seen Menace II Society, Boyz 'n' the Hood, Friday And Higher Learning you will want to watch  this film over and over again "},{"Title":"Pleasantly Surprised","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Renting this movie I was expecting another comedy to the likes of Class Act Booty Call and House Party, which were all great movies. But I got so much more.This parody of movies such as Menace II Society Boyz N Da Hood and Dead Presidents was funny as hell. They really poke fun at themselves to the extreme, making fun of guns, booze and lets not forget the ladies.I really enjoyed this, it was a movie where you could grab some popcorn lay back, switch your mind off and laugh non stop.   "},{"Title":"Only see this if you understand what is being spoofed","Date":"22 December 2000","Score":"19 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Honestly, you will not like this movie at all if you haven't seen any ghetto movies or don't understand ghetto humor.  Like most spoof movies, it won't be funny if you don't know what is being made fun of.If either of these things are true, see this movie.  If not, don't bother. I think that I have never laughed harder than during this movie.  One of my personal favorite comedies. "}{"Title":"UNBELIEVABLE","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Man i just got done seeing this movie for the first time and it almost brought a tear to my eye.  It was the most impressive and funny movie since I'm Gonna Get You Sucka them Wayans boys are at it again and they keep on making me proud.  Two thumbs up.  I gave this movie a 10 by the way.  "},{"Title":"Excellent comedy - one of my favorites.","Date":"18 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Don't Be A Menace is a good stupid comedy the only reason it's funny is because almost everything the characters do is hilarious and pretty stupid. The catch of the movie is it's a Waynes Brother's Comedy - meaning it's generally going to be hilarious and funny.Although Don't Be A Menace is parodied from many other movies, that I have never even heard of, I still got the whole idea. If you've seen it many times you'll get it after awhile, although you've got to really pay attention to the movie to get it.One of the best scenes is when Bernie Mac, Officer Self Hatred, arrests Ashtray (Shawn) and Loc Dog (Marlon) for being black, even though Bernie Mac, like Marlon and Shawn, is black himself.Another scene you don't want to miss is definitely is in the beginning of the movie when Ashtray's mom drops him off at his dad's house, who happens to be younger than Ashtray, Ashtray opens the car door only to cause a bike rider to hit it and flip his bike over it.I would definitely encourage anyone to buy/rent this movie because it's a classic Waynes Brother's Movie. Hopefully we'll see more the of the Waynes brother's movies coming out in the future Little Man being one of them. "},{"Title":"Throwing UP","Date":"19 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I watched this film and now i am living with permanent brain damage.My legs don't work, i cant talk and i am blind right now.Thank you producer for destroying my hopes and dreams.I don't want to watch any more films after this , because may be more films like this one.If you have enemies, let them watch this, they will suffer.I imagine hell like this.I will need huge amount of alcohol to kill memories on this film.Please kill it with a fire.To dear Paris Barclay You have sick mind.How anyone can let you make this. This film is like Hitler of all films.It should be a weapon against normal people.You can't even name this crap.Please tie your hand and legs and jump into the river, but drink poison first to be sure you'll die.And while falling activate bomb by detonator and blow your sick mind.I feel sorry for being born.Goodbye world. "},{"Title":"Surreal? no...this is real life!","Date":"16 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Great movie, I saw it when i was around 14 it played on Portuguese TV, I didn't knew its name but i kept searching all this years, finally i got it and watched it again, same fun. People told me get friday get half baked and was never it...this is it!! You don't need to watch any other hood movie to understand or like this movie, you probably just need to know a little bit about the hood or about the street life or what you may like to call it. Im not American, Im not black, and I liked the movie and understood the humor on it completely, also helped that I listen to some American rap and I can more fully understand some references related to racial issues.About the movie itself it has no plot so its impossible for anyone to come here and write a spoiler. It's a succession of events, and the plot is just an excuse to keep it going. I find it a very smart, lively and audacious caricature/satire of hood life, all the stereotypes exaggerated and pointed out in a very straight fashion, straight and real enough to hurt many sensitive feelings, not every scene in the movie is hilarious some are not so funny, but it is made in such a relaxed and flowing atmosphere that everything is fine is all good.Music is excellent and it has many quality details from the production creating the right atmosphere. Well I loved this movie and I wish they would make more of this kind, at the same time it is a surreal or a nonsense comedy it has very deep meaning on it and it can look so real, because reality is so much like this, day to day life is not full of drama, its more full of comedy, and full of crazy and superficial characters somehow similar to the ones on this movie. Also reference to many talented actors here that became famous, almost every face is familiar.Comparing this with Friday or Scary movie for me is more hilarious than the movie itself. Just watch it, its a whole different level. Sorry if I got carried away with the review, this one deserves a big text and a 9. "},{"Title":"I got these cheeseburgers man........","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film is funny, just sit back, get backed and let the jokes cover you like a warm blanket.  It feels good you know hmmmmmmmmmm....Well seriously, this film for some reason other than being a spoof and having the same actors as Scary Movie, gets compared to the aforementioned film.  Although in comparison Don't be amenace is a far superior film.  Just remember cross at the green, never in between "},{"Title":"Funny if you liked Airplane and In Living Color","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is an incredibly hilarious movie. If you like the crazy style of movies like Airplane, or The Naked Gun, and you were a fan of the show In Living Color,  you will love this movie. One reviewer commented, I'm not black, so maybe that's why I didn't like it. Well, I'm not black, and I loved it. "},{"Title":"Very, very funny gangsta parody","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Hilarious.  If you are a fan of Boys in the Hood, Menace II Society, Juice, etc.  Then you will absolutely love this film. It gives laughs from beginning to end with many full belly laughs to boot.  From Loc Dog's swearing at Grandma, to white cops playing a Rodney King computer game, it keeps the jokes coming.If you haven't seen the films that this one parodies then get them out and watch this one after.  A great spoof.  WATCH IT !!  "},{"Title":"The funniest movie ever!!","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Yo so this was the funniest movie!! The even funnier thing is that I saw this movie with my grandma^) She thought it was pretty funny too.the part that really makes you think is how is his dad like younger than him, I saw this movie 2 or 3 years ago and i still think how that works. To sum it up this movie kicks!! P@C M@N \X/ "},{"Title":"A non-stop comedy fest that will keep you laughing the whole night.","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I absolutely loved this movie.  Now most of you probably think that I have no taste but that is not true.  I love all kinds of movies and this is a great comedy. It does just what a good comedy should do and that is it keeps you laughing all the way through the movie.  "},{"Title":"Grrreat!","Date":"5 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Just like Frosted Flakes. I could not stop laughing after watching this movie. However, I have seen such movies as Boyz In The Hood, South Central, Higher Learning, and Juice. It is essential to see these movies before watching 'Dont Be A Menace.... or you will not notice the satirical humor and will be disappointed. Take it from me, this is one flick that will have you rollin' on the floor. "}{"Title":"Way On, Right On","Date":"28 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Nearly all movies are about other movies.Nearly all life acts are from movies; nearly all stereotypes are from acts.The Wayons merely close the loop movies where the acts are stereotypes of stereotypes. They really know what they are doing, disguising it as social commentary. But that you get enough of in the first five minutes. Check out how many jokes are about acting, about every third one.And then check out what they did next, with Scary Movies, which takes the circle one more loop.I admit that I'm a fan. They seem to be the only ones who can do what Zucker used to serve up what are generally called spoofs.I think it is because they start knowing that the target isn't bits of movies, but the bits we use in inventing the stories of who we are.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"Really funny, but not a representative of black life","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  this movie is a spoof and I hope that people not familiar with blacks understand that. It is an intensely funny film, very raunchy and one of those silly movies that have no redeeming value except for the laughs, but please people from other lands and cultures please do not take this as a repensenation of the black culture in America, I mean I as a black person would be very unhappy if I went to Russia and someone thought that they could call me a name of get my phone number by holding a gun to my head. but If taken as it is, as a black persons tounge in cheek charectature of the early and mid ninties movies about black life , it is great.  "},{"Title":"brilliant","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  this is really a film for people who can have a laugh.  It also helps if you have seen the films 'Don't be a menace to society' 'Juice' and 'Boys in the hood'.  if you have seen these films, you will find this film highly amusing and brilliant!! if you have not seen or liked any of these films, you will probably find 'Don't be a menace to south...' very boring, unfunny and tedious. so please watch the mentioned films before you even contenplate watching this film, you will then appreciate it alot more and laugh loads!! "},{"Title":"HILARIOUS!!!!!","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is THE most hilarious film I have ever seen, the way that the Wayans brothers used spoofs of films such as, Boyz in tha Hood, Menace to Society, Juice, Higher Learning and a few others is complete genius, I personally can't wait for their next film 'Scream if You Know What I Did Last Halloween' "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is one of the funniest I have seen in a long time, with some very memorable quotes and scenes.I really enjoyed this movie and would recommend it to anyone who wants a good laugh. "},{"Title":"As funny as Blazing Saddles, Airplane, and Naked Gun!","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If you are a fan of spoofs you'll love this one. It's a story about the life of black males in the 'hood. It is a very funny movie and will keep you laughing the whole way through. You don't have to be black or live in the 'hood to understand this movie. Even if you haven't seen the movies that it is spoofed from it will still be a good time! "},{"Title":"has to be the funniest movie of the 90's and one of the funniest movies of all time!","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  don't be a menace... is so funny i don't even know my name. it's unbelievable how funny this movie is. trust me this movie is insanely funny. i give it ***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"I laughed until I was exhausted; not for those easily offended by black stereotypes","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"16 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  How many gags involving offensive portrayals of African Americans can one movie have?  This film may have reached the limit.There was not so much a plot as there was a series of jokes showing black people in a less than positive light.  In the movie's first five minutes, two young black men are gunned down.  A hysterical mother cries over the body of her 'baby' until she realizes the young man isn't hers, and then she quickly calms down and becomes quite indifferent.  Ashtray arrives in the 'hood' in a car driven by his mother, who wants Ashtray to live with his father.  The mother will not be seen again, because, as she says, there can be no positive black women in this movie.  The father actually appears to be younger than Ashtray, who recalls at one point in the movie that he used to change his father's diapers.Ashtray meets a girl named Dashiki, who is described as having more children than Mrs. Wayans.  He is introduced to those children, all sitting in a row, some not even black like their mother.  Asked 'What do you say?', the children all reply in unison, 'Are you my daddy?'  (Despite the presence of children, this movie should not be seen by anyone under the age of, say, 21.  At least I saw an edited version.) Later in the movie, Ashtray must decide whether he wants to make a commitment to Dashiki.About halfway through the movie, either I became immune to the jokes or the movie ran out of creative energy.  Or maybe the writers just wanted to give us a rest, because it was desperately needed.  But the laughs soon started up again.  Some samples of the humor-A refrigerator was full of  '40', an alcoholic beverage which it seemed everyone drank (even a baby bottle was filled with something the same color as '40').  A water cooler was refilled using '40'.-In front of a Korean-owned grocery, one of several black men in a car pulled a gun on Loc Dog.  Loc Dog had a larger gun.  The man pulled out an even bigger gun.  Loc Dog opened the back of his truck to reveal a missile labeled 'USSR'.-At a party, one black man refused to dance with a beautiful black woman, deciding instead that he wanted a hideously ugly white woman.-Loc Dog did everything possible to mess up his job interview, when his competition appeared to be Ivy League educated whites with the personality typically associated with Harvard.  He got the job anyway.  I won't say what job, but it suited him.-A black cop and a white cop arrested Ashtray and Loc Dog just for being black.  The black cop seemed to genuinely hate blacks without even seeming aware he was himself black.-A road test for a driver's license included the license examiner robbing a bank.I highly recommend this movie for anyone who just needs a good laugh and does not care about quality or being offended.    "},{"Title":"The Wayans' Brothers last truly good spoof -- hits more than it misses","Date":"14 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" It probably would have helped if I'd seen all (or at least some) of the movies that this parodies, but as it stands, DON'T BE A MENACE is consistently funny enough on its own. From the Wayans' Brothers, DON'T BE A MENACE parodies/spoofs just about every hood movie from the 90's, like BOYZ N THE HOOD, MENACE 2 SOCIETY, etc. Shawn Wayans stars as Ashtray, a 19-year-old who moves in with his younger (than him) father, and Marlon Wayans as Loc Dog, one of his friends. If there's one big weakness, it's that there's not really a plot to speak of, meaning that the film plays like a series of skits rather than a cohesive story. That being said, there were a lot of laugh-out-loud moments and funny running gags. The best ones, to me, were Keenen Ivory Wayans as the mailman who pops up from time to time and says Message! whenever the preachy moments come. Also, everyone (and I mean everyone) drinks only malt liquor. Generally, the humor that works the best has to do with pointing out stereotypes in these types of movies (and life in general), rather than the scatological stuff which was often a little too gross for me. Thankfully, it wasn't relied upon as much as it is now in movies of this ilk, but fart jokes and foul-mouthed grannies will only get you so far. For those types of jokes, they were funny the first few times, but became a little tiresome later. This is also an extremely quotable movie, with such memorable lines as, Break yo self, fool! So, while I haven't seen really any of the movies this parodied, I have seen other Wayans' Brothers movies and this compares favorably to those. I'd consider this the last genuinely good spoof from them, even if the story structure is all but nonexistent. It doesn't really live up to Mel Brooks (but honestly, what can?), but as a distillation of 90's urban movie clichés, DON'T BE A MENACE is on fairly solid ground. "},{"Title":"A funny theme","Date":"5 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is a movie that hits on many truths. Its a funny movie that represents the ghetto. in the white eyes its a exaggerated truth of the hood. in the ghetto eyes its a joke of the code of the streets. The movie will bring up allot of controversy and plays fun of and spoofs of the real world. Almost every part of this movie will bring up personal or beliefs of what you see the perfect hood. Its worth seeing and paying attention to every word and scene in this movie over and over again. Even behind the main parts of the movie can be funny to you. The Waynes brothers are the most genius in this movie then every thing that they have done. I have never seen any movie that is so on and so wrong. "}{"Title":"Better Than I Expected","Date":"17 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie was genuinely pretty funny. It's a pretty good parody of hood movies, a genre that has some good flicks and some real steamers. It's accurate and clever and I laughed out loud. I recommend to anyone who just wants to laugh and people who are interested in the subject of race and it's effect on culture and media. I usually turn on bad movies on weekends just to pass time and have a laugh, or to get some sleep. I found this on demand and thought it would be pretty bad considering it was Wayans Bros. They've only done a few movies worth watching. But I liked the title and I liked the idea, and it made me laugh for the right reasons. A solid 7. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies of all time... you will never see another one like this...","Date":"9 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Don't be a Menace is one of the funniest films of all times. It takes a serious genre of film and picks apart every detail of it. This film shows no mercy. It is only out for entertainment. The most pivotal, gritty, and shocking scenes from hood movies, the ones that defined the genre and changed the way Americans thought about cinema and society, are spoofed mercilessly from the preachy Ice-Cube monologue at the end of Boyz in the Hood to the Asian convenience store in the beginning of Menace II Society...This movie has gotten shockingly bad reviews but I imagine these people have never seen hood films. Either that or they are the type that want to take everything too seriously. This is not a movie to think about and analyze or drag politics into... it is a film to enjoyFrom the opening comment spoofing the Boyz intro (one out of every ten black males will be forced to sit through at least one growing up in the hood movie in their lifetimes) to the ending scene, you will be in pain from the laughter this film will ensue if you have grown up watching hood films.This movie is one giant stereotype which people might pick at, but that is ultimately the point. While films like Menace II Society and Boyz have become classics of the 90s, they have also played on age old stereotypes and that is the heart of this film.Pickles, anyone? "},{"Title":"No need to know the spoofees","Date":"1 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I actually never seen most of the movies that they were spoofing about but still thought it was one of the funniest and I mean funniest movies of all time this movie is filled with hidden puns that should tickle your funny bone. To give this movie an overall 6.5 is a disgrace both to the wayans bro's and comedy lovers all around the world at least an 8 8.5 minimum I really don't think anyone can name me a movie that is even remotely as funny or as good as this one. If you love quirky comedy than this movie is definitely for you I recommend it and so does my brother after watching menace 2 society ( which is the movie this movie is based upon) I really did have a true understanding of it but didn't really matter cause it was funny either way "},{"Title":"Laughed So Hard!!!","Date":"2 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I laughed for hours after the first time I saw this movie. I can still watch it today and crack up. As long as you've seen Boyz in the Hood Menace to Society Dead Presidents and Poetic Justice you will think this movie is one of the best comedy spoofs ever. My buddies and I still quote this movie all the time. I love how they even got some of the people from those movies to do the spoofs. The funniest part belonged to Bernie Mac as the black cop. I would strongly recommend this movie to anyone just wanting to get some laughs. I give it a 10 for being a great spoof. You will especially like this if you are a fan of the scary movie series. "},{"Title":"Break Yo' Self -or- Brace Yo' Self??","Date":"12 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  My wife and some neighborhood kids are having a brief debate over whether Loc's saying was Break Yo' Self -or- Brace Yo' Self? Can we have some input? We will be digging the movie out to re-watch it again. Since the kids brought this dispute over the saying, it has made me long for the movie again. So even if I'm wrong, at least I will get to enjoy the movie again. It was truly friggin' hilarious. Again, this movie and the comic Genius of the Wayans are unsurpassed when it comes to hitting home and getting away with it. This movie does that and gets away with it big time. By the way, I say it's Break Yo' Self..all others are disagreeing with me. I have read a lot of the posts and have to agree with all the fans of the Wayans, these brothers are truly inspiring. They take a good hard look at everything they're about to do, they stop and then they look at it with a distorted view, and after that close look and distorted look BAM!, they have their hit movies. Genius, I tell you, pure Genius. My hat off to the Wayans. Talented family.  "},{"Title":"If you hood you'll get this movie other than that just see the moive for the incredible journey it brings you on...","Date":"16 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Wow is all that can describe this movie. It's a paradoy so people got to give it props for what the movie is and how well the Marlon Waynes did in creating the moive. It's not the greatest movie in the world but it'll do. In this movie there are alot of inside jokes and hilarous one liners and little scences that let you understand the humor in living in the hood. If you don't get it then you don't want to. Alot of people may not like this moive because they think that it reinforces negative sterotypes but I think that it pokes fun at the seriousness of the  politicaly correct society. In it's own way this moive teaches young people some valuable lessons. Or maybe I'm just crazy. I just enjoyed it I don't see anything wrong in that. Let's put it like this; the movie wasn't created to be an Acadamey Award Winner it was created to be a Hood Academy Award Winner. Just have fun with it! "},{"Title":"Great 'In the Hood' Spoof Movie","Date":"2 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Taking it's material from South Central, Boyz in The Hood, Mennace to Society, and a little from elsewhere (Friday etc), this is an early work of those who are responsible for the more mainstream (and lesser quality) Scary Movie Trilogy.This film is very funny, taking films that contain serious issues, and laughing in their faces.Definately worth the few pounds you can pick it up for. Up there with Spaceballs in my Top Five spoofs of all time. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Comedy","Date":"7 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is well worth watching, I laughed all the way through and I have not done that for a long time.I highly recommend it.yes it is a bit borderline between comedy and what is considered acceptable but thats why it was so funny, laugh at the sick jokes, howl at the appropriate sound effects during the 'sex scene' and just enjoy the film for what it is. "},{"Title":"Best Comedy Movie Ever","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  this is one my fav. comedy movies ever i'll watch it again and again and will never get tired of it i recommend it for the people who didn't watch it yet you should defintly see it it's a very fun movie and a very good spoof of Boyz N The Hood "},{"Title":"Sheer Spoof Excellence","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is probably the best Spoof i have ever seen it made me laugh soo much, the wayans brothers are absolute geniuses they made a winner with the scary movie films and they made a winner right here unfortunately it wasn't as big as it should've been but one hell of a spoof none the less "}{"Title":"Totally Ghetto Fabulous","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  `Don't Be A Menace To South Central While Drinking Your Juice In The Hood' is an hilarious take on all the hood type movies and surprising it does come off really funny. Just as funny as `Friday' and such movies. Brothers, Marlon and Shawn Wayans, don't have any problem making fun of the typical ghetto life that a lot of Afro-Americans might have to experience. The thought of this might not be too appealing at first but give it a try and you should end up laughing without a doubt. Some viewers have said that you need to be a black person to find this movie funny, or you need to have lived in the hood, which, in my opinion, is not true, I'm white, I live in England and my face was so sore after laughing at this. The only thing that helps is if you've seen the movies that this is parodying, and then you should certainly have no problem finding this film hilarious. Just like I did. To say, `Don't Be A Menace&#133;' is a comedy classic is quiet the understatement. All the characters in this movie provide laugh after laugh. It's the practice run for Wayans movies to be made years later on. `Scary Movie 1 & 2' clearly have borrowed the mold from `Don't Be A Menace&#133;' More films should be as funny as this one. Marlon's character `Loc Dog' certainly squares up to `Smokey' from the `Friday' anyday.  Marlon's dialogue/appearance is cleverly written to poke fun at the stereotypical male you've seen in any John Singleton film. The cast is strong, good comedic performances come from the Wayans brothers (although, Marlon is the much better of the two), Suli McCullough, and Lahmard J. Tate, playing Ashtray's father, the second funniest character in this movie.  The script is almost faultless in its field, and the jokes come quick and they don't let up until the end. This all helps to make this an addictive comedy classic. This truly is TOTALLY GHETTO FABULOUS!  "},{"Title":"One Word Quality","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is one of the funniest films I have ever seen! This film perfectly spoofs all the popular 'hood' movies such as 'Boyz In Tha Hood', 'Menace II Society' and 'Juice'. Like 'Scary Movie', also starring the Wayans brothers Marlon and Shawn, it's the type of film where you have to watch the films that it is spoofing, so it is understandable why some people don't get some of the jokes. But if, like me, you have seen them, then you will be in for a feast of hilarious gags such as the Korean corner store from 'Menace II Society', I feel sorry for your momma!Highly recommended to anyone who enjoys these type of movies "},{"Title":"A lot of laughs, but bound to disappoint some","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film was an excellent parody of the newer Blaxploitation flicks of the early- to mid-nineties.  Unfortunately, fans of earlier Wayans efforts, like the In Living Color series, or I'm Gonna Get You, Sucka! will find this film a little flat, and the humour can get old, fast.  But on a whole, the movie is very funny, and if you follow the genre, you'll definitely recognize a few dozen (or hundred, or thousand) jokes strewn throughout the dialogue.  Fans of the Hollywood Shuffle, Friday and Fear of a Black Hat might want to check this out. "},{"Title":"So bad it's great!(I'd love to hear Spike Lee's thoughts)","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" When I first saw this film I thought it was one of the worst films I'd ever seen; despite this I found I couldn't stop watching it. It's the sheer audacity with which it targets the genre (Boyz N the Hood etc.)and makes it seem utterly absurd! Of course the subject matter of such films has to be taken seriously but you'd have to be a corpse not to giggle at some of the jokes in this spoof. There are some really funny moments such as central character Ashtray discovering his Father is younger than him; then throughout the film his father hands out dubious pieces of advise to his son, e.g.'never use condoms! they take away all the feeling'. Bad points are the pretty poor comic timing and loose editing and direction. I can't say this is a truly excellent comedy, but take your sensible hat off, switch off your brain and you'll laugh. I dread to think what Spike Lee thinks of it!! "},{"Title":"Much better than Scary Movie","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I hate every Wayans Bros film I've ever seen except this one. It's littered with hilarious characters such as Crazy Legs, the wheelchair bound laddie who dreams of being a ballet dancer; Grandma - the gun toting, dope smoking, bouncy car driving classic old coffin dodger, and the guy who'll suck your d**k for a dollar.A classicly funny film. "},{"Title":"funny, even if you haven't seen all the movies referenced","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is similar to the Wayans brothers' Scary movie . . . makes fun of a lot of movies and pop culture trends, and you don't have to have seen all the movies referred to (including poetic justice, higher learning, Menace II society, boyz 'n the hood, juice, jungle fever). The other comment under this movie said that it was not funny because he/she was not black and did not come from the hood.  Well, I am not black and I do not come from the hood, and I have not even seen all the movies they are targeting here, but I thought it was hilarious.  If you know nothing about the movies I listed above, you probably would not get this movie.  but if you have seen any of them, and are at least somewhat culturally aware, you will appreciate this movie.   "},{"Title":"Pretty funny","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"     I typically don't like Wayans brothers movies, but found this one particularly entertaining. I was expecting it to be terrible when I sat down with a couple of friends to watch it, but found myself laughing pretty hard at various parts.Certainly not a piece of comedic genius, but far from boring and worth your time if you want a good cheap laugh. "},{"Title":"I guess the translation means a lot....","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Well, we do not have a lot of black people in Russia, so we do not know anything about their culture at all. That movie was a revelation to me and my friends. And the translation - the translation into Russian was done very good - when you translate a movie to a different language its very difficult to find the exact words for some phrases. Funny, very funny and good movie. "},{"Title":"Constant Laughs","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I am not a big fan of black comedies, but this paticular one gave me many good laughs.  With characters such as Loc Dog and Crazy Legs, this movie keeps you rolling on the floor.  The laughs are consistent with scenes such as the shoot out in the chinese convenience store or spoofs like Old School. I definetely recommend this film.  I've seen in 3 or 4 times and it still keeps me interested. "},{"Title":"Stupid and pointless, but hilarious","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Whatever plot this movie has is not at all memorable. What are memorable are a number of jokes and running gags in the film which left me in stitches. From the foul-mouthed grandmother and the father who's younger than his own son to the way the first kid from the hood to ever go to college gets shot dead climbing the college stairs on the first day and the fact that the kids in the hood really are innocent, and it all really is the fault of The Man, who's trying to bring them down, this movie is full of laughs. What's more, you can tell what most of the jokes are parodying, which makes them all the more funny. This movie is not for a serious movie watcher, but I definitely recommend it for two or more people between 15 and 25 years old with nothing else to do with their evening but watch a video. "}{"Title":"Simply Hilarious","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie may not appeal to many if you havent seen the others that they are spoofs of...i.e. Menace to Society,South Central,Juice or Boyz in the hood. myself having seen them can relate,,but either way, it is simply hilarious because it deals with some of the problems and everyday life in the ghetto's but looks at it in a very funny way. i'd go rent it....its worth the money "},{"Title":"ONE OF THE BEST COMEDY MOVIES ON THE MARKED","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is one of the funniest movies i have ever seen, there is no BUT`S about this movie. It is a must see for all people young as old (not over 35)but anyways this movie is a 9.0  ......  "},{"Title":"Laugh- a-minute","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  With the exception of the annoying character Legs, this would have been one of my all time favorite movies.  I swear that when I watch this I still notice different little jokes that I've never seen before.  For example, listen when Ash-Tray.... yes Ash-Tray and Loc-Dog walk into the Chinese corner shop, listen carefully, it may be racist and crude, but still since the racism jokes are made by black people about themselves, it really doesn't insult the race much.  The plot is a parody of that of Menace To Society, though even if you haven't seen that there are still enough jokes crammed in to please everyone and allow us all to have a good side-splitting time! 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Too silly for adults, too crude for kids, good for teens","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Wayans Brothers are fairly talented.  Even if you dis-like this film, you have to admit it.  I enjoyed this movie.  It wasn't as good as There's Something About Mary, but it had some good laughs.  The humor is based on how dumb people act, like Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas, except not as good and dealing with violence and The 'Hood.It's a silly movie, but if you're a teen, or on that level, and think teens in the 'Hood doing silly things is funny, you have to see it.  It's not great, but it's not supposed to be. "},{"Title":"Simply awesome!","Date":"3 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I thought that a 9 was okay, but I'll stick with 10, and if you haven't seen this movie yet, rent it, buy it, wait 'til television show it, but, see it, you won't be regret.When you see it, you're gonna like it a lot... you're gonna sleep laughing, wake up laughing, walk to the kitchen laughing, you're gonna have your breakfast laughing, you'll go to your job laughing, but then you're gonna stop laughing when you see your boss coming to ask you why you're laughing. Then you'll get back home, then you'll watch the movie again, then you're gonna sleep laughing and all.Lotta funny!See it! "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"16 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Well after weeks and months of my friends recommendations about Don't Be a Menace i finally bit the bullet and watched it and to be honest i thought that this film is a piece of excellence. The thing that makes it a lot funnier is that no matter what age, gender, race you are there is something in this film that is mocking you but it is done in such a way that you can't help laughing and realising how true it is. Anyone who does not have a strong sense of humour or anyone who can't take a joke made at there gender or race then do not watch this, it is an obvious micky take film so this is your warning. Anyway i hope that this review has helped you decide whether you want to watch it or not(most people have already seen it) "},{"Title":"Hilarious, but only if you've seen a few hood movies","Date":"21 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I've been wanting to see this movie for a while and I finally did. I thought it was hilarious!The Wayans Brothers take off movies so well.I thought this was a fabulous take off of all the hood movies.All the jokes were very smart, original and funny.The acting was good. They made a really good parody of all the hood characters.I felt some characters were too over the top though, but nothing that bad.I'm sure anyone will find this funny, but only if they've seen some of the hood movies. If they didn't then some of the jokes will stupid.Overall I thought it was a marvelous take off of all the hood movies. An entertaining movie and must see for hood movie fans!Keep up the good work Wayans! "},{"Title":"Bombs in The Hood","Date":"9 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Well, we know there are a lot of Wayans brothers, they seem to have a lot of other relatives out there willing to write in and praise this stupid, ugly, would be send up of the black films of the ninties.  0 out of ten.Those films may have been spoofable, and they did tend to be preachy and also explotive of the bad behavior they were pretending to condem; but are they really worthy of the hardfast, right wing contempt of this sub Mad Magazine film making?I don't mind a little tit for tat; but this looks like the Hood as conceived by Rush Limbaugh, as it pretends to send up Stereotypes.  The terrible Elvis joke really sums things up...  utterly unclever but a joke everyone will get.The last word in lame. "},{"Title":"the plot has no digression, people","Date":"1 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is a satire.  It covers every god damn growing up in the hood movie and some other afro-centric movies (higher learning, for example). Never does this movie digress and turn lackadaisical, you all just haven't seen all of the movies it covers (it's target audience has, for the most part).I'm tired of reading comments saying this movie is full of idle digression. It's only because you aren't aware of the movie it's clowning because you haven't seen that movie or because you don't recall it.  Funny movie, otherwise. "},{"Title":"Another Parody? How Could I Possibly Like It?","Date":"7 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The title is about as long as this short fix as the Wayans' brothers (however many of them there are) poke fun at every urban inner-city film of the early-1990s. Boyz N the Hood is the primary punching bag throughout as a group of young African-Americans try to live in the ghetto of Los Angeles with would-be hilarious results. This is a parody and nothing more. It is uncreative and has that silly Naked Gun or Scary Movie series feel to it. Still not as bad as most in the sub-genre, but never does do much with its early momentum. Probably would have worked better as a skit on Saturday Night Live or Mad TV. 2 stars out of 5. "}{"Title":"One of the funniest films ever if you understand it.","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I have seen this movie about twenty times and I never get tired of it. The movie is full of parodistic jokes referring to other, more serious, hood-films (eg. Boyz N The Hood, Poetic Justice, Menace 2 Society) plus there's a nice amount of good old Wayans-brothers humour. The plot isn't really that important, but it'll give you some laughters too. But (there's always a but), if you haven't seen any hood-films, don't like them or so, you won't probably laugh during this film at all. I did, and I still do. "},{"Title":"Hilarious, don't watch this film expecting a great plot, watch it for the hell of it!!!","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Is there a plot to be found within this film?  No.  Is there comedy? YES!!! Watch this film for classic guy-joke one liners such as I'll suck yo d*ck for a dolla, and the parody of basically every single blaxploitation film from the 1990's!!!  If you like the Wayan's brand of parody comedy, then this film is a gold mine!!! "},{"Title":"Very funny but not realistic","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When I first saw this film I enjoyed it and I still enjoy it now, I believe people have no right to be calling it tacky or rubbish because it is entertaining. But my only problem is that other cultures with assume black people are as crazy as that, and as a black girl with Afro-American family I can confirm life is not like that. "},{"Title":"DBAMTSCWDYJITH Rocks!","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie, is pure comic genius.Spoofing everything from 'Boyz In The 'Hood' to 'Menace To Society' to 'Juice', 'Don't Be A Menace To South Central While Drinking Your Juice In The Hood' is one of the funniest comedies to be invented.Shawn plays a virginal black boy who is sent to live with his only-one-year-older dad in the rough confines of the 'Hood. There, his cousin (Marlon) shows him the way of life in the 'Hood.The dialogue is quick, funny and over the top that plays off the impressive sight gags.If you loved Scary Movie, Airplane! and Naked Gun you will LOVE Don't Be A Menace To South Central While Drinking Your Juice In The Hood! "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"20 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Brilliant movie , very funny hahahaha i laughed and laughed little more. Very funny, rent it now if you have any kind of sense of humor!!!!! Marlon Wayans funny. Me laugh a lot many times. Yeah. Cool movie man "},{"Title":"I loved it","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Don't Be a Menace to South Central While Drinking Your Juice in the Hood or Menace for short was one of the best if not the best movie I have ever seen. I was laughing my ass off non-stop. I got refered to it by a friend so I hired it out. Soon enough Ash-Tray and Lockdog were household names and me and my friend have been quoting the movie for about a year now and we cant get enough so bye for now I'm gonna hire it out again and I suggest you do too. "},{"Title":"Suprisingly Funny","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The first time i saw this film it was on a reject channel at about 3 in the morning and i don't know why.  This movie is probably one of the funniest movies i have ever seen and i had to try and stop myself form laughting towards the end because my stomach hurt.  I still carn't belive that it has never been shown again on British T.V but i live in hope, ).   As for anyone thniking of buying/renting this movie i would say only watch it if you have sense of humor and haven't been locked away in prision or somewhere for the last few years or else u won't get many of the jokes as it's storyline is basically to spoof all movies, but still a must see! "},{"Title":"A hysterical amusingly and satirical view on life in the hood.","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When I rented this movie on VHS, I had never heard of it, only the cover layout looked cool. But I'll never forget the laughs it gave me. The amazing set of characters appearing in the movie is a laugh in itself, and the situations they appear in are even more hillarious. With all the lines drawn to an extreme, these actors/writers presents a movie that is guaranteed to make you break a smile.  "},{"Title":"Funny spoof","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I liked this movie (not as much as the Wayans future project Scary Movie) because of it's funny jokes on past gangsta movies.  It all ranges from Boys 'N' the Hood, South Central, Menace 2 Society, Dead Presidents and some others.  Cool fun, mainly from the Wayans bros. (Marlon, Shawn, Damon and Kennan Ivory) who wrote and produced this project.  Not in the best spoof category, but it isn't a waste of time either (though I'd rather see the gangsta comedy Friday).  B+ "},{"Title":"The Funniest Spoof of All Time","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is the funniest I have ever seen.  If there ever were a movie that truly gave a laugh a minute, it would be this one.  Some people did not like how the writers were toward some of the subject matter but I don't really get into all that when I watch a movie, especially a comedy.  I feel as though comedy is a way of looking at things in a lighter fashion.  If you think about it, anything can be funny and I think that one of the elements that makes the Wayans family so funny is their ability to make light of things that wouldn't normally be funny.  I have the same personality like that so I guess it is easier for me, I don't know.  Enough of that.  If you've seen all the movies that this movie spoofs then it should be even more hilarious.  I think that the members Wayans family are the rulers of comedy.  I have been waiting for the upcoming Scary Movie for over a year and a half.  I know it will be just as funny as this.  Don't Be A Menace is a MUST SEE if you like comedy.  As just about always, I give this movie a 10. "}{"Title":"Very different","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"   Obviously this movie has no real story. However, the comedy, romance, and fun, more than make up for it. This is the first movie I've ever seen that didn't have a story. When you look at this movie, it makes you realize that your life is not at 2 hour story, but a combination of different situations. THAT is what this movie is like. And thats what makes this movie different from other movies. You might call this movie unique. I enjoyed watching this movie several times. It made me laugh and it entertained me. What makes the movie so funny isn't the jokes, but the truth. Simply put, this movie tells the truth about Da' Hood, and about people living in Da' Hood. I would give this movie an 8 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"My favorite movie of all time","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is absolutely hysterical!  After watching the movie, there are so many lines that are quote worthy you almost have to see it again.  I have seen it at least ten times.  If you haven't seen it yet, you must rent it immediately. "},{"Title":"A parody we can all learn from.","Date":"20 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" It's hard to find a good parody these days. The likes of scary movie, and other movies in the same vein are wearing kind of thin on actual humor but big on crude sexual gags. This movie however, manages to find a pleasant balance between the two. It manages to be intelligent and at the same time completely disgusting (crackhead lovin' anyone?)I guarantee you'll be in tears the whole movie, from references to other great works of Afro-drama to self parodies so great it almost becomes paradoxical (Like a mailman that just happens to have a MESSAGE! every time a character has something wise to say.) I give this movie one of my highest recommendations. "},{"Title":"pretty funny","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Don't Be a Menace to South Central While Drinking Your Juice in the Hood written by and starring brothers Marlon Wayans and Shawn Wayans pokes fun at the reality ghetto films of the 90's, such as Boyz N The Hood and Menace II Society. Ashtray (Shawn) moves to South Central and hooks up with his gangsta cousin Loc Dog (Marlon) and the mayhem begins. Don't Be a Menace was a pretty funny spoof of those previous movies, the Wayans Bros. were very funny in doing so. "},{"Title":"Complete Garbage","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie should be titled Don't waste your time watching this movie. This is about as trashy as you can get with movies. By far one of the worst parodies I've ever seen. It puts the movie Boyz N The Hood to shame. Trust me don't waste your time. 1 out of 10. "},{"Title":"One Hour Too Long","Date":"2 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  There is about 30 minutes of very biting comedy in Don't Be a Menace. Just enough for a good episode of Living Color. The effective humor plays on John Singleton's first two films, Boys N the Hood and Poetic Justice. DBA Menace pointedly lampoons Singleton's tendency to sentimentally turn thugs into heroes. After this strong beginning, DBA Menace quickly goes downhill. I have never seen a comedy so completely run out of material. When there are skits about jump rope, you know the writers are hurting. The jokes also begin to focus about how ghetto residents just get drunk and there is plenty of burping and passing gas. The fast forward button came in very handy at that time.The Wayans brothers show some talent and with more help could possibly make a good complete film. In the meantime, Don't Be a Menace in spite of its strong beginning, is as uneven as a comedy can get.    "},{"Title":"Not great, but still pretty funny","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  After their brother Keenen had such success spoofing blaxploitation films in 1988 with I'M GONNA GIT YOU SUCKA!, Wayans brothers Marlon and Shawn tackle urban dramas in this spoof.  Like SUCKA, this combines an AIRPLANE! type approach to humor with a knowing wink at African-American culture.  It runs out of steam near the end, and some of it isn't funny, but most of it is, and what matters most in this type of movie is how many jokes work vs. how many don't.  The ones that do (especially when Marlon meets an attractive woman from the hood who has seven kids, and when she says to them, Now what do we say to the nice man? they reply, Are you my daddy?) are really funny, enough to recommend this.  Looking forward to Keenen's spoof of horror movies, which I think is called SCREAM IF YOU KNOW WHAT I DID LAST SUMMER. "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I saw this just this morning on FOX-TV. It had me laughing inside of a couple of minutes and I kept it up to the end.It's a tremendous spoof of 'Hood films. It takes every cliche in the book and kicks its metaphorical head in!I'd recommend this. I especially like the gun battle scene where the bullets are flying and the kid on the Big Wheel&#153; just sits there looking bored and VERY unimpressed. "},{"Title":"Juvenile entertainment that's quite funny, but those 12 and under will probably enjoy it more","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I saw this movie when it first was released in theaters.  I was about 12 years old.  The theater was packed, and the audience had a ball.  One of those films where a funny scene would come up and EVERYONE in the theater would start cracking up.  Well, I guess as you get older this humor doesn't appeal as effectively.  Sure, I now know the outcome of the gags.  I've watched the film about 10 or 15 times.  But even if I were to first view it today (I am now 19 years old) I don't think I would've laughed as much as I did when I was in grammar school.  There's tons of crude humor, tons of profanity, tons of explicit sexual references and even some mock drug use.  Everything you would expect to come out the pen of a Wayans brother.  Don't get me wrong, they are talented guys and I enjoy watching their (Shawn and Marlon) show from time to time, but they're not exactly the African-American Woody Allens.  However, I do have to give it up for their (sometimes witty) jabs at those Growin' Up in Da Hood dramas.  I didn't see many of the films--from which the spoofs are based on--before seeing Don't Be A Menace.  After I saw Menace 2 Society I noticed that 50-percent of the gags were taken off that critically acclaimed urban youth drama.  There are also some jabs at Boyz N the Hood.  There are some genuinely funny moments that I will always cherish  Bernie Mac's cameo as the black cop who hates anything and anybody black, Suli McCullough as the wheelchair bound Crazy Legs doing his MC Hammer U Can't Touch This number, the Hurry Up and Buy! scene at the convenience store, Loc Dog (Marlon Wayans) applying for a job at the DMV.  There are more very funny gags worth a barrel of laughs, but there are also moments where they simply push the crudeness envelope and deliver a lot more groans than laughs.  There's one scene where Ashtray (Shawn Wayans) and Dashiki (Tracey Cherelle Jones) are having foreplay.  She pours Kool-Aid on his stomach and sucks it off, sprinkles hot government cheese on his chest and it concludes with him sucking hot sauce off her crusty toes.  All this stuff may be funny to a five-year-old.  Not me.  Marlon's character is obnoxious at times.  He's another comic actor who sometimes tries too hard to be funny and simply hams it up.  Helen Martin (227) steals the show as the pot-smoking grandmother.You can, maybe, consider this a hit-or-miss comedy.  But there are a good enough amount of hits to overshadow the misses.  If you're not in grammar school, you might find some of this stuff utterly juvenile and distasteful; but it's still worth watching.  It definitely has its memorable moments.My score  7 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"Funny Movie!","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I've seen many types of movies that infer to, if you will, how black people grow up in the ghetto. But this one takes the whole cake! Shawn and Marlon Wayans play hilarious roles as Loc Dog, the crazy drug-head that loves his weapons, and Ashtray, the virgin of the group who was dumped into the ghetto. Along with them are there buds Preach and Crazy Legs who all form together to create a hilarious movie that spoofs other black movies and offers some more. I highly recommend that you watch this movie, unless your a parent looking for a family movie because believe me, you'll be blown away by the vulgar words and obscene things that go on. "}{"Title":"A hilarious, gut busting spoof of ghetto films","Date":"30 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Don't Be a Menace to South Central While Drinking Your Juice in the Hood is hilarious. The first time I saw this, I caught a few minutes of it on HBO. I had to do something, so I only got to see a few minutes, but in those few minutes I was laughing more times per second than I had ever laughed before. Through that one time when I only saw a few minutes, I knew I had to see this from the beginning.This is a spoof of films that take place in the ghetto. The films it spoofs include Boyz N the Hood, Menace II Society, Juice, South Central, Higher Learning, Poetic Justice, and other films. Part of the reason I laughed so hard is because I had seen most of those movies, and I knew them well enough. If you haven't seen any of those movies, you probably won't find this to be funny. If you want to see any of those movies in order to understand this, the main ones you will have to see are Boyz N the Hood and Menace II Society. I laughed so hard when I saw this. It seems as though every second something funny happens. The movie follows Ashtray, a young man who is sent to live with his father in order to learn better and have more of a chance to succeed in life(think of Boyz N the Hood). Strangely, his Father is younger than he is. Little things like that make this movie very funny. Some other funny characters are Ashtray's cousin Loc Dog, Loc Dog's trigger happy Grandmother, their crippled friend Crazy Legs, and a desperate drug addict with some of the funniest lines in the movie. Funny things happen with these characters, such as when we first see Loc Dog's Grandma, she is swearing just about every word. A couple of minutes later, she smokes a huge joint, which is also hilarious. The look on her face, and her mannerisms in that scene are priceless. Another funny scene with Grandma is when she and another elderly woman are having a break dance competition in church. The character Crazy Legs was formerly the best dancer in the hood, until he was paralyzed from the waste down in a drive by. He has these little stubby legs that are about half the size of normal legs. In one scene he has a dream that he is a dancer in the video for MC Hammer's Can't Touch This. That scene is so funny, it had me laughing for quite a while. This movie is not for everyone. Anyone who is offended by racial stereotypes will probably not enjoy this movie, as there are a lot of racial stereotypes in many scenes. Another reason this isn't for everyone is because not everyone is into this type of humor, and not everyone has watched the movies that this is a spoof of. If you are into this type of humor, and you have seen the movies that this is based on, then I'm sure you'll love it. If you like movies like this, then it is a must see. If you aren't into this type of movie, then you will probably spend better time watching another movie. "},{"Title":"Don't be a menace","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I'm sorry, but how can you say this movie is about the truth of what's going on in the projects? This movie is nothing more nor less than a parody of a few real hood-movies which are trying to portray a picture of the ghetto as it is in real life. Don't be a menace is an extremely funny movie, which is very well done, with a good cast and actors that do exactly what they're supposed to. Serious fun, everyone should see this movie. I'd give it a 9 out of 10, because it's truly one of the best movies in it's genre. However, once again, it isn't a portrayal of the truth, thank god, otherwise there'd be neighborhoods in the world where kids would be having kids at 3, where people get killed every second of the day and where it's as easy to get an H-bomb as a pack of gum. "},{"Title":"Funniest Movie Ever","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" every single scene in this movie is absolutely hilarious; there will not be a minute where you don't laugh out loud; this is absolutely hilarious and is the greatest movie ever. It makes fun of several movies menace to society, south central, juice, and boyz in the hood; hence the title don't be a menace to south central while you drink your juice in the hood. Anyway i love this movie and is in my top seven comedy movies ever list.1. don't be a menace 2. dumb and dumber 3. something about Mary 4. blind date 5. meet the parents 6. meet the fockers 7. Harold and kumar go to white castle "},{"Title":"The Best Of Wayans!","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie was by far the best movie by the Wayan's Bros. I had only seen Boyz N the Hood by the time I saw this movie, nonetheless I found the movie hilarious!! You really don't have to have seen any of the movies they spoofed to get the jokes.What's so good about this movie is that there really isn't ONE scene where you won't laugh, unfortunately sometimes you laugh so much you actually miss some of the jokes that come after....The acting was great, especially from Shawn's part(Ashtray), his facial expressions were just great, and Marlon (Loc Dog) also nailed his part as the stoned (and mentally ill?) cousin.If you haven't seen it, go rent it or buy it whenever you have the chance as this is one of the funniest movies out there!! 10/10 "},{"Title":"hysterical","Date":"9 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  you cant take it seriously really, its too damn funny, aswell as the fact i have not yet watched the film whilst being serious. the wayans' (family) are brilliant, abused as far as scary movie(s) go but still very funny men. the film itself parodies a lot of serious afro-american movies, and parodies it well. it should get better reviews for being one of the earliest and best wayans productions. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Fantastic","Date":"26 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Gimme a S Gimme a ... bla bla blaWhat does that spell?SUPER!!!!this is really an awesome movie gotta see it and vote 10!!! "},{"Title":"one of the best!!!!!!","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  well ill start off by saying this is one of the best movies ive ever seen!...the story is great (theres not really much of a story) and the whole thing kept me laugh the entire time i watch it.  plus the movie has some great catch phases you can use to make others laugh. .......................all in all...99/10 "},{"Title":"A very entertaining film with many laughs","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If you enjoy Keenen Ivory Wayans' type comedy -- such as in the show In Living Color -- then you will enjoy this movie. I did not see any of the movies that it is parodying, but I still found it to be a hoot! "},{"Title":"A lot of laughs","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  While this movie most definitely does not have a very unique plot, it has no qualms about being unique.As usual there are the fantastic laughs delivered by the Wayans brothers. The comedy is pretty slapstick and you have to be aquainted with certain black slangs to find it funny.It has its own take about doing drugs, living off welfare checks, and all in all being in the hopelessness of living in poverty.Movies that I liked having similar jokes and laughs would be Booty Call. "},{"Title":"The funniest film from 90´s","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Sex, violence, drugs, rap, bad language... Who imagine these ingredients formated the FUNNIEST film from 90s. They don´t respect anything. I LUV IT. "}{"Title":"HOW FUNNY???","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Funniest Film i've seen for ages Lot better than Scary Movie If u like L.A style films & Scary Movies humor U WILL LOVE IT!!!!PLEASE BRING IT OUT ON DVD IN THE UK!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  "},{"Title":"Oh my god... Call 911 cuz I am gonna have a heart attack!","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  At first I only saw ten minutes of it and just by those 10 brief minutes I can conclude that this is the funniest movie I have ever seen! No doubt!When I saw the whole thing... I couldn't breath from laughing so much!Plus I like Marlon Wayan! "},{"Title":"I loved It!!!!!!!","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I love this movie.  I saw it when it first came out in '96 and I loved every minute.  I finally understand how Ashtray's father can be younger than him. The only possible way for that to happen is if Ashtray's father was born on a leap year.  I don't know if that's what Shawn and Marlon Wayans were thinking but it works that way.  I loved this movie and I recommend it.  I also recommend Friday and Next Friday.  And Friday After Next (Friday 3) comes out Nov. 22Peace Out "},{"Title":"My humble opinion.","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Don't Be a Menace to South Central While Drinking Your Juice in the Hood is without a doubt one of the funniest films ever made.I have just graduated from University and how I ever managed to pass whilst watching this film as often as I did, I don't know.A classic!Wayne & Waynes more recent films don't even compare.If you've not seen it yet, do so. "},{"Title":"the bible of comedy","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is so funny that when i first watched it at a friends house, I Immediately ran home rented a copy and watched it 14 times in a row!!!! The best movie i ever watched!!!! The wayans brothers are comedy Geniuses !!! "},{"Title":"Excellent - those who did not find it funny did not understand it","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film was pure excellence, attacks many political questions about race within society and entertains the audience. Also very true to the facts of life. This film was made six years ago and it still makes perfect sense. "},{"Title":"Amazing movie that spoofs the whole idea behind American movies","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is a great movie, and it's never boring. It always pulls you in a new direction, it's much like a collection of great jokes played very well.You meet Ashtray that has to live with his dad, which is younger than him. He wants to get out of the hood, but it doesn't turn out to be easy after he sleeps with Dashiki which isn't the hardest woman in the hood to get into bed. Or as Ashtray's cousin Loc Dog put's it. You can take Dashiki out of the hood, but you can never take the hood out of Dashiki ) A great movie, go and get it. It's full of jokes that gives you one impression, then turns around completely, HILARIOUS!!! "},{"Title":"Cool","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Don't Be a Menace to South Central While Drinking Your Juice in the Hood (1996) Is the most funnyist movie I ever seen! Thumbs up for Marlon and Shawn Williams!!! Marlon And Shawn Williams are very funny and they know how to make us happy! They are born comediens! "},{"Title":"Ghetto Trash!","Date":"22 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie joined my fifteen minute club, watched it for fifteen minutes, pushed stop, and taked it back to the video store(wishing I can get my money back).  I like funny, crazy funny, silly funny, even stupid funny.  But this movie was just plain TRASH.    "},{"Title":"The one before 'Scary' movies etc...Homie plays that!!","Date":"23 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The movie title alone, takes two hours to say. And talk about breaking all the stereotypical rules, if they weren't breaking all the rules I don't know what they would be doing. Don't be a menace I'm not surprised that there wasn't a sequel to this although it was ghetto -cutting humor that ate just about every other 'Hood' movie around then. If their comedy was a shotgun then there would be comedy-spatter all over the screen. Kim Wayans and the whole happy bunch bring their 'creative juices' to this hoodster-Rama, a ton of vulgarity, but a mountain of wit and eccentric brains, The Wayans make this a colorful and tasty treat for every fan. From the entry at Tray's room to the seven kids looking for their daddy and finding a step dad with a small car, this was a rap-hop malt-liquor adventure that really packs a staggering punch!See this if you liked In Living Color or if you just want to get comfortably into ghetto styled laugher-riotousness. (****).Thx --Imdb.com "}{"Title":"Before 'Scary Movie'","Date":"26 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Before 'Scary Movie' the Wayans Brothers made this movie, 'Don't Be a Menace'. It is a spoof on movies like 'Boyz N the Hood' and 'Menace II Society', two great movies about the hoods in Los Angeles.'Don't Be a Menace' starts pretty nice, although stupid, with some very funny moments. It is the same kind of humor you see in 'Scary Movie', not the most intelligent kind. As long as it works that is fine, but after thirty minutes I wanted this movie to end. After this every single joke was the same. When a movie like this becomes boring it is not very good. Not that it is good with any other kind of movie, but here it seems actually pretty hard to make it boring.Although 'Scary Movie' doesn't belong to my favorite movies either at least I had fun while watching it. For the first thirty minutes it was the same with this movie. Watch those minutes and then turn to something else. "},{"Title":"Wayans, Wayans and more Wayans","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If Keenan Ivory Wayans ever quits making movies, I have no idea what his family will do for income.  Surprisingly, this movie features only five Wayans (including Keenan's cameos).The film is a lot more cohesive than I'm Gonna Get You Sucka, and as such, is not nearly as funny.  Antonio Fargas has a mostly-wasted role, especially considering the fun stuff that the seventies TV icons were given to do in I'm Gonna Get You Sucka.The movie is worth a watch for a lot of the inside jokes, but make sure you rent it instead of buying it. "},{"Title":"Painless but thin fare.","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Forced, broad, profane comedy has too many obvious gags and tired jokes to be considered a success, but there have been some worse films of the same type (DraculaDead and Loving It). Never quite as funny or as inspired as you'd like it to be, but basically harmless and easy enough to take. Don't expect to remember it for more than an hour after it's over, though. (**) "},{"Title":"a great ball o laughs","Date":"30 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is one of the great all time spoof movies.. Takes many aspects from movies like new jack city and boys in the hood.. Very hilarious ripping on how stupid ghetto life really is.If you are black you probably won't like this movie, but nonetheless it is a great laughter filled story, second to only Friday- for ghetto comedies "},{"Title":"Waynes Brothers are funny, but disappointing","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Waynes Brothers are usually very HILARIOUS!! I loved In Living Colorgrowing up. It was sad to see it cancelled after just 4 1/2 years. Butnow the Waynes Brothers could branch out and make movies.This movie had SO much potential, but fell short. Let me explain. In theearly 90's Gangsta Rap was on the rise and becoming more and morepopular. With Gangsta rap came movies about growing up in the hoodstarring some of those rappers. Movies like BoyZ In Da Hood, Juice,Higher Learning, Menace II Society and other graced the silver screanprompting gang violence all over the country. It was time to paradythese films.The problem with this movie was NOT the fact that it wasn't funny. Ithad it's moments like Marlen's hair throughout the film (Flava Flav'syounger brother look); the guy shooting people in the Korean Storetrying to frame black people; chick with all those kids. The problem wasthat it was clear the film would appeal to younger audiences. Althoughit had a NC17 feel to it at times. Like that party in the back yardscene where a guy and girl are naked and getting it on. The moment I sawthat I knew that little kids (the target audience) wouldn't be allowedto see this movie in theaters. Thus making it a bomb at the box office.This movie should have known better. It wasn't meant for gang members tosee and laugh at there mishaps, but for those teenage and preteengangsta-wannabees that live  "},{"Title":"On-target spoof of hood movies &#150; not brilliant but definitely very good","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A spoof of  numerous &#145;hood' movies.  Taking it's inspiration mainly from John Singleton's Boyz n'the Hood, this follows Ashtray as he returns to the hood to `become a man' with his father.  Before long he is mixed up with fast women, gang violence and back with his homey Loc Dog.I'm not a big fan of the Wayan's brothers but I gotta give praise where praise is due.  This is a funny, well targeted, affectionate spoof of hood movies and black stereotypes.  It's not ground breaking Oscar winning stuff, but it does what it sets out to do.  The story fits in all sorts of jokes - from specific movie references (Higher Learning, Boyz n' the Hood, Menace II Society) to background visual jokes and far fetched humour.  It even makes fun of the `preaching' style of the movies by having Keenan Ivory Wayans walk on and shout `message!' at several points.All the cast are good because they allow themselves to be sent up at the same time as the movies.  They all have jokes at their expense.  However it does mean that the performances aren't great, but there are plenty of really good characters - from Shawn Wayans to Tate as Ashtray's dad who is actually younger than him!Overall it's not the next Citizen Kane but it doesn't try to be!  It's a good stuff that doesn't rely on stupid jokes but instead picks it's target (hood movies) and hits the mark with the majority of the jokes.  If you've seen more than two hood movies then you'll get most of this! "},{"Title":"Man, the Wayans are better than this.","Date":"1 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I know the Wayans are better than this boring trash. I've seen worse movies, but this flick is bad. I didn't laugh but a handful of times. Most of the acting was cheesy and in a bad way. Some cheesiness is needed in some spoofs. But this time it's just bad acting. It seemed to be a fairly low budget feature. The direction wasn't very good. I knew I was in for a long 89 minutes when I laughed loudest when I spotted a movie poster that said Robopimp 3. But I don't really know how to recommend this movie to people. I didn't like it, but that might have something to do with the fact that I have to have #5,000 sunblock in order not get a sunburn. And maybe the humor just wasn't to my taste. But I don't care what anybody says, In Living Color is one of the greatest TV shows of all time. And I will always remember the Wayans (Keenen & Damon) for that. But as for this movie, boring and not funny, at least to me. 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Avoid","Date":"15 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Menace is not funny. It tries hard - too hard. but rarely brings a smile. There is no acting, just mugging. One of the main characters wears a stupid grimace on his face the entire movie. No doubt as the less talented Wayans brothers starred, wrote and produced the film they were entirely blind to their lack of talent.Menace consists of a series of unfunny, one joke skits. The punchline can be seen a mile off, but you have to wait until it all unfolds. No zippy one-liners or snappy dialogue here. Just one scene after another building up to the joke. The jokes themselves are juvenile. Loc Dog (the one with the perma-grimace) talks to a beautiful woman - but then she has ... bad breath and then she picks her nose and then, wait for it (remember you must always w-a-i-t) she farts! How funny is that? Ten-year old boys may find it funny as they won't have heard the jokes as many times before. Alternatively, if you like watching movies completely drunk or stoned then you will be able to follow along and may even find it amusing. The challenge will be getting drunk enough to reduce your mental state to the level of the movie without passing out. "},{"Title":"This movie is so bad it deserves a rating of its own.","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Ok, I will make this review short and to the point for those people whose mental capacity is perfect for watching this movie. Everybody knows of Motion Picture Association of America's ratings G, PG, PG-13, R, and NC-17. For the purposes of this movie, I think the MPA should create a new rating standard   IQ-20.  "},{"Title":"Its was Okay.....","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It was kinda a dissapointment..... I thought it would be very funny and cool... but it was just stupid..... i rate this movie a 5. And the Wayan brothers usually do a better performance.. but this was crap and a waste of time... My brother loved the movie though.. "}{"Title":"Look! Shawn & Marlon Wayan are using stupid black stereotypes to try to be funny!","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  And they're black! I'm laughing out loud now folks. They should try to get rid of these stereotypes instead of perpetuating them(and no, I'm not black). Also, this movie has no plot whatsoever. It's just Ashtray and Loc Dog running around and meeting a bunch of stereotypical characters. The only scene that got a chuckle from me was the beginning scene. Oh, yeah, I was laughing out loud when Loc Dog is asked the question sex? on a job offer formulary and answers yeah!, not because it's funny but because I was guessing that they really thought we would laugh at that! God they're pathetic! "},{"Title":"just doesn't work","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The first couple of 'gangsta' films like Boyz N' the Hood and Menace to Society made a strong, dramatic point about life, but the genre got old with the countless imitators. And now, just like in Scary Movie, the Wayans Bros. create a spoof that does nothing but re-enact the famous scenes from the movies they're spoofing. Like the scene in the convienent store, spoofing Menace 2 Society. What was funny about it? Nothing, because they're just repeating it. Perhaps the problem in Don't be a Menace was this was a genre too serious to be made fun of. There's nothing funny about getting shot on your birthday in front of your mother, and then to see that she's crying over the wrong guy. Also, drive-by's happen all the time; I've had friends who were unintended targets of them, and it's not funny when someone is an actual victim. There's a similar problem in Scary Movie, except that it's sort of the opposite the whole horror/slasher genre already spoofs itself, and has never really taken itself seriously. Comedy making fun of comedy just doesn't work. "},{"Title":"Uncle Tom turns nasty!","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Now I know that a lot of black humor pokes fun at typical black things like for example gold teeth. But that doesn't mean that they always are funny. Don't be a menace is an example of this. The urban movie certainly lends itself for satire. The problem is that Wayans and consorts not only try satirize the typical 'ghetto' culture, they also belittle valid statements that are made in urban movies such as Boyz 'n' the Hood or Menace II Society. Personally I think that the makers of this movie should get their heads away from the bowel movements of their white masters. Besides this, the movie in itself is terrible. It's absolutely not funny. The jokes are racist. Instead of satirizing the urban movie genre, the moviemakers show their views of the 'ignorant' urban (ghetto) blacks. Now there are some other jokes in this movie, but I believe this to be the main fare.In conclusion this movie is crap and the makers should use their talents to make a constructive comedy/satire movie. They have examples in Men With Black Hats (which was made before this movie) and Friday.  "},{"Title":"Bad, bad, bad.","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The is one of the worst spoofs I have ever seen. For one main reason IT ISN'T FUNNY! I laughed a handful of times. The acting is bad, the script is worse. And why those guys had baby pacfiers in their hair I will never know. And you can tell this didn't have much of a budget to work with and it openly hurts the film. They had a good idea going in some parts but it never really came to past. And what was the point about the lead being older than his Dad? 3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"DISTURBING","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Don't get me wrong there are a few funny moments (like the guy getting JUMPED into Toothpicks gang) but the rest is boring. And in some places disturbing. Like when legs fantasizes about being MC HAMMER. Now that is scary. Not because MC HAMMER is long since gone but because it looks like it should be in the movie FREAKS due to its sheer ugliness. "},{"Title":"Bad, bad, bad.","Date":"1 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  (mild spoilers)This movie was filthy and stupid.  It could have done well without the constant humping and nude sex.  It was also very profane.  I think that they had a good story developing, but they messed up the whole thing by overdoing it. "},{"Title":"Very boring.","Date":"28 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Going by the good words of my friends, I hired this movie, hoping that it would at least equal the laughs of the similar movie, House Party, but I was very disappointed, and very bored.Falling asleep while watching a movie is never a good sign. I don't know whether this didn't appeal to me because I don't live in da hood, or if I'm not black, but it's probably one of the two.It tries to spoof a few movies, only coming up with a couple of laughs, but in the long run it fails miserably. Miss it. "},{"Title":"Horrendous","Date":"10 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I don't understand the humor in this film. I also found it offensive on how Koreans were depicted in that film, despite how it is actually just a caricature of Koreans in those areas. First, the actors are Japanese, and they make the most rude expressions of Koreans in that film. It disgusts me on how these people are expressed. I felt anger just watching that one scene, and how they were so badly made out in the film. The humor lasts just for one laugh, and then you don't understand why it's even funny. It's crude humor with the most disgusting representation of society there. I found it to be an offensive film overall... Maybe it was just because I never lived in the hood or saw any hood movies, but I don't intend to either. "},{"Title":"Don't Be a Menace to South Central While Drinking Your Juice in the Hood","Date":"16 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" i have rated this movie a 1/10 and have done this in good nature. this movie is not as it seems and i don;t get the point of it. take the first joke for instance. Their's that sign at the beginning to start. well that was OK but then they start having some guy talking about the hood and then he dies then theirs the other guys who talks then he dies after the other guy says people don;t get to their birthday with out dieing. and he gets a cake now. then he dies. The jokes are just stupid they are;t that smart and i would have thought they would have been better from some one like the directors of scary movieShawn Wayans (written by) & Marlon Wayans (written by) & Phil Beauman (written by)but it sucked and i hop next time they want to make another comedy they make some good jokes not lame ones. "}]