[{"Title":"A feast for the eyes and the ears","Date":"24 July 2004","Score":"55 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" 	Produced in India by an Indian director and production crew for the primary purpose of introducing Europeans and North Americans to some aspects of the Hindu culture, this film was never intended for domestic markets and in fact I believe that it remains banned in most parts of India. Although in many ways the Hindu culture is highly erotic, eroticism is not normally featured in domestic Indian films and the Director had to recruit two British born actresses for the starring roles. It is a beautiful film which was quite successful in parts of Europe and it is unfortunate that it had only a limited release in North America.	Ultimately the film is a Feminist Tract, which is said to be based on an Indian legend from the early sixteenth century - the period immediately after the foundation of the Mohgul (Mongol) empire in India. It is a story about an intelligent woman born  into a low cast who is the servant of a high cast compatriot betrothed to the local Raj. In most parts of the world the subservient status of women at the time of this legend made it very difficult for them to establish a satisfactory lifestyle except in the traditional role of wife to the master of a family and mother to his children. In India the difficulties were greatly compounded by the additional limitations imposed by the cast system. The film basically records the efforts of this woman to use her sexual attractiveness to develop a lifestyle that would be acceptable to her. In modern parlance Maya has the moral standards of a guttersnipe, but in the context of the period in which she lived she merely manipulated the weapons available to her to try to establish what any modern woman would describe as an acceptable independent lifestyle. Ultimately her plans basically fail and the film ends with her walking confidently towards an unknown future after losing her lover and every support that her former life had provided, but with a confidence that she could face the future, whatever it might bring, thanks to the lessons in life that she had learned during her period at the Royal Court. Women can clearly identify with this story - although IMDb users in general have only given this film fairly average ratings, the demographic breakdown of these ratings shows that younger women rate it most highly.	The title Kama Sutra - A love story poses a problem, Many western viewers expected a near pornographic sequence of orgies with sexual encounters involving highly convoluted positions - their disappointment can be seen both in some of the viewer comments featured in this data base, and by the low ratings many viewers have given to this film. (One IMDb reviewer has made the interesting comment that the film might have been much more successful if it had simply been titled  A love story.) The film has also been derided as an Indian version of a modern soap opera. The common feature of soap operas is probably their limited characterisation and a shallow one track story line; but if we look at European stories and legends from the same period we find that they mostly show similar features - think only of the Decameron or such works as Moll Flanders and Fanny Hill. I have never been a fan of the modern soap operas- perhaps because they cut too close to home- but I am a sucker for those such as Dangerous Beauty or Black Venus which have the ability to temporarily transport one into life during an earlier period. Consequently I greatly enjoyed this film which not only successfully recreates a long past period, but also provides a realistic glimpse of life as lived in a totally different culture to my own. Most soap operas are rather melodramatic, but despite its exotic locale and period, the film Kama Sutra - a love story remains somewhat underplayed. The Raj showed a fairly unsavoury character, but none of the petty vindictiveness we associate with European royalty of the period. The arrest and execution of the sculptor, Maya's lover, was clearly inevitable but it was not carried out with the oriental barbarism I expected to be displayed, and this Indian royal court was shown as both more civilised and more humane than say its European equivalent in the English court of Henry VIII.	For a film to be a success there are basically two requirements, it must have something worth while to feature and it must be sufficiently competently made to hold the viewers attention whilst watching it. In my view this film fully meets both these requirements. Although the story line was a little trite and the characterisation was somewhat shallow, the camera work was superb and was a delight to the eye throughout. It is hard for a Westerner to judge how authentically the sixteenth century Mohgul royal court was represented, but as shown its visual impact was both exotic and exciting. A important part of this film was the outstanding score which contributed much to the mood and atmosphere. This score, the sets, the costumes and the camera work were outstanding throughout and provided a continual feast for both eyes and ears. What more can a viewer expect? I give this film a rating of eight out of ten, much higher than the average rating recorded in the IMDb database, and I do so deliberately not because it was a great story but because both the score and the camerawork justify this rating. This is at least as valid as giving a similar rating to films with a great story to tell, but with very indifferent camera work. After all the cinema is essentially a visual form of entertainment and any film which can, like this one, keep our eyes glued to the screen throughout has to be recognised as way above average.   "},{"Title":"Excellent movie and supreme eye candy...","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"47 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  I've watched this film over and over again and it just gets better. It's actually based on a book called Hand-Me-Downs which you'll understand after you've watched it. As the last person who commented on this stated it's not the Kama Sutra you're thinking of. There IS sex, there IS a bit of violence, but don't watch this with the hopes of seeing your average vulgar action and sex film. The women in the film are instructed and shown how to the master the art of Kama Sutra, mind you the ART not the positions. Anyway, the film setting is gorgeous and the acting is superb. You'll recognize Sarita Choudhury as Tara if you've already watched Mississippi Massala. Indira Varma does an excellent job in expressing her revenge, regret, and mystery in Tara's character. Everyone and I mean EVERYONE did an excellent job in this film.  "},{"Title":"Good Love Story / Drama","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"47 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  When I rented KAMA SUTRA - A Tale Of Love, I thought my girlfriend would kill me for what the title implied.  We were plesantly suprised to find a Love Story / Drama which, yes, has some very sexy scenes in it.  Those looking for a movie version of the ancient text will be disapointed with the reasonable use of sexual content.  There is an actual storyline here! This film is about true love, and the struggle for that love in the face of adversity. The love triangle, along with enough character development to explain the relationships between the five main characters, speaks of the human condition.The story takes place Once upon a time....  The costumes and sets are really well done.  The cinematography is richly textured, with India as the exotic backdrop, and you are transported back into time... and into the lovers' experience.This movie can take you through a full range of emotions, see it with your significant other, and expect it to effect you for the rest of the night. "},{"Title":"Beautifully Done!","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"39 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  I must say I really enjoyed this film.  I saw it late at night, when they usually only show crap on TV, and I was just blown away.  I loved the historical setting, the costumes, the sets, the interaction of the characters, the dancing and the love story.  I also can't help thinking that Indira Varma is probably the most beautiful woman alive.  I found this film stunning, enjoyable and moving, and I highly recommend it to audiences who don't mind a little sensual nudity in their films. "},{"Title":"a highly under rated film...","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"49 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" I first saw this movie about 4 years ago. And upon the first viewing I was dis-appointed about 15 mins into it. I'm sure most males are attracted to this film simply by the title... Kama Sutra. LOL. I was disappointed because on first glance I did not find Maya and Tara attractive. Yes I know, how lame of me to judge a film based on the looks of the actresses. In my defense, the title threw me off as I was expecting something highly erotic and very porn-ish. However, other than the title of the movie I've heard accolades from critics about this movie... so I manage to finish the movie. I remember thinking wow, not too shabby, the film wasn't what I expected. It really is a tale of love. I've just viewed the movie three times in the last couple of days and at last I'm really appreciating the film.The acting are superb and I think Indira Varma was a newcomer at that time. I think she played Maya perfectly... Her performance reminds me of how impressive Natalie Portman was in Leon as a totally unknown. Although Natalie was much younger with her debut. It was a delight watching Indira portraying the deep emotions and the hard life of Maya being always in Tara's shadow. My favorite scene was when Maya and Jai reunited. The music/score was perfect and the acting was heart felt I think they have perfect chemistry.The sets and costumes were colorful and rich. The cinematography was stunning. Character development was complete and the pace of the story was quite good never a wasted moment. This is one of my favorite films about love. It encompasses a lot more than merely the thought of Kama Sutra conjures up. It is also about girl going into woman hood. Please enjoy the film with a open mind and I think you will find its true beauty that is rarely matched.One other film that's a personal favorite is Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon which is directed by Ang Lee. I grew up in Taiwan, but spent most of my life in California and I'm well versed in both the traditional Chinese culture as well as contemporary American. I understood perfectly what Ang wanted to do. There's a big similarity in the fact that both directors made the film for the _foreign_ audiences. I think these films should not be completely judged on its accuracy, but rather, from the director's vision and what they wanted to accomplish. In both cases I think the directors were perfect. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, erotic film.","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"35 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  I bought this movie after seeing most of it on Bravo several different times.  I really love this movie.  It has beautiful imagery and a good plot. I was captivated by the lovely erotic scenes.  Although there is a love story in it, the film isn't entirely an happily ever after affair. However, the ending retains the feeling of hope and the fact that love (though not necessarily the lover) survives all things.A sad, yet hopeful movie.  I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Insightful, romantic, moral tale","Date":"24 April 2005","Score":"31 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" Having read The Kama Sutra and having found it disappointing, I figured this late night showing couldn't be anymore disappointing than the text of the same name in translation. The subtitle, A Tale of Love, does help inform the potential viewer that this is not a hot porn flick.The few pieces of Indian literature I have read treated love stories similarly. I was curious though, as to how the Bombay movie industry would treat this story, knowing they do no show kissing in the romantic films for domestic consumption. IMDb was the source I turned to to learn more about this film and its production. Thank you for the answers.This movie is a fine tragedy carefully told in the context of 16th century India. It portrays a woman's plight in that time, marry or be a courtesan in a harem. By giving the women empowered roles the writers allow viewers to see that while today would would find those roles unacceptable, some women of those days could find satisfaction, if not happiness. The mistress of the courtesan school gave everyone her pupils a view of the truth and their options, even before the women were ready to see them.The movie also contains moral lessons. Maia misuses her sexuality to her own detriment. The princess, could not buy happiness. The sculptor rejects Maia's love out of fear for loss of his independence, then gets paid back in kind.This is a captivating story I will watch again, to catch the dialog I missed while away from the television, and I rarely watch movies twice. "},{"Title":"I watched it again and again","Date":"5 September 2003","Score":"24 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  This film was wonderfully told to me. The characters where great, the location was magical, and the whole film just left me with a great feeling. I love Indira Varma, she is so beautiful and such a talented actress. The role of Queen Tara portrayed by Sarita Choudhury deserves mention also. I would recommend to anyone with an open mind. Though I was very young when I first watched it, it is for the more mature audience.  "},{"Title":"rich and lovely","Date":"1 December 2004","Score":"29 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" i admire mira nair's films. she clearly loves India and its culture, a fact evident in all of her films i've had the pleasure of seeing. but her real art is showing her passion through so many prisms. vanity fair showed us India from the British home perspective which we usually see from western directors, while salaam bombay showed us modern urban India at its most destitute and triumphant. monsoon wedding introduces to the rapidly expanding Indian middle class, providing us with a far more intimate appreciation of her subjects than we might get calling for tech support for our computers or trying to understand a credit card bill. kama sutra shows us India through yet another prism. first a prism of history, which she lushly recreates, and then through a prism of sexuality, which she (rightly) brandishes as legacy of a great and ancient culture. perhaps she suggests that the British morality imposed by the empire attempted, with some success, to obscure a vibrant and enthusiastic sexuality. well, if British sex is anything like British food, and Indian sex is like Indian food, she might have a point. curiously, i've been told that if you want to eat good English food in London, go curry. i don't think that nair's ultimately interested in instructing us on sexual physics, or in telling us an epic melodrama. but through her four characters, she reveals love and sex as they are manifest continuously through the human story. a king imposes himself on his queen (patriarchy and rape), a king demands his coutesan (adultery and carnality), unrequited love (every character, each with a twist), jealousy, shame, sex as love, sex as passion, sex as brutality, and so on. the shades of sex that she reveals through her characters' relations are familiar, and she artfully sketches the nuances in three dimensions, where you rarely see more than one or two in Hollywood tripe. yet, like a good tikka masala, the chicken is familiar, but the colors and the flavor are distinctly and marvelously Indian. "},{"Title":"A beautiful work of art with an incredible story and even more incredible actors.","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"27 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  I saw this movie and I loved it. It was powerfully beautiful and the character of Maya was unbelievable. (I was pleased to share the name with her.) Indira Varma did a wonderful job and I was completely taken with it. I recommend this movie, although will not be liked by everyone. It is truly a work of art. "}{"Title":"Story is almost overshadowed by scenery and atmosphere","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" Maya is a servant to Princess Tara in 16th century India. They've known each other since childhood and have grown up as friends (or so we're led to believe). As a young woman Tara watches enviously as Maya is given lessons in Kama Sutra (an ancient 4th century guide on how to make love) by a famed courtesan Rasa Devi. Tara is allowed to observe during these classes. Maya secretly envies the life of Tara, she hates being given Tara's hand me down clothes and constantly complains to her aunt about her life as a servant. The girls grown up and Tara is to be married to Raj Singh, a neighbouring king. Unfortunately for Tara, Maya learnt a bit too much during her Kama Sutra lessons and ends up deliberately seducing Tara's opium addicted husband on the eve of her wedding! This is brought about because Raj Singh looks at Maya with lust at his first meeting with his wife to be and she is so jealous she spits at Tara and tells her to leave the pre-wedding ceremony. Tara has a brother, Prince Vicky, a hunchback who is openly ridiculed by many, who has been in love with Maya since childhood. Vicky sees Maya seducing and bedding the king and is distressed and furious! On the wedding day as Tara is leaving the palace to go to her new palace Maya whispers to her All my life I have lived with your used things but now something I have used is yours forever. Tara doesn't quite understand this and at the same time Vicky tells his mother that he wants to marry Maya and she must arrange it for him. Maya is approached with this proposal and refuses, and an enraged Vicky tells his mother of Maya's betrayal with his sister's husband on the eve of the wedding. The queen throws Maya out of the palace banishing her from the kingdom. Maya roams the land alone and lost. Tara rejects her husband's sexual advances as she has heard how painful sex is supposed to be the first time and he calls her Maya. So the king leaves her bed and takes more and more opium and more and more mistresses and no one is happy. On her travels Maya meets Jai Kumar, the king's sculptor, who falls for her seductive charms and she becomes his most favoured model and lover. Maya falls in love with Jai and for the first time in her life she feels out of control. In the meantime the king is still obsessed with Maya, pretty much ignores his wife and continues to bed other women when he's not searching high and low around the kingdom for Maya.What happens when the king catches up with Maya? What is the king's relationship with Jai Kumar? Do Tara or Maya ever achieve happiness in their lives? Just how vindictive can people be in the name of love and lust and revenge? I would rate this 7 out of 10. It's a very sensuous and beautifully filmed piece of work with excellent acting (whether or not you like the characters). For those who like romance, with historical drama and jealousy and spite all rolled into one, this is worth watching. Also if you like soft-core sex you might want to check it out too! To summarise the story I'd say it was predominantly about a poor girl trying to get revenge over a rich girl after years of being made to feel inferior even though they are brought up as best friends and by seducing the latter's husband on her wedding night she extracts the best revenge she possibly can, although ultimately this leads to tragedy. "},{"Title":"Beautifully depicted and wisely told, it is truly a tale of love!","Date":"31 March 2005","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" The story is set in 16th century India (Rajahstan) on the court where the queen (Tara) and the servant girl (Maya) are best friends. Even though friends, their differences stir up emotions - Maya wants to be equal to Tara, and Tara envies Maya on her natural beauty, spontaneity, exoticism that breathes from her every step, every chalak (dance). Tara marries the king (Raj), and Maya is thrown out of the kingdom (won't tell you the details why). Now, expelled and ashamed, she must find a new home, and maybe love...and that she does! Rasa Devi, Kama Sutra teacher offers her home and friendship, and love comes in the arms of Jai, a sensitive, yet bold, sculptor on king's (Raj) court. But not everything goes so smoothly for Maya and her love...Even though the actors' lines are smart, witty and real, the music speaks a thousand words. Mychael Danna's music is magical. It bring life to the stone, the buildings, the wind...His work with Mira Nair has been terrific! Overall, a great movie! Highly recommended! Brilliant story, with even better acting and directing.p.s. I saw it about 7 times, and actually own it, as well as the soundtrack. "},{"Title":"Passion. Pleasure. Power.","Date":"14 February 2006","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" I watched ''Kama Sutra A Tale of Love'' 3 years ago, and it was the first Indian movie I watched in my life. Needless to say that I fell in love right away, but only now I can make a review about it. I found both actresses Indira Varma and Sarita Choudhury very beautiful(specially Indira) and after this film, I had more interest in watching Indian movies.In the 16th Century India, Maya and Tara are friends,but they belong to different casts Maya is a servant and Tara is a princess. The only reason why Maya can play with Tara, is because Maya's adoptive mother nursed both Tara and her brother Biki. But the time passes, and soon Tara becomes jealous of Maya's beauty, specially when she is going to marry a king and he prefers to look Maya than Tara. They split their friendship,and Maya as a revenge sleeps with the king Raj Singh. Bikki,who always was in love with her, asks her to marry him, but when she answers no, She is banned from the places she lives, going to find help with Rasa Devi, the teacher of the Kama Sutra who teaches all women to become courtesans. She lives there and learns the art of Kama Sutra. When she is ready, she goes to be Raj Singh's courtesan, and Tara gets very angry with her, as Jai Kumar, a man she once loved, but not cared about her very much when they were lovers. "},{"Title":"Engaging and elegant Mira Nair film about love, the search for it, and its possibilities.","Date":"1 April 2005","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" A lovely surprise. I saw this movie several years ago and it still remains as one of the most visually beautiful and raw love stories I've ever watched. It explores love on every level - and everything that comes with it. Well written and beautifully told. (I'm glad to discover that Kama Sutra is about EXPRESSING love rather than just a bunch of sexual positions.) A movie that leaves a lasting impression - seems like viewers either love it or hate it.Emotionally provocative - Fluid love, hate, despair, vengeance, wisdom.p.s. I recently saw Bride & Prejudice, a delightfully fun movie where Indira Varma and Naveen Andrews displayed their lighter sides (albeit not leading roles but major roles). "},{"Title":"Beautiful but empty","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  A film which features stunning use of photography, rich colours and excellent locations. The film relies on the beauty of the locations rather than the characters which I found to be under-written.The film's erotic scenes are nicely done, they are not steamy, but very enjoyable.The screenplay is a major disappointment, the characters are underwritten, and certain sequences are thinly executed, at times, there is no depth to scenes. I don't know how accurate 16th century is represented in this picture, but I have my suspicions!The direction is nice, but really required a screenplay to make the film work.The performances are good, but I didn't think they were great.Overall, a disappointing screenplay, which never gives depth to the characters. A bit pretentious! "},{"Title":"Lush, plot-lite tragedy.","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  An exotic confection with pretty scenery and a terrific soundtrack, KAMA SUTRA, is worth watching if you're a fan of arty soap operas. Don't expect great art and you won't be disappointed. It's a lot of fun. The actors and scenes are yummy in various degrees. It sheds some light on the lives of privileged (or not so privileged) women in Medieval India and on their keepers, er, men. Options were pretty limited, as you might imagine, so pretty courtesan, Maya makes the most of her good looks, while former childhood playmate Tara gets the royal marriage she was bred for and doesn't like it one bit. There's sibling rivalry, love, greed and intrigue. Oh and sex... Looks great, ends tragically and some of the finest artists in Indian music worked on the soundtrack (which IS worth owning if Indian music is your cup of chai). What more could you want? "},{"Title":"Good Eye Candy","Date":"2 June 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  Its probably hard to take a subject like the Kama Sutra and distill it into a good movie that's not rated X. That being said, this movie does a good job at creating a plot around a tale of forbidden love that is set in an India of ages past.The staging and art direction are all well done-- and one certainly gets a sense of the opulence of India, simply through the luxuriant costume design that pops up in every scene. Where the movie has problems is that the protagonists are attractive, but not compelling as actors. We feel pity for their plight as part of a caste, but the villains are so equally cardboard that its hard to feel much empathy for anyone in this movie. The other curious aspect of this movie is the ending-- which isn't happy... and seems more a statement on the caste system itself. The feminism of the main character in the final scenes seems quite absurd, but perhaps that is just the nature of this difficult to adapt material.  "},{"Title":"has some good moments","Date":"18 October 2001","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  The other review was very harsh.  The film had some moments of delicacy and the sets were noteworthy.  Most of the friends that saw the film with me, rather liked it.  If you like India, you will like this film. "},{"Title":"An incredible treat for the eyes, ears and mind.","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  Last night I went to the theatres to see MONSOON WEDDING.   Such a beautiful movie.  This evening I ran to the video store to rent some other titles by the same director.  I had seen the display box for KAMA SUTRA a million times, but was afraid it was some boring semi-porn movie.  If you're into porn, rent porn, not pretend porn.  I watched it tonight, a wonderful movie.  Very romantic.  Yes there is sex, and violence, and some naughty talk, so you would think all Americans would love it.  But the beautiful music, settings, costumes, and people did it for me.  Great Flick. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Underrated","Date":"16 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" Ignore the terrible score, we can thank disgruntled pornography lovers for that. Perhaps the title is misleading, but I find this a positive thing. If only a small percentage of people who tune in expecting seedy scenes remain glued to the set once they get involved in the story and great cast of characters, the film has accomplished a considerable amount.It is a beautiful, erotic film - such vivid representation. The sets look completely authentic and the acting is spot on. Maia (Maya) plays her lead role perfectly and naturally.The film left me in deep thought for a considerable amount of time after it ended, it provokes strong, active emotions. "}{"Title":"An Amazing Movie","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  This film crinkles the corners of the soul. It is beautifully cast and artful.  The story navigates the twists and turns of love set in a time long past and modern conventions don't often remind us of the things that make love amazing.Indira Varma is quite possible the most beautiful woman in the world, and she plays Maya skillfully.  The story draws you in and makes you want for the characters, you feel for them.   "},{"Title":"Beautiful & Moving","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie was beautifully shot & directed. I felt the story was a classic love sought, love found, love rejected, love found again & finally lost forever love story.The acting was well done and the visuals and soundtrack added to the mystique of era long gone. And Ms. Indira Varma was excellent in her role as Maya.I loved this movie. "},{"Title":"stunning to look at","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  Don't believe the tag- if you're looking for soft-core porn or a graphic how-to manual, this movie isn't for  you. It is a beautifully filmed tale of the complex relationship between two women, and later between them  and their husbands and lovers. Some of the acting falls flat at times, but overall a decent film with lush  cinematography. "},{"Title":"Brilliant aesthetic and narrative depth!","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  This film has brilliant aesthetic and narrative depth.  It is more than a beautiful portrait of the journey of girl becoming a woman at peace. It is a reflection on both the pace and aesthetic of India.  It is a reflection on the meanings and purposes of love. It gently sucks the viewer in to inhabit the diagetic space of Maya, and realize her lessons along with her.  I can't describe just how damn moving this film is.  A rare and unique film that truly realizes the vision it set out to create-- not lacking a single thing. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, sensuous and tastefully done.","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie is fabulous!  There are a lot of sex scenes (as one may guess from the title of the movie) but they are tastefully done and express the character's emotions (love, anger, or fear, etc.) The best line in the movie is said by the Queen I do not love you enough to hate you.  Beautiful people (why isn't the man who played Jai in more movies??) and a solid plot line. Don't miss this movie!! "},{"Title":"MUST SEE, One of a kind movie","Date":"16 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  The anonymous person from NY is from another planet. The cast carries some of the most beautiful women in the world. This movie brings so many human feelings into the mind. The cinematography is outstanding, the landscape is astonishing, and the customs are majestically worn without a crease. Kama Sutra, brings the reality of life into the poorest and to the wealthiest. Too many emotional lessons are seen and expressed in the movie to describe. Trust me the ending is like no other movie. Note this movie was secretly filmed in India under a different name due to the Indian Government. This movie is unfortunately banned in India. Sad to say the people it was about can't see their own movie.Strongly recommended 5 star, Kama Sutra will make you reminisce long after the ending. Who knows it could change the way you think for the better. "},{"Title":"An erotic movie that's different from the rest","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  Set several hundred years ago in India, this movie is the story of two girls who are inseparable childhood friends. One is a princess and the other is the daughter of a servant. The servant girl, Maya, is more beautiful and a talented dancer. When Maya's beauty attracts the notice of the princess's royal bridegroom, Maya is driven from her home. But their paths cross again and this time Maya holds the power. Unfortunately, she  also becomes involved in a love affair with a handsome sculptor who has ties to the princess's powerful husband. Most of the characters come to unfortunate (in some cases, grisly) endings.Full of beautiful pictures and sensuous music, this is a wonderful movie that gives a picture of very different way of life. There are a few scenes of nudity that are both erotic and important to the plot. With strong female characters, it appeals to women but has enough action and good-looking women to keep men interested too. Watch it with your significant other and pick up a few tips. "},{"Title":"An exquisitely photographed, erotically charged film.","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  The previous reviewer, Vai, is a Philistine when it comes to an evaluation of this film. It is a powerful, beautifully filmed study of another culture's social and sexual mores. Kama Sutra has a serious feminist subtext -- the women hold phenomenal power over men in the only way that was open to them in 16th century India. A moving, worthwhile movie experience. "},{"Title":"Kama Sutra brings to life the experience of a young Indian girl...","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  who, trapped by age old traditions, longs for love. In Indian society a girl's virginity is a prized possession, yet if you are born to a low caste, it is your very survival. At a young age, Maya learns that she exists only to satisfy men's pleasure. To be deflowered and then tossed out for the deed which was beyond her control teaches Maya a very important lesson...Women have power and its other name is SEX. Another lesson that she learns is one that she pays for very dearly, revenge isn't all that it's cracked up to be. Maya goes from victim of circumstance to an avenger. Only one thing botches up her plans... she falls in love. The man is an artist, he awakens things in her that she thought was gone forever, innocence. But even angels can fall, unfortunately. Kumar (played by an attractive man) can not, for whatever reason, return her love.   So, the plans for revenge are enacted, against the one man who has great power and yet who is powerless and weak. The Raj. His all-encompassing desire for Maya makes him weak and she exploits it to her advantage. But what a tangled web we weave when we practice to deceive, esp. if it's ourselves. Kumar comes back, professesing his undying love...trouble pursues. The graphics that were choosen, I think, are to contrast the dark and almost desperate life that Maya must lead and the world that she longs to have yet cannot have. The final scene was the most defining moment of the whole movie, even her love for Kumar was a bind that men place on women. In THEIR own time, they will love. So, as the King's men rushed in to kill the Raj, Maya begins her new life. The dust swelling up around her blocking the viewer from seeing where she's going, so implying that ANYTHING can happen. "},{"Title":"Very Well Cast","Date":"12 October 2005","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" I do confess that I have read the Kama Sutra and there's an awful lot of misconceptions about it . It is NOT some hot porn manual that will get your juices flowing , it's a very thick book about the art of love . If you've bought a copy simply to use as masturbation fuel then you've certainly wasted your money . Likewise if you bought the book to wave around during some moral crusade with a rather dubious agenda The film is very similar to the book . Many people who have stated their opinion have obviously watched the movie either expecting to be shocked or to be brought to orgasmic ecstasy but that's their problem because like the book with the same name this film while being somewhat erotic is also rather dull . It's not an adaptation per se just a rather unconnected and tenuous example of a book and movie sharing the same name . The only reason it's called KAMA SUTRA is down to the fact that it's taught to a group of courtesans , the rest of the plot involves something of a love triangle . It's also a movie that's not well made with a visual look of something that appears to have been shot on very poor stock film I will praise it on one aspect - The casting . For this type of movie to come close to any type of success the casting of the lead female must be right and Indira Varma as Maya simply steals the film . He is strikingly beautiful but he also oozes a type of pure innocence . It's very easy to see why Raj Singh has fallen in love with her . Singh is played by Naveen Andrews who everyone in the world will now know via a very successful American show but you'll never be reminded of Sayid Jarrah while watching this because Andrews is very convincing . I do feel slight sympathy for Sarita Choudhrey as the other pivotal female role of Tara because her part feels rather underwritten and understandably she doesn't have the same type of breathtaking beauty as Varma unfortunately This could have been a very poor film and to be honest it's not a great one either , but some clever casting and fine acting make it worth watching at least once "}{"Title":"Near-zero relevance to the concept/book","Date":"15 September 2005","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" As a movie, this is just about less than OK. As to why the film maker chose to have the name kamasutra in the film title is pretty obvious. 1. To grab attention 2. To get international recognizability 3. To get everyone interested enough to buy a ticketUnfortunately, the storyline has absolutely no relevance to the philosophy of the ancient Indian book. Just having a total of 7 dialog lines which are nothing but snippets from the book, does not make it a Kamasutra tale.However, international audiences would find novelty in the film simply because of its portrayal of Indian colors/settings/customs (albeit with a creative license). However, film audiences who have seen enough movies will know a good film when they see one and this one will not be part of that list under any circumstances.Yes, the name and imagery may be enticing but if you watch the movie without expecting a great deal, you would be on safe ground. "},{"Title":"surprisingly brilliant","Date":"12 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" This is, hands down, the most underrated brilliant movie I've seen. Indira verma has acted with such perfection, sad that it never got the recognition it deserved. The title always made me think of it as an erotica based on the ancient book of kamasutra but i was blown away by the depth of story.I highly recommend people to see this movie. Meera nair's genius is undeniable. The subtlety with which she portrays her vision through the movie is commendable. Its hard to believe it was Indira Verma's first movie, not only does she look absolutely exotic and breathtaking her skills as an actor are equally enticing. Supporting her amazing performance are equally commendable ones by Naveen Andrews and Sarita Choudhury. "},{"Title":"Love, Love This Movie","Date":"20 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" My favorite movie of all time. The colors, the tragic plot, the actors make this movie a perfect choice.The story of two girls from different social societies, one ends up queen the other a cortesan.The unique plot makes you sit at the edge of your chair for more. The twists and transitions are perfect from scene to scene.It leaves a good message with you.The sex scenes are real and hot. Contrary to the title, there is very little sex, but just enough to stir your mind.My all time favorite and i will sit and watch it again and again. "},{"Title":"A woman's take on an ancient tale","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  A winning combo a period piece with a lot of hot sex. One of a very few films that doesn't shy away from being honest about a woman's sexuality. Sure to make a lot of men uncomfortable because the main character, Maya, uses men the way the James Bond character does in his films. The woman is the center of the story, and all the men show shallowness of character, while the women are thoughtful and intelligent. A bit awkward in places, as pioneering films tend to be. Why doesn't Hollywood make more films where an assertive woman is the main character?  "},{"Title":"Exotic, Erotic, Etc","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie is so hauntingly beautiful in everything from the camera shots (looks like moving art) to music. The heroine, Maya, is gorgeous and she is shown quite naked quite a lot, which adds to the enjoyable quality of the film.  "},{"Title":"An Enjoyable Experience... Breathtaking!","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" I had the opportunity of seeing Kama Sutra A Tale of Love late one night when it was on HBO. At first I was a bit apprehensive, as with a title like that, one would think it is a cheesy sexploitation film. But, as I sat and watched, I was proved all too wrong. The first thing that struck me about this film was the great cinematography. The costumes were vibrant and really caught the eye, and the locations they shot in were breathtaking. Second of all, the script and storyline were well-written. You really feel for these characters, whether it be sympathy or repulsion. The love scenes were NOT soft-core porn, as i had heard from previous viewers, but very sensual, and really draws you closer to the characters.Lastly, the acting in this film was excellent, for the most part. Indira Varna is one of the most beautiful women i've seen, and her presence is a strong one. The supporting actors were great also (Sarita Choudury, Ramon Tikaram, and Rekha are strong standouts.) Naveen Andrews does a fairly good job at playing the womanizing, opium addict Raj Singh.In conclusion, this movie is an excellent pick to sit down one evening with your loved one. Its a feast for the eyes, but make sure you approach it with an open mind due to the strong love scenes. "},{"Title":"one of the best movies ever","Date":"26 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" am a huge movie buff and i must say that i loved this movie....upon seeing the title 'karma sutra' of course i had the low expectation of it being an amateuric attempt of mimicking the Indian karma sutra positions in a sleazy soft core porn. but to my surprise and greatest pleasure, this movie turned out to rate far beyond my radar of greatness. the actors were superb, the story original and with the strongest twist. i loved the imagery of old India....makes me want to ever be Indian but alas i am not... i just genuinely fell in love with the Indian culture after i saw this movie about 5 yrs ago....seen it numerous times since...i really recommend this movie to anyone who appreciates genuinely good and original films. i promise u you wont regret ever taking the chance on this one if u have any doubts about it. "},{"Title":"One  of the greats","Date":"2 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" To Hell with everyone else who couldn't comprehend the depth of emotion shared in this movie....When I first saw this movie I was all of 16 and even now as I am 21 it is still my favorite movie. Everything about this movie just spoke to me. The way they told the story, the beautiful actresses that played Maya and Tara, and their depiction of the beauty and sorrow in Indian culture just grabbed me and held on. I must have seen this movie over 30 times and still counting. If I liked girls then Id probably be in love with Maya....the beauty in her motion captivates you and all you can say is I wish I could do that. I loved her Saree's especially at the wedding party. She was just so dangerously beautiful it got hard to tear your eyes away...if for no other reason watch this movie to see Indira Varma. Not to discount the characters of Princess Tara and (oh my God, can you say hot) Jay Kumar, he made me long for an Indian boyfriend. I just wish that the whole world could watch this movie then they would realize how important love is. Even though I cry my eyes out at the end every time. Have fun Watching! "},{"Title":"Beautiful film....","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" This film is not only extraordinarily beautiful in its melodic dialogue and setting, but is richly evocative of so many biblical tales and mythological conceits that one cannot help but find some central point upon which to focus a memorable feeling of sensibility, something tangible with which to identify. The thematic familiarity continues throughout the story, punctuated by lush scenes of corporeal sensuality and threatened by harsh exposure to characteristics that we all possess yet nevertheless cringe from in reality (and on celluloid). Kama Sutra is more than just a love story; it is an epic voyage through one woman's lyrical bildungsroman, one that the viewer finds torturous in its painful honesty and yet strangely rewarding in its denouement. "},{"Title":"An excellent art-house film","Date":"8 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" This movie is an excellent art-house film. The themes of spirituality, power, identity and love are artfully woven into an excellent film. Those who were hoping the title would mean the movie is a cheap and trashy porno are sorely disappointed, I'm sure.It explores not only the themes the Kama Sutra teaches, (the whole thing, not just that one famous chapter) but also the ideas of what power women have, even it times of stifling circumstances. The themes of loyalty, love, and spirituality are riveting. The heroine's desire to carve her own path is a major theme that resonates throughout many of Mira Nair's films, and is empowering to watch. This movie is an interesting tale that is well worth an evening. "}{"Title":"Gorgeous movie..","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie is very beautiful. The costumes are amazing, as well as the breathtaking scenery. The entire plot gave the movie a sort of faerie-tale feel. The sex scenes were a bit repetitive, but I suppose with a title like Kama Sutra what should I expect? Indira Varma's acting is lovely, and Rekha is cute as always. To me, I think the movie goes rather fast, but is a treat the whole way through. "},{"Title":"A visual feast rather than a sexual one","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  The title is a little misleading and I would have appreciated more cultural input for this era. The character of the Raja was a slightly unconvincing but the Kama Sutra education was fascinating.Saw the movie on TV first and hunted down the DVD. Wonderful, appropriate (to my mind) ending. For romantics of the operatic kind. "},{"Title":"too sweet","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  I think this movie was probably one of the most romantic films I have seen lately.  The costumes were wonderful and although there were some scenes that could have been omitted, overall I think the movie was a success.  It makes me fascinated to learn more about India during that time, and not many movies have the power to get me that interested.  A great film for a rainy day, or to watch with a loved one... an 8 on a scale of 1-10. "},{"Title":"Entertaining Picture of Love and Rivalry in India","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  This is the story of two girls, one a princess and one a servant girl, who were best friends as children but became rivals as adults.  Tara, the princess, was voluptuously beautiful, but she could not master the sultry, compelling mannerisms that came so naturally to Maya.  Maya resented having to wear Tara's cast-off clothing and was repelled by Tara's crippled but lustful brother.The story is as much about sex as love, but in spite of the subject matter and several scenes in which girls are being instructed in the art of love, the film is neither erotic nor steamy.  If you are looking for nudity, this is not your film, although there may be more bare skin in the Indian version.  But the story has its interest.  The direction and most of the performances are good.  The dancing by Indira Varma and Rekha is delightful.  The costumes are attractive.  The music sometimes distracts more than it enriches, but it usually provides the proper enhancement.  None of the elements are first class, but none are bad, and they come together in an entertaining whole, yielding a pleasant way to spend a couple of hours.  "},{"Title":"Good story, very well told","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  This is an excellent film, well acted, well written, and beautifully filmed. It is a simple story full of passion and well told.    It deals more with love and passion, jealousy and forgiveness. "},{"Title":"must see film if India interests you.","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  It's certainly an erotic movie. And if you are interested in seeing full nude and sexy Indian women then I will recommend the movie highly. Also the portrayal of old India is interesting. A must see film for all the Indians. "},{"Title":"Stupid, pretty movie","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  Basically, this film gets a 10 for amazing scenery and costumes, beautiful people, and visual atmosphere. It gets a 1 for its screenplay. It reminded me very strongly of a very badly written romance novel, which I was not expecting. I saw this in the theater, and I remember laughing out loud at some of the unintentionally humorous dialogue. If you can stomach the inane sophistries that the characters throw out and you find the idea and look of India fascinating, it will satisfy you on a visual level. The actors and actresses are truly a sight for sore eyes. "},{"Title":"I enjoyed it...","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  There are not too many movies out there that manage to be truly erotic. This movie did not just slap naked people on the screen in hopes of a reaction. No, the sex in this movie actually moved the story along and served a purpose. All the while, it was photographed beautifully in lush environments. I thought this was an excellent romantic movie to watch with your loved one. "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  I would not have thought that anyone disliked this film had I not read the reviews here.  Everybody at imdb.com thinks they're Roger Ebert.Anyway, it's a great film; beautiful and full of action and (despite what others say) plot.  My only complaint is that it has too much of the hokey Romeo and Juliet feel to it to get a 10.  Otherwise, it's marvelous.  Especially considering there aren't a lot of Indian movies or even Indian actors in the US.  (Yes, I know about Bollywood).It gets a 9. "},{"Title":"Underrated, thought provoking and sexy","Date":"1 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" This visually beautiful movie has a 6.0 rating? The story is both interesting and a little complex. The acting is excellent and the characters realistic and appealing. The pacing is right on and the movie does not drag. This is hardly a visual guide to the Kama Sutra but it is still a very sexy picture. Is the low rating due to pornographic disappointment? As my wife and I watched we were reminded of how tenuous love can be. A single moment of fear or misunderstanding can put a true love affair in jeopardy. This happened to us 43 years ago; fortunately we had a second chance. Not everyone does.Searching for a stunningly photographed timepiece featuring characters you can relate to, a love story, and a bit of eroticism? You're going to like this film. "}{"Title":"Decent Film in Retrospect","Date":"1 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" Set in 16th century India, this movie depicts the story of two girls who were raised together, though they came from different social classes. Tara (Sarita Choudhury) is an upper-caste princess while Maya (Indira Varma) is her beautiful servant. The two girls are best friends, but an undercurrent of jealousy and resentment is caused by Tara's haughtiness, symbolized by the fact that Maya is given Tara's hand-me-down clothes and never anything new to wear.During filming in India, the name of the project was not revealed to government officials who would have denied the petition to film in India had it been called Kama Sutra. Instead, it was called Maya & Tara. Since government officials made many periodic visits to the set to ensure proper Indian film etiquette, the cast had to improvise fake scenes which avoided the nudity and sexuality central to the story. Upon completion, authorities screened the film and it was subsequently banned in India because of the erotic scenes that contained heterosexual as well as homosexual elements.What really caught my attention about this film was Naveen Andrews. At the time he made this film, he was unknown, and remained largely unknown after the film. But then he was a main character in Lost. I wonder how many people went back to see his past work, as it would completely change the way they might see him. It is also interesting that he has been cast in roles as both an Indian and an Iraqi. (Andrews happens to be a British-born Indian.) "},{"Title":"A Tale of Sex.","Date":"8 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" Kama Sutra A Tale of Love (1996) Dir Mira Nair / Cast Naveen Andrews, Sarita Choundhury, Roman Tikaram, Indira Varma, Rekha Looks more like a documentary than a feature film and sometimes contains the feel of a porn flick. It regards the confusion between love and lust and the physical and emotional. Set in India where it follows the sexual conquests of two males towards a woman named Maya. Actually it is two sisters who are the initial competitors. One is set to marry a ruler while the other is given to his courtesan. Maya seduces the ruler in a spite of revenge and flees. She encounters a tribesman with a chisel and he carves her image as a statue. The ruler will pay him for her identity. Laced with sex, sex and more sex before arriving at a very fatal conclusion. Beautiful music and stunning set pieces with fine directing by Mira Nair. Fine cast includes Naveen Andrews as the vengeful Prince whom will never receive the love he seeks due too his pride. Sarita Choundhury is Tara, Maya's sister. Roman Tikaram is the tribesman who faces fatal consequences for his dance with erotica. Indira Varma plays Maya whom must live with her actions. Rekha plays some sort of teacher of Kama Sutra. So, basically, she is a sex education representative. It is a film about sacrifice but Kama Sutra means various acts of lovemaking. Is this film suppose to be a guide? Score 6 / 10 "},{"Title":"I highly recommend this film","Date":"15 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" I highly recommend this film --Indira Varma is a superb actress. It's a shame that she did not go on to more lead roles in good films; she certainly deserved them. Naveen Andrews is also very believable in his role as the dissolute king. In some of the minor parts, the acting is weak but, fortunately, the good actors have most of the lines.--The sumptuous production values are phenomenal, considering the film was made for only 3 million $US. The scenery and costumes are fascinating, considering that the setting is a few (or several even) centuries ago.--Of course, the sex scenes are great. In the video, at least, they go a bit farther than your typical R rated (in the U.S.) movie.--The screenplay has some serious weaknesses. But, if one suspends disbelief, there are some interesting notions presented the intermingling of love and sex, with some lessons from the text of the 'Kama Sutra'; the fate of women in a man's world; how royalty behaved in feudal India. See the 'memorable quotes' section for more.--It is not typical feel good schlock. The ending has a realistic feel to it. Verisimilitude is relatively high, which is all too rare in the movie industry, in general. "},{"Title":"A wonderful surprise","Date":"13 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" I came across this film quite randomly and expected something pretty intolerable, but with bewbs. Instead, I got beautiful cinematography and arresting visual content behind a very candid study of the difficulties of navigating human desire. Even in a culture with clear conventions and few inhibitions regarding the acts of love, relationships advance by trial-and-error, defying the participants' intents and expectations, elevating some while trampling others underfoot.The film at once delivers the exotic with its costumes, sets and dancing, and tells a timeless and easily recognizable human tale. Also, some very beautiful people take off their clothes =D "},{"Title":"Ack!","Date":"29 May 2014","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" 'Kama Sutra' has a story that would be right at home on a daytime soap opera. I say that as a criticism because both tell meaty stories and one is just as frivolous and silly as the other. Both are smooth and lovingly photographed, everyone is beautiful and everybody seems locked in some form of sexual intrigue or another.With a title like Kama Sutra you wouldn't expect anything less then eroticism and sexual politics. The story takes place in 16th century India and centers around two women a servant named Maya (Indira Varma) and the Princess Tara (Sarita Choudhury) who have been friends since childhood. Tara has been groomed from birth to be the wife of a king and is chosen by King Raj Singh (Naveen Andrews). The night before the wedding Maya seduces the king on the theory that she has always had to follow Tara to get anything and now Tara will have something that Maya has had first.Angered, Tara casts Maya out of the village. Wandering in exile she is caught up in the gaze of a sculptor who makes her his model and his lover but later decides that she can't be both and would rather she just be his model. Uh-huh. It's about here that the movie's title comes into place because Maya meets a woman who has a school that teaches the ancient art of the Kama Sutra. She proves to be adept at the ancient art that combines dance, art, philosophy and sex and uses her teachings to make her way back into the court.From Mira Nair I expected a robust story of sexual intrigue and character study but alas she hasn't created a film that is up to her best works like 'Mississippi Masala' or 'Salaam Bombay'. The story is just a clothes line on which to hang a lot of gorgeous bodies and erotic revelry. It begins with a joyfully sexy story and by the end 'Kama Sutra' doesn't have a brain in it's pretty little head. "},{"Title":"An Indian love story","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  Lavish production which tells the life and love deception of a young Indian girl called Maya (Varna). Disappointing and with a shallow plot line, this movie only finds its climax in the beautiful landscape. Even the conflict between the characters are poorly developed and the sexual scenes - and most of the public keeps anxious for them - are simple and without any special distinction. I give this a 5 (five). "},{"Title":"Exquisite!!!","Date":"28 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" Commenting on a movie released way back now, is an understatement, but stating this I would!!! It is one of the most most beautiful and artistically exquisite movie I have seen in recent times...From the classic erotics scenes to the haunting background music, everything in this movie scores!!! I have become a great fan of this movie...a fan of Indira Verma for life time!!! She has the most erotically appealing body I have ever seen, and being an Indian I am proud of Indira's talents, her gorgeous drop dead looks and her elegant body language....the only miscast was of Naveen Andrews, u could have gotten a much more matured and classy actor from India, Ms. Nair, I presume.... "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"1 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  This Movie is VERY good, if you're into culture! This movie shows a part of this cultures art in love making IT also has the despair of a friendship broken and somewhat of an understanding between the two friends toward the end, It has the confusion of young love and a lost love and jealousy. Kama Sutra is an art form of making love and this culture definitely shows the art of making love, and so does this movie, GREAT MOVIE, Woman i think would have a better understanding of this movie.. "},{"Title":"Personally, I loved this film!","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  I really enjoyed this film! What could be better than combining the ancient history  of 4th C. India, an erotic film, and Naveen Andrews?This ABCD (American Born Confused Desi) loved it, put in my top ten and use it as a way to put me in the mood! "},{"Title":"Nice wrapping","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  The setting and lead actresses are beautiful, and it had seeds of what could have been an enchanting story but something is wrong. The plot is developed in a somewhat dreary and sluggish manner, the dialogue is simple, and the characters could have been made more complex but it's still nice to look at. "}{"Title":"A Sapphic scene between two beautiful Indian women-can things get any better?","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  The highlight of this film is a Sapphic scene between two unfeasibly beautiful Indian women.(Calm down now, lads!). It is brief, but very tastefully done. However, judicious use of the slow motion facility on one's remote control can extend this scene most satisfactorily. "},{"Title":"expected culturally-rich erotica, got bad romance novel.","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  I rented this movie to see Naveen Andrews, a very talented actor, and arguably the most beautiful man in existence, in a movie about Indian sexuality and spirituality.  First dissapointment--he plays the a****** and all the sex scenes (all two boring sex scenes) go to some Indian version of Fabio.  And Sadrita Choudhury, who is also a wonderful actress (I recommend Missisipi Masala) , and a gorgeous woman, also plays support to a terrible actress. (I thought it was interesting that the actors featured looked a lot more Western than the supporting actors.) The whole movie is a pointless mess, I wouldn't mind if a thin plot was thrown together to hold up the sexual content, but there is hardly any sexual content in the damn movie, except that you get to see the main character's breasts every ten minutes. The film certainly has nothing to do with the Kama Sutra, except that a concubine instructor occasionaly mumbles vague rhetoric about how to keep a man satisfied. Totally unstimulating on all levels.  "},{"Title":"For me, a woeful misfire.","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" MISSISSIPPI MASALA introduced me to both Mira Nair and (not just me, but the larger world, to) Sarita Choudhury, and I thought it a wonderful film, and Choudhury both very talented and remarkably beautiful. Thus, when hearing (first via NPR interviews) that Nair was tackling a drama that involved the KAMA SUTRA and had signed Choudhury up for the project, I couldn't imagine what could be bad about it.Sadly, I found out. First, to have Choudhury in your cast and to make a rather less attractive woman the focus of a sensual and sexually explicit photoplay seems self-defeating, particularly when she's also, to judge from this performance, not much of an actor. Then to make the sexual scenes so devoid of chemistry or even much prurient interest, in part through the utter oiliness, both literally and figuratively, of the characters (I hadn't seen this much unction among screen lovers since the similarly unappealing scenes in the loose, awful Asimov adaptation NIGHTFALL) is to give the audience very little reason to continue being so...this would've been only the fourth film I'd ever walked out on, had my companions not wanted to stick it through to the very end. (NIGHTFALL had been one of the other three, though it was my companion, driven to the edge of physical illness by the film, whom I acquiesced to then, without much regret.) Reasonably well-shot, but a major disappointment in every other way. "},{"Title":"Laughably bad melodrama with soft core teasing","Date":"1 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" I found this film preposterous and not in a good way. A clichd plot involving kings and queens in ancient India is a feeble excuse to engage in a soft core melodrama. The lead Indira Verma, although stunningly beautiful, is a very bad actress and mistakes posturing for acting. Vetern Hindi film actress Rekha is essentially wasted in a throw-away role as an elderly courtesan who teaches nubile nymphets the art of 'pleasang their man'. Yes, it is as yucky as it sounds, and unfortunately not treated with the campiness it deserves. Worth avoiding.Overall 3/10 "},{"Title":"Interesting film.   Skin flick?  Yes, but what skin!","Date":"25 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" POSSIBLE SPOILERS Much more has been heard from Mira Nair since Kama Sutra A Love Story, but comparatively little from Indira Varma, who at the time the movie was made, may have been the most beautiful woman alive. Both clothed and naked, she is so gorgeous as to defy description. Nair and her co-author have devised a more-than-serviceable plot about the rivalry between the well-born Tara (Sirita Chouldhury) and her playmate and servant Maya (Varma). When Tara is betrothed to Raj Singh (Naveen Andrews), the jealous Maya seduces him prior to the wedding. After leaving her home to take advanced instruction in the Kama Sutra, Maya falls in love with Kumar (Ramon Tikarum), a sculptor, who rebuffs her after a consuming love affair because she so fills his imagination that he finds himself unable to create. Her heart broken by her lover's rejection, Maya becomes Raj Singh's courtesan and steels his love from Tara, the queen. Kumar finds he cannot live without Maya and finds her in the harem, where he is discovered and condemned to a spectacular and particularly brutal death. The dissolute Raj Singh is then overwhelmed by enemy forces led on behalf of Persia by Tara's hunchbacked brother, who had once sought Maya for his wife, and Maya wanders off into the Indian mists as the film ends. Indira Varma -- half English and half Indian by birth -- has subsequently enjoyed a rather minor career, mostly in television. But when this film was made, there was no one in Hollywood, Bollywood or any other center in the film making industry who was a more striking beauty. "},{"Title":"DVD full-frame side versus wide-screen letterbox","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  I believe that this film was shot in Super-35, and the full-frame side of this 2-sided DVD actually contains more information on the top and bottom of the frame that does the wide-screen theatrical version.  So far as I could tell from switching back and forth between identical scenes, the wide-screen version appears to be center-weighted.  In my experience it is unusual to have this option in a commercial release.  For example the original Asian VCD release of Crouching Tiger was full-frame, with more info on the top and bottom than the subsequent commercial wide-screen release. "},{"Title":"Harlequin Plot meets Lush Art Direction","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  Okay, I have to admit, this movie is a guilty pleasure. The plot is silly and even downright laughable at times, but then you find yourself just staring at the luxurious, exquisite scenery and the players in it and really not caring about the words coming out of their mouths. It is a divine portrayal of the end of the Mughal dynasty in India before the Ottoman Conquest. The dancers, the textiles, the sculpture, even somehow the fragrances are fabulous. The actors, though i doubt they could do much for the story, hardly detract. You know those days when everything is horrid and all you want to do is dive face first into a cheesecake? Try this, it has fewer calories...) "},{"Title":"Boring and lacking sense","Date":"23 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" The movie does not do justice to India, nor women. It feels weird to watch it, as if someone tore up random pages from the script and just filmed what was left. As for the erotic recommendations, they do not meet their match, probably those belong to people who are compelled to associate the word Kamasutra with sensuality and eroticism, without bothering to actually see the movie for what it is.The central character is very unclear what are Maya's relationships with the other girl and all the women from the palace she grew up in? What is the purpose of the disturbing hunchback elderly man that seems to love her, yet ends up by calling her a whore? It is incredible how much babble about sex and love we have to sit through without any real story about either of them.overall, what is the purpose of this entire movie? The bad prince (N.Andrews)is more convincing than the lover/sculptor, who purposelessly waves his long hair around; somebody must have miscasted the actors... Maya is an unlikely mix of good naive girl and extremely sex driven fox, what is this bouillabaisse?? Only French movies manage to create such confusions, yet this claims to be a movie representing India.Very disappointing.The fight, the ending, the girl...they are just not making sense. As for the sexual tension, old school Bollywood movies managed to create more without even featuring any nudity.So, see it or not see it...depending on how much time you have to waste. "},{"Title":"I don't love you enough to hate you.","Date":"11 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" If a simple embrace between Richard Gere and Bollywood actress Shilpa Shetty caused all that furor, it is no wonder that this film is banned in India and Pakistan.I really don't feel completely qualified to judge this film as it is the first Indian film I have seen, and probably wouldn't even have tuned in except to see Lost's Naveen Andrews, who played the King. As Mel Brooks said, It's good to be the King. He sits around smoking opium and has a nice harem, which included Maya (Indira Varma). I thought she was hot in the short-lived TV show 3 lbs. She is even hotter here and I can see why the King lost it over her.Sarita Choudhury plays the Queen and childhood rival of Maya. She starred with Denzel Washington in Mississippi Masala.The costumes and cinematography were outstanding. "},{"Title":"One of the best films ever","Date":"6 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" This film should have received Oscar nominations. These are those I think were deserving Best Cinematography, Best Production Design, Best Foreign Film,Best Original Screenplayand/or Screenplay Adaptation, Best Costume Design, Best Sound and maybe Best Actress for Maya. If my memory serves me correctly, Vatsayana (or maybe Sir Richard Buron) does, in fact, make mention of an Indian Maharaja(?) whose personality and personal history does, in fact, fit the description of the King character in the film. It would be great to see a sequel. Mira Nair is one of my favorite filmmakers. I wonder what the film's Box Office was in India and Pakistan? "}{"Title":"I don't love you enough to hate you.","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" I believe that I would like to place a moment of blame on this film. Due to the title alone, I was nervous about viewing it with the windows open. Prior to my viewing, I was unaware that it was directed by famed director Mira Nair, and was fully prepared to draw my blinds as I embarked on this film adventure. The title was Kama Sutra A Tale of Love, what was I to assume. After watching nearly two hours of this film, I was disappointed. I was upset with not only the lack of commitment to the characters, the tired storyline, and the anti-climactic ending, but also due to the lack of sexuality surrounding this film. Kama Sutra headlines this feature, but alas, it is not the central focus, and this is where I believe Nair failed us and my moment of blame was born. I would like to make it clear that I did not desire a film of pornography, I knew that this was a mainstream film, but I did want something deeper and centered around the art of Kama Sutra instead of just another clich story of rival girlfriends. I realize that I am generalizing the overall theme of this film, but at the core of this movie it was not about the art of sex, but instead the decay of man.I did not like this film. I understood this film to be considered an adult fairy tale, but alas, I never saw the elements of a fairy tale in this story. Written in part by Nair, I saw this film as her opportunity to demonstrate the power of a woman's sexuality over even the strongest of men. In a very small part she succeeded, but her attempt to build this opportunity failed with her characters. When you make a film centered on love, or the passion of its act, you must hire actors that will give the audience that sensation. The audience must feel the sweat, the energy, the excitement of what is happening on screen or it will fall swiftly into just another Skin-a-Max midnight movie. Sadly, Nair could not accomplish this. When her characters, whether it was Maya, Tara, Raj, or even Jai, were forced into the Kama Sutra part of the film, it felt scripted and staged. There was no instant passion between these characters, which destroyed, utterly ripped from its roots, any attempt that Nair had to create the theme of sexual independence. Without the fire behind her actor's eyes, the rest of the film fell to the wayside as just your average film.Nair had another opportunity to capture back her audience with this film, but she never took it. Nair could have pulled a Gandhi-esquire moment for us by countering the horrible acting with beautiful images of India. Nair could have coupled the beauty of Kama Sutra with the beauty of the land, thus creating at least one moment of visual eye-candy for the viewers, but again, she did no such thing. The few moment of fresh scenery that we had seemed like it came from National Geographic stock footage. I realize that she was actually in India, but what concerned me was that I didn't feel like I was in India. Throughout the film I realized that I was sitting on my couch watching bad acting with recycled images of India. I was nowhere close to being swept away by a lavish love story. Wait. This wasn't an original lavish love story. This was nothing more than the clich story of two friends whom find themselves fighting over the same man with a foreign twist. Perhaps I needed more influx into India's culture or even more back-story on our smaller characters, but nothing took my breath away. The character's lack of passion cheated me, and now Nair's choice of scenery felt just as plastic.Finally, I would like to say that (without giving anything away); the ending was rather lackluster. Void of emotion to our characters and obvious clich India images only strengthened the forgettable ending. Again, the title of this film was Kama Sutra, which invokes images of lust and passion, sadly the ending evoked nothing of the sort. There wasn't a care in the world for our characters, so why should we feel impassioned about them in the final climactic moments? I didn't. As I watched this film I felt as if I was on a Disney ride through India. The tracks were in place so my cart couldn't go off the forsaken path, while the robotic characters did what they were supposed to do without any surprises or excitement. The only character (and I hate to go back on this rant again, but it is the central reason this film fell hard) worth enjoying was that of Naveen Andrews, but I think it is because of his Lost connection. By the time the ending finally happened, I was sculpting my own story in rock and hoping that Hollywood would produce it.Overall, this film did have potential, but by giving it a name like Kama Sutra it over promised and ultimately did not deliver. Again, I would like to make it clear that I was not hoping for a heavily sexual film, but it needed to be a stronger point in the story than just a quick-cut or a side quest. Kama Sutra failed because of its characters and their obvious lack of devotion to the story. There were no surprises, there was no excitement, and there was no romance, just clich plot points that you can see in any film across the fine Earth. Could Nair been more adventurous? This reviewer thinks so. She could have taken us off the beaten path, deeper within the darkness, but instead she glossed over the truth giving us a Kama Sutra that was more pastel than passionate.Grade ** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Kama Sutra??? hmmmm...","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  Beautiful sets that resemble a very westernised image of traditional india with its beautiful palaces, rich maharajas and beautiful exotic women. Ufortunately the film could have been called anything other than kama sutra a tale of love and it would'nt have mattered. as interesting and beautiful the film is, it is lacking. If you have ever read the Kama Sutra you will know that that this film, besides mentioning the text and recreating the age in which this text may have been written, has nothing to do with it. Anyone hoping to find soft porn may be surprised of even shocked that this film does not have lashings of sex or tasteless photoghraphy that is so common of porn films. This beautiful film should really not have been titled kama sutra.. not a bad film, yet nothing special "},{"Title":"It Raises Expectations, but this Low Key Effort Shrinks","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  Kama Sutra a Tale of Love is too ambitious. The title promises eastern mystique, forbidden lust, beautiful bodies, limbo, bimbo, contortion, tigers, juicy mangoes, exotic dancing, royal sex, slave sex, harems, orgies, orgasms, Indian sweets and impossible positions. Those with such myopic but understandable demands, squinting for a glimpse of nipple, will be sadly, flatly disappointed.What the film does have, however, is gorgeous costumes, impressive locations and the potential to be interesting / sexy / exciting. What the film produces is slow, mediocre and unimaginative.Miya rather insensitively opens up to the queen's husband-to-be. He obviously cannot resist. Miya then boasts about it in a haughty, naughty fashion. She is booted out of the town and groomed as a courtesan. Meanwhile, the queen is having a pretty rotten honeymoon - the Raja is a complete villain with the ethics of demon. He sleeps with anything that moves and is the worst lover I've ever seen. Miya on the other hand falls for bulky Jai Kumar, the artist ( of course ) and they practice some good love making. This love square ultimately leads to sex and drama.The lead, Indira Varma, is stunning as the Raja's obsession and the sculptor's lover. Her face could launch a thousand rockets. Naveen Andrews ( Raj Singh - damned Raj Poot ) is less impressive. His sleazy surliness is, however, conveyed rather well. The strong presence of Hindi screen legend Rekha also adds spice and weight to the cast.Mira Nair directs with little flair. The love scenes are too clean and brief - it would get a Universal rating in France or Italy. The story is too much like an episode of Neighbors. The final half an hour seems more like 30 minutes. The most annoying thing, however, is Jai and Mira's insistence on taking ridiculous risks - like hanging around the Raja's bedroom together chatting and touching. That made me livid. "},{"Title":"Very, very sexy...","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  Wow..wow..wow!  Watch this one with the one you love (or lust for?). You will enjoy this movie...it's a feast for the eyes and it makes you dream about having s** in exotic places.  The cinematography is absolutely stunning.  And, it may even inspire you to belly dance and/or run to the nearest bookstore and grab a copy of the Kama Sutra for yourself.  Rent it, buy it..see it in a theater near you.  Whatever...you'll enjoy it.  Wheeeww...pant..pant..gasp. Anybody have a cigarette? "},{"Title":"Seductive","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** I asked an Indian classmate of mine if she liked Kama Sutra, because she was discussing Indian movies. She said she and her family don't even consider it an Indian movie and rolled her eyes. I had to see the movie for myself, and find myself agreeing with her. Princess Tara was a little shafted. She's more beautiful, just shut in more. She's practically raped by her husband and left to simmer in depression to the point of suicide. Maya is ugly, but good in bed....meaning more complacent. Of course, like Dangerous Beauty, she's talked into becoming a whore for the king. I'm a fan of Sarita's since Mississippi Masala, but this was not a good character. I see her being much stronger than she was depicted. This character was too weak for her. She played it beautifully, but i expect more out of her as an actress. Instead, Tara catered to her husband's lustful whims. Maya stimulated no empathy from me. I felt bad for Tara, but you never saw her. Maya was a nuisance and I didn't identify with her plight. She reveled in the fact that she could take her friend's husband from ehr until she found someone of her own. Tara never really did anything mean to her. She gave her hand me downs, whoop-de-doo....let's take her husband from her for it in revenge. That was a stupid plot point. The king was absurd. His entire experience in the film was doing drugs and bonking Maya or dreaming of bonking Maya while doing drugs. He seemed like pimp from the 70's to me. I know he was supposed to be a jerk, but he was annoying as well. The artist was to mysterious, but considering the acting, maybe being quiet was helpful. I didn't mind him too much. He was kinda sucked into Maya's game unwittingly and paid the price for it. Not too bad, but it had some flaws. Never again do I wanna see a woman's pubic hair in a movie. That was just waaaaay unneccessary! I know it's Kama Sutra, but I didn't get the sense of love that the book really tries to push through. It was people have sex without loving one another or as a sacrifice. I guess that's a form of love, but Maya could always have left with the artist. I think she got what she deserved in the end. "},{"Title":"Garbage","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  If there is one movie that is worse than the Texas Chainsaw Massacre then this has to be it. A story of a scheming woman who intentionally sleeps with her best friend's (Tara) husband on the day of Tara's wedding and then doesn't have the sense to keep quiet about it in revenge for Tara's crime of being born in a higher caste than she. Maya gets everything she deserves as everyone else is left cleaning up the mess that she created. One of the central ideas of the film is that if a lady isn't aware of the Kama Sutra then she'll never be able to keep a man, which is as silly as cooking televisions. The guru who supposedly teaches this art to her young pupils is so stupid that she can't even seem to tell the difference between love and sex, but is nevertheless portrayed as being a wise woman. The scenery is OK, but far outdoes the plot and the acting. Save your money. If you want real porno, try some X-rated stuff, and if you want a better story, try the daytime soap-operas or typical Bollywood fare.  "},{"Title":"Best of all time","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" I have recently reviewed your movie. And I loved the way you moved your body to get that real visual effect of body motion. I think that was very amazing. I know it had to be hard work learning how to move your body the way they had you to do it. You really took the eyes of the audience with the movements. I also like the way they had the cast to dress. That was the best thing about the movie. THey used Egyptian style settings and clothing. The cast also had the voicing down perfect. YOu are my favorite actress. I really love you and hope to hear from you anytime if you are free. But keep up the good work. And maybe one day I will get the chance to meet you. Thanks "},{"Title":"A Lush Exotic Film  (slight spoilers..)","Date":"20 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  A very lush, exotic, film. Breathtaking cinematography and amazing costumes. Performances are so-so though. The Prince keeps yelling Bring me the head courtesean at least 10 times. See a princess go crazy and the many ways of pleasure in the bedroom. Indra Varma's pubic hair has more personality than some of the supporting cast and you get to see an elephant stomp a man to death. Don't expect anything too hardcore. It's more showtime-ish stuff. It is a good story though, downer of a ending. Recommended for people that like their movies slow and unfolding instead of some slam-bam crash editing. "},{"Title":"Club Exotica","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  Spoilers herein.One of the several foibles of the United States is that we have no indigenous sexual  exotica. All sexual archetypes are inherited from predecessor cultures (excepting in the  competing synthetic African-American cultures), which is one reason -- I believe -- that  US popular culture is so widely consumed internationally. We repackage.Not so with India, which has had time to develop its own subculture of sex, one that  though small is part of every Hindu's makeup -- one in fact that probably plays more of  a role in Muslim/Hindu clashes than any theology.Although this is cheesy movie, it is a little interesting to note its popularity in the US. Sex  isn't the same everywhere you go. But exotica seems to be.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 4 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Pathetic effort","Date":"4 August 1998","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  This is one of the worst movies I've ever seen. It will thoroughly  disappoint all those who see the movie for either it's sexual content or  for it's artistic (ha!) content. Please steer clear of this one ) "}{"Title":"Probably one of the worst movies error","Date":"31 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" Expected a lot more from the maker of Salaam Bombay. Bought a DVD version of the movie in Canada with a sequel from Mira Nair herself.She babbled erotic scenes and melodramatic sequences are a must to the story. But where is the storyline here? At best she has exploited the flesh of then beautiful women in the world Indra Verma.In Mira Nair rates herself as the purveyor of women liberation and wanna highlight the plight of a servant girl in the medieval India, whats the point in those surrogate scenes? Still cannot figure out why this movie was labeled Kamasutra.A billion dollar question even the director cannot answer "},{"Title":"Warning!","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  THIS IS NOT A FEEL-GOOD MOVIE.I wish someone had told us that; as it was billed as an exotic love story. Sure, there's love (and lust, and half-naked attractive actors), and gorgeous sets and beautiful costumes, but there's also death and obsession and hopelessness. Overall, this is a depressing and ultimately unlikeable film. "},{"Title":"Decent, if only to see Indira Varma naked!","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie, tho beautifully shot, with amazing set pieces and costumes, is pretty much garbage...the script is downright horrible.  The only redeeming feature if the gorgeous british actress Indira Varma who plays the lead as Maya...the sex scenes are very erotic, and done in a respectable manner (if a respectable sex scene even exists?)...as I said tho, the story is not there...it's not entertaining at all, and that drags the movie down, and makes this a movie that will be easily forgotten, even with the wonderful imagery.  If there was a solid story here, it might have bee a great film, but alas, it clearly wasn't mean to be here.  4/10 "},{"Title":"Kama Sutra A Tale of Love","Date":"5 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" To be honest, only the thought that it would have quite a bit of sex, and the leading actor in it was what made me want to see it, that's all. You'd probably expect the film to be about various positions during sex, but the title actually means lessons of love, and there's nothing various about that. The story, as far as I understood, is set in the 16th Century of India, where Prince Raj Singh (Lost's Naveen Andrews) is bored, and to entertain himself wants a lot of women action, if you know what I mean. During this, there is betrayal, secret love, jealousy, and all the complications you can think of in relationships. And yes, a few sex scenes along the way. Also starring Sarita Choudhury as Tara, Ramon Tikaram as Jai Kumar, Rekha as Rasa Devi, Indira Varma as Maya, Pearl Padamsee as Maham Anga and Arundhati Rao as Annabi. As I said, just the sex and the leading actor were the only things that interested me. Okay! "},{"Title":"the transcendent Indira Varma","Date":"9 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" True, this movie does not match Mira Nair's earlier movies such as Mississippi Masala and Salaam Bombay! It is also true that much of the movie's pace is sodden and the plot is fairly predictable. And yes, unfortunate feminist tendencies creep in from time to time. But the presence alone of the incomparable Indira Varma is worth the price of admission&#151;or the price of renting the DVD.What makes this movie valuable is its sumptuousness, as many critics noted when it premiered. The sexuality is intense; the locations in northern India are stunning; the costumes are well wrought and the music is convincing. Westerners are used in some ways to seeing movies about India, especially India of the British Raj. But this movie is set in the 16th century, well before Western influences had set in. But what makes the movie so fascinating is the Westernized vision that emanates from the four lead actors, all of whom were either born in or grew up in England. Indira Varma was born, I think, in Kent; Ramon Tikaram, whose voice is as resonant as any movie actor's heard in the last thirty years, grew up in Germany and later moved with his family to England. Naveen Andrews was born in London, as was Sarita Choudury. These four actors share nearly all the movie's focus, and they are thoroughly westernized. They, and directoress Nair, all got away with filming this movie under the noses of the Indian authorities. As a result, there is a delightful seditious quality to the work. But the most delightful of all is the aforementioned Indira Varma, whose stunning beauty and sexual intensity almost leap off the screen. At times she is playful, at others deeply distressed, at other times she seeks vengeance. Repeatedly she embraces her destiny with what seems to be her entire being rarely has an actress in recent films been able so to concentrate on and immerse herself in the dangers, the hope, the expectations, and the benevolence that surround her. What a woman! And what an artist. Like all great artists, she transcends the limits of culture, critical distinctions, and artificial categorization. "},{"Title":"Nicely filmed, simple story, minimal sex, rate 5 of 10.","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  I used my February Blockbuster free rental on this Kama Sutra film because I had heard it was beautifully filmed and a good story.  Now I wonder which version of a KS movie I had read about. This one is about two girls who are friends as children, the one of priviledge always handing down things to the other.  When she is to be wed to the young man who will become king, and she queen, her friend on a whim seduces her groom before the end of the wedding party. It is her way to have something first. Of course this causes friction between the two friends, the cheater gets run out of town, she learns Kama Sutra , the language of love, and eventually returns. In some ways it reminded me of Dangerous Beauty, where the beautiful woman became a courtesan and the one who loved her couldn't have her. It is nicely filmed, but in many ways it is a forgetable film. Character development was minimal, and I couldn't generate much sympathy for either woman. Maybe it would help to be Indian. A rating of 5 is about right, out of 10. "},{"Title":"This is sort of like environmental art.  Nice for background but not worth watching full time","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" I'd give it a 4 because the girl, Maya, is pretty and the film shows a lot of her, but otherwise the story is not very engaging. Briefly, Maya has a fling with the Rajah on his wedding night, but doesn't really like him that much. For his part, he's mainly in love with himself. When word gets out what she's done, she has to leave the palace and ends up in a school for courtesans where they teach the girls the Kama Sutra. Later she falls in love with a sculptor, a friend of the Rajah, with difficult consequences for their relationship with the Rajah. You can predict the rest.What's good about this film? It appears to have been filmed in Northern India, somewhere in Rajasthan, I imagine. Occasionally exteriors are filmed near old ruins, so if you haven't visited India, the film gives a good idea of what the countryside around Delhi looks like. Also, the production put good efforts into costume (although Maya and Kumar occasionally dispense with costume altogether), makeup, and cinematography. There is music, but it's listenable, exotic but quite unlike the ultra high pitched screeching you hear in Bollywood flicks. So from an artistic perspective, it's fine.Where is it a loser? I was utterly unable to develop any sympathy for any of the characters. Female viewers may be interested in the sight of mostly nude male characters with good muscle tone, hair in long greasy perms, and big hook noses, but the guys didn't do anything for me. Male viewers may like what they see of Maya, but both she and the film are too dull to sustain much interest. The best thing I can say about the actors is that they take their parts seriously, and speak plain, relatively unaccented accents. They may not be especially interesting as Indians or as people, but they avoid being caricatures. "},{"Title":"Watch it on MUTE","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  Okay, so the plot is cliched and the dialogue is stupid, but you can't deny the fact that this movie is visually beautiful. It was filmed very well, and that more than makes up for the script. The costumes are wonderful, the cinematography and art direction are fabulous, and the actors are pure eye-candy.  If you're a prude about movies actually having a point, press mute on your remote control and make up your own story as you go along. You're left with the same impression AND you don't have to stomach the dialogue.  "},{"Title":"Did the english language exist in 16th Century!!","Date":"3 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  if my history is correct, brits had not invaded India at that time.The movie could have had a better chance if it were subtitled in English. It is actually difficult to find top of the line actors in India willing to do soft-porn and hence some brits of indian descent were the only choice. and i bet they cannot speak a word of hindi, that's why the movie is in english.For Urdu speakers, i love the song, 'ulfat kee nayee...' sung by Iqbal Bano, but for 99.9% english viewers the sound track is too alien. so i am just trying to figure out who the intended audiences were!!Depiction of kings from that age is inaccurate and on the cheap side. imagine a king going to a brothel!!! Ohhhh please!!!!i give it 3/10. pure english speakers would probably give it 1/10. (charity!!)  "},{"Title":"A complete disaster","Date":"15 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" Kama Sutra is a good opportunity gone to waste. First of all, it must be quite hard to find a Indian actress for this role. Reason being is, at the time, there were hardly any Indian girls willing to perform sexual acts. Maybe in porn movies, but you need a professional actor as well. The two actresses who star in the movies were not that great Their acting skills weren't very impressive. Indira Varma was a little sexy in a few scenes, the other actress wasn't. The movie is titles Kama Sutra, you expect to see some different unusual positions. But No, forget positions, there's hardly any sex in it. A Daft storyline, which is apparently true with bad performances. Some of the actors cant speak English properly, with bad accent. "}{"Title":"Useless Nonsense","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  Rearrange these four words to get the assessment of this filmC A R PThis was just rubbish.  The story was tenuous, it had bits of Bollywood in it - all the really annoying and silly bits that make 90%+ of Bollywood films pants.  The plot was rubbish, the cast useless, and it dragged on and on with sexy bits in it, presumably the market it was aimed at.Oh, and it had that really annoying bloke from that yuppie BBC2 real life drama series in it.  The long haired biker one who couldn't act in that either.Don't see it. "},{"Title":"Krapa Sucka!!!","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"4 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  This is without doubt the worst movie ever made. The title is the only thing that is interesting in this movie. The sex scenes will make you stop wanting sex. No sane person can watch this movie without fast forwarding through it, and still you are left with feeling of horror.  "}]