[{"Title":"An entirely enjoyable movie by any standards!","Date":"27 May 2004","Score":"93 out of 111 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Dragonheart is, in my humble opinion, one of the best-ever dragon movies I have seen. And believe me, I have seen a lot of them. Most are poorly made with lagging stories and characters you cannot get into. I found that was not the case for Dragonheart. Draco, the dragon, was in my opinion a gorgeous creature and it didn't make it worse that he sounded like Sean Connery. ) Dennis Quaid is always enjoyable, a gorgeous man with an infectious smile. Dina Meyer is lovely as Kara. So what if some of the plot is not 'believable'. It's a fairytale. Anything goes in fairy tales. Heck, that's what fairy tales are all about. Fantasy, imagination. So, when and if you watch/re-watch this movie, do so with an open heart and suspend your disbelief and analytical minds. This is fantasy in the truest sense.  "},{"Title":"One of my all-time favorites","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"81 out of 94 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Ah, Dragonheart.  I still love this film...  I could talk about the top-notch special effects of the time and the inclusion of Sean Connery and Dennis Quaid, who performed their roles of noble dragon and despairing knight incredibly well...I guess I just did...but I think there's something else about this film that needs mentioning.Dragonheart is an incredibly uplifting film.  In a day when a lot of movies are chilling visions of the world around us, we need something to show us hope.  Dragonheart, with its tale of a knight who lost his faith and a dragon who was trying to restore his honor, paints a beautiful picture of kindness, friendship, love, and sacrifice that never fails to inspire me.  I am not a man given to displays of emotion, really...but the film makes me laugh and cry throughout everything.And the soundtrack certainly helps.  It is a textbook example of the proper use of a soundtrack to emphasize the plot and emotion.  The beautiful To the Stars remains one of my absolute favorite songs.  I can never listen to the soundtrack without seeing the movie happening again before my eyes.Get the movie.  And get the soundtrack.  You'll love them both. "},{"Title":"A Film of Fantasy!","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"66 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  There are many fantasy films around today that show how far some people's imagination can be stretched. Loads of these films have the good idea, but the bad production making it a very poor film. This is NOT the case in Dragonheart.For a film to be a success, you need to show as much goodness you have as well as badness. You need to have the equal balance of a nasty character that contains the exact amount of evil to comply with this.In the case of Dragonheart, we have the evil King Einon, demonstrated by David Thewlis. A fine performance to show how much evil can be inflicted by the control of one heartless man.Yet, in every film we have a hero, or in this case, 2. Dennis Quaid plays Bowen, a strong and faithful knight who lives in the service to protect others. Our other hero is the unlikely character of a dragon (Sean Connery and his lovely voice) named Draco. Between these 2 hero's, an alliance is made and they work together in hope of making peoples lives better.The direction, the acting, the costume and the characters all fit together to make this film be, what I believe, an amazing success. I know not many may agree to this, but I think, when you look deep into this film, you can see the true magic that is brought alive by the relationship between these two characters.In my view, an amazing film, an amazing cast and an amazing result.  "},{"Title":"For those who love dragons","Date":"7 April 2005","Score":"56 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I have read innumerable reviews stating emphatically how stupid or unrealistic Dragonheart is. And, I suppose the largest fault this movie has is not going as in-depth into its own mythology as it could have(Draco being able to share his heart, and the like). But for me, it is great, for one big reason I love dragons. I always have. I hate how they are always depicted as evil monsters in most fantasy stories(this would be Tolkien's biggest flaw in my opinion). And here is one where the dragon is noble and kind! Sean Connery, by the way, has just about the best dragon voice there is(Gregory Peck might be a close second).Dragonheart may strike casual viewers(or the terminally unimaginative)as a silly, special-effects extravaganza; but, for people who love dragons, it provides something more. "},{"Title":"A Fun and Heartwarming Movie","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"36 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Dennis Quaid is Bowen, a passionate knight who falls under bitter circumstances and finds himself roaming the land avenging himself against dragons who he blames for his lot.  He finds his match in one dragon, Draco, who instead of finishing off Bowen offers to declare a truce.  The two cynics team up and stage sham combat in front of terrified villagers who are only too willing to reward the knight for slaying the dragon and who won't miss a few sheep to the dragon either.  The con goes bad though and the two are forced to confront their common destiny.This movie was originally heavily sold based on its superb digital effects and it remains that Draco is a magnificent creature in these days when digital effects are no longer unusual in movies.  Even so, the cast and cinematography are excellent and everything moves along seamlessly.  It is an all round great movie.There is some brutal medieval warfare, but nothing so graphic that a pre-teen couldn't handle it.I saw this film originally at a theatre and again on rented VHS. "},{"Title":"Near perfection.","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"27 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Dragonheart is an excellent movie.  The CGI of Draco is superb, especially for its time, and the storyline is well thought out.  Although the movie lacks a decent antagonist, the plot fills in for whatever Einon lacks in his role.Draco is such an excellent character, possibly one of my favorites of all-time in films.  He is exactly what a dragon should be, exactly how I imagined.  Quaid does an excellent job as Bowen, and did well as Draco was not really there during filming.The music in Dragonheart is one of the most memorable themes ever composed.  Randy Edelman composed a great theme for this film, which could probably be recognized by nearly anybody.  This is from Dragonheart!This is definitely one of the best movies ever made.  The acting is excellent, CGI fits perfectly, the characters are deep, well-rounded, and the storyline and plotline are both great.  The ending is so sad, though.  If you're a male, make sure no one else is around while watching this movie if you're ashamed of crying in front of people.Watch this movie.  It's a great way to spend some time. "},{"Title":"Dragon Fun To Watch In This Mostly-Enjoyable Fantasy","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"27 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This was kind of a hokey Class-B fantasy-adventure story but with Grade A special effects (with the dragon) and sound. Those visual and audio treats make it worth watching. This was early demo-type DVD disc, exhibiting some excellent surround sound when very few other DVDs were as audibly as good.The story begins a bit slowly but once the dragon appears it's a fun and fascinating movie to watch. A decade ago when this came out, I marveled, It's amazing how they can make strange creatures so lifelike. Of course, FX has only gotten better and better.For me, the dragon was the only endearing character in the movie. Dennis Quaid plays the good guy, but he's mostly annoying in here. I think it was his fake raspy voice that was irritating. In all, a fun movie.At any rate, the movie is pure medieval fantasy and theology but entertaining enough for kids and adults. There is no bad language in here. "},{"Title":"pretty good...","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"22 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Like others, I rate Dragonheart far above most mindless summer blockbusters, loaded with hip witticisms and sarcastic heroes.  Dragonheart is not cynical at all, and is lots of fun for kids of all ages (why is this movie PG13?). If you're looking for a really ferocious dragon, Draco isn't it.  Draco is much more human than most movie dragons (if you want a scary dragon, watch Dragonslayer), but he is very realistic.  In fact, the scenes without him tend to drag, but Dennis Quaid's Bowen is strong as the disillusioned knight.  If you are looking for a deep plot, you won't find it, but that's no big deal.  Dragonheart is more about adventure and dragons than about plot twists and in depth characterizations.  Edelman's music is great for the most part, especially in the final scenes, which I think are the best in the movie.  Check it out. "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"14 October 2004","Score":"23 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Okay, I'm going to start with the fact that this is one of my favourite films-I remember seeing it when I was younger and last year when I spotted the 'special edition' DVD I snapped it straight up!!********SPOILERS!*******Okay, mainly people who have seen/liked/or just generally want to comment on a film come here-so I shall not describe the whole film-just bits that are needed.Firstly, casting-I actually think the casting was good on this film-Quaid as Bowen was good-physically he is right (strong, good looking etc.) and his presence is right-you believe that this character generally believes that Einon has 'turned' bad because of this Dragon who gave half his heart-thus creating a good straight-forward story line. In the beginning Bowen really loved the younger Einon and thats why it is quite painful to see in the first fight scene between Bowen and Einon (at the waterfall) that in fact Einon never believed Bowen's teachings of 'the old code,' you can see the sadness and realisation in Bowen, that Einon is 'bad' and was even at the beginning.Thewlis as Einon-brill-actually Thewlis is one of my favourite actors because of the 'brains' he puts into his characters-take Einon, for example-not outly strong, etc.-but you can see that this character thinks-he's educated he knows what he is doing. You only have to look at the scene with Einon and kara in the bed chamber-look at how Thewlis plays the character-using words, the ideas of 'power' to manipulate her. Of course, its a family film and he is generally a good 'badie' but luckily not a straight-forward, stereotypical one. I must say he gives one of the best performances in the film.Dina Meyer- this was one of her first films I believe and she does well-physically quite strong (which is quite a rarity to see a female who can stand up for herself in such films)but also adding a good character to assist Bowen.Postlethwaite- very funny-I think he's a great actor and I loved him in this-different to a lot of stuff he had done, especially before this film-the character adds a comical touch to the film-but also he just generally portrays a 'good' character.Connery-good, for the voice-you can tell the actor straight away and I think thats why he was chosen-but also I think his voice just adds something to the part.The effects-brill, esp. for their time-even now they still stand on their own and as a viewer you can just relax and freeze reality for a while and believe that a dragon is actually talking etc. on screen.Overall, a great film, that will touch the hearts of many-young and old. This is a film to watch over and over-full of laughs, fights, the odd tears and of course the classic battle between Good and Evil.If you haven't seen it before-rent it, relax, forget everything in reality for a couple of hours and just watch this great fantasy film. "},{"Title":"A tough one","Date":"29 September 2007","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is a hard movie for me to rate, because when i was small I loved this movie, it was my favourite in fact but now that I am older and have watched it again it just wasn't the same.I used to be amazed by the special effects and the acting but upon reflection there is very little to really like in this movie, that being said Sean Connery does some very nice voice acting hereSo basically what I am saying is its brilliant when you are small so it is a good movie to watch with kids but its not very good on your own, this may be a good movie to buy just for a cheap thrill if you like medieval era stuff "}{"Title":"It's worth a watch","Date":"23 November 2003","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Interesting. I did like this movie. It has two great actors, Sean Connery and Dennis Quaid. *****************SPOILERS*******************Bowen is a knight teaching a prince the ways of war and battle. Einon is a very nieve but kind prince who can't wait to be king. Once he and Bowen are caught in a battle between the peasants and Einon's father, the king of England, dies. Einon is now king, but a peasant girl, Kara, falls out of her window and accidentally knocks Einon into a spiked post that stabs him deep in the heart. Once Bowen takes Einon back, the queen tells him that there is only one way that they can save him.They take him to a cave with a great dragon. The dragon gives Einon half his heart. Einon lives through the dragon's heart now. So, it is a few years later. And Einon has become a spoiled selfish brat. He destroys everything and acts like he is better than everyone. Bowen knows that it is due to the dragon's attitude, this is the reason why Einon is acting the way he is. Bowen promises to kill the dragon. He becomes a professional dragon slayer. And kills all the dragon's in the land. Except for the one who gave Einon half the heart.He finds the dragon, and they battle. But when Bowen is caught in the dragon's mouth, the dragon gives in. And they become friends instead of enemies. Bowen even names the dragon Dracco. Bowen finds out that in order to kill Einon he has to kill Dracco. And vise versa. Dracco begs Bowne to kill him. Of course he can't. But he has to. And does save England.Over all, I did like the film. It had great relationships between the characters. And I would recommend it.8/10 "},{"Title":"Comical Dragon","Date":"17 July 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  *may contain potential spoilers*I only recently saw Dragonheart even though its been out for almost a decade. I stumbled upon this movie quite by accident, but now that I've seen it twice, I'm pleased with this discovery. I'm not a fantasy or dragon lore enthusiast, but I found this movie enjoyable on many levels. Sean Connery lending his voice talent to the Dragon (Drako) is one of the most debatable choices in this movie. I personally think it was a good choice since I laughed every time I heard his English accent coming out of a medieval creature. The result? A dragon with a bit of sophistication and class. Also unexpected is the animation quality of the dragon. I expected that dragons would be something evil and harsh, but Drako ended up as an surprising character that was both funny and interesting. One scene in particular Bowen finds Drako serenading Kara by a waterfall. Upon discovery, Drako is embarrassed...well...as much as a dragon could.The story line is linear and easy to understand which leaves more time for the viewer to focus on other things. Dennis Quaid and David Thewlis do a good job acting, although the character that David plays (the evil king) is a bit dim. In fact, he is outright dumb which adds to the humor of the movie. Dennis plays Bowen, the disillusioned knight who manages to be gruff and tough, yet also remains light hearted about his duty. The plot partially follows the classic hero's quest theme. The plot at the end of the movie turned out the way it should have. Towards the 3rd quarter of the movie, I feared that some cheesy ending would take place since the movie hinted at the possibility of some silly conclusion where everyone would live happily ever after and the bad guys would get thrown in jail. Fortunately, the movie took the right path and a more serious ending ensued.This ended the movie quite well and I felt satisfied.I was surprised to see so many famous actors and actresses in this movie. Most of them acted well enough, although none gave any spectacular performances. Only one actor really stood out as miscast in this movie Jason Isaacs who played the evil king's side kick. After seeing too many movies where Issacs is cast as an domineering figure with composure (The Tuxedo, Black Hawk Down, The Patriot), his character in this movie was just too weak. At one point, he comes out of a house half dressed and accidentally drops his shorts (or medieval equivalent) for a brief moment. Overall, this movie was fun to watch. Drako was a surprise and offered a very refreshing portrayal of a dragon (although I can't compare this movie to any other dragon movie). Drako just seems to defy a stereotype I had in my mind about dragons. The cast is solid enough, and the story is one that is simple but interesting. The ending did the movie well. One thing is for sure, you can't watch this movie with a serious attitude. Its lighthearted and comical with a little bit of seriousness thrown in intermittently. Acting 6/10Special Effects 9/10 (for its time!)Score for a fun time 8.5/10Overall score 7/10  "},{"Title":"A Dragon's Loyalty","Date":"4 April 2005","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is another movie I cried for, because the ending is very effective but also emotional.Now I have to say I'm not very fond of fantasy movies and yet there was something in this one that differed it from any other fantasy movie.This movie also shows the loyalty of a dragon. Dragons in fact were meant to be pictured as very loyal creatures and the fact that in this movie they even shared their hearts with humans shows this.This movie also displays beautiful sceneries, almost mystic, matching perfectly the plot of this movie.There's something magic about this movie that definitely deserves a look.Thubs up. "},{"Title":"It has 'Dragon', but it lacks more 'Heart'.","Date":"15 May 2008","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" My Take Special effects are the driving force of this pedestrian, workmanlike Medieval adventure. DRAGONHEART is a big budget, special effects-laden epic with some very neat CG the likes of those in JURASSIC PARK, perhaps even better. Thanks to CGI, the dragon here is no longer a clumsy puppet or a stop-motion animated character. The special effects creation here shows how fast special effects can progress over years and years of development. In terms of plot and characters, DRAGONHEART is only partial developed. The characters here lack more interest and the whole plot can't make it all good in the 103 min. running time.Ironically, the most interesting character in the film isn't any of the human characters. It is the character of Draco, the CGI dragon which also features another great leap in special effects, it's voiced by Sean Connery. Given Connery's voice, the character is very interesting and screenplay gives him more interest than any of his human counterparts. His sparing with the human character Bowen (played by Dennis Quaid) is amusing, even if his counterpart isn't exactly as interesting as he is.Other than Draco, the humans aren't very fancy. The hero, Bowen the dragon hunter, although played finely by Quaid (planting his tongue firmly in cheek), the script has not much to offer to him. The villain, played with a sly tongue by Brit David Thewlis, is practically an interesting character, but the script gives him less to do later. The great cast also includes Julie Christie, Jason Isaacs, Dina Meyer (from STARSHIP TROOPERS) and Pete Postlethwaite, all pretty good. The story didn't hold my attention for the entire running time. Perhaps its my lack of interest in the story that prevents it from getting into me.DRAGONHEART isn't unwatchable, not to the very least, but I must say I didn't actually enjoy most of it. It has a number of fun scenes with Connery's voicing of Draco as well as some pretty neat action scenes, but it ain't perfection.Rating **1/2 out of 5. "},{"Title":"Not a lot of heart in this.","Date":"11 October 2007","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" There was so much potential in the premise for Dragonheart. It could have been taken many steps further if the production team and writers genuinely cared about the film that they were making. Unfortunately, they weren't and could only be bothered in hashing together a quick and easy movie with no substance. I'm not sure what the pitch was to Universal but it seems like a bunch of C-list producers and writers felt like making Braveheart...for kids. Only with a Dragon instead of William Wallace.The plot is so simplistic that it really could be accurately summed up as 'bad king nasty to villagers, knight and dragon help'. Whoa, slow down, man. I don't think I can comprehend so much in a small space of time. Rob Cohen is hardly an artistic director but the action and framing are below even his meagre standards. There are some nice shots here and there but the rest of the film looks incredibly fake thanks to the truly terrible production design.When you take away all of that, all you are left with is a film with a CGI dragon. But in the 11 years since this was released the standard of such effects has improved drastically. Draco the Dragon looks just a little bit too dated, though he is still as cute and lovable as he always was.The problems with the film extend even to the extras. It's bad enough that such talented actors are given such rotten dialogue to work with (why none of them requested to tweak it a little bit is beyond me) but I am assuming that no one bothered to give the villagers in the background any instructions before rolling. You have no idea how distracting it is.Another potential thrown away is the religious element. I guess that no one involved in making the film wanted to offend any kind of faith and erased as much religion from the film as possible. It doesn't even clarify that it's set in Britain either. There are some flippant remarks to Camelot (conviniently just a few miles down the road from any point on the map) but almost the whole film was shot in Romania and the accents are all over the place, as usual.The one, major, plus-point of the movie is Randy Edelman's glorious score. It's the only decent score he's ever composed in his entire career but it's simply amazing. Well worth hunting down the CD for, I assure you.Dragonheart is just too tame and tepid to make any kind of lasting impression. There too many faults to forgive. It's better than Eragon, but nowhere near the beauty of Dragonslayer. "},{"Title":"Needs more dragon, less annoying king.","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Here is a case where they got good actors in Dennis Quaid as the dragon slayer and Sean Connery doing the voice of the main dragon, but the story really was not very good. It has its high points, but to many low as well. The story of a really annoying prince turned king who is evil and the knight who blames the evil portion of him on a dragon that gave part of his heart to save him is just not all that good. The highlight of this movie comes in the form of the fight between the knight and dragon and their subsequent teaming to help the dragon slayer make a little money. Then the movie goes south again as the dragon is captured and we have just a typical movie without the title character the dragon which makes for a very anti-climatic last portion of the film that ended about how you would expect it to. The effects are okay, not quite on par with a movie such as Jurassic Park, but the dragon looks real enough. I am guessing they tried to keep him out of the movie as much as possible to keep the costs down, unfortunately this hinders the film and it is not as good as it could have been. Still it is worth a look. "},{"Title":"Silly but nice","Date":"14 February 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I watched this movie sitting in a bus on the way home from a day of skiing. I didn't expect anything, and to begin with I thought it was one of the silliest sword and ruin movies ever made.That changed somehow when the dragon appeared - they sure did a wonderful job creating 'him'. I was impressed by the way he spoke, and the facial expressions that followed.  Still the movie can't get more than 7 out of 10, being so cliche-heavy and not-so-thrilling when it comes to the human characters (though I have to agree with some of the other reviewers, that this movie is decent in the way it avoids splatter-effects and is remarkably un-blood-thirsty).  "},{"Title":"Flawed fantasy adventure","Date":"12 December 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Dragonheart is esstientally a film for kids around the ages from 8 to 13 years old. Any older and people wouldn't be completed satisfied.Dragonheart is set in England at the end of 10th Century. A tyrannical king was ruling the nation, but his son Einon (Lee Oakes/David Thewlis) was being trained by a knight Bowen (Dennis Quaid) who tries to teach him the old code of the knights of the Roundtable. However, Einon is a very power hungry young man. During a peasant revolt Einon's father was killed during an ambush and Einon gets stabbed in the heart. His mother (Julie Christie) does the only thing she can do and takes him to a dragon who gives the prince half his heart in exchange that he is a noble ruler. But Einon quickly goes back on his word and becomes a harsh tyrant himself, torturing people and makes a massive fortress for himself. Bowen is angered, blaming the dragon for the Einon's corruption and swears to kill all dragons. The film then skips forward twelve years. Einon is still a tyrant and Bowen had hunted down every dragon, leaving only one. When battling the last dragon they enter into a stalemate, and the enter into a deal where Bowen and the dragon defraud people by letting the dragon scare villages and Bowen 'kills' him for payment. At the same time a young woman named Kara (Dina Meyer), a daughter of a rebel, trys to bring about another rebellion, but her calls fall on death ears. Its only when she is able to talk Bowen and Draco (Sean Connery) into joining the rebellion and train the peasants that they are able to take on Einon's forces.They are good points and bad for this film. The good is the special effects were good, especially for its time. The scenery was also very good and well done. The action and battle scenes were also good, but clean cut enough for children. Now the bad. The acting is poor. Dennis Quaid is not an action hero, and he did not fit the part. As well casting American in English roles a dumb move, and they don't even try an English accent. This was a tread in the 90s, Robin Hood Prince of Thieves had Kevin Costner and First Knight had the wooden Richard Gear. I don't like it when American play English characters. Dina Meyer was poor in this film. I personally think that Julie Christie and Sean Connery only did this film for the money. David Thewlis was over the top in this film Pete Postlethwaite was surprisingly poor as the comical sidekick. The writing was also poor. The plot is thin and pretty standard. The dialogue isn't good and the jokes did not work.2.5 out of 5. "},{"Title":"good movie","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was rather good. It used technology to its fullest extent to make the Dragon realistic. However, this was one movie that should have used more character development, instead of relying just on special effects. the story was good, but it could have used a little more development. All in all, it was a good movie, and I enjoyed it.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"16 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" An awesome adventure that lets you forget it's fantasy - it's as powerful & exciting as the dragons! Bowen (Dennis Quaid) is a knight of the Old Code of Camelot (needless to say, it's good & honorable), & teaches it to his student, Prince Einon. But during a rebellion, cruel King Freyne is killed - & Einon is wounded badly. Bowen & Queen Aislinn (Julie Christie) visit a famous, wise dragon who donates 1/2 his heart to let Einon live, after his vow that he'll be a merciful king, unlike his father. But after Einon heals, he enslaves the villagers to work for him, & scorns Bowen's beliefs. Bowen is enraged at the dragon's polluting his soul, & vows to hunt him down. 12 years later, he hasn't found his prey but has made up for it by killing every he finds. Then he meets Draco (Sean Connery), the world's last dragon, who's determined to put up a fight. As an alternative to fighting a stalemate battle, Bowen agrees to slay Draco for $. Draco reveals dragons are gentle & don't attack unless provoked. Meanwhile, Einon falls in love w/Kara, the girl who accidentally injured him, after he kills her father. Aislinn helps her escape, knowing what it's like to be a tyrant's wife. Kara is the 1 person in the village brave enough to fight Einon (Except Bowen, but he's too bitter to bother w/him anymore), & when she meets Bowen & Draco, she persuades him to join her in a fight. Now, along with the village rebels & Brother Gilbert, a hilariously pinheaded monk, they set out to change their lives - though Draco has a secret about Einon that could cause the difference between winning & losing. The animation here is great - it seems real, just like the characters. It's exciting & will keep you hooked till the end. I'd recommend it to an adventure-lover. "}{"Title":"Great Adventure Film","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was highly entertained by this movie. It was so unusual and it was so exciting as they brought all of our fantasies together in a rare way on the screen. Who would have thought of a Dragon as having a pure heart? I was astounded at the story, but equally enjoyed it as the story unfolded. It had a lot of body to the story. It was not just fluff. The story really made me feel as if I was experiencing this first hand. I found myself rooting for the dragon. When we usually think of dragons we think of them being bad. Quite the contrary this dragon is good and not only good but honorable. It was the best film I have seen of its kind. I was only sorry when it ended. I wanted more. I did notice that a sequel was made. I have watched that as well. It was very well done. High five to the writers of these tales. To the producers as well, this is one great film. It is excellent and all ages will enjoy it as well. Adventure, Excitement, Knights fighting, and a Dragon pursued for doing evil against a prince, but in the end found to be that the prince who became King had the evilness in his heart to begin with. And the Dragon played by Sean Connery was never evil, and observed the knights old code. Dennis Quade as the knight who protected the prince then who hunted down the dragon to kill him for what he called making the King's heart evil. The end is so unusal. This is a must see. A great film for your VHS library. You will want to see this one over and over again. Yes it is that good! "},{"Title":"10-","Date":"22 September 2008","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I remember watching this when i was about 7 and really enjoying it. Acttually it became one of those many films that i remember and no-one else does. When i saw it in a charity shop i bought it.However once you've passed the age of about ten this film doesn't seem so much fun anymore. Watching it a second time i was pretty bored throughout and kept hoping it would end soon.It was definitely a bit to dragged out. The story was pretty good and the dragon was fairly convincing but the mise en scene wasn't anything special and the script was quite poor.I would recommend that no-one over the age of ten watch this, it just becomes tedious. "},{"Title":"Go for the dragon, endure the rest","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  In all, the movie spends its entire length saying Stop watching for plot, or listening for good lines, or paying attention to the humans, just watch the dragon and wait patiently for him to return when he's not onscreen. We'll keep him visible as long as money allows, and tease you with off-screen cop-outs when we run out of money. In the end, when asked how the movie was, you'll say 'The dragon was way-cool!' and in doing so give it a favorable review.So that's basically all you can do. The movie is just burning time with everything else besides the dragon. They take a super generic and flat script about a last dragon and something about half a heart and fill it with semi-name actors and vaguely familiar faces saying unchallenging and easy-to-swallow lines of dialogue in an effort not to offend you before the next dragon scene. The sword-fighting was of the Swing at Each Other's Swords school, but you aren't there for sword fighting anyway. The red-haired chick from Starship Troopers beats up the big blonde guy from the X-Files, David Thewlis sneers, Quaide grimaces. All you're left to do is wait patiently for Big Sean's voice to start booming, saying all the best lines of course, since he's the dragon and the audience is paying attention when he talks, and he does some dragonish things and generally shows off his computer-generated freedom. We're not expected to be interested in anything else, so everything else is uninteresting.  "},{"Title":"Highly underrated","Date":"14 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I'm surprised this movie is not at least a 7 in IMDb. Dragonheart used to be one of my favorite movies when I was teenager. It is fun, funny and emotional, the CGI are great for late 90's and Denis Quaid acting is remarkable. Leaving aside the fact that this is a story about dragons and knights, The bottom story of honor and betrayal is a little stereotypical but still very catching. To me the downside is the antagonist casting The guy is so boring. Other than that, Sean Connery's voice and the movie soundtrack are spectacular. Highly recommended to watch in family for those who haven't seen it yet, and for the rest, revisiting this title now and then, can be a good plan for a Sunday afternoon. "},{"Title":"In 984 A.D. Dragons Were A Dime A Dozen","Date":"17 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Half-expecting Draco, the dragon, to suddenly get up and start singing & dancing (these were the last 2 humiliations that hadn't yet been imposed upon him in Dragonheart), I can't begin to tell you how pathetically bad this Fantasy/Adventure movie turned out to be.Dragonheart was the sort of movie that's sure to make you hate dragons. 'Cause if Draco really was supposed to be a typical dragon of medieval times, then, believe me, extinction was the only reasonable answer for dealing with such a supremely annoying creature as this.Had the scriptwriters of Dragonheart just left well-enough alone (but they never can) and simply allowed Draco to be just a garden-variety dragon (sans the personality-plus factor), then, yes, I honestly think that this poorly-conceived picture might have faired so much better, in the long run.But, no, these narrow-visioned screenwriters had to go and make big, old Draco a beast who could be reasoned with, had serious emotional hang-ups, could speak fluent English, and, on top of all of that, they had him play the dupe in one of Bowen's shifty, under-handed, little schemes to fleece the gullible peasants out their hard-earned money (otherwise he'd order Draco to promptly trample all over their homes).This ruthless manipulating of Draco by Bowen was a perfect example of how this particular character operated. And it closely tied in with another aspect of Dragonheart's disappointing story that totally grated on my nerves and further convinced me to slap this film with such a low rating.Dennis Quaid played the Bowen character. And to say that Quaid was a royal pain in the neck would be an understatement of the highest order. This Bowen-bozo never stopped complaining about how no one, these days, was following The Old Code. This was apparently a strict code of conduct which dealt with a man's adherence and devotion to such things as honour, valour, courage and truth.And, of course, Bowen, with his starry-eyed allusions, blindly believed himself to be one of the very few gallant and noble men around who still lived by this rigid code of ethics. But the truth about Bowen (a real untrustworthy scoundrel) was that he would've gladly sold his own grandmother's gold-fillings from her teeth just for the sake of making a quick buck.All-in-all - I found this whole phony One-For-All-And-All-For-Me mentality that prevailed throughout Dragonheart's hypocritical, little story to be very, very tiresome, indeed. This frickin' pretentious Old Code business played hand-in-hand with some absolutely awful attempts at humour, as well as some pretty tedious and painfully predictable battle scenes, thrown in for good measure.As far as I'm concerned, Dragonheart was nothing but a badly-conceived movie meant only for tiny tots "},{"Title":"A Talking Dragon Makes This Movie Corny","Date":"31 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" While I did enjoy this movie for what it is, I would have to say that this movie was corny. Corny because we have a friendly talking dragon voiced by Sean Connery. Plus, the acting of the evil boy king was just really cheesy in my opinion. Aren't dragons supposed to be mythical creatures we are supposed to fear? If so, then why are they portrayed as a cuddle bear we can share our most inner thoughts while other movies portray dragons as something to fear? The only reason why I am giving this movie a 3 is that Dennis Quaid is in this movie. While I also like Connery, his part just didn't sit well with me. So even the actors couldn't revive this very corny movie. "},{"Title":"The Dragon Of Our Hearts","Date":"5 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The film Dragonheart answers the question whatever happened to those mythical beasts of legend. Or at least how the last of the breed nobly met his fate.Dennis Quaid is a knight true to the old code of chivalry as set down by King Arthur for his posse at the Round Table. But it's some three to four hundred years later and we're just entering another millennium. Dennis tries to teach a young prince the right way of things, but the kid is just plain no good. He grows up to be David Thewlis and one nasty tyrant of a king.This is after his life was saved by transplanting half a dragon's heart into his wounded body on the condition he mend his evil ways and trod the straight, narrow, and just as a king. Thewlis has no intention of living up to that.Dragonheart would be a nice kid's story, but for the presence of one thing, the voice of Sean Connery coming out of the mouth of the animated dragon. To me it is absolutely inspired how the animation folks managed to invest so much of Sean Connery's personality into their work. Connery is droll and witty as the last of his kind and I love just listening to him.Even though Dragonheart is recommended for kids, it's also recommended for Sean Connery's fans even though you only get to hear his voice coming out of a dragon.But what a voice. "},{"Title":"A decent fantasy movie","Date":"16 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" If you like knights, dragons, kings and the occasional monk chances are you'll like Dragonheart. But the story is fairly diverse from the usual food chain.A knight played by Dennis Quaid teams up with a dragon, (voiced by the ever notable Sean Connery) a poetic monk, and a wild peasant girl name Kara, to fight corrupted young King Einon. The result is is a standard yet engaging fantasy flick with above-average special effects and a great musical score. Although its far from a masterpiece, and the acting isn't always completely convincing, that doesn't mean it isn't worth watching. "},{"Title":"Has a Soul of Its Own Due to Its Dominant Musical Score.","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Warrior Dennis Quaid and the last dragon on Earth (voiced by the excellent Sean Connery) try to take down evil Middle-Age ruler David Thewlis in this fun and impressive action flick. Dina Meyer, Pete Postlethwaite and Julie Christie all do good jobs in supporting turns. The greatest thing about Dragonheart however is its amazing score which is arguably the finest a film has ever experienced. The production's music raises what could have been a mediocre outing for all involved. 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"A nice movie","Date":"19 August 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Dennis Quaid seems like an odd choice for a knight who follows the strict code of chivalry but he does rather well.  The dragon looked so real.  Best movie dragon ever, better than any dinosaur of mutated iguana. I thought when this was release it was a nice change for summer movies.  We need more like this as they all provide great fun and well at some point have pictured ourselves as gallant warriors.   "}{"Title":"outstanding","Date":"6 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The first time I saw Dragonheart when it appeared on video, I must have been in a fog. It did not impress me at all. I just viewed it again and found it remarkable for the believability that there was a live dragon. The gestures, movements and interaction with the humans were all so well crafted that it seemed that it was the real-live dragon being filmed. The Jurassic Park computer image use had been impressive to me and this film was a natural and great extension of the computer graphic arts. Dragonheart gives plenty of action, many laughs, scenic views, and a thoughtful story. The only problem I had with the movie was that they did not spend enough time making the waterfall landscape look real. "},{"Title":"Great family flick","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Dragonheart is the sort of film you can watch over and over again because it's fun, it's well-made, it's even quite moving at times. It is such a winner because of the great fantasy storyline and the great fantasy characters.The principle character is Draco, the last dragon alive following the massacre of the knight Bowen who turned to dragon slaying after a dragon gave half of its heart to then heir to the throne, Einen, to save his life. Unfortunately to Bowen it seems that the heart turned Einen from a good, brave kid into a remorseless, evil lord like his father.It's your standard formulaic fantasy plot, essentially. Bowen is our brave hero, Einen our evil plotting king, and David Thewlis does a great job as the latter, he's extremely unlikeable. The twist is the characters along the way. Bowen joins forces with Draco the dragon and this is his 'heavy muscle' for the final battle. He is also joined by Brother Gilbert, a poetic monk who turns out to be a natural at firing a bow and arrow, and Kara, a peasant girl who has her own personal vendetta against Einen after he blinded and murdered her father.Dragonheart is an excellent film for all the great characters it brings together, and its basically simple plot makes for basic simple entertainment. It's hard not to leave this film without a warm feeling inside.Overall rating - ***1/2 / ***** "},{"Title":"Mind-Blowing Special Effects","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Dragonheart has got to have some of the best special effects I've ever seen.  Draco looks absolutely perfect!  And who better to provide the voice than Sean Connery?  The instant I saw the trailers for this movie I couldn't wait to see it, and I wasn't let down when it finally came out and I went and saw it.The story is pretty good, and does a good job of keeping you interested.  Since the movie involves a dragon, you have to expect a lot of magical/mystical things to happen, and you just have to suspend reality for the duration of the film.The cast in the film is pretty good.  Sean Connery is the perfect voice for Draco, and he does a fantastic job with it.  Dennis Quaid pulls off a good performance.  Dina Meyer does a good job too.  Pete Postlethwaite and Jason Isaacs are worth mentioning as well.  David Thewlis is the only actor I'm a little unsure about.  His acting is actually quite good, but he just isn't a very threatening guy, so I'm not really sure if he is the best choice for the antagonist.  After a few viewings of the film I got used to him, so I'll just shut-up and accept it.I only have two major complaints about the film.  They are the following1) I deeply wish they would have shown one or more dragons other than Draco.  Don't get me wrong, I love Draco, but I would have loved to see just one other dragon in the film.  I REALLY REALLY wish the Director (Rob Cohen) would have shown the fight between Bowen (Dennis Quaid) and the Dragon near the beginning of the film (when they first introduce Brother Gilbert, played by Pete Postlethwaite).MAJOR SPOILER!!!  ONLY READ IF YOU'VE SEEN THE FILM!!! ...I WARNED YOU!!!2) The ending to the film was WAY TOO MUCH.  They went way TOO OVERBOARD with the mystical-ness of Draco's death.  Draco disappearing is one thing, but to then have his soul (which looks like a little ball of light) fly up into the stars and become one of the stars in the constellation of the dragon, then have the stars conform into one big star and then explode just to return back to their original places, making up the constellation again?  GOOD LORD!!!  WAY TOO MUCH!!!  Rob Cohen should have just had Draco disappear (in fact, I'm not even sure if I like the fact that he disappeared), and then show the stars and then have a voice-over while looking at the stars.  I think that would be a much more believable ending.Well, that's my two-cents for the film.  I really hope you enjoy the film as much as I do.  If anything, appreciate this film for the special effects!  They're superb!  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"A Flick For The Gullible","Date":"17 May 2001","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Anyone having a difficult time articulating as to why they didn't particularly like this ill-conceived effort, should immediately refer to the DVD's bonus making of... section. In it, all involved positively froth over with enthusiasm and unabashed praise for the script, as if they caught religion. And why not the combined ouevre of director, producer, writer, and principal actors is, at best, suspect and unimpressive, so the need to artificially pump up this film (and their respective questionable resumes) is quite understandable. Only Pete Postlethwaite and the uncredited voice of Sir John Gielgud index well into the time and circumstances portrayed. Otherwise, the casting folk should be made to sit in a corner somewhere. To be fair though, their choices may have been limited due to budget constraints, vis-a-vis the special effects needed to justify the flick. And therein lies the film's greatest flaw things would have been far more interesting in regard to character interactions and situations if the dragon were left wild and dangerous (as in the vastly superior Dragonslayer). Instead, we have the dragon (in character, gestures, and facial expressions) overly anthropomorphized. The result is that anything mythic or mysterious (read intelligently interesting) disappears. What we're left with is a high-tech cartoon no better than, say, Pete's Dragon. Ultimately, the blame should fall on the director, Rob Cohen, for being so incredibly anal in his need to have the dragon be Sean Connery. With a voice so distinctive, it's impossible to watch this movie without thinking, Please, God. Don't let them slip in the 'Shaken, not stirred' line!. For adults, 2 out of 10; for small children and the easily-led, 7.0. By the way. Couldn't they have hired a better dialogue coach for Dennis Quaid? Well, Dennis. Your faux English accent is horrible, so let's just have you speak in a rough voice. That'll be good enough for the audience. "},{"Title":"Excellent fantasy","Date":"25 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Rob Cohen's Dragonheart is old school adventure done right, a rollicking medieval tale in the tradition of other classics such as Willow and Legend. There's a ton of medieval movies in Hollywood, the two prototypes being the grim, grainy, serious stuff and the lighthearted, whimsical entries. This falls splendidly in the second category, a rousing bit of sword and sorcery fun from beginning to end. Also, how can you say no to a movie with a dragon voiced by Sean Connery? You can't, that's how. You dig up an old VHS and wade knee deep into nostalgia for a couple hours, revisiting this treasure of olden times (by olden times I mean the 90's. Damn.. that was already over a decade ago). Dennis Quaid, sporting hairdo that would make Dog the Bounty hunter drop to his knees, plays Bowen, a knight sworn to King Einon, (a super young and decidedly nasty David Thewlis) who turns out to be a rotten bastard that wishes to attain immortality using the fabled heart of a dragon, which possesses mysterious powers. Bowen rebels and takes up with the last known dragon of its species, a magnificent creature named Draco (given the magnifishent voishe of Sean Connery), who happens to be the beast that gave half his heart to save the King years earlier. Einon now pursues them, sparking a battle that erupts into the third act with impressive spectacle. Julie Christie, Jason Isaacs and an invisible John Gieldud provide nice supporting turns. The late and very great Pete Postlethwaite seriously steals the show as Gilburt of Glockenspur, a spirited travelling monk who assists Bowen and Draco in their quest. The banter between Quaid and Connery spices things up so that we are just as entranced by their verbal collaboration as we are seeing them in action. Do yourself a favour and avoid the garbage sequel. Rewatch this instead! It's a gem. "},{"Title":"Robin Hood Prince of Thieves with a dragon","Date":"17 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I never got around to seeing DRAGONHEART, probably because I thought it looked rather cheesy and at the age of 15 (as I was when this film came out) I was more interested in seeing adult thrillers like RANSOM rather than kiddie flicks like this one. Seeing it all these years later, it's clear that I didn't miss much; this is a film that plays out exactly as you'd expect, which is as ROBIN HOOD PRINCE OF THIEVES with an added dragon.The only good thing DRAGONHEART has going for it is that the plot is fairly unusual, setting up intriguing characters who go on different directions to those you might expect. David Thewlis is clearly going for an Alan Rickman vibe in PRINCE OF THIEVES in this one, but he doesn't really come off all that well, and Dennis Quaid's hero is typically dull. The interest comes from the supporting players Brian Thompson and Jason Isaacs are always welcome; Dina Meyer is feisty enough to get her the role in STARSHIP TROOPERS; and Pete Postlethwaite is great comic relief.The elephant (or should that be dragon?) in the room is Sean Connery, playing the voice of the dragon. He's pretty good, but the CGI effects are only acceptable in this one. They're fine compared to a lot of the usual SyFy/Asylum nonsense, but they're a far cry from the quality we saw in JURASSIC PARK. And Rob Cohen's direction is typically bland and soulless. If you're in the mood for undemanding family fare then you might enjoy this, but then again you might be like me and not think much of it. "},{"Title":"Prerequisite Imagination","Date":"11 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I've finally reached my fifties, but I still love this film as much as the first day I saw it in the cinema. It's a relevant thought, you see, because as I browsed the reviews I came face to face with an old acquaintance -- the realisation that childlike wonder and imagination are actually rare enough to be in short supply, enough to justifiably call those resources scarce.I raised an eyebrow, vexed, as people complained about realism; I've heard complaints of the improbability of a dragon's ambulatory system without ever the self awareness to realise that with a few tweaks to physics to account for a different world -- one where magic exists as an institution and resource, no less -- along with some fixes to common misconceptions of dragons and animal biology that one could make anything probable. Clever people call this 'escapism,' a retreat into a fantasy, fictitious world unlike our own. Escapism goes so much further than daydreams of attractive sexual partners and fast cars.Here I see in the 'goofs' section that the dragon's wings don't generate downdraft. Who says they need to? A man in Britain created a box that could generate quantum thrust by manipulating lasers. Who's to say that a dragon's lift doesn't work the same way? Cries off realism come only from dull, mundane, typical minds. Not anyone who's especially brilliant would even mistake fantasy for reality in the first place. Truly, if one is unable to discern that dragon's exist in the realm of the improbable, so far separated from our own, then they've bigger problems than 'unrealistic' dragons.The pseudo-intellectual of below average intelligence complains of unrealism, thinking himself clever. The truly clever person possessed of a sharp mind and considerable wit finds the challenge of explaining other realities with their own physical laws fun!So, to wit, this is a lovely film, heartwarming, ingenious, and with a fantabulous showing from Mr. Connery. You may like it, but you should probably only watch it if you're clever enough to understand the distinctions and boundaries between reality and fantasy. Though individuals quite clever enough for that are evidently few and far between.Don't apply if you subscribe oxymoronically to 'I don't want fantasy in my fantasy, only reality with the rules of that even normalised and simplified into mundanity enough that I'm able to actually understand it;' Or if you're inclined to prefer bat-like dragon's over their six- limbed cousins because they're more realistic (without being erudite enough to realise why that statement makes no sense, because playing by those rules the ambulatory pressure problems created by such a large, flying creature would make bat-like dragons every bit as unrealistic). If either of the prior is true, you're not good enough for this film. It deserves a better audience.If, however, that gave you a chuckle rather than fired your ire, you may just be good enough for it. In which case you really should watch it! "},{"Title":"Forgotten Fantasy","Date":"10 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" A knight is sworn to valor. His heart knows only virtue. His blade defends the helpless. His might upholds the innocent. His wrath undoes the wicked! Such was the Old Code of the Knights of the Round Table.Fantasy films of now could take some cues from DragonHeart. The story of a Knight, Bowen, who believed in those words, and dreamed of serving a noble King. But the Prince he put his faith into, Einon, let him down, and proved to be a tyrant, despite that a Dragon had given him half his heart, saving his life and hoping to defeat the evil in him that his father also possessed.Bowen then goes out to slay all Dragons as revenge, asking money in return from the folk, and defying King Einon. However, he ends up befriending that said Dragon, who he calls Draco, after the constellation, as well as Brother Gilbert, a wandering and whimsical Monk, and Kara, a Peasant girl whose father was blinded by Einon during a revolt and later murdered. Bowen and his friends triumph against the evil King as his cohorts. The twist? Their Dragon friend had to die for Einon to be killed, they both carried half a heart, and Draco had the one that sustained the other. They shared the pain in life and in death.Draco was then admitted into the Dragons' heaven. According to the movie's story, the Dragons do no harm to men unless attacked, and they must earn going to Heaven by helping Men.Dennis Quaid as Bowen, Sean Connery as Draco, Dina Meyer as Kara, Pete Postlethwaite as the comical Brother Gilbert,and David Thewlis who played the villainous King Einon all did well, and Einon's mother, Aislinn, played by Julie Christie, was an interesting character with a cruel fate. DragonHeart has plenty of lighthearted moments in between the serious themes, but it surely put a spin on the usual fantasy tropes. As a whole, it suffers from budgetary issues, however the charm is there for a wide audience. The film doesn't waste much time to get the point across. "},{"Title":"A dragon tale with a minor twist!","Date":"7 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" OK, let me just say that Sean Connery nails it as the voice of Draco! A dragon with a Scottish accent?! Just great! -)The movie has its share of laughs and excitement, but what I liked about it most was that the jokes are kind of clever and Dennis Quaid does a hell of a good job pulling it off as an old washed out knight whose time has passed. David Thewlis does an equally good job as the evil King Einon, so good that at times you wish you could get up and smack him around a bit yourself! Same goes for Dina Meyer who plays the single minded Kara who seeks revenge and will do anything it takes to make Einon pay his dues.It is a fun movie, and it will bring a few smiles to your face. "},{"Title":"Fire-breathing Fun and Awesomeness","Date":"6 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" In this film the word epic doesn't quite cover it. I freaking love this film. It's fun, it clever, it's very Spielberg-like and the dragon Draco is one of the coolest dragons ever right behind Toothless from How to Train Your Dragon. This film also goes places I didn't expect with some dark moments and mind blowing scenarios. The voice talent of Sean Connery as Draco works so perfectly that as soon as he appears on screen and talk you instantly fell the power, and grace of this magnificent dragon at least I did. As soon as he appeared I fell in love with the character. And he is the reason why this film works. The only negative I have to say it the plot is a little confusing at times. It doesn't take time to explain the scenes very well. Other then that this is a home run. Now to grade it. Characters B+ Draco A+ Effects A+ Music A+ (the best score by Randy Edelman) Acting B Story/Plot C+ Overall A "}{"Title":"Under-rated Dragons","Date":"14 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" As a child I'd go to my grandmother's house during the summer. She had bought this movie on VHS and my cousins and I would watch it. Then watch it some more and more. I'm amazed we never broke the tape. Dragonheart is, in my humble opinion, one of the best-ever dragon movies I have seen. So what if some of the plot is not 'believable'. It's a fairytale. So, when and if you watch/re-watch this movie, do so with an open heart. Top-notch special effects of the time and the inclusion of Sean Connery and Dennis Quaid, who performed their roles of noble dragon and despairing knight incredibly well. In my view, an amazing film, an amazing cast and an amazing result. This is a must watch and under-rated film in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Dragonheart","Date":"7 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I remember this coming out in 1996 and thinking they had just ripped off the film title from 'Braveheart' which came out the year before or 'Thunderheart'...just saying.So an evil King gets killed by a small bunch of rebellious peasants. His ugly ginger son takes his place but also gets wounded so he's taken by good knight Quaid to a Scottish dragon which can heal humans apparently. He is healed and made to promise he will be good unlike his father, well he lies and turns out even worse, didn't see that coming huh. This angers Quaid as he feels the dragon twisted the young Kings heart so he vows revenge on all dragons.The catch is that further down the line Quaid's knight realises that a worth while deal can be struck with the dragon for monetary gain. So they begin a partnership where the dragon scares the poor dumb peasants and Quaid rides in and saves them...for a few pieces of gold.So the film is set in olde England and does have a reasonable realistic approach in that sense, or at least they try. Problem being the film doesn't look anything like England but in fact looks exactly like where they shot it, eastern Europe. I did get the feeling that most of the budget for this film was used on creating the CGI dragon as everything else looks pretty poor really. This King only seems to be King of a small valley, there is no other mention of the rest of England or any other people outside this valley. His castle is pokey, he doesn't seem to have many troops, there seems to be more peasants than troops or even buildings to house them, everyone wears the same outfits all the time, the wigs are all obvious and hilariously bad and the film keeps circling around the same grassy/rocky areas over and over.The effects at the time were big, they were big time effects believe me, this film garnered much attention because of its CGI dragon. Looking back now its nicely done on the whole but obviously with time the cracks are now evident and the CGI shines through. There are some nice shots when 'Draco' is wet and when he breathes fire, plus the flying sequences are quite good but when he chats with humans it becomes a bit iffy. And yes Draco is his name, draco the dragon, surely they could come up with something a bit more original?.The idea of a knight and a dragon teaming up for a living during the medieval period is a good one but it doesn't quite feel fully serviced here. We only get a very very bare bones look at other peasants, other villages and how they go about this agreement. No sooner have we seen one badly interpreted village scam the plot goes off down this rebellion route against the evil young King. We then get a very very very average looking final battle sequence against...I dunno, about 50 horseback troops and about 100 peasants who were conveniently trained up in the art of war not more than a few hours before.There isn't really any decent lore in this film either, nothing on dragons much. The fact Draco can speak is hugely important I would of thought, it shows he is an intelligent beast, not just a dumb killing machine, surely humans could learn a great deal from this creature. I also want to know if all dragons can speak in this universe, they clearly have magic powers and possible immortality with a human, sheesh there is loads to discover here but we get nothing!. Why on earth would people wanna kill all these super intelligent sentient beings off?!!.It really does all feel a bit low rent...accept for the dragon. In fact the dragon is the best thing in the film really, Quaid looks bad in his blonde wig, Dina Meyer looks ridiculous in her peasant garb, Isaacs is wasted, Postlethwaite is also wasted but Thewlis is actually a decent slimy King...in a bad ginger wig. The choice of Connery as Draco is a good one, no complaints there, in fact its perfect.A fun cheerful fantasy with a surprisingly stirring orchestral score no doubt, but looking back its all very hokey and quite poorly made if you look closer. The selling point is Draco obviously and without him I think this would have been a disaster. Its a B-movie with an A grade effect in it basically.5/10 "},{"Title":"Unbelievable Plot","Date":"1 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I will admit that I could not sit through this entire movie, so turned it off and discarded it when Quaid's character mentioned a contract for the King's gold for killing dragons. This, after aspiring to some particular knight's code of honesty and valor. This from a king whom he knows to be a treacherous despot? Earlier, Quaid's character blames the dragon for bewitching the boy/king, after the dragon saved the boy/king's life. What reason did he have to think that? Just really poor screen writing, directing (Quaid never even bothers to feign an English accent) and casting (Sean Connery should never have been cast as the dragon's voice). Too many past Hollywood associations with Connery and his voice. This movie makes Robin Hood Prince of Thieves look like prime stuff (choke). I gave this terrible movie five out of ten. Most definitely sub-par. The only good spot was a cameo by Michael Richards. "},{"Title":"A great dragon flick with a good charm to it.","Date":"1 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Ah, how I love Dragonheart. This was made during the dawn of CGI. After Terminator 2 and Jurassic Park pushed the boundaries of special effects to a whole new level, Universal decided to try something different with computer effects and storytelling. The result was this lovable film that has, dare I say it, a burning passion.The story of a dragon (Sean Connery) and a dragon slayer (Dennis Quaid) becoming friends and teaming up against a tyrannical king is unforgettable. This movie is just full of comedy, action, and drama and the cast, especially Sean Connery, deliver terrific performances. It's not often you see a dragon movie like this and with that, it should be commended.I give this movie a 7 for entertainment value and a fiery extra point for the effort in which this was made. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly enjoyable with a sense of humour added in","Date":"3 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I like fantasy films and especially the ones set in medi evil times with dragons and sword fights and beautiful landscapes etc. That isn't to say all the ones that have these are necessarily good films but it is a world we can only imagine.Dragonheart starts off a little slow, but still interesting that sets up the plot of the film. Luckily it starts getting really enjoyable when the Dragon comes into it who becomes an ally of Bowen (Dennis Quaid) who is out to settle a personal vendetta against a Dragon who has turned a student of his into a corrupt ruler in his role as King Einon (David Thewlis in a very convincing role as an arrogant ruler).What makes this film appealing is the fact that the Dragon named Draco (voiced by Sean Connery) is given a lot of personality and hence is able to bond with Bowen. It adds a lot to the sense of humour and the film doesn't become too dark or a film that is based purely on revenge themes.The visual effects were also decent and for what this film is worth, it feels like a B grade film but looks like an A Grade film with the good performances, decent visuals and good cinematography of the landscapes. The production design is pretty impressive too.It still has flaws. The action scenes needed better music score to make it a bit more exciting and dramatic and the story itself is a bit clich in some respects. Julie Christie doesn't have much to do in her role which is a shame considering she had a good presence in the beginning then was sort of here now and then later on. Dennis Quaid is convincing as a boorish Dragon Slayer earning a living as a slayer and is a likable character.What is also good is that there is no silly romantic subplot which I suspected would have been thrown in which would have made the plot even more clich but it avoided that even though I thought there were going to be hints at it.So I was surprised to find myself enjoying this. Sometimes films like these that you can just watch and just have a good time are what you need when you don't want to think too much. "},{"Title":"Uneven but decent enough fantasy adventure.","Date":"15 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Dragonheart is set during 948 A.D. & starts as a peasant uprising is defeated by evil King Freyne (Peter Hric) & his troops, in a show a strength King Freyne rides into their village to set it alight but it was a trap & King Freyne is killed in front of his teenage son Einon (Lee Oakes) who himself is badly injured. Einon's mother takes her son to a Dragon as a last resort in order to save his life, the Dragon gives Einon half of his own heart which saves the boy's life. Twelve years later & Einon (David Thewlis) has grown up to be just as much an evil tyrant as his father was who rules with brutality, his former friend, teacher & knight of the old order Bowen (Dennis Quaid) has turned Dragonslayer since he blames the Dragon's heart for polluting Einon & making him evil but decides to team up with a friendly Dragon he names Draco as well as feisty young woman Kara (Dina Meyer) who together lead a revolt against Einon, his troops & all he stands for...Directed by Rob Cohen this fantasy adventure is one of the few mainstream films featuring a Dragon & while it's nothing amazing I didn't think it was too bad overall. Dragon films are thin on the ground to be honest, there's Dragonslayer (1981), Dragonworld (1994) prior to Dragonheart with Dungeons & Dragons (2000), Reign of Fire (2002) & Eargon (2007) afterwards & none of the films mentioned have been that good or done that well at the box-office. The script feels a bit uneven, while on the one hand you have this whimsical child like fantasy of a friendly talking Dragon there's the other side of the film with a peasant uprising which does get quite violent with necks being broken, people being stabbed, set on fire & one bloke is hit in the nuts with a huge battle axe (ouch) & the two distinctly different tones didn't sit together that well for me. Basically the violence is a little too strong for younger children while the silly talking friendly Dragon is a little childish for anyone over the age of ten. That's not to say Dragonheart isn't an enjoyable film for what it is because it is, it moves along at a decent enough pace, the mismatched partners Bowen & Draco surely have one of the bizarrest on screen buddy buddy relationships ever & it entertains but I didn't think the violence & childish fantasy sat well together & it's a little repetitive & predictable with an ending that goes on for too long, sure the Dragon dies but have an extended scene set to orchestral music with various star shining in the sky is just a bit too much.Dragonheart was made early in the days of CGI computer effects & you can see a lot of time & effort went into them & they hold up really well even now. The battle scenes & fights are good if a little predictable (the good guy always wins & the bad guy gets it) & as a period piece the costumes, sets & props all look the part. Draco the Dragon voiced by Sean Connery looks great, he moves convincingly, flies convincingly & definitely has a personality. In fact Dragonheart was nominated for a Best Visual Effects Oscar along with Twister (1996) but both deservedly lost out to Independence Day (1996).With a supposed budget of about $57,000,000 this had a lot of money spent on it & I would have though most of it was spent on the CGI effects, filmed on location in Slovakia. The acting is OK but nothing special, Pete Postlethwaite doesn't get much to do, Dennis Quid is somewhat bland, it's nice to see Brian Thompson in a Hollywood film while Sir John Gielgud has a voice cameo as King Arthur.Dragonheart is a solid enough fantasy adventure that may be too violent for youngsters while a bit too childish for adults, I thought it was good but nothing amazing overall. Followed by the straight to video sequel Dragonheart A New Beginning (2000). "},{"Title":"Sean Connery as a Dragon. )","Date":"3 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I know this movie is fairly old but I really only just heard of it recently and seen it. I normally don't like dragon movies but I really did enjoy this one. My opinion there's just not that many good dragon movies out there. Which is kind of sad since I do love dragons and medieval times as a whole. This movie is kind of slow but I've found it's good to have patience. I found the acting wasn't half bad and the plot was fairly decent. Plus I think this movie had one of the first CGI dragons and I actually thought they didn't do too bad a job. I'd recommend it and say give it a chance. Seems to be a family friendly movie for the most part. ) "},{"Title":"Not the best fantasy movie, but okay nonetheless","Date":"6 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is one of the very few fantasy films that hit the screen and even then it is not as high as a movie like Willow is (though I should point out that I originally wrote this review in 1996). In fact, it is quite a low fantasy movie with the exception of the dragon, which creates some of the high fantasy in this movie. Straight out, it is an enjoyable movie to watch, but it goes little beyond that.A knight is training a prince in the art of honour and chivalry, but the prince has better ideas. When he sees his father wounded severely in a peasant uprising, he does not help him, but rather rips the crown from his hand. It is this event that shows us that the prince is, in his heart, evil. Unfortunately, when his is wounded, he is taken to a Dragon for help. The dragon gives him half of his heart and the boy survives. Unfortunately, all pain that the prince (now King) feels is felt by the dragon. The king does not change his ways, and the knight thus blames the dragon.The movie hasn't got a straight plot, but it isn't twisted either. What it focuses on is the knight, who first seeks to kill the dragon, then befriends him, and then decides to destroy the king's power, only to become king himself. The movie does have a tragic feel to it, as we soon come to know that the dragon is going to die because of his compassion, but it is not the tragedy where we can see the character constantly degrade to a point where he will die. In fact, even though we know he is going to die, it is not because of his actions, but because of the actions of the antagonist, and though we see a minor flag that an act of compassion at the beginning will lead to his downfall, we do not know enough to want to warn him away from doing it.The theology in the movie is quite dodgy as well. Though human theology is not looked at, dragon theology is. The way the dragon reaches heaven is my doing noteworthy and honourable deeds. Unfortunately, if those deeds backfire then the dragon is in big trouble. As such there is no certainty and as such we can be as good as we like, but never be guaranteed because our acts of goodness might backfire.What Christ offers is assurance. There is no being good because no amount of good deeds can get us on the right side of God. In fact by doing pure good deeds we are saying that we are not happy with the way God does things and want to do it ourselves, and thus offending God. As such it is a vicious circle for we attempt to be good, but by being good we are being offensive, which is bad. As such being good does not work, but rather by trusting what God has already done. By dying he has given us the option of accepting that our goodness will never be good enough and thus take Jesus' goodness for ourselves, and his resurrection tells us that he had the authority to do it.As for the movie, it is okay, and pleasant to watch as a fantasy movie, but beyond that it is really not all that much. "},{"Title":"Intellectually weak, but entertaining in a Hollywood way","Date":"18 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Medieval loving kids, Dragonheart is the ideal film to capture your imagination. As you get older, however you quickly grow out of it when you recognize, that the plot is very Hollywood, the graphics are more dimensional than the characters, and there is no real acting, only play acting. I'm not saying that Dragonheart is a bad film, but it needs a little more.The story takes us into the Dark Ages, in the kingdom of King Frayen. His son Einon is being tutored by Sir Bowen who teaches him fighting, honor and the knight's code. In scene two, a peasant rebellion gets the king killed, and Einon takes a mortal wound. He will die if he is does not get help, but the Queen mother knows what to do. They take Einon to a dragon's cave, where she asks for help. A voice in the darkness makes young Einon swear to be a honourable king, on the Virge of death, the boy swears, and the dragon gives him half of his heart. His pulse is Einon's pulse, and when he dies, Einon dies. Twelve years later, Einon is an even worse tyrant than his father, and Bowen has become a dragon slayer. He blames the dragon for Einon's mischief. When He finds the dragon he seeks, they discover that they have something in common. They were both betrayed by the king and subsequently loath him. The two make a pact to work together. Bowen plans to lead the peasants in a battle against the tyranny. On his side are Cara, a girl seeking revenge for her father's murder, and Brother Gilbert who praises Bowen having seen him kill a dragon. There is going to be a brutal, bloody and fiery showdown.There is no denying that Dragonheart delivers what a good fantasy should for thrills and chills, but it is all part of a plot which has no sense of medieval history or realism to it. Even Dragonslayer, despite being occasionally hokey and with a much smaller budget felt more like the Dark Ages. Dragonheart feels like what it is, a Hollywood movie. As Roger Ebert puts it, it is at times a buddy film. He is referring of course to the partnership between Bowen and the Dragon 'Draco' with the voice of Sean Connery.For a pre-Titanic film, the CG is pretty good. Not only that but considering that the characters have to interact with him frequently it is even tougher for the Effects people to do their magic. What many viewers take for granted is that unlike animatronics, CG beast are never on screen with the actors at the same time. Bowen could be on his horse talking to a marker on a stick for all we know. It is in Post Production when the stick is swapped for a computer generated creature. It is tricky for the actors too, because they must avoid visual continuity problems.What else can I say about Dragonheart, it is a good film for people who like that kind of thing, but it is certainly not a film I'd show in history class, or if you want to impress your friends with intellectual film appreciation. Entertaining as it is, in today's day and age, it feels like just another piece of Hollywood fantasy movie-making. "},{"Title":"Don't get me wrong, this is a very likable film.","Date":"14 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The film does look lovely, with some good sets and cinematography. Technically, it's above average, and the music by Edelmann gives some drama. However, when I first saw it, I was like some people put off by some of the blood and the portrayal of violence shown. Do bear in mind, it is a kids' film. Also the script does at times get a bit wordy. Overall though, I enjoyed the film. The performances were excellent. I was most surprised that it was the wonderfully charismatic Sean Connery who voiced Draco, and I must say, he does very well. Dennis Quaid is likable as the hero, and David Thewlis has fun as the tyrannical king. But the film is stolen by the character of Gilbert, played by Pete Postlethwaite, who recites everything in verse, and is very funny at times. Overall, a likable film, that is very good technically, but has some misjudgements in the script and the violence. 8/10 Bethany Cox. "}{"Title":"comment","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Okay, this movie rocks! and it's not just because I love dragons and anything having to do with myth and legend. this is truly a enjoyable movie. even my little bro loved it and he's six and hates anything live action. I didn't even realize David Thewlis was in it until i looked him up. His performance was great...I HATED him--in a good sorta way. he's the king we all love to hate and he plays it to a tee. The dragon was stunning and funny to the extreme to boot as well. While the movie down plays a bit at times i can watch it again and again. The landscape is beautiful and a perfect cast of characters makes it something for the whole family. "},{"Title":"Spin on myth brings sheer delight","Date":"15 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is only the second dragon to have been realistically put on the big screen, during my lifetime and by my memory. The first was the Dragon World dragon. Even with the star-studded cast, the Dragon was the star (and rightfully so, it's not called Insert-Actor's-Name-Here-Heart).This story, which has been gone over ad nauseum, will be skipped in detail. I will suffice it to say that the story, while dark and a bit plodding, is also creatively twisted. Professional performances and fantastic creativity bolster this attempt through the (very few) slow spots, and Sean Connery's voice as Draco was priceless. The effects were above average, and the overall execution was excellent. If you're a fan of the old Celtic Dragon Clans lore, or Celtic mythology, you may find a few hidden treasures within. We did. ;)It rates an 8.4/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"This movie is 7 years old?! Still looking good!","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Saw this movie in the theater back in '96 and was highly impressed by the SFX.  Rented it recently for my son who is into swords, knights and dragons and am still pleasantly surprised at how well Drago's animation has held up (especially with the major advancement of CGI and Digital animation these last couple of years). Kudos to Rob Coleman at ILM for his work!I appreciated the friendship forged between Bowen and Drago.  I also find it interesting that Bowen is a dying breed as well, just like Drago being the last of the dragons, even though he doesn't realize it.Yes, the Americans acting in this movie have British accents that come and go at times, but I found them still pretty believable and real.  I also found the humor in Drago's character refreshing and fun. ***SPOILER***I had totally forgotten the part when he snatches up Dina Myer and is found later serenading her by a waterfall. And the I only chewed, but I didn't swallow. comment (aimed at the Bill Clinton line about his marijuana use) had me rolling on the floor laughing!***END SPOILER***It is also fun to see David Thewlis and Jason Isaacs acting side-by-side, before their rise to notoriety (especially here in the USA) in the Harry Potter films as of late.Rent this one or if you see it on the markdown shelf, pick it up, it's a definite keeper!  "},{"Title":"DRAGONHEART  Under The Special Effects Is A Decent Movie...","Date":"19 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" DRAGONHEART Back when this film came out in '96, the majority of press it received was focused on the special effect of Draco the Dragon. Though the effects are still serviceable and impressive all things considered, it is clear that significant progress has been made in the years since. However, as the years have passed and the special effects seemed to fade... there are some respectable qualities in Rob Cohen's DRAGONHEART that might have gone unnoticed before.DRAGONHEART tells the story of a Dragonslayer named Bowen (played by Dennis Quaid) and the last dragon left on earth, Draco (voiced by Sean Connery). Bowen is a knight who is the main teacher of Einon, the future King. Bowen's goal is to teach young Einon the old code and help raise up a fair and just leader. When Einon is young, it appears that Bowen has set the young man on the correct path. However, when Einon first gains the throne he is nearly killed by a battle injury.His only hope for survival is to share half of the heart of Draco. Einon's mother the Queen (played by Julie Christie) bring her son and Bowen to Draco and plead for his help. Then, after Einon has promised to rule in peace and honor the old code, Draco heals him by giving the future king half his heart. However, when Einon grows older (played by David Thewlis) he turns against his oath to both Bowen and Draco by becoming a tyrant on the throne. The only hope that Bowen and Draco have of restoring peace to the kingdom is to join together as an unlikely team.Obviously the studios goal was to make this film all about the dragon effects, and while that might have made the film impressive in '96, it takes away from the pace in places. However, underneath the spectacle there is a truly compelling story here.The union of Draco and Bowen is established slowly and their relationship is well developed for this type of film. Much credit is due to the leading performances from Dennis Quaid and Sean Connery. Quaid really commits to the role and gives the character of Bowen a fire and passion that helps the audience buy into the relationship. Quaid's ability to rise above the material and be both charming and honest at the same time is proof that he should be working more. Meanwhile, Sean Connery conveys an aged wisdom as well as an aged wit in a vocal performance that was clearly a blast for Connery. Also, David Thewlis is entertaining as the crazed king. The women in the story aren't the focal point... and thankfully so because the performances from the females in this movie are far from good. Julie Christie seems to be phoning in her performance as the Queen... and Dina Meyer as the romantic interest tries really hard but is just a mess.DRAGONHEART is a light-hearted fantasy that manages to embrace it's silliness while still grounding itself with a well-defined central relationship. It's not stellar film-making, but it's certainly a worthy medieval fantasy (a genre that we don't see enough of anymore). Also, bonus points for having one of the most familiar musical scores in recent cinema.... B ... "},{"Title":"Dragon Heart","Date":"22 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie was one of the best I have seen in 1996. They picked the perfect music and characters. I think though if made a bit later on in years that graphics could of have been a bit better. Though they showed a lot of detail and went beyond what you could possibly do at that time. I like how the story line plays out so smoothly and it all connects together. I don't you could ask for a better movie really back then. My brother and I loved it so much we rented it and watched it all day. I must say that Sean Conery did a great job with the voice of Draco, no one could have been better for that part. If you really pay attention in the movie you will begin to walk in it on your own. At the end it almost feels like your that brave night that accompined Draco on his last journey. "},{"Title":"A feel-good but ultimately mediocre fantasy film (minor spoilers)","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" As other reviewers have noted, Dragonheart does provide some noble and uplifting themes. It *is* nice to see a medieval fantasy movie, especially one released the year after Braveheart, where not all is dark and sinister, blood and pain. There is humor here, and a positive message.Unfortunately, Dragonheart suffers from several problems.The special effects were pretty good; the dragon was seamlessly integrated into scenes, for example. However (and granted, maybe this is just a problem with my DVD or player), it seemed as though the animation stuttered, like stop-animation. That was distracting -- a disappointing sight in a film that came out four or five years after Terminator 2, which introduced fluid, realistic computer-rendered animation. The dragon reminded me of something from Harryhausen - it would have looked great twenty years earlier, but not in 1996. And aside from the dragon, not much else in the movie's effects seemed all that special, including the overdone ending.The writing and the acting, too, leave much to be desired. Right from the start, the situations and the characters' reactions to them are often just not believable. The dialog in particular often seems forced - especially that of the dragon. It didn't seem to make a difference whether the dialog was intended to be serious or humorous; it often came across as contrived or wooden. Connery has done better work.The combat scenes are somewhere above average, though some of the swordplay (presented as serious combat) echoes the fakery of the spear-catching scenes, creating unintended humor and drawing the viewer out of the illusion of the movie.The humor is generally satisfying (with some exceptions), and many moments *are* genuinely touching here, though I found myself affected more by the *idea* that Draco was the last of the dragons and less by anything that the story presented or that the acting did to evoke pathos. The scenes meant to tug at the heartstrings were mostly either overdone or simply fell flat.In all, Dragonheart is an entertaining enough movie - good enough for killing a Saturday afternoon, but substandard compared to other films of the genre. I felt my time was better spent watching the recent TV miniseries Legend of Earthsea, despite its shortcomings. The writing there was somewhat better, and the acting was more believable.G-5/10 average, but could have been much better. "},{"Title":"Would have wanted my money back if I had paid something for it","Date":"13 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  How sad that this great achievement of CGI (the only good thing about this C-movie) was wasted on such a mess of filmmaking. One thing I realized at the first shot was that the cinematography looked like some pupils making a movie for a school project, and it didn't get any better. Though I enjoyed the twist of a dragon and a dragonslayer teaming up to fool some village people, the poor camera, editing, school theater performance acting and a lot of cliches turned this nearly-half-good plot into an unbearable thing to watch.The villain must be the most badly hair-dressed and uncharismatic evil overlord of all history; he looks like a not very intelligent child in the beginning, when he is in fact a not very intelligent child, and when he has become the king, he still looks the same. Huh, I'm scared! If he hadn't been introduced as the king earlier in the movie, he wouldn't stand out in any way from the surrounding people. Just his over-the-top stupidness gives some slight hint that he might be the antagonist, like inviting the woman who has just tried to assasinate him into his private chamber and even letting daggers lie around the place. Well, well, well, she has tried to kill me some minutes ago, then of course she wouldn't try it again, when I'm alone with her, without my bodyguards, would she? This can only be the thoughts of your run-of-the-mill, completely retarded evil overlord.And for one last thing that gave the deathblow to this sorry effort the voice of Sean Connery was okay for me, and I don't care about wrong accents and stuff, but... I mean... this is a dragon! It can't sound exactly like a human! I don't want to go into physics, but the dragon was much much bigger than a human. It has to sound different! It can't be that difficult and expensive to alter the voice of Connery in a way that it sounds deeper, fuller, like some three ton animal with a chest like a large broom closet should sound! Like I said, the visualization of the dragon was nearly flawless (especially for the time the movie was made), but this voice made it utterly unbelievable for me. Every time he spoke offscreen, I thought Oh, there's another person around, who is it? Ah, no, it's the dragon, yeah, right.All this may sound like just some minor matters, and I grant that a lot of minor flaws can still add up to a great movie. This time, they didn't. "},{"Title":"More negatives than positives","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I found this movie to be rather disjointed and contrived.  The acting was mediocre, Dina Meyer is missing an accent, and Dennis Quaid's gruff accent was distracting(and still not British!).  I also really doubt the historical accuracy of the movie.  For instance, did they really have watermelons in ancient England?  (If I'm wrong, I'll gladly stand corrected.)On the plus side, some of the fighting was pretty cool, there were some definite humorous moments, and Pete Postelthwaite (sp?) always rocks.Still, I probably won't watch this movie again. "},{"Title":"A masterful and magical work of art","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It's not often that a movie succeeds in stirring my emotions so completely as this one did.  For the most part, I was never one who took any great delight in most fairy-tale type stories, although epic ones (or those based around dragons and the like) can hold my interest.  I was touched in spite of myself by the characterization of the exceedingly handsome, tender, and nobly valiant Draco.  The idea of a gentle dragon is a welcome departure from the stereotypically vicious beast of myth.Quaid's portrayal of Bowen indicated to me that he's a much more versatile actor that I'd given him credit for, and Connery's resonant voice (a better one they could not possibly have chosen) adds immensely to the dragon's aura of strength, wisdom, and grandeur.  I had thought that I'd long grown beyond empathising with animated or computer generated characters, and yet, strangely, I found myself wishing the dragon were real, and even feeling sorry for the digitally created character as if it were.On a side note, despite the trend toward sequalizing movies, which so often results in the loss of their credibility, Dragonheart was one movie which left me longing for a continuation of its story.  The ending, though emotional and brilliant, left me feeling a certain sense of loss and disappointment that the story ended there.If there remains any significant audience out there that goes for epic tales of adventure such as this one, I cannot help but wonder if Dragonheart might be worth a second wind.  In any case, Dragonheart is surely a movie to be commended and recommended. "},{"Title":"You definitely will believe!","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Dragonheart is a modern fairy-tale about two sworn enemy's combining their powers to bring the downfall of an evil king.Dragonheart is somewhat of an ode to all the fantasy movies made in the '80. Except that nowadays the visual techniques are much better. Dragonheart is an original concept which makes it fun too watch. In the beginning you think that the story predictable, full of the well-known ingredients of every fairy-tale a brave knight, an evil king, a village in danger, a beautiful princess (or in this case peasant). But yet the ending is unpredictable and the story goes deeper in the characters than most other fairy-tales do. That makes Dragonheart a unique fantasy movie. But besides that, Dragonheart is just sheer entertainment for everybody who still likes fairy-tales. The story is looks simple on paper, but is perfect on the big screen. It really comes alive on the big screen, not only because of the amazing visual-effects, but also because of the great acting. Dennis Quaid is the best knight I have ever seen (and in my opinion it's his best role up-to-date), David Thewlis plays an excellent villain (something he already proved in the Mike Leigh' picture Naked), Dina Meyer is a good heroin, Pete Postlethwaite is funny and brings humor in the story and there is also Sean Connery who is of course perfect for the voice of Draco. Also the other characters are very well portrayed by Jason Isaacs, Brian Thompson and of course Julie Christie. Next to the breathtaking visual effects and the solid acting performances, there is also the beautiful art-direction, the excellent musical score from Randy Edelman, the dazzling photography and the superb choreography. The tag line of the movie was You will believe, well I certainly did. This is just perfect entertainment the way it should be.         "}{"Title":"A magnificent piece of art.","Date":"2 October 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  (Fair warning even if I try to keep my comments spoiler-free, some might slip trough. If you haven't watched the movie, read this at your own risk)At first, I refused to watch this movie, because I considered it to be a children movie. Every time I had a chance to see it, I let it slip. I mean, DRAGONS? With cheesy spit-fire special effects? Obviously, it was a movie that could not by a long shot entertain a grown up.Then Italian TV aired it on new year's eve (December 31, 1999). I had nothing better to do, so I sat down to watch it.I will never be able to thank them enough. After half an hour, I was in awe.Not only is this a movie about dragons, knights and kings, but it's a movie about differences, and friendship.I laughed out loud at many of the funny lines. I actually cheered in one of the last battle scenes. And I'm not ashamed to admit I cried my heart out in the ending. This movie has a unique way of conveying emotions, thanks to the masterful acting and wonderful story. Couple it with an absolutely outstanding soundtrack, and it's sure to keep it glued to the screen for all its lenght. Sure, it's not a perfect movie, but then again, is there a perfect movie?8 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Sir Clichealot and Mac Dragon","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  A cliche ridden script and a truly awful performance from David Thewlis shoots through the heart what might otherwise have been quite a decent filmDennis Quaid plays a post Arthurian knight killing dragons out of disillusion that the boy he sought to turn into a honourable king has grown up to be David Thewlis - who for some reason plays the king with a working class British accent.  Jason Isaacs plays his foppish and posh henchman and a rather embarrassed Brian Thompson his laconic thug.Whereas Arthur had Camelot, this king has Hamalot the land where no performance is too far over the top.  This effect is enhanced by Sean Connery's charming and witty  voiceover for the dragon Draco (though it is a revelation to me that dragons are Scots when they are the national symbol of Wales) and the pain of seeing the heartbreakingly beautiful and sublime Julie Christie reduced giving credibility minor role as the king's mother (she is well spoken - where the hell did his Majesty get the accent from?) wounded this critic deeplyThere is a fiesty Maid Marion type figure with flowing locks (de rigeur for such films since Robin Hood Prince of Thieves) and a comic chronicler of Quaid's feats, played vigourously by Peter Postlethwiate - (though he must have wished that he had been in Monty Python's Jabberwocky instead)Not knowing whether it wants to be a comedy or an action movie Dragon heart lurches from the funny and enjoyable scenes when Draco (Connery) is on camera to the scenery chewing antics of Thewlis (who is really a much better actor than the part he plays here)Forsooth sires methinks I have heard this tale afore but better told   4 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Nice try...but...","Date":"2 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I'm imagining an author or screen writer who has a story to tell. He writes his story to appeal to a particular audience...it could be an audience of children, or it could be an audience of adults. The film studio, however, always with an eye to have a bigger audience decides the film needs to appeal to both adults and children, so they require some changes so the film will appeal to both groups. But, in the end, it is too mature for kids, and too kiddish for adults, and really pleases almost no one. And that's a major problem with this film.On the positive side, the film is nicely filmed, and the special effects regarding the dragon are excellent. Also, the relationship that evolves between the dragon (wonderful voice of Sean Connery) and Dennis Quaid (which takes quite a long time to develop) is quite enchanting...yet also problematic -- it's a little too talkative and emotionally mature (not in a sexual manner) for most kids.On the negative side, close your eyes and listen to Dennis Quaids dialog when he's being forceful. I thought he must have taken speech lessons from Harrison Ford! Not saying Quaid doesn't do a decent job here, however. And then there's the mismatch between a little too much comedy to be taken seriously, and far too much drama to be taken as a comedy.As mentioned, Dennis Quaid as the knight does rather well. Sean Connery, though you only hear his voice as the dragon, is quite remarkable. I'm not sure this is a good role for David Thewlis as the evil king, It's clearly been a long fall for Julie Christie from Doctor Zhivago, although, as the king's queen mother, she has one delicious scene with her son toward the end of the movie. Dina Meyer as Kara, a peasant girl, is okay. And, you're right, that's John Gielgud's voice as the ghost of King Arthur.And, the ending simply ruined the film. Shameful and stupid.Some highlights, yes. But overall disappointing. "},{"Title":"How dragons became extinct","Date":"18 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is an Academy Award nominated fantasy movie from almost 20 years ago. Visually, it really is a feast with nice sets, special effects and costumes. And the music is good too. But the story is not bad either. A warrior (played by Dennis Quaid, ex-husband to Meg Ryan) and a dragon stop fighting against each other, but instead decide to join forces against an evil king that was once saved by the dragon. The king is not physically strong at all, but sadly he is immortal, which complicates things a lot. Of course, there is also a beautiful maiden (Meyer looks super-hot here) and a loyal man of religion (Postlethwaite, rip) fighting on our hero's side. It's mostly a fantasy film, but there are many genres included here, even comedy. The initial encounter of Quaid's character and the dragon (voiced by Sean Connery) certainly has some humor to it. It's certainly a challenge for a film like this to be funny, but it worked very well when it did not take itself so seriously. The main villain is played by David Thewlis, a very underrated actor in general in my opinion and one of the best currently working without an Academy Award nomination. He made this film 3 years after Naked what is widely considered his finest performance. But he shines here as well. Looks like he really has a thing for villains although the way the character was written surely helped him in letting it all out, even down to murdering his own mother.Seeing as how there was only one dragon left, I suspected his death at the end and I was proved correct. I knew that there are two sequels, so I was a bit unsure, but in the end they decided to take this direction. I would say that this is the best film of director Rob Cohen, but I am not a fan of the likes of xxx or The Mummy, so I may be a bit biased here. The film's writer also came up with The Fly many years before this, so he sure is no one-trick-pony. It's difficult to name a favorite sequence as there are many great ones. The fight sequence near the waterfall was good, but so was the ending with the dragons turning into stars. "},{"Title":"good fun fantasy adventure","Date":"16 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" It's 984 AD. Bowen (Dennis Quaid) is the instructor to young prince Einon. In a battle with peasants, the king is killed and Einon is wounded. Queen Aislinn (Julie Christie) convinces Draco the dragon that the new king Einon follows the Old Code under the tutelage of Bowen. Draco (Sean Connery) gives Einon a part of his heart to heal the young king. Einon turns out to be just as cruel as the old king and Bowen blames it on the dragon's heart. Bowen vows to hunt down dragons. Twelve years later, cruel King Einon (David Thewlis) rules with the scheming Lord Felton (Jason Isaacs) and the brutal fighter Brok (Brian Thompson) by his side. Einon executes Kara (Dina Meyer)'s father after blinding him and 12 years of forced labor. Bowen catches up to Draco who is the last dragon, and they battle to a draw. They reconcile and decide to team up to collect reward from villagers for 'slaying' Draco. They are joined by Gilbert of Glockenspur (Pete Postlethwaite).This is generally a fun rip-roaring old fashion fantasy adventure. This is a movie of cruelest of villains and noblest of heroes. Even Bowen's quest to kill dragons is born of an outrage against the king's cruelty. This is not a movie of subtlety or complexity. It is simply a good dragon fun. "},{"Title":"Most enjoyable fantasy with a strong plot","Date":"18 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Loner knight Bowen (Dennis Quaid) finds himself colluding with dragon Draco (voiced by Sean Connery) to stage faked dragon-slayings in order to extort dragon-slaying fees from villagers. But Draco has a secret, which has to do with cruel King Einon (David Thewlis).This film has a lot going for it - a strong story (or rather several strong story lines which intertwine), very good action and special effects, good performances all round (Thewlis is a terrific villain), and a strong beating heart in more ways than several. The developing relationship between Bowen and Draco is the strongest part of that heart.This is one of the earliest films to feature a wholly CGI character. Draco is very well designed, animated, integrated into the background plates, and voiced by Connery.This film is very well done and thoroughly enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Can someone say... GENIUS?!","Date":"17 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" What can I say about this movie that sins it? Literally, nothing. The acting is great, the storyline is phenomenal, the humor thrives, and the special effects do not disappoint. The storyline portrays a young Prince with a tyrannic father, who dies. The boy is injured to near death, and a dragon gives half his heart to the boy. The boy himself becomes a tyrant. A knight vows to kill all dragons until he kills the one who gave the heart. But, not all is what it seems...This is definitely a movie for those whom enjoy a good, hearty film with a moral at its center. It is even a good family film, depending on your parenting methods (which one should hope are decent and logical). If you need a movie to kick back and relax to, watch on a snowy or rainy day, or just because, this is a great movie.The storyline lacks no potential; utilizing all elements and keeping the audience's attention. The chosen actors for the characters was ingenious and well planned. Whoever wrote the screenplay did an astounding job. I promise, if you approach this movie with a joyous attitude, or even a skeptical one, you will enjoy it. ~~Go forth and review movies~~ "},{"Title":"Much better than those overrated 'The Lord of the Rings' films","Date":"6 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" 'Dragonheart' is strangely underrated. Considering the unbelievable popularity of 'The Lord of the Rings' trilogy (even today), we could ask ourselves why 'Dragonheart' didn't reach half of that fame. However, being underrated has a good side, as most underrated and less known films are far superior than the eternally popular and overrated ones.'Dragonheart' is an okay movie, worthy for dragon lovers. I am a dragon lover myself. Dragons fascinate me. They're such huge, fantastic and beautiful beasts. I wish dragons existed in real life.Draco the dragon is, without a doubt, the only really likable character in the movie. I don't care much about the others. The dragon is what makes this movie good enough. Without him, the movie would be nothing. The dragon is voiced by perhaps the most popular James Bond ever Sean Connery.Bowen, the character portrayed by Dennis Quaid, is a good guy but undeniably arrogant and much self-proud and at the same time he's a bad guy for one reason he kills all dragons because he believes that all dragons are evil. He wanted to kill Draco as well, but ends up forming a partnership and friendship with him and later realizes he's not evil.Draco was always a good dragon. He only killed those who wanted to harm him, in self-defense. What he didn't know was that giving half of his heart to Einon would be a terrible mistake. Einon falsely promised to be good and to follow the old code but in no time he showed what he really is a brutal tyrant who only pretended to be Bowen's friend so that he could learn how to use the sword.The sad thing is that, in order to kill the bad guy, the dragon has to die as well. This happens because, as they share the same heart, they feel the same pains and all. Realizing this, the dragon doesn't just beg to be killed, he demands. Bowen doesn't have courage to do it at first and you can't blame him for that. That is a horrible thing to do. I'd like to know if there wasn't any other solution. You know, like, maybe the dragon could have found a way to recover the half of his heart that he gave to the villain. That way they wouldn't share the same pain and the evil guy could have been killed without the dragon having to die with him.Much of the filming occurred in the ancient ruins of Spi&#x9A; Castle, Slovakia. The result is beautiful sceneries and landscapes, perfect for an epic film. The action is set somewhere in the late 10th century in England, after the Saxons's conquest of that country.The dragon might have been created by computer, but he looks great and very real - so different from CGI art. This level of perfection is comparable to the dinosaurs of 'Jurassic Park'. "},{"Title":"A dragon worth dying for","Date":"10 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The way I tell how much I really like a movie is that, when I see the title, I smile. Today, I did that when I saw this film's title on the channel guide. I hadn't seen it for a while, so I decided to watch it.I had forgotten the laughter, adventure and sadness of the thing. I'd forgotten that the sexiest man in the world (Sean Connery) had voiced Draco, and that Dennis Quaid (Bowen) and Dina Meyer (Kara) had fought so hard for freedom and justice. Most of all, I had forgotten how all three of them were devoted to the idea that one person can make a change in the world.I cried when Draco died, and even when his star took its place with in ancestors in the heavens.A Knight is sworn to valor. His heart knows only virtue. His blade defends the helpless. His might upholds the weak. His words speak only truth. His wrath undoes the wicked.Those are pretty good words. Maybe they should be repeated by every politician, every soldier, every person every morning until they become ingrained in their beings. Then, maybe, we'll like each other a little bit more. "},{"Title":"No greater love hath no man than to sacrifice himself for another","Date":"29 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is the story of Draco, the last of the dragons. An absolutely marvellous film, a tale of knights and fairies just the way I like them. I took a long walk on leaving the theatre, I needed to let go of my emotions. I gave thanks and cried without stopping for a good half an hour. I'd never before cried so long and so hard, out of joy and gratitude at the same time.Dragonheart had convinced me that I too was worthy of being loved! The story takes place in the middle ages. In the film, Draco physically gives half his heart to a man who had just died and in doing so brings him back to life with immortality as an added benefit! It was a nice present, a very big one, very precious, and echoing what I had done the previous day.'My heart belongs to you', I had written to my beloved one.I gave her my heart&#x85; Not only words, not only a greetings card, I gave her my heart ! The striking similarity between my action and that of Draco helped me withdraw from the guilt trip that had began knocking at my door once again. What Sylvette had judged to be inappropriate was in fact a fine act of generosity.There was a great deal of childlike developments, of magic, and of the marvellous in this film. These kinds of things give me nourishment to grow and to believe again in the possibility of better days to come.'The days of dragons have ended', says Draco to the dragon-hunting knight at the end of the film when asking to be put to death.Draco had committed the unpardonable fault of making a present of immortality to a felon of the worst kind and to reclaim this there was only one solution, he had to die too. In order to rid the world of this pest, he had to sacrifice his own life. And in doing so he accepted his own truth, his place among the worlds of God. He was accepting the death of his physical body with serenity.I leave you with some great matter to meditate upon... 'No greater love hath no man than to sacrifice himself for another.' Paul Twitchell, 'Stranger by the River' "}{"Title":"This is more then a movie about a dragon...","Date":"2 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" A knight is sworn to valor. His heart knows only virtue. His blade defends the helpless. His might upholds the weak. His word speaks only truth. His wrath undoes the wicked.That is the ancient code, spoken by King Arthur himself, according to the movie. It is this honorable saying that echoes throughout the movie.I was deeply moved by this film. The story, characters, music, effects... Everything falls into place. It isn't about just a dragon. It's about a dragon, a knight and a country being plagued by a terrible tyrant.I've watched the film countless times. And every time again, I grow more attached to the characters. They all play their role very well.You will laugh about the silly situations between Draco and Bowen. You will hate the vile, young king. You will love the wonderful music. You will cry at the ending.I haven't seen a better dragon movie. This is truly a masterpiece. I can guarantee you that you will grow fond of this movie, and you don't even have to be a dragon fan for it. "},{"Title":"Dragonheart will always be in mine.....","Date":"17 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" i know i was only around 5 years old when i first started watching this movie, but it will always have a special place in my heart. This is the movie that got me interested in dragons (after Dragon World) and the realms of fantasy. It has always been my favourite.I think that it has a lot to teach young people about deciding how they wish to lead their lives; following a code, and using it in their decisions, and also thinking about how they wish people to view them.It was and always will be a favourite of mine (if anyone knows where i can get a copy in Perth, Western Australia, please let me know!!!!), it touched me so much. I still can't look at David Thewlis without cringing and thinking that he's a horrible prince. I'm biased!!! Plus i thought it was awesome to see a 'real' dragon in a movie. I was so disappointed to find out it was still pretend '( "},{"Title":"Hollywood style medieval adventure fantasy","Date":"12 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Sickeningly mawkish story. Typical Hollywood. Clownish and idiotic dialog. An attempt to interject humor in an otherwise adventurous tale.Compare this production to the British series, Merlin. The latter had better dialog, better storyline, equally good special effects. The only drawbacks I found in Merlin were with regard to casting, but Colin Morgan made an ideal young Merlin for me. John Hurt's voice made a more believable dragon than Sean Connery's voice.These fantasies are fun to watch when they are well made. However, I am always aware that the dragon is the biblical symbol of Satan. Therefore to make a noble beast of the creature is mockery of the Bible. Merlin did not exactly make the dragon a good creature - without the control of a dragonlord it became entirely destructive. It seems ironic to make any kind of pact with a dragon; it is literally making a pact with the devil. But as I say, the fantasy is fun when well done. "},{"Title":"Can a person share his/her heart with a dragon like the dragons shared with the humans ?","Date":"12 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I have heard a lot about this movie and wanted to watch it for a long time. Now I have watched it, I guess I have to give some information regarding this movie. Though it is a fantasy movie, I liked the theme of a dragon sharing its heart with a human. Therein expanding its relationship with humans. By sharing their hearts with us, they mean that they are ready to share not only our joy but also our pain and sufferings.For that time of the year, the creators have done an excellent job in animation and visuals. The performance by every actor was excellent. Sean Connery as Draco the dragon was unbelievable and awesome. The emotions expressed by the dragon are very good. Most of the movies show dragons as evil dark creatures. But, here the dragon is shown as a noble creature. This is a movie of a dragon-human sharing each others love, happiness, friendship, pain and care for each other. Both of them were betrayed by the same person. Both of them share the same pain. Finally, the dragon who shared its heart with a human gave its life to protect the humans. The story is well written. The musical score was awesome as they bring out our emotions very well. It's great film that will touch your heart. A film filled with laughter, action, feelings. An epic battle between good and evil. Buy it or rent it. Seat back with your family and enjoy the movie eating popcorn and drinking coke.I give this movie a 8.4 for 10.A dragon gave its heart to a human save its life. Can a human do that in return ? "},{"Title":"The Heart of a Dragon, and the voice of Sean Connery!  I ask you How can you lose?","Date":"20 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Rob Cohen is best known for directing lunkheaded action films where a large portion of the viewing time is usually spent staring at the screen in disbelief. Such a reaction can quickly kill any tale that's meant to be set in the real world, but for a fantasy it's perfect, and in the telling of myth it's usually delightful instead of annoying if you can't believe what you see.Dragonheart is a family film that doesn't take its audience for granted at any stage. It's consistently funny, exciting and - in what is the most pleasant surprise of all - actually pretty moving at times. Who would have thought you could grow so attached to a cluster of pixels? - but the team of Quaid and Connery quickly make you believe. Throw in Pete Postlethwaite, who's always a perfect choice for a period film because he can play unworldly without seeming stupid, and all the right elements are in place for a rare good-time film that hits its marks.I particularly liked the role-reversal of a knight working with a dragon in order to outfox humans. It may seem somewhat elementary when it's laid out as plainly as I wrote it above, but in its transfer to the screen it pays off handsomely indeed. Both Quaid and Connery play gruff so well that it becomes a pleasure to hear their sparring exchanges gradually even out into a friendship built upon quiet respect for each other.For all its visual wizardry, this is a film that succeeds due to the efforts of a main cast who are all, without exception, excellent. It helps too that that they've been used in service of a story that has a detectable beating heart. A great big one. Here is a title that contains no lie. "},{"Title":"Something for the Kids","Date":"4 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" There's a small population out there that positively love this film, and there are two possible explanations, neither of which one should be ashamed about.Dragonheart hearkens back to a time when two things were in very short supply on movie screens dragons and serviceable fantasy adventures. At the same time, while the rebirth of Star Wars and the fireworks of Lord of the Rings or The Matrix were still a few years away, special effects were reaching a whole new level, as evidenced by Jurassic Park and Independence Day... the perfect time for a little spark of magic to fill the gap!On paper, Dragonheart has all the ingredients of a potentially lovable family-friendly fantasy adventure noble knight Bowen (Quaid) trains his protg, Prince Einon (Thewlis), who is one day wounded and saved by receiving half a dragon's heart. This forever binds him to the creature if one dies, so does the other). Yet the prince grows up to become a merciless tyrant and Bowen roams the land to kill any surviving dragon in the hope of ridding the world of his perverted pupil... when he meets the beast (voiced by Sean Connery), they become unlikely allies.The wisely downplays most of the fantasy elements, grounding everything in a slightly sanitized Medieval reality, with the exception of the CGI dragon, surely a landmark at the time and a compelling creation not only is he believable within the context, he is cinema's first successful CGI main character, half a decade before Gollum and with less performance-friendly means. Credit then not only to Sean Connery who does a noble job, but to Dennis Quaid whose sparing with his CG counterpart sells the illusion.It is this central relationship - eclipsing some of the blander surrounding elements and performances - that really propels the film and makes it work not only for children but adults as well. Add to that a heroic score that's been milked to death in trailers ever since and you get an inoffensive hour and a half of entertainment, a fitting foil to today's brew of cynical or overly self-aware films.Not a bad way to kill time. "},{"Title":"a nice movie","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  dragonheart is a nice movie about a knight who becomes a dragon slayer after a dragon gives a pice of his heart to his protege and reveals the true feelings of him, but the knight thinks the dragon ruins everything and swears to kill every dragon alive. but one dragon will change everything.this movie was a milestone for cgi art.  "},{"Title":"An excellent film.","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Dragonheart...this may still be my favorite film, even years after its release...only The Sixth Sense fights with it for that position at this point, though the new Lord of the Rings series may join the battle if the other two hold true to the promise of the first film. Dragonheart is the moving tale of a knight that has lost his way and his hope, and the dragon who brings it back to him.  Friendship, faith, honor, and trust are the themes, and the film explores them excellently, telling a story that brings the viewer into its world.  Dragonheart is, quite simply, a wonderful film. "},{"Title":"Nice movie","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Here's my Dragonheart story.  I had bought the Jurassic Park III dvd, and in it they had a free dvd offer and a list of 20 dvds to choose from.  I picked Dragonheart even though I hadn't seen it, mainly because it had a dragon and I like special effects.Anyways, so I received the dvd about 2 months later and I was very pleased.  The movie is a combination of great special effects, funny moments, great dialogue and great action.  I also found myself enjoying it even more when I watch it again.  The visuals are outstanding.  I think that the fact that they made it not as serious as let's say The Lord Of The Ring helped it.  The movie doesn't take itself too seriously and I liked that.Draco (the dragon) has a great personality, he's just cool.  Overall I would say that there is more dialogue then action, so for those who are looking for simply action maybe this movie isn't for you.  But personally I was never bored.  Dragonheart is not a masterpiece but it is very well done and deserves to be watched.  8/10.  "},{"Title":"I did believe","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Not only to be recommended for the plot, characters, humor, acting and music - but it's nice to see a movie that refrains from overdoing the special effects. The FX never calls attention to itself - but remains, instead, as casual as Quaid and Connery.An all-round nice film, although perhaps too disturbing for the under-10 crowd, considering there are separate scenes where a father and a mother are murdered. But it was OK for my 12-year-old (who loved it). Can't wait til my 9-year-old sees it, too. "}{"Title":"A truly great film","Date":"18 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie had something that very few movies have, substance and believability. There seems to be a certain message in the tale, a sort of 'Look before you leap' perspective. In each case we see heroes, Bowen and Draco, trying to follow the honor codes of their kind. Both fall from grace as a result of a single sacrifice and eventually rise up to become true heroes and manage to lead the people in a rebellion and return the kingdom to the ways of nobility and chivalry. "},{"Title":"Dragon Scam","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It is a measure of Sean Connery's charisma that he can steal a film without actually appearing in it.  That's what happens in Dragonheart, an entertaining effort from director Rob Cohen.Connery provides the voice for Draco, the last dragon.  And the CGI dragon created for this film is magnificent.  ILM obviously modeled the dragon on Connery-his facial expressions and lip movements will be familiar to fans of the original and best James Bond.Dragonheart stars Dennis Quaid as Bowen, last of the dragon slayers, who has been mentoring Prince Einon.  Bowen seems to be the person in the theater who doesn't realize that when Einon becomes king he will turn out to be a bad egg. Soon, last dragon and last dragon slayer meet and battle to a humorous stand off.  They then team up to run a medieval scam  Draco appears in a town, Bowen shows up to collect a large bounty to kill the dragon, and they take their act to the next town.But eventually Bowen and Draco team up to battle the king, with predictable results.  Unfortunately, the fate of the dragon is telegraphed midway through the film.  Quaid is fine, as is Thewlis as Einon-although at times the latter looks so much like Martin Short we expect him to break into I must say. And Connery, as always, is pure joy. "},{"Title":"There is a Dragon!!!","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Even though I am a girl in 20ties, I have seen this movie almost 4-5times so far. Connery's voice for Dragon is perfect. Whenever he (Draco) appears on screen, I smile and laugh. Worth seeing!!!  (8/10)   "},{"Title":"Not Flawless - but Really worth seeing!","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Where did they get the actors that played prince and King Inan?  What an evil looking character.  They made me shudder.  The bad guy is really bad the good guys are really good, lots of sword play (without a drop of blood to be seen anywhere - guess that's what family films are all about) And a loved Sean Connery as the dragon.  He is so beautiful inside and out.  I really enjoyed this film - I bought it to watch again and again. "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It's nice to see a film that,  where special effects plays a huge part, has some warmth to it.Sean Connery is the perfect choice to play Draco.  He has authority in his voice, and a commanding voice.  Dennis Quaid is an odd choice to play the soldier, but he does a good job.What makes this a cut above of other special effects laden films is that this one seems more human.  The characters are people and not caricatures, and killing is not something in this film to be proud of, unlike other summer films. "},{"Title":"Ja Ja wasn't first !!!!!!!","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  George Lucas was recently quoted as saying how proud he was of the character of Ja Ja Binks in the Phantom Menace as the FIRST fully realised digital character........ Well sorry George but you were not the first to direct one. Try Buzz and Woody in Toy Story or Draco in this masterful movie.You can put what I know about knights and dragons on the back of a postage stamp and still have enough room for the glue to stick to the envelope but that didn't stop me from thoroughly enjoying this fanatsy tale (or is that tail in Draco's case?).Sean Connery is perfect as Draco, he isn't just the voice of Draco but the whole character as the CGI artists went to great lengths to ensure that Draco's face mimicked Connery's facial expressions perfectly, which they did it was magnificent to watch and my eyes were glued to the scene whenever Draco had something to say. Dennis Quaid was great also finally rewarded with the best role offered to him since Enemy Mine.My only complaint was with the casting was David thewlis as King EINON. A villain must, to be truly loathsome, have nothing with which the audience can sympathise. A whining mummy's boy with a crown is not a fitting villain against such strong heroes as the galant night and dragon.They way they went from town to town conning people with the dragon slaying spectacle was a riot especially the village with a river too shallow to make a swim to freedom within.The sacrifice of Draco was very noble and had similarities to Spock's The needs of the many outweigh the needs of the few sacrifice in Star Trek Wrath of Khan.I don't know if their are better dragon movies about but I don't care. This movie doesn't deserve comparisons. As a stand alone flick, it's brilliant saying everything it wants to without needless filler scenes.9/10 (a stronger villain would have secured 10/10) "},{"Title":"To the Point!","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a well made and very entertaining movie.  Dennis Quaid does a very good job job at playing a noble knight and Sean Connery matches him with his voice as the last dragon alive, Draco.  This is one of the few CGG movies that actually look like the graphic (in this case the dragon) is actually a living breathing part of the set.  An outstanding job by ILM, and very good movie to boot.  A solid 7 out of 10 rating. "},{"Title":"A welcome change","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I just saw Rob Cohen's DRAGONHEART and I must say that I was very impressed. Not only were the dragon effects, created by Jurassic Park alumni at Industrial Light and Magic, excellent, but the plot was great.  These are both more than I can say for this summer's animal effects movie GODZILLA. It took me a while to get used to Quaid as the dragon slayer but I warmed up to it. Connery is an excellent choice for Draco.  This movie was excellent.  More movies of this type need to be made.  They are much more enjoyable than most summer blockbusters.  This movie is one I strongly suggest. "},{"Title":"Has everyone gone completely mental?","Date":"12 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Why does everyone(critics&audiences) think this wonderful Rob Cohen(Dragon The Bruce Lee Story) is a 'strange' fantasy?It's not!If you're a fan of fantasy novels, you'll find nothing odd at all about this movie. It's your standard knights, dragons, and evil kings movie, and thus I love it. David Thewlis is a perfectly evil king, Dennis Quaid is reasonable in William Wallace meets Sir Galahad-type role, and we get the distinct voices of Sean Connery as Draco the Dragon and Sir John Gielgud as King Arthur(uncredited ). Even better is Pete Postlethwaite(The Usual Suspects, In the Name of the Father) as a monk who travels with Bowen(Quaid) and spouts such memorable phrases as Turn the other cheek, brother!. Rated M here in Oz, god knows why, Jurassic Park would be more of a nightmare for kids(or anyone for that matter). The FX are from the same guys behind Jurassic Disappointment...er...Park, but are put to better use here. I'd rather read the book of this, but it's still a very enjoyable movie-going experience. "},{"Title":"Hybrid Beasts","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  You could almost call this the 'Fifth Element' of the fantasy genre an attempt at humor through situations, but--This isn't as visual as 'Element', the blank pedestrian appearance of the middle ages never catches on the way the future did in Besson's work.  I've never admired Rob Cohen and it looks like he's been on a downward slide since this.--The dragon itself isn't as mean in these post-Gollum/Jar-Jar days.  While Connery has the voice power to go with it, the character itself lacks much detail.  Since Quaid interacts with a nonexistent object, it's obvious that his reactive acting isn't right.  Liam Neeson had the same problem.While 'Dragonslayer' tried to be a period fairy tale, this attempt is concerned with the modern viewer, the modern humor, and modern effects.  Mixing those ideas with the images with have from 'Braveheart' sans grit.Pete Postlewaite has the most original part.Final Analysis = = Cinematic Dud "}{"Title":"This Movie Sucks","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Dragonheart is a terrible movie. There is nothing uplifting about it. The two central plot points of the movie, why the King is so evil and why Dennis Quaid hates dragons so much are barely addressed. In fact, the viewer is never really told why the king becomes so evil. Actually, it is not really clear until an hour in (A long, painful hour) that the dragon gave half of his hear to the evil king. When both he and the dragon died, I was happy because it meant the movie was over. Also, the producers trowled the dregs of Xena-Warrior Princess ranks for every character other than Quaid, Connery, Thewless and the guy who played the lawyer in The Usual Suspects.The only reason I watched the thing is because Dennis Quaid has a knack for doing better than average movies. He let me down. If you want to see a movie about very black and white morality issues, rent Sling Blade. If you want to get angry at yourself for losing an hour and a half of your precious life, rent Dragonheart. "},{"Title":"Dragonheart","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" An interesting idea for a film, both showing the last dragon on earth and showing the struggle he and someone evil have together. When he was younger, Einon got stabbed in the heart, so Bowen (Dennis Quaid) took him to the dark lord who gave him half his heart. Now grown up Einon (David Thewlis) is now the selfish and evil king. Meanwhile, Bowen is using a new friend Draco the Dragon (voiced by Sir Sean Connery) to get rewards for killing dragons. But because Einon has half of Draco's hear, they both feel the pain in one of them is hurt, or killed. Also starring Pete Postlethwaite as Gilbert of Glockenspur, Jason Isaacs as Lord Felton, Julie Christie as Queen Aislinn and John Gielgud as King Arthur. It was nominated for the Oscar for Best Visual Effects. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"8/10","Date":"11 December 2004","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is excellent movie. Taking Picture of this movie is much good. Acting is nice and Story of this movie is OK. This is completely movie for all kind of person like child, adult and old. I like this movie. Soundtrack is also much impressive. Clean from mistakes. Camera direction is also good but some part of this movie is little improve need. Anyway this movie make all much fun rather than waste time. Fulllllllll Family Picture. when I watched this movie, I never felt that dragon was animation. I felt real dragon in movie. This is nice movie in front of me and that's why I give 8 out of 10.Take Care Keep Safe Keep Smile Adam "},{"Title":"Dragon With No Heart.","Date":"23 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Dragonheart (1996) Dir Rob Cohen / Cast Dennis Quaid, David Thewlis, Dina Meyers, Pete Postlethwaite / Voices Sean Connery Energetic fantasy about importance of sacrifice, friendship and love. Dennis Quaid plays a knight who is assigned to protect the young King but when injured in battle the King is taken to a wise dragon who donates a heart in return that the King rule wisely. The King becomes greedy and Quaid blames the heart and vows to slay every dragon he can, with the obvious one remaining. What are the odds of that? Eventually they form a plan where Quaid hunts Draco repeatedly for money before they attempt to dethrone the King. Story is repetitious with a ridiculous climax but the visual effects bring out that young at heart feeling. The dragon is a triumphant visual wonder voiced by Sean Connery who brings personality and purpose to the dragon's sense of worth. Director Rob Cohen has fun with the fantasy elements. Quaid survives as a knight who wishes to repair a wrong, but much of the acting is bad. David Thewlis as the tyrant King is straight forward and too juvenile. Dina Meyers is the obvious potential love interest and otherwise useless. The visual effects are the payoff and unfortunately it isn't enough. An attempt to recapture fantasy will appeal to that audience while others will find that it breathes more fumes than fire. Score 4  / 10 "},{"Title":"Dragoned from day one","Date":"5 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is one of the biggest wasted opportunities in film history. The premise of The Last Dragon is very much a sound & compelling idea that could have had audiences invested. It should have taken itself seriously, had dark undertones, been gritty, & had a sharp script for characters who are believable. But instead, we get the opposite; a cheap knock off for the sake of appealing to children & docile families.This film should never have been made. It is an insult to history to have an American playing a British role with dialog that doesn't even feel medieval. The sets, props & costumes are inaccurate, the dialog is austere, the cast dull & forgettable, the performances are hammed up & their pet CGI Dragon sticks out like a soar thumb. Even the music score is uninspired.Some of the fight scenes are some of the worst ever put to tape! Slow stage-acted jousts & premeditated sluggish swipes abound!! Awful! The sound in this movie is atrocious! So much is so obviously over-dubbed & hardly anything is mixed in to it's ambient surroundings. Everything about this film is amateurish & you feel like you're watching a college project at times it's so bad! The real lowest point of this film though has to be the effects for the Dragon itself. Everything is so sterile, digital, badly lit, non-tactile, he keeps changing scale, & the vital flaw... It talks.Avoid this kids flick. It really is worthless disposable nonsense. You'd need to be stoned to tolerate it! Movie making at it's worst! "},{"Title":"It's a Fantasy folks.","Date":"28 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The music is beautiful and fits the film beautifully. The actors are excellent. Dennis Quaid is right for the part. Pete Postlewaite has gone on to many better parts. But for the time it was made and the fact that they tried to do the story sincerely with just enough action to keep us happy. I appreciate the movie especially with Sean Connery as the dragon. It is a show with gore but not enough to make it unpleasant to watch.I loved the message of redemption for the dragon and for Dennis Quaid as the hero. We have to remember that it is a fantasy folks. It is not supposed to be believable.I saw it first in 1997 and again today Sept.29,2008 on TV. It transferred very well to the small screen. Very good watchable movie. "},{"Title":"A must-see","Date":"25 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I've seen countless movies from extraordinary to unwatchable. But there are a couple of them I will never forget and is willing to watch any time - like Star Wars, Life of Bryan, Sen to Chihiro no kamikakushi, The Fifth Element, or Monsters, Inc. Dragon Heart is certainly one of them. I cannot really grasp why its is so good. The story is flawless, contains mild humor, and without clichs. The characters are well-played, realistic as it can be in a fantasy movie, especially the dragon's actor was well-suited for the animation. The pictures were bright and shining, the atmosphere were just like if you were really in the heroic times of the Round Table. This is a great movie for both the kids and for adults contains much excitement and fun for most ages. (Well, its a bit too violent for small children, but above 6 years its great.) If you haven't seen it, try to obtain a copy at all costs! Even if its not your taste, you'll have a good evening's entertainment. You have nothing to loose with this one. "},{"Title":"Excellent film","Date":"2 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I don't understand because has been given to Edward... of Johnny Deep and Tim Burton 7.9 and to this excellent film a wretched 6.2. I's shameful. Maybe don't show the classic Gothic man sad and misunderstood. The poetry don't come around no more!!!The romantic story of this dragon that give a piece of his heart to help a bad prince injured during a fighting symbolize the fight between good and evil and this include the sacrifice for the liberty and justice. I give a full 10!!! Unforgettable the end of this film -(Try to be more deeply and less stereotyped and i don't agree this scarce capacity to judge a good film with a good vote.10 for the plot. 10 for romantic spirit. 10 for the effects and dannis quaid.beautiful film. As to the usual one, the usual negative comments which talk about a classical film some years 80 which everyone does not like it to the nostalgic ones are met.Sure Heros that this film had to have a judgment in this site. In fact reviewers' good part has put a high vote to the previous episodes. Because this contrast? I know the reason. Since assumptive reviewers' good part favorably sees the past and as the past is better than the present they have given several credit to the preceding episodes being still the last episode more explosive and spectacular. At this point should reject also the old episodes but there are here two weights and two measure.In fact also cinema masterpieces have been criticized and denigrated. Good part some reviewers of this site belong to the very bad reviewers. Better think separately with its head. I "},{"Title":"lee oaks played young Einon","Date":"13 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" i was at the grange college when lee oaks(2 pints of larger an a packet of crisps -munch-) came back from filming he played Young Einon , lee brought some props back from the movie including the sword he an Denis used in the film he was thrashing around with it an when he was tired he said here have a look it was quite heavy an i swung it round for a while an gave it him back lee was very big headed about his role in the film a lot of people thought he was over the top about it which he was but I'm sure anyone would be , but what really made us laugh was his antics he would play with his phone an set off the ring tone an then pretend to answer an take a call from Sean Connery one time he did it an i was close enough to be able to here there was no one on the other end i told my mates Gaza an Loni an we all laughed at himlee was in another film with Silvester Stallone i cant remember the titlean then he won 2 million on the national lottery(how stuffy/lucky can u get) his mum an dad were all ready millionaires an he was loaded from the films so it was really sickening for an average Joe like us we were both disgusted an jealous as hell i thought at the time the lottery must be a fix it just didn't seem fair a man born into such wealth with a fantastic earned wealth to boot should win millions on top of that fortune i still cant understand it nowi never heard of him doing another film i did see him on the big an little screen in a advert for kit Kat it featured an actor playing a top football manger an lee played a Spanish tea boy pushing a tea trolley with tea an kit Kat on it he listened to his boss ranting but as his boss asked him what he thought lee answered Si senor an it was clear to the manger he didn't understand because he didn't speak English an that was the end shot of the advert apart from that I've seen him doing minor bit parts an he plays munch in the canned laughter TV show 2 pints of larger an a packet of crisps so if you want to update his photo on here it may be a start to seek a photo from that show "},{"Title":"Feel it? Yeah, that's movie magic at work.","Date":"18 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Rob Cohen's spirited Dragonheart is a phenomenal fantasy film, a spectacular story starring Dennis Quaid and Sean Connery in the roles of both their lifetimes.Centering on a dragon (voice of Connery) who makes a tremendous sacrifice to save a would-be tyrant (David Thewlis), and on Bowen (Quaid), a bitter knight who hatches a merry plot with Draco the dragon, DH morphs from a standard, dime-a-dozen fantasy into a truly great accomplishment thanks to the effort in which the film is virtually soaked.Occasional quality gaps occur, due mainly to people over-exerting themselves with performances, but the film recovers with dazzling effects, even better music, and, of course, mostly great performances.See just what it is that makes DH such a worthy film for anyone who dares to look into the stars. "}{"Title":"Touching and Very Memorable","Date":"4 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I love this film, always have, it might be because i've always felt the whole concept of dragons as one of the greatest achievements of the human imagination. With the only flaw being mankind's fear and hatred of these creatures... which i suppose says a lot about humanity's consistent hostility towards the unknown, even if the idea was thought up by, guess who... themselves. Anyway i'm trailing off. Dragonheart attempts to break this mould to show nature and it's creatures for what they really are. Noble, loving and accommodating. This movie truly touched me profoundly when i saw it for the first time at the age of 6 (i'm currently 13) and does the same every time i see it. The (*spoiler*) death (*end spoiler*) scene at the end still has me crushed every time i see it. So in short, this 'journey' (plz excuse the clich) is for anyone with taste for a good movie and/or anyone with an affinity for dragons.Your's truly, Me "},{"Title":"One of the better dragon movies but...","Date":"21 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I thought the camera, pacing and atmosphere were top-notch throughout. The acting was 85% or so effective even by the miscast character.The character in question was the king played by David Thewliss. Now I don't think he's a bad actor by any means but many of the scenes he was in especially the fight scenes took me out of the story because I didn't believe he could hold his own. (In fights or otherwise).Besides that bothering me not much else did. It's a good fantasy movie with great touches of humor and emotion.I do recommend this movie quite highly regardless of my rating or my issue with that one character. (Some people won't have that problem I'm sure).So if you don't take issue with what I did then my rating would have been an 8. "},{"Title":"nice!","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I watched it yesterday, 11 years after its release, only because I'm blocked by broken leg on a chair in front of TV. My expectation was for a poor movie in comparison with up to date special effect. Instead is really nice, the FX of the drako (drago in Italian) is stunning, it looks and moves really good. And in Italy we miss Sean Connery voice! Of course is a little bit a kid's movie, but anyway is very enjoyable. At the end I was near to cry for the not unexpected end. Really nice, much better then many movies with special effect of the new millennium. If your TV put it on the air, don't miss even if it looks like an old movie. "},{"Title":"Draco still shines brightly","Date":"8 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" It was good to revisit this much loved movie and view it with my grandson who is 6 years old. How fun to see a young David Thewlis (Harry Potter's Professor Lupin) and hey Lucius Malfoy was in there too. I was just as much in love with the dragon this time out as I was when I first saw the film all those years ago. It has a great moral to the story. Dennis Quaid is on and off again with that accent but Sean Connery is as always smooth as silk to the ear. What a great quote at the end of the movie. Draco does still shine brightly for those of us who know where to look. Who cares if the dragon was a little cheesy, not those of us that look beyond those kind of things. It is a great family movie. To me it is still one of the all time great DRAGON movies, what can I say? "},{"Title":"Pete's Dragon meets the modern times for medieval fantasy.","Date":"30 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Mystical, magical and magnificent, that is the world that Draco inhabits, the land of medieval Britain with its Knights of Old, dragon slayers and evil King. Dragonheart should be taken with a pinch of salt, with a touch of humour and charm; this is a great Saturday matine movie. With the sophistication of Sean Connery as Draco and the ruggedness of Denis Quaid playing the angry Knight, their role-playing has given us a witty and elegant movie, a nice mix indeed.The special effects are completely wasted, on the small screen that is, this is most definitely for the silver screen, and to waste the opportunity to witness Draco in full flight over the crest of the hill is tantamount to ignorance, a movie such as this was made only for the big screen. The fine colours and detailing of Draco's scales are utter craftsmanship, the use of CGI are apparent, but not in the obvious sense, but when used against the back drops of the open countryside, castles, woods, rivers and lakes the ending results are stupendous.The two leading protagonists, apart from Connery and Quaid, are the very charismatic English actors David Thewlis, as King Einon and Pete Postlethwaite playing Brother Gilbert of Glockenspur, and with an appearance form Jason Isaacs too. Both being exceptionally gifted, we have seen David Thewlis in the likes of the Harry Potter movies, Kingdom of Heaven (2005) and The Omen (2006), and respectively Alien (1992), The Usual Suspects (1995) and The Lost World Jurassic Park (1997) and The Constant Gardener (2005). These two actors bring Dragonheart out into the open, with their style, wit and ever-increasing personalities, not a line is wasted.With a musical score too from Randy Edelman, his work on Dragonheart is climatic toward the end; this is a moving and touching score. Where empathy and the transcendence for our scaly hero is forever engraved into our hearts. "},{"Title":"Sean Connery steals the show without making an appearance","Date":"31 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Dennis Quaid has devoted his life to slaying dragons since one of them gave half of his heart to young Einen, the air to the throne. Since that day Einen has become king, and he is evil, just like his father. Quaid strongly believes it was the dragon's heart that turned him this way, but when he meets the last living dragon (Voice of Sean Connery) he has no choice but to form an alliance with him; he can't be a Dragon slayer if there's none of them left.Dragonheart has a touching story and is a very pleasant family fantasy/adventure film. On the whole i feel the cast was pretty weak, but Sean Connery, with the help of the special effects team was fantastic as the dragon, he brings it to life and gives it a very believable persona that simple steals the show.Good Family fun that could have been better 6/10 "},{"Title":"pretty good movie","Date":"27 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Dragonheart is an average mid evil time movie. With the usual knights, castles and dragons.But in this movie it's all about a Knight and the last of the dragons.After making a sacred promise by letting the prince live with half of the Dragon's Heart from a dragon, it some how changed the prince from good to bad.Over the years he has changed the kingdom around as the new ruler. His mentor was dishonored to see his apprentice not being his self. He must find a way to put an end to all this.The mentor aka a Dragon Slayer encounters a wise Dragon who is the last one of the dragons. He tries to slay the Dragon but finds it impossible because the Dragon is too smart and powerful. Eventually they become friends and set up a plan to defeat the prince.This movie was made during the mid 90s and has a use of early CGI for the dragon. Very well detailed for a dragon.The movie features Dennis Quaid as the Mentor, David Phewlis as the monk, Jason Issacs as the commander of the prince's men, and Sean Connery as the last of the dragons.It's not a 100% perfect movie but not to bad to watch every now and then. "},{"Title":"A timeless classic","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is well worth watching.It is creative and you can watch it over and over again because of its outstanding story.Dragon Heart is one movie you don't want to miss.It has beautiful music and an entertaining feel.This a great movie for when your alone or when your with your family.The actors match the parts just fine and the plot is just so awesome.This is also a great movie for people who like dragons and that are into mythology.This movie includes action,fantasy,drama,and entertainment.If you are a parent looking at this,take note that not everything shown in this movie is suitable for kids under age 10.I rate this movie an 8/10.If you wish to learn more about this movie,look up in your local internet the keywordDragon Heart for more info. "},{"Title":"great fantasy movie","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" many critics would probably say that the plot is poor the characters simple and the ending foreseeable this is maybe true .But its not what dragon heart is about.It never pretends to be more than it actually is,a fairytale.After you accept that you can fully enjoy the movies true strenghs.great settings(the movie was shot in the lower tatra mountains in Slovakia creating a special kind of fantasy atmosphere ,a cgi created world could never match.)Great special effects(I've rarely seen a better animated or more touching computer generated creature than Draco,he really seems to have a soul,while most other cgi creatures even nowadays seem lifeless and empty)Good acting , in a lot of fantasy or similar kind of movies the characters seem laughable or unwillingly ridiculous not capable of making you taking them serious(AD&D,legend etc.)the opposite is true in dragon heart.And last but not least the general feeling that the movie was made with great love and care and not only to make money quickly. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly near perfection.","Date":"25 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie was a pleasant surprise. I remember when first seeing this movie I expected it to be a Disney like kid movie. (I believe it was also advertised like one?) I was really surprised that it was actually fairly action filled. Still Dragonheart is way more than just an adventurous action movie with dragons and knights, it's a movie that has a soul and is heartwarming. I think I'm in love with this movie...For 1996 standards the special effects look really superb, the dragon Draco is very convincing and Sean Connery's voice helps bringing him to live. Sir John Gielgud also provides his voice, for King Arthur in a uncredited role, in a small but effective and powerful scene. Above all the movie is mainly fun and very entertaining. The story is adventurous and it has all the elements you could expect from a movie set in the medieval days, meaning lot's of sword fights and evil stereotyped villains. Jason Isaac's plays a fairly small but oh so fun villain role.I guess what makes the movie really good is the musical score by Randy Edelman that really lift's the movie up to an incredible high level, I'm quite sure that without the music the movie wouldn't had been so powerful, emotional and spectacular.The movie really is perfect warm entertainment for the entire family, although I wouldn't recommend it to very young children. The story might sound like a kid movie but in fact it's not. There are some pretty violent moments but still above all the movie is entertaining as well as heartwarming and the ending might even bring some tears to your eyes.It really is a movie that I enjoy seeing over and over again.9/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "}{"Title":"Hard to say...","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It is hard to say what I think of this movie. I think you must not take 'Dragonheart' too seriously although the movie itself does. There are a lot of good things though. Dennis Quaid as the hero, Pete Postlethwaite, Julie Christie and the voice of Sean Connery add something to the movie. The score is great and the visual effects are sublime. I didn't take it too seriously and had fun. "},{"Title":"What a true fantasy movie!","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Ah, when I think about the movies of '96, I think of ID4, Mission Impossible, Tin Cup, and of course The Rock.  But not too many people will remember about the better movie not listed above...DRAGONHEART! Dennis Quaid is remarkable in this fantasy movie about a dragon slayer roaming the land taking out all dragons he faces.  He soon comes upon Draco, an awesome work of digital effects, voiced by none other than Scotland's own Sean Connery. Unlike the fake sounding accents in Braveheart (sorry Michael), Dennis Quaid's Scottish accent is perfect, and Mr. Connery's accent is pretty good too. ) So, grab some popcorn, get that 6 pack of Pepsi out, and sit back to enjoy a trip into the fantasy land of dragons, and dragon slayers. "},{"Title":"Opening scene used the Blood Countess castle","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This may have been mentioned, but the opening scene of this film was shot at Cachtice, Slovakia (formerly Csejthe in pre-WWI Hungary). This is the main castle of Elizabeth (Erzsebet) Bathory, the Blood Countess, and where she was imprisoned until her death in 1614.I was very surprised to see Csejthe Castle in the movie ... it's quite a hike up to the castle from the village below. "},{"Title":"A difficult question","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie's ending had such an effect on me that I turned to all my friends after watching it and asked them the same question I asked myself as the movie ended Would you kill your best friend, when the two of you are the only ones each has and trusts and loves, if that is the only way to save the world? It is a question we could not answer, and hope never to. "},{"Title":"Quaid and Connery bond!","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Set way back in the day when kings were sometimes evil and knights were usually chivalrous, this unique movie details what happens when a dying boy-king is given half of a giant dragon's heart - then subsequently turns despicably evil. The valiant knight who's helped train the boy then vows to slay every last one of the beasts. Dennis Quaid's the knight, straying from the ancient knight code and slaying dragons for money. Eventually, he runs into the last existing dragon (voiced by Sean Connery) and nearly gets his butt handed to him by the fiery fire-breather. The dragon reasons that if Quaid kills him, his livelihood will be gone, so the two join forces to extort money from local villages. (So much for valor and dignity, huh?) But of course, they're not going to do this forever - someone has to be heroic, right? Someone has to overthrow the original evil king, who by now is a healthy, cruel young man. Throw in a lovely, spunky damsel, a clever cleric (Pete Postlethwaite)and some energetic sword-fighting, and you have yourself the real crux of the plot. This movie features two very commanding performances by Quaid and Connery (who is so powerful an actor he doesn't even need to appear in the flesh to control a scene!) and some of the best state-of-the-art digital imaging seen in movies to date. The dragon is so seamlessly integrated into the movie that you'd swear he was real. We've come a long way since the special effects of Ray Harryhausen wowed us in the 1950s, haven't we? Stellar acting, an electric pacing, and magnificent cinematography are all present in spades here. "},{"Title":"You must see it. It's beautiful.","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  There are 1001 reasons to watch this movie. Some of them the film has a very beautiful story, it's a real adventure movie. There are three excellent actors in the film (Dennis Quaid, Sean Connery, Pete Postlethwaite). The ILM visual effects were the best in 1996 (ID4 won the Oscar... WHY???). The superb DTS sound effects are breathtaking. So, don't miss this film!!! "},{"Title":"I only chewed in self-defense, but I never swallowed!","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Excellent film that deserved more recognition than it received.  The idea of a knight and a dragon teaming up was wonderful, and Dennis Quaid and Sean Connery pull it off terrifically.Just about the year 1000 AD, a young king is mortally wounded, and brought to a dragon to save his life.  But after the boy becomes evil, his mentor, Bowen, becomes convinced that the dragon did something to him.  He now vows to rid the world of dragons.The computer effects on the dragon (whom Bowen nicknames 'Draco' since the dragon claims humans can't pronounce his name in their tongue) are outstanding, especially as he is shown with human-like expressions and mannerisms.  Every part of him is well created, from his massive wings to the spikey crown on his head.This film is a veritable masterpiece among cinema, and is good for anybody that ever wanted to see a dragon as a good guy rather than a mindless beast. Watching this movie is truly a rewarding experience. "},{"Title":"Great, great, great","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  A quest, honor, humor, passion. Whatever you're searching for, you'll find it in Dragon Heart. Dennis Quaid is really Bowen and the dragon is alive !! Well, you can also buy the OST which is a sound of another time. Enjoy it o)) "},{"Title":"It just doesn't get any worse than this!","Date":"8 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" ... Now how do you start a review of this kind of movie. Was it a movie? When all of a DOZEN towns people at the gate are waving farewell and sending the would be heros into battle against the (wonderfully computer rendered)dragons doesn't that just somehow seem sad. We six Heros will die so that the dragons won't eat the rest of you! Thats right all 11 of...oh I'm sorry didn't see you there, ALL TWELVE of you. I especially like how in this town of twelve+heros there happens to be a traveling deadly martial arts guy, a beautiful girl with medium-sized knockers,(B-cups?) and the robin hood guy, except he's actually from outside the town. So I'm going to stop now before I cry... Yes it was that bad. But as always watch it for the Heck of it and try not to be upset about time lost in a vigilant attempt to make sense out of the dragon fire movie thing... "},{"Title":"I laughed, I cried... Mainly because I was laughing so hard","Date":"18 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  OK, so when I was younger I went to Dragonheart, what kid wouldn't want to see a dragon action movie. But that is all this film is, a kid's movie. It has everything kids need Monsters, swordplay, a pretty girl etc&#133;And as for all the comments saying it is brilliant and original, from what I'm assuming are adults; you have a lot to learn about film. The story was the traditional American buddy movie, which to me seems that to everyone else except Americans it is a tired and old concept. The problem with it being an American style movie is the American Director and Actors playing around in 'England' (in this case Slovakia). Also the 'American warrior comes to save the day' is always a sign of where the money comes from for example another dragon movie &#150; Reign of Fire.PLEASE Hollywood, if you are going to make a movie about England at least use English accents, even better, use English actors for the leads.Speaking of English actors, I find it hard to read some of these ignorant reviews on the performances of some of England's finest actors. Sean Connery, Jason Isaacs, David Thewlis, Pete Postlethwaite, these men are astounding actors. But as a professional actor myself, I know that your performance can only be as good as the director you are working with, in this case not a very good one&#133; sure Rob Cohen can direct a good action sequence (xXx, and Fast and the Furious) and has done work with special effects, but once again if your director isn't an actors director than you can't expect to feel any sympathy for any of the characters. I found it a struggle to watch these brilliant actors waste what could have been a half decent performance. Cohen managed to turn what could have been a quite epic story, into a shambolic buddy movie.So, Yeah, sure get the movie out for your children. But as for me I can sum this up in a sentenceBuddy comedy with dragon and an American who can't do 'English' in ancient England&#133; you do the math.3 out of 10  "}{"Title":"fun movie","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  You can go wrong with sean connery as a dragon.  I thought this movie contained enough drama, excitement, and comedy to be enjoyed by most.  The story itself is pretty decent, a dividing of the pro and antagonist, a uniting of false enemies, and redemption via sacrifice. loved it. "},{"Title":"very good....","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I liked this movie a lot. It had a good cast, great action and fighting sequences, and some good humor. very entertaining.  "},{"Title":"When you watch Dragonheart, keep in mind that it is a FANTASY movie. Evidently in fantasy movies dragons can remove 50% of their cardiac system and donate it to a human, granting him immortal life, at least","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Dragonheart didn't have much promise from the start, which is probably why it is not very well known. Or maybe it's just because it wasn't very good. Okay, it was a fairly entertaining movie, it had amazing special effects, but the entire premise was just asking too much, even for a fantasy movie. I am willing to accept the idea of dragons and dragon slayers, I'm even willing to suspend disbelief to the point where a dragon slayer might form some sort of twisted symbiotic relationship with the last of the dragons as a means of mutual gain, but a dragon giving his heart to a human? Come on, you have to draw the line somewhere. Besides that, Sean Connery was horribly miscast as the voice of the menacing but strangely lovable Draco, the amazing CGI dragon with the interspecies adaptable heart. Sure he's from Scotland so he didn't have to fake the accent (which Dennis Quaid didn't even try to do), but the problem with Sean Connery is that no other actor in the world sounds even a tiny bit like him. When I was watching the film, I didn't see the dragon talking, I saw Sean Connery standing in a windowless room somewhere talking into a microphone. That was the main thing that bothered me about the Dragon; other than that I thought that Connery did a good job as the voice of Draco.The biggest problem with Dragonheart, in my opinion, is that the story is flawed. Like I said, even for a fantasy movie, it is just too much to ask for the audience to believe that a dragon could (or WOULD) donate its heart to a human to save a life. Are dragon's really that compassionate? I doubt it. Maybe I'm just not enough into dragon magic and Dungeons & Dragons and things like that, but I was not too impressed with Dragonheart. Fans of the genre are sure to love it, though. "},{"Title":"disappointing.","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I had high expectations for this movie and was excited about renting it but was very disappointed when I saw it. It was very poorly written and sort of just fell apart. There wasn't a lot of good anything in this movie except maybe special effects.  "},{"Title":"This film is absolutely incredible.","Date":"15 November 2001","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It is incredible in that it succeeds in being terrible on so many levels. The script, the acting, the directing and the choice of cast are all appalling. The costumes, sets and pseudo-medieval language are also utterly awful. In an odd way I actually enjoyed this film, once I had accepted that it wasn't going to be any good. It seems a shame that people would spend so much time and effort producing something so poor, when really they could have made something pretty decent out of the premise (albeit not very believable!), but instead we are treated to a rather nauseating and cheesy tale of dragons and knights, that lacks any of the charm to be found in other such fantasy films. Let's just hope that The Lord of the Rings is a bit better! Oh, and David Thewlis' haircut makes him look like He-Man. It does! "},{"Title":"Einon must die!","Date":"13 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I don't see why this movie got such cruddy reviews! This movie was awesome, medieval/action movie goers, this is a must see! Kara is sexy! Bowen is a skillful knight! And Draco is a powerful and wise dragon! This movie is great!!! I loved it, it has a great ending battle scene like most medieval movies do! I has great fight scenes and everything! The storyline is great with Bowen and Draco teaming up to destroy Einon and his forces. This movies has awesome swordplay and amazingly good special effects even being made in 1996! I don't know what else to say except that this movie is one of the best of all times and is worth watching! "},{"Title":"good film","Date":"28 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I can not understand what is the point of speaking evil of a film which are not you share the type and texture. It is considered boring and ugly, words used by Flaviocostanzo a film that reflects the present reality and future. I consider it a good movie, if a film apriooristicamene not like what you see to do. we speak evil of a film before leaving in the halls cinematorafiche. There is a desire cos' high to criticize everything and everyone that I really shudders. The film reflects primarily the perennial boredom and apathy rampant in everyday reality and comments of the previous review in full affect the crux of the problem. It is also a split moltio realistic world to which we are approaching. And 'true the film is inspired by the 1984 novel but is very relevant to reality. So for once refrain various bored on duty and went to inform a little 'instead of reading comics of superman because it is really disheartening to read reviews that talk about boredom and riferimnti film fumettistici. "},{"Title":"A story, that has everything","Date":"6 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Note I don't know whether any of this can be called a spoiler or not, but I won't take any risks, for I will be using some scenes as examples, and hinting to this and that...so it is a kind of spoiler in a way.But, well... When I first heard the title of the movie, I was all like, oh, Jesus Christ, now they're gonna show some dull medieval-themed film with knights and wars.It was in 2005, when Danish TV2 decided to air the movie, and at that time I was absolutely fed up with anything medieval, because there simply was too much. But the name Dragonheart - particularly the part Dragon- made me turn on the TV set that evening and watch. Not that I expected much!It didn't turn out to be what I expected it to. Not at all. I expected it to be dull and stereotypical. Admitted, it was a knight movie, but what a movie it was! It was incredibly well made and the concept was impossible to dislike; the friendship between a man and a dragon. It's a beautiful concept. But it was not only that concept, that made me like the movie so much - it was also the humour of it, as well as the variety of events! Dragonheart made me laugh quite much - (Sean Connery as a dragon? Why not, LOL) - and just think about Bowen's air ride - and their little business venture. Not that I like the idea of dragon extermination, even pretended, but their methods to earn their money were hilarious. I cannot forget Draco saying, that the water is too shallow for him to sink, when he was supposed to look slain by Bowen..!!But not everything is to be laughed at. I won't go into further details, but there were places - especially in the end - where one could not help but being stern and sad. I needn't say more....and, technically speaking, the things in movie was also made very good. Everybody and everything looked as if it could have existed for real!I bet I sound very confusing, but it's not because of the movie. The movie is fantastic - much unlike my way of describing it!! The story has everything, that makes a good story - it has a message of friendship, and it is very warm and has plenty to be amused of, too! So if you haven't seen it yet, you'd better do so! I know you will like it! "},{"Title":"One of the Best","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" One of my favorite fantasy movies. The knight and the dragon could not have been better casted with Quaid and Connery, and there are some hilarious quotes in the movie. And the bad guy is truly evil. Brother GIlbert, the priest, is also amusing; his somewhat goofy character manages to be comic without offending religious folks. Kara is, ironically, the least developed of the characters; her character is too one-sided. She's too serious, so in her case the one-dimensional aspect is not relieved by humor as it is with Brother Gilbert. The musical score is truly evocative; it's worth getting on soundtrack. Though the plot is basically straightforward, the fact that the dragon actually dies in the end is not apparent, though the possibility is hinted at by the dragon's own dialog and the early plot elements. All in all, well worth the $2.00 of renting. "},{"Title":"Two great hearts Dragonheart and Braveheart","Date":"19 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie has always been one of my favorites because of its greatness in simplicity but also drama; when I compare it to Braveheart, although the two are both about rebelling during two different times(984 A.D .Dragonheart, 1305A.D., Braveheart)they fight with the same technology but have very different feels to them. Dragonheart is a great movie for its lightheartedness, action, adventure, comedy, drama, music and fantasy element, while Braveheart is great for its intense drama, gripping plot, great fighting, occasional comedy supplied by the Irishman Stephen and the Scots mooning tradition, and romance. Although one may think that there is not much difference, look again as yes, there is in that the feel is completely different in either movie. Its just one of those things where you love both but in different ways, but equally, because each one has its own high and low points. "}{"Title":"My favourite movie EVER!","Date":"2 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I absolutely love this film. I happened to come across this, on a rainy day, two years ago-I'm so glad I did! I naturally love dragons, knights and fantasy worlds, and this is the film that involves all the right qualities.This is a very emotional movie, but a great watch. The sad parts nearly made me cry, and some parts, made me laugh out loud or made me sit at the edge of my sofa!If you haven't seen this, you really must you will not regret it, I promise. The plot is simple, but fabulous and the characters are fantastic! I love this film! "},{"Title":"Buy it!","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I can honestly say that this is one of the movies, I have seen the most times. I like it because Dragonheart is a movie that both contains very funny episodes and a sad ending - It`s hard not to cry.If you like fantasy movies and laughing and crying - Don`t think twice, just buy i`t! "},{"Title":"A Truly Great Film","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  In my Opinion,This is one of the Best and most underrated films of 1996.In fact this film is impossible to Dislike...The performances,The great effects,the humour,the great scenary shots and the films visual style are all top notch.The only complaints about this film...is that the story gets a little sluggish in spots...And David Thewlis,in his Sonny Bono Wig,Comes off as more Hilarious..than Frightening...as the Evil king.Other than that..this is truly one of the Greats...with Sean connery Carrying the film with his Dragon...and Dennis Quaid doing a wonderful job as the slayer...(Pete postlewaite also shows a surprising Flair for Comedy as the Bumbling Brother Gilbert).The finalTo the Starssequence is one of the best endings ever...and the scene where they go to avalon(The final resting place of Sir King Arthur)is dazzling...The film makers should take a bow...They have given us a gem....I give this 10 out of 10  "},{"Title":"A good movie","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I loved this movie.  I believe that if dragons really lived, I think that they were kind and caring creatures, and I think that they would really share their heart with a human, if the human was dying.  This movie had powerful music, and Bowen was a good actor for a knight.  And Draco looked great, I never seen a movie with such a real looking dragon. Remember to look for Draco in the stars for comfort.  Within every dreamer, beats the heart of a dragon. "},{"Title":"For all dragonlovers!","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I can't count how many times I have seen this movie but enoy it every time.  Sean Connery was wonderful as the voice of Draco & will argue with anyone who says otherwise.David Thewlis is great as the guy you love to hate. Great humour as well as action and the photography is spectacular.  The people who designed Draco did a great job. Interesting story which should be seen by anyone who loves the fantasy genre. "},{"Title":"GREAT movie!!!!","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This was a GREAT movie!!!!  I loved it!!!!  I mean, wow!!!!   The plot was perfect!!!!  This was one of my favorite movies EVER!!!!  Seriously!!!! Yah, it got kind of sad, but not a lot. Other than that, perfecto!!!! I really mean it!!!! I think all people who like fantasy movies should see this!!!! "},{"Title":"Should be in the Top 250 List!","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Wow... this movie is SO good that I wish it was on the Top 250 List! But some people didn't like it however.... Oh well, I wish people would just give this movie a 10 or something. This movie is one of my most favorites! Since I really love adventures, I liked this movie a lot! It's my #1 PG-13 rated movie I've ever seen in my life! It leaned toward a PG rating, but unfortunately this movie had quite a lot of action/ violence. I'm glad that the sequel came out 4 years after this movie was made, though I didn't expect a sequel though.... I'm also glad that the sequel is rated PG for action violence (er, wait...the people who rated this movie didn't give reasons why the sequel had to be rated PG). Just like some other sequels, the sequel for this movie got a lower rating, too. Here are some examples The Mask (1994) (PG-13) Son of the Mask (2005) (PG) Dr. Dolittle (1998) (PG-13)- I watched this movie all by MYSELF when I was only 10 years old. I was able to handle the inappropriate contents though.... Dr. Dolittle 2 (2001) (PG) Scary Movie (1999) (R) Scary Movie 2 (2001) (R) Scary Movie 3 (2003) (PG-13) Inspector Gadget (2001?) (PG) Inspector Gadget 2 (2002?) (G) You can see that the sequels got a lower and more appropriate ratings. I hope to see the sequel for Dragonheart! "},{"Title":"Sad stuff","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie has such inexorable B class cheapness to all its scenes, effects etc as to make you think they spent 80% of their budget on Connery.  It's like watching some Wing Commander stuff after Star Wars (quite apart from content).Story can be described in one word FLAT.  And oh my God I can't remember a villain so uninteresting since long long ago. We're given neither a reason he's so wicked (an inborn defect, we're lead to think) nor any real convincedness or flair to his wickedness.If you're out for Connery rather go rent `Hunting Forrester'. "}]