[{"Title":"Better than I thought it would be","Date":"21 December 1998","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  As with most animal/comedian movies, I thought this one would be a bomb. However, it wasn't as bad as I expected.  The plot is decent and the funny parts are mostly funny, instead of just stupid.  Kids and adults both will enjoy the elephant and the occasional outdoor scene, as Bill Murray and his new friend trek across the beautiful American countryside.  This movie also touches on serious topics like animal abuse.  Bill Murray is funny as usual and Matthew McConaughey puts in an unusual and funny performance.  This movie isn't going to win any Oscars, but provides good entertainment, without resorting to sex or violence.  I gave it 7 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Slow starter but worth sticking it out","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I would probably have given up on this movie had it not been showing in the middle of the night against infomercials and test patterns.  It takes about 30 minutes before it really gets going, when Bill Murray and Vera hit the road.  Bill Murray's performance is serviceable if unspectacular; it's a rather underwritten role that could have been played by most anyone, but the low-wattage version of Murray's charm does come through from time to time.  Janeane Garofalo is well-used in a small role, but Matthew McConnaughey makes the most vivid impression in truly goofy part as an insane truck driver.  Except for exposition, the first quarter or so of the film is dull, but the rest makes for pleasant if low-key entertainment.  The relationship between man and elephant is genuinely touching. "},{"Title":"A whole TRUNK of fun!","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I really liked this movie. It shows how much fun an elephant can be. I also liked Bill Murray in this. After I saw him in Ghostbusters and other movies I really wanted to see Larger Than Life. Also I think Bill Murray is good at comedy comedy not the stupid comedy that Adam Sandler gives you in Little Nickey. All and all I like the actors and the elephant in this movie so I give it a ten.   "},{"Title":"An interesting metaphor for the grieving process","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I think, if you take a moment, you can actually see that this movie is an interesting metaphor for the grieving process.Grief can be seen as a big uncontrollable thing that you didn't even know was yours until you have it laid in your lap. Then you have to figure out what to do with it, maybe make friends with it. Maybe find some way to control it. And, eventually, you have to give it up. "},{"Title":"I really liked this film","Date":"19 December 2004","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I remember seeing this movie with my Aunt a little after it came out in the theaters. We were the only people in the place and that shocked us because it turned out to be a very good movie. I remember saying to her that it was a good thing nobody else was there because we laughed as loud I ever have. I haven't seen it since then but I would love to see it again and find out if it is on DVD. It surprises me that this isn't at any of the rental places I have been to, including the almighty blockbuster. I think I was about 19 at the time it came out. This would be a great family movie too. I recommend seeing this. It is very underrated. "},{"Title":"Nothing special, but still fun &#150; Murray carries it from start to finish","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Jack Corcoran is an inspiration speaker who is trying to get his career moving to get the bigger gigs after having a best selling book.  He bases his theory on his ability to get over his father's death just before his birth.  He is surprised to find his father has just died and has actually left him an inheritance.  He travels out to collect to find that his father was a clown and his inheritance is substantial -&#150;in fact she's an elephant.  Now he has less than a week to get across country to deliver the elephant to one of several interested parties.Around about this period Bill Murray films kinda sunk to a bit of a low in terms of money making and quality.  One thing has kept him a star however and that's himself &#150; even an average film can be made enjoyable by him, and that's what happens here.  The plot is predictable &#150; who will he give the elephant to, the evil trainer or the jungle bunny? Will he make it in time? The answers are easy, but no matter.  The message about loving animals etc are a little sentimental and don't sit well with the idea that we are actually watching an animal that belongs to a movie organisation such as the one being shown here as evil!The comedy is also predictable &#150; we know the elephant will knock things down and lift things up etc, but it's not overdone and is amusing to a point. It may not be rocket science but it will please kids for sure.  For adults the physical nature of this comedy is tempered by a world weary Murray who really does make the film worth watching.  He is a funny guy and although he is on auto-pilot here, he is still very good.The film rests solely on his shoulders and he just about carries it off.  The rest of the cast may well be made of faces but they are all in minor roles.  People like Piven, Garofalo, Fiorentino, Jerry Alder, Presnell etc are all round the edges making it look tidy but really do little.  McConaughey has a bigger, minor role but he isn't very good.  His character is funny but he doesn't quite carry it off and I wonder if he is embarrassed by it now.Overall this sort of thing usually stinks the place up, and this one doesn't.  It's nothing special but is amusing enough to pass the time.  This is mainly due to Murray doing his usual world-weary cynical act &#150; we've seen it before but that doesn't mean it's not still funny. "},{"Title":"Loved it","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I thought it was Great, as an animal film and as a comedy. I laughed for the bulk of it, and nearly cried at the end (it's nothing near drama, I'm just weird). Perhaps it got a little sappy at times, but never 'so-sappy-you-could-die' and was never vulgar, hurray! I suppose I could go into all the themes and merits of this movie, but I'll just suggest you go see it.  "},{"Title":"Funny as heck.","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Bill Murray is a comedic genius.  His demeanor is hilarious.  He is the driving force of this movie.  Even though this movie is meant for kids, I enjoyed it thoroughly.  I wish they would release it on DVD, but Disney is funny about what they put out on DVD.  If you enjoy a good guffaw, watch this movie.   "},{"Title":"Classic film making, one of Murray's best and what a grand sidekick!","Date":"11 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Jack Corcoran (Bill Murray) is a small-time motivational speaker whose manager (Jeremy Piven) is trying to get him bigger gigs. Mr. C's mantra and book is called Get Over It, as Jack personally had a broken childhood that proved difficult. You see, his father drowned when Jack was a boy and his mother (Anita Gillette) raised him as a single parent. Now, however, Jack is an aspiring Anthony Robbins with a beautiful fiancée. Hold the phone! A lawyer contacts Jack by letter to tell him his father recently passed away and left him an inheritance. WHat ? ? Mom admits she lied to Jack because his father, Kirby, was too irresponsible to hold down a job, so she left him and invented the tragic tale of his demise. But, hey, maybe money can heal so Jack travels to the east coast to visit the lawyer. After some tricky moves by this attorney, Jack signs a contract. But, Holy Dumbo Batman, Jack has just inherited a circus elephant named Vera. It seems papa's last job was with the circus and his great act included a trained elephant. What the heck is Jack going to do with a pachyderm? Yet, he must take possession of Vera immediately. After spending the night in a junkyard with Vera, Jack finds out that a zookeeper in Los Angeles would like Vera very much, as she is returning some elephants to their natural habitat. Thus, the cross country trip of trips begins. From raiding a whole salad bar for the elephant's meals to riding in cattle car, Jack and Vera try to make it to the west coast in time. Will they? This darling film is an instant classic. Murray has rarely been better than this ordinary Joe thrust into extraordinary circumstances. Piven, Gillette, Janeane Garafolo, and all the other cast members are fine, too. As for the elephant Vera, what a charmer with loads of talent. She makes everyone WISH they had such an inheritance come their way. With a broad, attractive look at the various regions of the USA, as the viewer follows the duo's trip, the scenery is a pleasure, too. Please get this great movie for you and your loved ones in the very near future. Its a first choice for the whole family, young and old. "},{"Title":"a misfire that works","Date":"7 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" This could have been a stupid, idiotic film. Well, actually, it /is/ a stupid, idiotic film. But it works, mostly because of Bill Murray's performance.A man who has to unload his father's trained elephant does not make for a promising story, comic or dramatic. What makes this film work is Murray's generally laid-back performance. His character -- a motivational instructor who teaches patient and thoughtful behavior -- displays such. He rarely gets badly upset, and there's little of the frantic slapstick one would expect from other actors. (I suspect Roy Blount was consciously writing such a story.) When a reviewer states that the film misses the obvious sight gags its premise suggests -- well, that's the point of it, right?This isn't a film that demands a second viewing. But it's far better than you might expect, and its refusal to assault the viewer is welcome. It's a perfect film when you don't want to watch anything demanding.PS I just love the parents who say this (and other films) are good family films because they lack sex, violence, adult language, etc. Unfortunately, most such films are garbage that pervert a child's taste. "}{"Title":"Bill Murray and an elephant","Date":"21 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Jack Corcoran (Bill Murray) is a struggling motivational speaker. When he gets a telegram that his absentee circus father had passed away, he doesn't know that he left him a giant elephant and $35k in damages. Now he must figure out what to do with the elephant, and how to get to California. He could get $30k with Mo (Janeane Garofalo) who's sending elephants to Sri Lanka for a breeding problem, or at least $40k to Terry (Linda Fiorentino) who has an animal circus.It was probably a hilarious pitch to put Bill Murray with an elephant. I just don't know what they said to Bill to get him to do the movie. The biggest problem is that the whole story is really stupid. It's setup like a ridiculous sitcom. Bill has a few cute moments but it is mostly sad to see him fall so low. Matthew McConaughey puts in a ridiculous performance as a wild and crazy trucker. "},{"Title":"Great FAMILY film","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  No sex, violence and only a small amount of language help Larger Than Life accomplish its victory as a great family film. Bill Murray is his usual self funny and unpredicatble the king of wisecracks. But in Larger Than Life, Bill uses his talent for the families. "},{"Title":"One of Bill Murray's Worst","Date":"17 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Bill Murray plays a motivational speaker whose circus clown father passes away and leaves him an elephant. Now he's got to take a road trip with the elephant so he can sell it. Ridiculously far-fetched premise with a lifeless performance by Murray and a supporting cast that seems hellbent on outshining him, making themselves look like a bunch of hams in the process. Matthew McConaughey is especially bad. I mean he really stinks. Not really a family movie despite the corny animal buddy plot. Also not very funny for a comedy. I think I laughed out loud once the whole movie and chuckled maybe twice. If you're a big elephant fan you might get more enjoyment out of it. But for the rest of us it's pretty dull. "},{"Title":"Bill Murray is just the best at what he does","Date":"9 November 2012","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Bill Murray is one of those people who seem to be so natural and comfortable and just being himself on screen that it is difficult to name anyone else who appears to not be acting when up on that big rectangle glowing in the dark. It truly seems that most of the time a camera crew is simply following him around as he finds odd situations to get himself into and then without a bit of effort, make us laugh and feel that special something in our hearts.This is one of those movies and the odd situation he finds for himself is trying to get rid of an elephant left to him by his estranged and recently deceased father. This results in most of the movie being Bill talking to the elephant, not too much response from the big gray co-star but he does have a presence. And despite some of the other reviews saying otherwise, it works, and it works great for Bill Murray fans. It's as if he really is playing it off-the-cuff and it makes it all work.I really liked sprocketbox' metaphor of the elephant being the grieving process. Having lost the best friend I ever had about a year ago, my elephant hasn't gotten much smaller and so his metaphor hit me between the eyes frankly. There isn't an hour of a day when I still don't turn around and think There's something I have to remember to tell ____ about or That's something _____ would find funny and so on. That elephant is still there no matter where I turn.This is a movie well worth seeing and not just for Bill Murray fans. It's warm-hearted, relaxed, easy-going, and natural and much better than the five star rating given here. "},{"Title":"How Do They Do It?!?","Date":"11 July 2011","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" A man inherits an elephant from his father. What to do?This is a cute movie. A man on a cross country journey with his elephant. Tip Tucker was pretty funny,especially when he does his How Do They Do It?!? rant. There are people out here in the truckin industry like that,just like other trades. If Bill Murray actually drove the International with the cab tilted forward,that would be impressive.Bill Murray drives the International big rig.Rodney Bennett(I think)drives the Freightliner tanker big rig.Matthew McConaughey drives the Freightliner 18 wheeler.Bill Murray,Rodney Bennett, and Matthew McConaughhey are permanent A list actors.Linda Florentino,Janeane Gurofalo,and Maureen Mueller are hot!!---One Truck Drivers Opinion---erldwgstruckermovies.com "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"10 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Larger than life is a really great movie.  It has the magic shared between friends, emotion and consideration for feelings. It is a really heartfelt true movie.  I enjoyed it immensely. "},{"Title":"Hollywood does make them like that!","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" How big is an elephant's heart? Just big enough to fill the amount of 'heart' poured into this great film. Because the casting director was brilliant enough to hire the superiorly (that's not a word, but i don't care! p) brilliant comedian (who has kept his comedic roots - HE MAKES PPL LAUGH! - rather than go all 'im so special artsy iconoclastic' type) Bill Murray (who plays Jack Corcoran, the son of a professional clown - D'OH! how perfect is that?!? Bill is a comedian, clown, father, son... get it? I don't.) who fills the role perfectly. If it was _anybody_else_ in this role it would have been only a family movie and not be worth watching unless your kid is watching it. But because of Mr. Murray, this movie takes off. All the comedy is his, and it's all funny. Kids will like this also because it has an elephant in it.Kudos to every other actor who played smaller partsBlockhead - Pat HingleTip Tucker (luny as a jaybird) - Matthew McConaughey (Matthew gets an extra set of kudos b/c his performance was over the top. Murray's ride with him is hilarious)Mo - Janeane GarofaloTerry - Linda FiorentinoLawyer - Harve PresnellTrain Conductor - Keith DavidJunkyard Guy - Greg Lewis, andlast but not least,dear sweet Vera,played by Tal. )Every time I see it it always brings a tear to my eye and manages to tug on my heart. I see it every time it comes out on TV.-Zafoid "},{"Title":"CUTE CUTE CUTE","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie has several things going for it.  The writing is wonderful, the plot is wonderful, the acting is wonderful.  And who ever trained the elephant has to be commended.  VERA can do anything.  This is also a great film for kids.  Also, don't miss Tip Tucker, what a riot. "},{"Title":"Murray Only Has An Elephant To Bounce Off - It Doesn't Work...","Date":"16 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" The over-riding problem with this film is that it can't possibly use Bill Murray to the best of his abilities, simply because of the co-star.If this was a road movie with another comedic actor, it might work. Even if they were both trying to get the elephant across the country, it would at least allow for them to share some amusing dialogue. As it stands, Murray is left talking to an elephant who cannot answer back with witty banter. Essentially, it means that Murray is talking to himself, and this makes the film more boring than it could have been had he had another character to bounce off.Kids would enjoy this movie,simply because of the elephant, but anyone wanting to watch Bill Murray's biting delivery and enjoy an excellent script needs to look somewhere else. "},{"Title":"A good family film.","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Larger Than Life is a film that can be enjoyed by all ages.  It stars Bill Murray, Janeane Garofalo, and a barely recognizable Matthew McConaughey as the paranoid truck driver.  I found his character to be the funniest in the entire film.  This movie while funny, did not deliver anything memorable. It's simple plot and average delivery make it one of those films that is quickly forgotten.   "}{"Title":"Enjoyable for the gendra","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is a well done movie and fits the gendra well.  Bill Murray does a masterful job of being funny and this type of slapstick humor fits him well. We watched with our Granddaughters and all four of us enjoyed it greatly. "},{"Title":"Expected More Laughs","Date":"12 October 2006","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" This was okay, but really a bit disappointing because I expected more laughs. Considering the storyline and the lead actor (Bill Murray), it should have been a lot funnier than it turned out to be. Only part of this made me really laugh, such as when Murray lost control of his semi and was speeding down the road at a weird angle. (You have to see it, to appreciate it.)The supporting cast was anything but likable people. Just look at a sampling of the names Matthew McConaughey, Janeane Garofalo and Linda Fiorentino. Yecch! McConaughey's role in here as Tip Tucker was just downright annoying. He was the worst. Other that those people, the movie had some charming moments but overall it is not recommended. It's another Disney flop. "},{"Title":"Bigger Waste of Time Than Expected.","Date":"11 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Larger Than Life (1996) Dir Howard Franklyn / Cast Bill Murray, Matthew McConaughey, Janeane Garofalo, Linda Fiorentino, Keith David Has there ever been a comedy starring Bill Murray that contained fewer laughs than this? Title refers to an elephant as well as expectations, hopes and dreams. Dreary plot regards a man who learns that his father was a circus clown and has left him an elephant in his will. He receives two offers and struggles to get it across country. Much of this is boring routine road movie storytelling directed by Howard Franklin with overuse of fade out shots. Viewers will likely find watching elephants on wildlife programs to be more entertaining. Other than the elephant there is nothing new or interesting here. Bill Murray is at the mercy of laughless material. He not only lugs this sorry elephant around but he also drags around a script that should be shoved up the elephant's anal track. Matthew McConaughey is foolish as a crazed truck driver who gets himself into trouble by just doing what nobody in the audience would think of doing. Janeane Garofalo and Linda Fiorentino play contacts. Garofalo is true blue to the elephant's needs while Fiorentino isn't so upfront about it. Either way both roles are cardboard. Animal rights theme stranded within horrible road movie clichés and a screenplay that isn't so large. Score 1 / 10 "},{"Title":"Inoffensive and mildly amusing","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  The story of 'Larger Than Life' is a by-the-numbers buddy/road affair with an elephant, and as such there is little to recommend it. What it does have, however, is Bill Murray. He makes even the most uninspired material funny -- even when he's not really trying as here.'Larger Than Life' does have its funny moments (Murray's spoof of motivational speakers stands out), and it is worth sitting through a TV showing of it. All in all, it's not much more than an inoffensive family comedy. "},{"Title":"Larger Than Life","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I have always liked Bill Murray in films like Lost in Translation, and the trailer for this film looked really good, but the result was very disappointing. Basically Murray plays Jack Corcorin who has recently found out that his father died, and he is expected to hear his will. He finds out that his father was a clown, because he left a large shoe, his squeaky nose, and his main inheritance, an elephant! The only way that Jack can get rid of this elephant is to travel 4000 miles in four days and give him to a safe zoo for $30,000. Also starring Pat Hingle as Vernon. There are small tiny moments of humour, such as a truck's front bending forward, and Murray screaming, but overall, it's pointless. Pretty poor! "},{"Title":"Another promising premise gone awry","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This *should* have been an amazingly funny movie...but it falls flat on its face. (In fact, I stopped watching it halfway through, which is something I rarely do...) -- Bill Murray plays Jack Corcoran, a second-rate motivational speaker who is bequeathed an elephant by his father (whom he had presumed to be dead before he was born) ; he then has one week to get the ponderous pachyderm across the country. His adventures on the way are only mildly amusing at best. Janeane Garofalo's considerable comedic talents go largely untapped. Anita Gillette is impressive in her small role as Jack's mother (who has a lot of explaining to do), and Pat Hingle stands out as a former circus associate of Jack's father. -- Perhaps the second half of the movie was better than the first, but I find that hard to believe... "},{"Title":"One Pathetic Pachyderm","Date":"26 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Quick Change director Howard Franklin and comedian Bill Murray have literally got a white elephant on their hands in the highly forgettable juvenile critter comedy Larger than Life, co-starring Matthew McConaughey, Janeane Garofalo, Pat Hingle, Jeremy Piven, and Linda Fiorentino. Murray plays a motivational speaker who finds himself saddled with Velma, a female elephant that belonged to his recently deceased circus clown father whom he never met. When mom and pop went their separate ways, mom got Murray and pop kept the pachyderm. Now, pop's attorney (Harve Presnell of Fargo) wants $35-thousand to cover the damages that Tarzan's best friend has chomped up while he waited on our hero to claim his inheritance.The only way that Jack Corcoran (Bill Murray of Ghostbusters) can get off the tusk is to take the animal across country to a zoo, specifically to Mo (Janeane Garofalo) who is willing to buy Velma as part of a breeding experiment in India. This is Jack's first option. The second option, he learns, is a sexy animal trainer who is prepared to up the ante for Velma. The dilemma that Jack faces is who to sell the beast to, either the sympathetic but homely zoo keeper (Garofalo had a similar role in The Truth about Cats and Dogs) or temptress animal trainer Terry Bonura (Linda Fiorentino), who uses electric prods to make her beasties behave.Getting the elephant there comprises the bulk of Roy Blount, Jr's lackluster, lead-footed plot. You could grow as old and wrinkled as an elephant waiting for an original laugh here. Jack and Velma travel by train, truck, and on foot, but they encounter trouble around every bend. Along the way, Jack tricks a paranoid, speed-freak truckers, Tip Tucker (Matthew McConaughey of Dazed and Confused) into giving them a lift. When Tip learns that Jack has duped him, he raises a posse of state troopers who follow in hot pursuit, Jack blunders off the interstate and heads into the desert. Velma and he save an antique Spanish church from a flood. The grateful villagers idolize the elephant and helps Jack finish his cross-country jaunt. Film purists will have reason to complain. At one point, Jck dons the outfits that John Wayne wore in John Ford's 1949 classic She Wore a Yellow Ribbon to elude Tucker. The filmmakers back up this costume change as Jack sticks to the back trails with Elmer Bernstein's classic Magnificent Seven theme. Talk about mixing movie metaphors! If you cannot figure out the ending, perhaps you should treat yourself to this shoddy farce that stretches its unlikely partners premises far beyond the breaking point. Either Bill Murray desperately want to produce a flop movie for tax purposes or he needed to return as a regular to NBC-TV's Saturday Night Live. "},{"Title":"About as graceful as an elephant","Date":"22 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I remember back in 1996 when I saw the trailer and television commercials for LARGER THAN LIFE - just seeing them, I *knew* that this was going to be a box office bomb. And I was right. This was not a case of a good movie being horribly marketed - this was a case of the badness of the movie being shown all too clearly.What went wrong? Well, I think that the main problem of the movie centers around the fact that pretty much all the events of the movie center around an elephant. Elephants are slow creatures, and although they can be trained to perform some tricks, they are still far from being creatures with a real charismatic personality. (Maybe if they got a quicker, wittier creature like a chimpanzee or a dog, it could have worked.) As a result of this movie being weighed down by an enormously ungraceful creature, there is no energy here. Even Murray, who has been quick and funny in other movies, seems overwhelmed. He does well in the opening scene where he's a motivational speaker, because he has *humans* to work with. When he's paired with the elephant, the energy immediately fades away.One question that's never answered in the movie is Why doesn't Murray's character just hire someone to take the elephant to the west coast? It would be a lot less hassle, and Murray's character wouldn't have to skip his lecture dates. The fact that Murray's character doesn't do the obvious thing helps point out that the premise this script had was deeply flawed even before writing began. "},{"Title":"One of the Dullest Road-Movies, Buddy-Comedies, Kids-Adventures Ever !","Date":"20 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" (Bill Murray) is one of the best actors and comedians in the last 20 years. So why to make a lame movie with an elephant? The answer  to be in business, to not be forgotten as a name in unstoppable ruthless industry, and to have a wonderful experience with an elephant BUT did we get any wonderful experience out of watching this ? I feel pity because of an easy script like this. So what was the meaning that the lead is a motivational speaker ?! and what exactly had changed in him after this trip ? and is there any intended similarity between him as a speaker and his father as a clown ? Then what was the running theme in this whole movie anyway ?!! I'm sorry, but the ultimate answer for all would be  NOTHING! OK, Matthew McConaughey cleverly plays a crazy driver (in the same year of his breakthrough A Time to Kill). Although that was humorous lateral conflict, but the script made him take part after the end of its first half !?? And event like the lead's fiancée leaving him to marry his publisher (as the finale's board shows) pushes you to ask Why she left him ??! I think the Trip just affected the lead in a way to learn more lessons about life or to know what he really wants, and to discover more credibility around him. But all of that just in damned theoretical invisible way ! Even the end's sentimental situation looked fake with some line that didn't have much persuasion behind it so I could buy it anyway ! The major irony is super though it would've been better if the lead's character was animal hater, too pompous arrogant, selfish villainous who'll going to be redeemed by the events! So speaking of ironies I think the biggest of them all is that you have (Murray) with some trained lovely (Vera) through 3000 miles coast to coast 5-dayes odyssey and there isn't more than one laugh along the way !??? What a failure ! This movie got the very little, very cursory to present  touching moments (the elephant picks up tenderly the funny nose of her dead friend), comic time (Murray trying to choke McConaughey out of tedium), thrilling situations (the truck's one, and maybe the climax) and, sadly more than surprisingly, that was it ! As my review's title says, it didn't want to be a movie about characters, or character ! It didn't make much in area comic movies like (Any Which Way You Can - 1980) made a lot in it, and it's nothing like the polished peaceful family adventures that Disney produces yearly (at least they're meaningful !). So it was poor, tasteless, BLA BLA BLA, or wait a minute.. It really worked on that level, the level of making a good BLA BLA BLA ! All in all.. The only Larger Than Life thing in this movie was its title ! "},{"Title":"tripe!!!","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I beg you not to see this movie! This is the worst movie I have ever seen in my life. Bill Murray + an elephant + no script (was there a script? I can't remember because I was too busy crying in pain at this terrible excuse for a movie) = the worst time of your life.Don't pay to see this movie - don't even watch it for free at a friend/relatives house. If anyone suggests that you should watch it at some point in your life, shoot them and run. Run as fast as you can and don't look back. I didn't even see this movie by choice - I went with a group of friends for someone's birthday when I was 12. I curse that day and the time that this movie took away from me. This is a kid's movie but any self-respecting smart child would not want to see this inflammatory pile of elephant droppings. "}{"Title":"Not larger than life. About the same size as elephant manure, though.","Date":"28 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" LTL is the kind of formulaic, hopeless comedy to be enjoyed by the sort of sheep that stop and listen when they come across a band playing in a shopping mall.I remember Murray promoting LTL on Larry King's crappy CNN show, where he said something like if this movie doesn't become a hit I'll stop making movies (or comedies). He wasn't being nearly as jovial as one might think; he must have felt that LTL was a sure-fire hit and that its failure would mean his status as a star had markedly fallen - hence a sort-of ultimatum live-on-air to his fans to spend their hard-earned money on a dumb elephant comedy. (The comedy being dumb, not the elephant...) Or maybe he simply realized during the shooting (or when he saw the final cut) what a turkey this was, so he tried desperately to convince everyone how much optimism he had regarding LTL's quality. Go see it, it really is good! Actors are prostitutes inter-bred with car salesmen.LTL is the sort of lousy project that comes from the Friends school of comedy; their motto If you ever run out of ideas - or if you never had any in the first place - then stick an animal into the plot and that will at least inject an element of cuteness. Cuteness = a sad substitute for lack of funny gags. The other motto Friends had was always include pointless, dull sentimentality, which this movie so predictably ends with, when Murray rather pathetically says what they forgot to tell you is that you never forget an elephant. Maybe not an elephant, but I certainly managed to easily forget this turkey, which I saw many years ago. I was suddenly reminded of it when I saw a scene from it on TV today (hence this equally pointless review).Murray wastes his talent on this turkey (disguised as an elephant), but he isn't nearly as uninteresting/bad as McConaughey (or however that man's name is spelt); one would think that M.M. would have an easy time playing himself, i.e. a hick, but he is so painfully unfunny and unconvincing that I could barely stand to watch him make such a jackass out of himself. It was cringe-worthy. To round off this nonsense, we have that generation-X buffoon, Garofalo, in a rather useless role. Then again, everything about LTL is useless...After LTL, which bombed as far as I know, Murray went on to become more of a serious actor. What is it with these comedians and their inferiority complex? Is it all just about getting awards, i.e. recognition from their peers (read votes from their moron colleagues)? This piece of crap marked the end of a string of good and great movies Murray made in the early- and mid-90s, such as Groundhog Day, Quick Change, Mad Dog & Glory, Kingpin, What about Bob? and Ed Wood. Recently we've had the immeasurable pleasure of seeing him in garbage/mediocrities such as Hamlet, Lost In Translation (you just can't get away from these ultra-talented Coppolas), and Broken Flowers. Compare those two batches.One guy described LTL funny as heck. Now THAT'S the kind of audience this movie was hoping for... Shopping malls and trailer parks... "}]