[{"Title":"In Space, Um, No One, Um, Nevermind","Date":"11 January 2007","Score":"23 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In this fourth gripping installment of the Hellraiser series, we are treated to the story of the Lament Configuration (or Lemarchand's Box or whatever you call it). It involves demons, Pinhead, some French people, architecture and outer space. Pretty good deal.This film is my favorite in the Hellraiser series. By itself, there is not much going on. I can understand why many think this film is weak. If I just watched it without the entire series, I would be like, what the heck? But I think this really ties the first four films together, explaining how everything fits.I have read reviews that say the film is inconsistent and that it does not line up with the other films. I say hogwash. The film makes perfect sense. And it lines up with the others just fine. I guess you could say things like how did the box get from x to y, but I think it is pretty clear. The French guy had it, then it went into circulation, then the Cottons had it in parts 1 and 2, then the news reporter in part 3, and she buried it in the cement where it was pulled out this time. What is not to understand? I could say the space aspect was cheesy. Leprechaun has been to space, and later Jason Voorhees went to space. Others probably did, too, that I cannot think of offhand. But unlike Leprechaun, this made sense... it was actually central to the plot and could not have been done on Earth in any conceivable manner. So the space thing is not so bad.As I mentioned in my review for Hellraiser 3, I dislike how writer Peter Atkins introduced new cenobites. This movie has more, including twins and a former demon (which really makes no sense to me). What determines who becomes a cenobite? Pinhead? Maybe this will be explained in a later film, but probably not, and it is not really explained here.The director disowned this film due to massive re-shoots he had no part in. I, for one, would love to see his version. While I have already said this is my favorite, perhaps the other is something worth checking out. Also, it would stifle some of those critics who think it was reassembled as a senseless pile of bangers and mash. I disagree with those critics and would love to see them eat their words.After seeing parts 1 and 2 (and presumably 3), watch this. Do not listen to the nay-sayers. If you want to know how the whole Pinhead, box and whatnot started, this is the film to explain it to you. (You might ask how Pinhead got out before the box was created, but you would be silly, because he was not born yet.) I support this one and you should, too. "},{"Title":"If you're a fan of the idea, this one's good.","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"23 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie succeeds if you're a fan of Clive Barker's comic book.  It follows the mythos quite logically, and adds a good deal of conjecture to the reality of the cenobites.  As a sequel this film fills a void.As a film on its own, this movie should be watched.  Its engaging story and thought-provoking plot is enough to keep any viewer entertained, not to mention the violence and gore.  Not a bad movie or wasted time. "},{"Title":"Not quite as good as part III, but Bloodline is still a relatively watchable installment in the hugely successful Hellraiser series.","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"23 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The year is 2127, and a descendent of the maker of the box that opens the gate to Hell is trying to figure out a way to open the box and trap the demons that come out of Hell. He has commandeered a space station (that he himself designed) for this task. He opens the box, lets the demons out, and is detained (people begin to investigate his questionable behavior on the ship) before he can capture them. Almost the entire film is told in the form of a story which he tells the people holding him, in an effort to get them to let him go so he can finish his work. Needless to say, it takes a lot of gory deaths to convince them. There is a small bit of tension created by the fact that the entire time he is telling the guards what is going on, the Cenobites are out and are on the ship. However, this is largely forgotten about for the majority of the film because so much of it takes place in 18th century France, the time when the box was created. Basically, some toymaker makes the box, opens it, demons show up, and they terrorize his family for generations. You'd think they'd be grateful because he let them out into the world of the living. Anyway, the guy in 2127 has taken upon himself the task of building a NEW box that will be sort of an antidote to the first box, one that is designed so that it can actually trap LIGHT inside. It's an interesting enough story, and it was actually fairly entertaining, but the film itself was still somewhat lacking. The acting was pretty bad (but at least Ashley Laurence was blissfully absent again), and there wasn't much effort put into the directing. The movement back and forth from the distant future to the distant past was also a bit detrimental at times to the tension of the story, but luckily the film did present a few cool new cenobites (one that was satisfactorily created out of a couple of idiot security guards), and Bloodline also displayed probably one of Pinhead's best performances ever. I would say that Bloodline is more of an informational movie than a good Hellraiser movie. While it is interesting to watch, it is almost more informational than entertaining. So even though the movie itself may have been disappointing, I think that it is a good addition to the series as a whole. It works better within the Hellraiser series than it does by itself.    "},{"Title":"Much better then what everyone says","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"21 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I watched the whole Hellraiser series in a week. I had never seen one before but after seeing the first one i decided to watch the whole series. The first one i just thought was bad but in a funny way. The second was much better. The third was good but not great and then i got to the fourth. All i heard was negative things so i expected crap especially since it was said that it was Pinhead in space. THis movie is not crap! Its actually really good. It might be better then the second one. Good plot. Cool deaths scenes. Good movie. "},{"Title":"Horror-in-the-Box.","Date":"13 September 2004","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Every bit as informative and cleverly done as HR3, only this time, the point of interest is that box; that wonderfully treacherous darkly intricate little box.A second definitive film! Hellraiser 3 was the first in the personalization of Pinhead's character. Hellraiser 4 Bloodline gives us the history of the box, the curse upon the family of the one who created it, and the fate of the descendant who created the UN-box; the reverse to the original which will close the gates to Hell for all time.Some critics have given this movie low marks due to the Pinhead in Space factor, claiming that it was unnecessary and that it lent nothing but cheese to the story. Others have labeled the vehicle as a franchise contrivance. I must say that I agree with neither statement. Space was the ideal place for this sequence to have occurred. The plot would have suffered greatly had they tried this particular ideology on the Earth's surface. Also, this was a hard movie to make and I found nothing whatsoever contrived about it. It flowed smoothly and told the story beautifully; albeit darkly.This movie also faced some real editing problems while in production. It seems the director had his name removed from this movie (or changed) after scenes depicting a deeper story line and stronger ideologies, were deleted.I give this wonderful installment high marks! Rarely do the sequels even begin to measure up to the original, much less surpass it.It rates an 8.1/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Bloodlines compliments the first 3","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've read the comments of this movie and I agree in most of the observations made. I consider Bloodlines an explanation or origin of the puzzle box. The first 3 talk about the Cenobites, PinHead and the pleasures and torments the box and the cenobites bring. For me Bloodlines tells the story of the puzzle box and for me as a huge Clive Barker fan it resolves the questions Where was the puzzle build?, Why was it build? and Who made it?The true Hellraiser movies are 1 and 2, the third one comes like a baseball player sliding in to home plate just inches from being struck out...but it works. And bloodlines totally compliments these, because it's not just about Pinhead, the main character in this one is the Puzzle Box.That's my 2 cents. "},{"Title":"Not quite as bad as you'd expect","Date":"22 December 2005","Score":"16 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bloodline is easily the best of the post-part III Hellraiser films. Like many third sequels, it takes the path of going back to the series' roots; thus tracing the origins of the central prop; the box that opens the gates to hell. The film starts aboard a space ship, and we witness the seemingly insane ramblings of a madman. He then tells the story of the curse on his bloodline; starting off with the toy maker who made the box and opened the gates to hell. The man plans to create a box to counter the original, and send the demons back to hell. The rest of the more modern sequels follow plots that have nothing to do with the original films, so at least this one doesn't suffer from that. The plot isn't completely relevant to the story of Frank Cotton in the first Hellraiser, but at least it isn't merely another episode of Pinhead taking some guy's soul. On the subject of Pinhead; this film takes place in the time that he was still evil, rather than being a mere shadow of the cenobite that we all know and love. Pinhead plays a major part in this movie, and that's always welcome as far as I'm concerned.Bloodline is more of a fan's movie than the rest of the series. That, therefore, means that if you haven't seen, or didn't like the previous three films; there really isn't much on offer here. Things that have been explained in the first three aren't re-explained here, and therefore it's really important that the other films are seen before this one. Bloodline is surprisingly gruesome, and a lot of the film is very dark and bloody. No bad thing as far as I'm concerned, as I go into Hellraiser films expecting to see gore, and tend to be pleased when they deliver. The acting here is largely terrible, with only Doug Bradley saving the film in that respect. He only does what he's done before - but it really does make the movie. It's surprising how much this deviates from the original; but I'd rather see a sequel do something a little different than merely retread the same ground, as far too many do. That's the reason I aren't slamming this film like a great deal of other's are. It may not be great, and doesn't change the fact that the series dried up after Hellbound...but at least it's not a total dead loss. "},{"Title":"Very well done!  C'mon, have you actually SEEN most other 'Horror' films...?","Date":"31 December 2011","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Okay, I wasn't going to bother writing a review for this one and I rarely take the time to write reviews here, BUT... Seeing this undeservedly LOW score here made me feel that I really had to 'say' something.First off, YES, I am indeed a BIG fan of the first three films; before these just recently came out on glorious Blu-ray, years ago, I even sprang for the UK Puzzle Box set of the first three films (mainly because at the time UNCUT versions were not available here in the States and also for the full commentaries and the bonus DVD that came with it  ) Now, I know it is hard to believe, but I just NOW for the very first time saw this one, part 4; the reason being is that from some casual stuff I had read, I was under the impression that pretty much all the other 'HELLRAISER' films were not very good. Well... Let me tell you, I was extremely surprised and impressed! As I said, compared to all the REALLY AWFUL Horror films out there that are excruciating and badly made, and that is most of them, I was surprised that this one was made quite well. Okay, so a lot of the fans are sort of put off because it is really different from the other films. Fine... Isn't the POINT to try to come up with different angles and new approaches rather than just remaking the same film again and again...? I thought it was genuinely very creative and kept my attention very much so throughout the film. Sure, okay, it starts in space and your rolling your eyes, thinking Oh great,'LEPRECHAUN 3' ) well, it works; it really does. Obviously a LOT of thought was put into the timeline and the mythology of the box, etc., not to mention the follow through at the end. Sure, it wrapped it up rather quickly and left it kind of ambiguous, but so what?! Yes, of COURSE it doesn't have the intensity of the original or even the complexity of the next two films, but to me I was mainly impressed by their not only coming up with the new idea to show the origins, etc., but also I honestly felt that everything that made up the film was done very well considering that it is a damn 'HORROR' movie!  ) I gave it a good, strong '8' which it fully deserves considering the context and type of film. I think that people get SO jaded and expect SO dang much from sequels. I mean, C'mon, compared to what... 'WITCHBOARD' 1-9 or whatever the hell sequel they're at now, this here is pure art!Heh, if THIS one threw you, just wait until you see part 5! I just this minute finished watching that one for the very first time also a few minutes ago and that is a WILD departure from the early films. However, it was made even much better than this one; the director was actually very, very good! "},{"Title":"Better than I expected","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Oh my! The dreaded space sequel. I must admit, I thought this would bump three out of worst in the series, but I was dead wrong. The one thing I found most appealing about this sequel, is the fact that it leaves room for more sequels, as long as the don't go past the year of Pinhead's final death. Which I may say, they took full advantage of, in making Hellseeker, and Inferno. I think that even though it was good, it still takes a backeat to the original two films. (Part two being my personal fave) "},{"Title":"Very good sequel","Date":"2 June 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Hellraiser Bloodline isn't really a bad sequel because we get a lot of Pinhead and we get to know the history of the Puzzle Box from three different time periods The Past, Present and Future. All explaining the history of the family that created the Box. The Future parts reminded me of Jason X although this was done before that.Doug Bradley of course is excellent has Pinhead once again, the gore is fine like the scene with the two Security Guards getting combined together to become Cenobites. The Future period is something new to the series because it's interesting to see Pinhead and his Cenobites reacting to a new environment and to them it's just like the Present except they don't get pleasure out of destroying that Robot.Hellraiser Bloodline is a very good follow up to the Hallraiser series. "}{"Title":"Another good sequel.","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" After seeing Hell on Earth in the mid-nineties, I thought it was a great film. However, after that I was out of the horror-film-viewing for several years. Then I saw the video release of Bloodline. At first I thought t myself uh-oh. Don't say they're going to ruin the reputation of a first-rate series of films by flogging it to death. I needn't have worried.In this sequel to Hellraiser, the story line is set across three time zones - the past, present and future. All involve the toymaker who originally made the puzzle box and his descendants who have been haunted by it ever since. As ever it is non-stop horror, there are some interesting creations (such as the twin-cenobites and the dog from hell), and the scenes on the spacecraft provide a good source of new ideas. Well-recommended to fans of the series. "},{"Title":"Possibly the best of the series to date","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although there has been much stick of this film as being more of the same, for me it does it with bells on.For starters, Doug Bradley pulls of his best performance as Pinhead without question. He delivers his lines with conviction. Rimmer is a strong addition to the story line, and I hope the next film creates a connection between her and the toy maker.The effects were impressive considering the budget. Spacial shots were created with much detail, and the dog scared the wits out of me!!All round as a film it was the exact length, the suspense was maintained throughout, and it retained the horror of Clive Barker's original masterpiece.Shame its not available to buy on video in the UK.  "},{"Title":"Pinhead...in...spaaaaaaaaace","Date":"26 March 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yes, all lame horror franchises eventually go to space to die, where they re-enact the second Aliens Movie.the plot line here is that an eccentric scientist has hijacked a space station of his own design, and relates to the authorities that in fact, his ancestor created the puzzle box that releases the Cenobites, and that they have spent the last few hundred years tormenting his family.There are three stories within the movie, on in 18th century France, another in Modern America, and the last in space. In this film, Doug Bradley's character of Pinhead starts to take an increasingly subordinate role. (He doesn't actually appear until the second modern story, which is probably accurate, since he was a WWI human before becoming a demon.) Instead, the focus is on a female demon named Angelique, who inhabits the body of a dead prostitute after a foolish nobleman releases her. Except halfway through the movie, she is forgotten and we have the Scientist trapping Pinhead in a dimension where he can only phone it in for the Direct to DVD sequels. "},{"Title":"Alan Smithee does NOT mean BAD MOVIE","Date":"7 February 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I wanted to clear something up here.When a movie uses the name Alan Smithee instead of the real director, it doesn't mean he wishes to disassociate him/herself from the movie because it's bad. In fact, that CANNOT do that.The only way a director can do it, is to prove that they no longer have creative direction over the film, due to one reason or another - usually political reasons within the film's money suppliers. Too much interference.The change has to be approved by the Directors Guild of America (DGA) and Association of Motion Picture and Television Producers.See the wikipedia article http//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alan_Smithee Now, this doesn't mean the movie is bad. In fact, it's possible that the original director was making such a bad movie that people had to intervene, and he/she didn't want to hear it. It's possible that the movie may have been much worse. Or better. We can't know. "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"8 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Contrary to what everyone else thinks about this film, it was pretty good. Yeah it had its moments, like when the robot was opening the box and the scenes were the marines were firing their weapons, but it wasn't that bad. The plot of this film starts in 2127, and then rolls back to the years 1996 and the 18th century.The last descendant of the Merchant family, Dr. Paul Merchant (Bruce Ramsay), is trying to build a more efficient box so that the demons that Duc de L'Isle (Mickey Cottrell) brought up after toymaker Phillip L'Merchant makes a toy box. The first demon that comes out is Angelique (Valentina Vargas).First thing, it's 18th century, they didn't see demons as the guys that walked around in leather. The saw demons as the guys with horns and large canines, and most descriptions of them even have long sharp claws. Okay so we visit 1996 where one of Merchant's descendent's has just finished a building with designs of the box everywhere. Soon John Merchant (Bruce Ramsay), his wife Bobbi (Kim Myers) and their son Jack (Courtland Mead) meet Pinhead (Doug Bradley of course) and Angelique.I'm not going to give away the ending, but I will say that Steven Yagher (Alan Smithee) directed this fine. Even though the studio stepped in and re-wrote a few scenes and stuff the film was okay. It doesn't stand up to the original and first two sequels but it is a pretty good film in this franchise. "},{"Title":"SPOILER! I like the film ^^","Date":"15 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" No, seriously, I think I explain the whole story pretty much, so SPOILER-WARNING again!I like this part of the Hellraiser Series (for me the first films, 1,2,3,4 stand beside the second ones 5,6,7,8 because their style differs so much).For me it's like this 1. Film Creating a universe of demons that produces suspense, nightmarish. 2. Film Making Hellraiser focus on HELL, hellish 3. Film Making the film focus on Pinhead, who is a clown in this one and not the king of suffering 4. Film Making all the best out of weak part 3 and completing the series.I find the story of BLOODLINE perfectly reasonable (3 generations of toymakers, destruction of the box and Pinhead) 1. Philip Lemarchand creates the box for a crazy man. P.'s the first to create a plan to destroy the box, too. 2. John Merchant is a famous architect and builds the skyscraper seen at the end of HR 3 (which I think is a ridiculously weak means of giving part 3 a climax). 3. Paul Merchant has to finish the work of his ancestor Philip by building a space station that turns into the Elysium Configuration,... 4. ...which destroys Pinhead and the devilish puzzle box.Worth watching, understanding, and for me the Final for Pinhead. A nice quote from the Film He got pins on his head! "},{"Title":"Nice idea","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After reading some of the reviews, I had to laugh. Some people thought the film was too dark or the deaths weren't entertaining, and too cruel?!!! Well, guess what fellas, the whole point is the film is supposed to be dark, its about personal hell! And since when has flesh being pulled apart by hooks not been cruel, anyway?!!!Anyway, I digress. The film itself, acting aside, is rather good. After the atrocity that was Hell On Earth, the series returned to a standard that is watchable again. (Hell on Earth without doubt the worst in the series, adding nothing in terms of story, and the new cenobites purely laughable...but that's a different review). The idea of the history of the box, why it was created and the level of Pinhead cruelty all beautifully portrayed. OK, there is a hint of James Cameron here, almost Alien-esque, but that adds the claustrophobia that went sadly missing in the previous film. The addition of Angelique was a nice touch (very nice!). At least the plot was working well, and it did kind of finalise the series.Well worth seeing, and certainly better, darker and more twisted than the hollywood back-shafting of the third in the series.Easily 8/10 "},{"Title":"BEST OF THE FOUR","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  HELLRAISER 4BLOODLINE***1/23 1/2 STARS-THE BEST HELLRAISER YET. IN THIS ONE WE ARE INTRODUCED TO THE WHOLE STORY OF HOW THE BOX WAS CREATED AND WHO CREATED IT. THE MOVIE TAKES PLACE IN THE PAST, PRESENT AND FUTURE. THE PAST SHOWS HOW THE BOX WAS CREATED TO OPEN DOORS TO HELL AND THE CREATION OF THE FIRST CENEBITE. THE PRESENT SHOW PINHEADS FIRST ENCOUNTER WITH THE ANCESTOR OF THE PERSON WHO CREATED THE BOX. THE FUTURE SHOWS HOW PINHEAD CAN BE DESTROYED FOR GOOD AND WILL BE DONE BY THE ANCESTOR. GREAT PLOT, AWSOME GORY SCENES, EXCELLENT ENDING, AND OF COURSE ANOTHER GREAT PERFORMANCE BY DOUG BRADLEY AS PINHEAD. IF YOU HAVE ANY COMMENTS ON MY REVIEW E-MAIL ME AT intodarkness4150@aol.com "},{"Title":"I liked it, Under-Rated Movie where the Hellraiser franchise ends in my opinion","Date":"17 June 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't see where all the hate is coming from on this movie.I first saw it when i was about 15, and it was a great horror flick, I never heard there were other Hellraiser movies to be honest, and after watching this, I was slightly creeped out by Pinheads dialogue, his lines in this movie gave me goosebumps, to the fact on the creepy and messed up scene of the creation of the twin cenobites from the 2 security guards which gave me a little more gore and mutilation than i asked for. But then again, this is the kind of scene that should be in horror movies more, instead nowadays we have to put up with crappy remakes of old slasher movies that are made with no intelligence whatsoever. Another thing that creeped me out the fact that the characters especially John Merchant, a family man who has a wife and a kid where you actually felt terrified for them, you'd expect those chains come from nowhere again and rip their skin off. The atmosphere that surrounded his family was chilling.The cinematography and editing in the movie was perfect to show a hellish like atmosphere that is continuous in the movie while in the scenes with the cenobites and Angelique. The music as well is portrayed brilliantly, I thought the director did very well. The make-up and gore was nothing to make it seem fake, I actually didn't notice anything odd about it, it seemed very well done for this direct to video release.Some people are against this movie that its getting to the point where Pinhead is in space, I did notice this, however still after watching the first 3 movies, i didn't think it was that bad. I thought it worked, the story didn't rely too much that it was in space, it was mostly flashbacks of Merchant (who has built a space station and use it to close the gates of Hell forever and destroy the cenobites) to the curse of La 'Merchant - the man who made the box, and the curse of his bloodline by the Cenobites. It shows the fate of Pinhead seeing that this is far into the future.All in all, it was a good horror movie, but if you're easily offended by mutilation in a twisted sick and grotesque degrading way by means of chains and machinery coming out of nowhere, then this might not be for you "},{"Title":"Love this movie","Date":"17 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie had its inconsistencies, but though some have said they like it least, I still enjoy it more than 'Inferno'. Any time-spanning film that takes in a handful of centuries is going to be quick with each one by necessity, or the movie would be six hours long. And I did like the space stuff, but I have a bone to pick with the idea of Merchant's Elysium device, and I'm not sure that should be capable of killing Pinhead. But even if it did, his death wouldn't kill Leviathan, or all the rest of the Cenobites who weren't there. In spite of that, the current Merchant seems convinced that he's vanquishing the enemy for all time. O_o Angelique in human form sort of annoys me &#150; I like her better once Pinhead makes her into a Cenobite. But one of the most entertaining aspects of 'Bloodline' is the rivalry between them, as well as something I'm going to call attraction/repulsion. For most of the movie, if Pinhead and Angelique are on screen together, she starts being arrogant and coquettish, and he starts behaving as if he's out to seduce her. But underlying all of this is the mood that they might actually hate each other on some level, as they fall into a contest of wills over how to proceed with John Merchant. Over all, the actors are achieving multiple levels of mood and tone at once in each of those scenes.I also rather liked how Mr. Ramsay managed to be the same man and very different men, each time he played a new successor to the Merchant curse, neatly reinventing himself each time.And doesn't everyone love the Chatterer Beast? A boy and his dog. The humor of seeing Pinhead stroking a dove only to toss it to his pet was great. And the line, Ready for something &#150; that screams? was brilliant. I don't know if it was in the script to make that slight pause in the line, or if Doug threw that in himself, but it makes the line even better. It conveys a quiet delight in what he intends to go do, and demonstrates covertly (since he's generally rather overt) his immense power. "}{"Title":"Some Flaws But There's Worse In The Franchise","Date":"23 January 2010","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Alan Smithee  is a pen name used by directors when they're unhappy with a project . There's many reasons for its usage but at the end of he day it's used because of a sensation of failure on the directors part . The real name of the director for BLOODLINE is Kevin Yagher best known as being behind the make up effects artist on the NIGHTMARE OF ELM ST movies . Considering the director used the name  Alan Smithee  and BLOODLINE was the last HELLRAISER film to be released in the cinemas the omens weren't good but I was pleasantly surprised . It's certainly not Oscar winning material but neither is it a totally redundant horror movie The story starts with a police unit turning up at a space station in the 22nd Century and right away I was expecting an ALIENS clone with Cenobites . If this is what you're expecting you won't be entirely disappointed but for the most part screenwriter Peter Atkins does try and flesh out the mythology of the Cenobites by setting the story mainly in the 18th Century France and 20th century New York . The French sequences are somewhat confusing since it suggests the puzzle boxes used since the first film were actually created by a toymaker and not by the Cenobites themselves . Atkins is less successful in explaining how the box ties in with the creation of the Cenobite race but does at least point out how the building seen at the end of HELLRAISER 3 has the same architecture as the boxes Interestingly the original director of was to be Guillermo Del Toro but he turned it down . This film would have suited his style with its grotesque imagery but Yagher does well and puts the budget on screen . I was amazed that the budget only cost $4 million . The space scenes are convincing and the movie is shot very effectively . The only real problem I had was with Bruce Ramsey as Dr Paul Merchantin the 22nd Century who gives a very poor wooden performance All in all HELLRAISERBLOODLINE is an entertaining horror romp . Comparing it to the original HELLRAISER from 1987 is similar to comparing James Whale's FRANKENSTEIN to some of the later films in the Universal franchise . But for a film directed by the prolific  Alan Smithee  there's a lot worse out there "},{"Title":"Just What I wanted to see","Date":"7 May 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" For Hellraiser fan, like me, this is the movie I wanted to see, where did the box come from, how did it first exists and it goes right into the future for the end for pinhead. The pacing of the movie is good. Most movies the Cenobites, sadly are in the sidelines, here, it displays prominently as it travels to the future. The most interesting is the box, the toymaker, the bloodline, and pinhead. If you have to watch Hellraiser, this movie is way too underrated, and as the years goes by the IMDb scoring system gets pretty screwed up to be useless. From now on, I am going to individually read just the Hellraiser fan reviews. For the must have Hellraiser fan like me, the best in the series goes exactly I, II, III, and IV. Thereafter, V, VI, VII, and VIII basically went down the toilet, especially under the direction of Rick Bota for three series in a row. It seems the producers (pinhead) are out to destroy or at least put the fans through hell, after opening (watching) the mythical box. In my opinion, it is Rick Bota who is the real Pinhead, that let us suffer! I think they are out to remove pinhead completely from the series as he is getting less and less airtime. "},{"Title":"Pinhead's completely unnecessary space-adventure!","Date":"15 March 2004","Score":"21 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Rarely seen a movie that deviates so much from the original premise and still remains (more or less) acceptable&#133;Bloodline is a rather short (which is a good thing in this case) escapade that focuses on the mysterious Hellraiser box. Who wanted it to be made and how it cast a spell on the entire bloodline of the man who eventually created it. We're introduced to 3 generations of the Merchant family (all played by Bruce Ramsey); one in 18th century Paris, one in the present day and the last one in a future galaxy far, far away&#133; Opinions on this storyline may differ a lot&#133;either you think it's very idiotic and far-fetched or&#133;original and dared. The initial atmosphere and setting by Clive Barker has completely vanished, yet the morbid surrounding remains and several sequences are still very creepy and unsettling. Hellraiser Bloodline contains quite a lot of exquisite slaughtering and the charismatic presence of Pinhead (Doug Bradley) still is an extra horror-value. Pinhead &#150; accompanied by a pet puppy this time &#150; still knows how to kill&#133;too bad he talks too much and his vicious speeches tend to get boring quickly. Best aspects in this production are the newly introduced `cenobites' and the occult Parisian portrait. Giant turn-offs are the weak script, the absence of the typical macabre humor and the lack of references to Barker's initial masterpiece. Although not highly memorable itself, Bloodline stands as the last watchable Hellraiser film. After this sequel, the series went downhill completely. So far, 2 more sequels came out (2 more are still in process) and neither of those is worth seeing. HellraiserBloodline suffered from a lot of production difficulties and the director eventually preferred to be credited as Alan Smithee&#133;Meaning he doesn't want to be remembered as the director of it. Who could blame him?  "},{"Title":"Hellraiser bloodline really rocks!! great   flick!!","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This review contains a spoilers!!! OK this movie is great really great, i found it to be very entertaining and i'm giving it 10 out of 10 pin head has some great lines in this movie. Theirs another demon tho that works as a side kick kinda called angelique she does a good job also as a demon but shes more into temptation and not pain as pin head is. One thing i did notice if anyone else thinks the same comment and let us know, i found that in this movie pin heads IQ went down big time like his so evil and empty in this movie which is good makes him ruthless but sooo sooo dumb. His great in this movie but he doesn't really give paul merchant much of a fight instead he just blabbers and blabbers about how earth is a garden of flesh, this is near the end like hello didn't he really really want merchants ancestor to help him make a bigger door so that the cenobites could come in and out as they pleased and not like insects that sneak in the cracks, this was before his ancestors wife sends them back. I would be like okay lets start from were we left off as soon as i was summoned instead we see pin head near the end talk a lot of crap which is great dialogue about how theirs only darkness and no light. and wastes his time. you would think that someone that knows your fear and knows what your thinking of like he did with the twins would suspect something twisted was up he got his ass whooped way too easy if you ask me but then again its the writers fault really not his. apart from that this film rocks the feeling stays with you long after its finished and i'm referring to the feeling you get with the last lines of dialogue before the ending i wont say too much more even tho i've said enough but i did warn that this review contained spoilers. for others that have seen this film share some insight of what you thought about the battle in space, by the way i've seen some crappy space movies like leprechaun 4 this movie actually works really well in space as for the location i think who ever thought of the idea originally got it spot on. this movie rocks!!!. its definitely better than hellraiser 3 but like i said before we needed more quick action from pin head instead we got him talking way too much. "},{"Title":"Not much better than Hellraiser III Hell on Earth (1992), but better","Date":"28 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When movie franchises begin to get long on the tooth, everyone from the director and the film crew to the studio producing the film, are required to come up with new ways to make the viewing experience fresh for the audience that follows it. These are the guidelines that should be followed when occurrences like this happen. Of course we all know that's rarely the case except for the few. Most money hungry studios end up taking the full reign of the production and end up demanding the final result being fairly an exact copy of previous entries made or drastically changed the concept itself. Thus leading to the trend of diminishing returns. For Clive Barker's Hellraiser (1987) franchise, the trend is mostly the same, except the issues are in other places this time.Compared to Hellraiser III Hell on Earth (1992), this entry doesn't really surpass it, but it does at least feel more on track than the prior one does. Originally Kevin Yagher (a make-up and special effects artist who had experience in other horror films) was set to direct as his debut film. Unfortunately, Miramax Studios, which then owned the rights fought with Yagher, causing him to quit. However, one man who hasn't left since Hellraiser II Hellbound (1988) was writer Peter Atkins, who once again penned the script. In this chapter, the year is 2127 and audiences are introduced to Dr. Merchant (Bruce Ramsay) an inventor who has discovered a way to destroy Pinhead (Doug Bradley) and his followers forever. Regrettably, he is stopped before he is able to finish by a group of soldiers who came to take him away. To stall time, Merchant convinces Rimmer (Christine Harnos) to listen to why he needs to finish what he was doing. The story Merchant tells is how the Cenobites were first released and how they connect to his family ties.The fact that Atkins went in even further than before to explain the back story to Pinhead and his origins is again commendable, but sadly this new information totally contradicts the three films before it. None of the main characters in the prior entries were related to Merchant, so why did their fate have them come in contact with Pinhead? Also what about the multiple boxes that Dr. Channard had in his office from the second film? If these boxes act as portals, what makes you think destroying one box will keep Pinhead out forever? It just doesn't add up. Along with that is a new pseudo-villain named Angelique (Valentina Vargas) who also has a past with Merchant, but only him. Of the characters in the story, the only people that matter and viewers will enjoy is Dr. Merchant, Angelique and Pinhead. Bruce Ramsay (who ends up playing different versions of himself) manages to at least be competent in his role and certainly more convincing than Terry Farrell from the previous movie. As for Vargas and Bradley, they both looked like they enjoyed their roles. Doing all kinds of evil acts and such.On the flip side, the rest of the cast is completely forgettable. There is no character development, not even for Rimmer who listens to Dr. Merchant. There's also a young Adam Scott and an older Kim Myers (from A Nightmare on Elm Street 2 Freddy's Revenge (1985)) and they too have no real significant importance. But aside from characters, Atkins did change a number of things for the better. One being the tone; the third movie had a completely different tone to that of the first two. Many fans took it as too goofy and cheesy where Pinhead was portrayed more as a generic slasher villain. Here, Pinhead still kills just cause, but he's not as blood hungry either. Another plus is the creativeness of the cenobite designs, which unlike the third film looked quite gimmicky. Here, they look more like what Pinhead's followers would look like. Then again, fans may also complain because there really isn't a lot of new additions. Throughout the whole film, only three new cenobites appear of which one wasn't even human and they also don't receive a lot of screen time. Along with that is a possible dislike for the smaller amount of gore too. With that it may not be as scary either.Yet, the kill scenes are still quite gruesome. Another interesting edition to the mix of the franchise is the use of CGI, which doesn't look that bad. It's used minimally which is how it should be used. The cinematography shot by Gerry Lively is a slight improvement over his work in Hellraiser III Hell on Earth (1992). This time instead of showing Pinhead in the sunlight all the time, he is kept in the shadows and this helps him feel more mysterious and dangerous. Finally for the musical score, Daniel Licht who would later be known for his music in the Dexter (2006) TV show composed the tracks. Thankfully, Licht exceeds Randy Miller's score from the prior film by adding new themes for the cenobites and making a variation of Christopher Young's original theme that was created from the first film. Much of these tracks use the same string build up, choral echoes and percussion but its the deviations that make it more appealing to listen to than recycled tracks.It still doesn't anywhere match the first two original movies and most will probably find it equal to that of the Hellraiser III Hell on Earth (1992) quality, but even for the production troubles that it had and nonsensical story telling, it can be a more entertaining watch. Although the likable cast is few, it is made up with more back-story, a better- written tone, appropriate costume design, acceptable special effects that don't look dated and a better film score. "},{"Title":"Exciting new twist on the familiar story","Date":"31 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Arrested on a space station, a man recounts his family's multi-generation struggle against Pinhead and the Cenobites after they had inadvertently released them and tries to stop him from continuing his reign of terror.This is an unfairly maligned offering that has some good points about it. One of the finer points about this one is the actuality of this one tying up the series-long thread of where exactly the box that summons them actually came from. Finally getting that sorted out while also showcasing the connection to their dimension and ours through the rather chilling summoning ceremony on display which is quite fun and finally solves that burning question in the series about its origins. Also on display is the rather impressive sequence showing the creation of a double-headed Cenobite in grand fashion, a lengthy and bloody sequence that truly revels in the horror of the intent behind this sequence. That also brings about the impressive special effects and the blood and gore, which are rather impressive since there's not a lot of screen-time devoted to them so instead it really makes the most of such scenes by really going all-out in here. That does bring up one of the few flaws in here, with this one coming across as way too overfilled with the family drama to make better use of the Cenobites and their actions. There's not a whole lot of time here with the creatures due to the films' incessantly annoying habit of switching through history to keep the story going. There's not much about this one that doesn't make sense because of its needless switching back-and-forth in these time periods as this just becomes endlessly convoluted and overdrawn which doesn't have to be that way as the story could've been told in a much simpler fashion. Otherwise, this one wasn't all together that bad.Rated R Graphic Violence, Graphic Language, Nudity and a brief sex scene. "},{"Title":"A good, if flawed bookend to the 'Hellraiser' story","Date":"11 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Stories of films tinkered with and botched by studios are the stuff of legend. Executives who know little about art thinking they know what the people they really want is both amusing and frustrating. It hurts even more when we're dealing with a film that's part of a beloved series. Dimension Films has been known for having some problematic productions. Few are as interesting as what went on during the making of the third 'Hellraiser' sequel. One can only imagine the amount of tension there was between the director and the studio there was.The franchise created by Clive Barker was becoming more successful with each installment. The first two had been made independently, while III was the first with a studio involved. For what was to be the final installment, the filmmakers had a tall order to fill. A winning concept, a talented effects artist in the director's chair and a script by 'Hellbound' and 'Hell On Earth' writer Peter Atkins were all good signs. Alas, the studio had to put their noses in and make changes against the director's wishes. The surprising thing is that the end result is actually quite good.Pros Good show by the entire cast. Though no match for Christopher Young's work, the score here is excellent. Neat, not to mention ambitious premise. The parts of Peter Atkins' script used are excellent. Gorgeous cinematography. Fabulous production design for all three time periods. Flows at a good pace. Some really killer effects, practical and visual.Cons Far too short for ideas and characters to fully develop. Some of the visual effects look dated. Has signs of studio interference, like in the editing. The lack of budget for such an ambitious concept shows a bit.Final thoughts It's a real shame that director Kevin Yagher and writer Peter Atkins didn't get to make the film the envisioned. There's a lot of really good stuff in here and you can sense they and everyone else involved had their hearts in it. That's why I think the film works as well as it does despite it's flaws. It's still more interesting than many of the Horror films that came out in the 90s.My rating 3.5/5 "},{"Title":"The Good Stuff!","Date":"2 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is by far one of the best installments of the iconic franchise. Several things make this happen1. It's great to see the back story on the puzzle box and why it was created to begin with. It's also great to see who the madman was behind such dark intentions.2. We get to see how the story fits in with other Hellraiser films in regards to how Cenobites CAN be created. At least the pseudo-cenobites for that matter. They then have to be sent to Leviathan for completion. 3. This film just kicks butt. Overall, I can say that this film is by far the best of the post-trilogy installments. It will never disappoint. "},{"Title":"Do I look like someone who cares what God thinks?!?","Date":"6 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Watchable entry in the Hellraiser series at least does its best to establish a mythology. It focuses on the puzzle box itself, otherwise known as the Lament Configuration, that caused all of the trouble in the first place. It was created centuries ago by a toy maker who knew not what he was doing, as nefarious types were out to use it to unleash demons such as Pinhead upon the world. The back stories are framed by sequences set in the future where the latest descendant of that long ago toy maker is attempting to make things right again with a puzzle box of his own. Now, it almost certainly would have been better had director Kevin Yagher, a top makeup and special effects designer, been able to stick with his own vision, as extensive re-shoots were ordered, re-shoots that didn't involve him, and as a result he took his own name off the picture in favour of the notorious pseudonym Alan Smithee. And the story does indeed feel thin, not fully realized, and too rushed. Overall this is a hard movie to really get interested in, as too many of the characters and actors on hand are of the nondescript kind. Doug Bradley as Pinhead, of course, is an exception, and is magnetic as always, sinking his teeth into his literate dialogue. And Valentina Vargas is mildly amusing and definitely sexy as his ironically named cohort Angelique. There's just not much oomph to this thing, no standout set pieces, and no real sense of overwhelming doom or menace. In fact, it's tiresome at times. The gore and designs are a highlight (although one can tell this was done on a budget), with Pinhead provided with an effective canine companion. There are interesting ideas here, and hints of what could have been, but from start to finish this is purely on the routine side. Five out of 10. "},{"Title":"Twas a good movie","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Despite that many say this is the worst of the series, it is far from it. The worst of the series was the one with the annoying man that played in NYPD Blue. That one was just awful. Bloodline has to be the best of the series for numerous reasons. The make-up costumes and effects were all done wonderfully. The plot was amazing, it took you from the beginning, it actually told where the puzzle box came from and how it could be annihilated. This movie made the series make more sense. It mixed gore with intelligence, which is rare in most splatter films. For once a horror movie wasn't absurdly cheesy and laughable. The only part of this movie i didn't like was the cenobite's dog. Other than that the whole thing was great. I give it a 4 out of 5. Intelligent and insane. Clive Barker truly mastered the art of horror with this movie. And to the person who said Pinhead's speeches get boring They show the part of the character we rarely see. In all the other movies he's pretty much quiet and does very little. Those speeches make this movie intelligent, where the others are made for their gore effects and not their plot lines.  "}{"Title":"A step down from the first three, but marginally entertaining in it's own right.","Date":"19 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" HELLRAISER BLOODLINE as many HELLRAISER fans know, has a rather torturous & nightmarish history to it. Besides being held up a year, the film went through various script changes, re-shoots & re-editing, resulting in a somewhat uneven film, that at times feels rather choppy in area's. The films plot & execution is certainly a mixed bag in terms of direction. While Special Effects artist KEVIN YAGHER is billed as director, he walked off during mid production, after being disgruntled with the final product & slapped the ALAN SMITHEE pseudonym on the film. While HALLOWEEN THE CURSE OF MICHAEL MYERS helmer JOE CHAPPELLE was later called in to do re-shoots & re-edit the film, with the help of screenwriter RAND RAVICH, who re-wrote original writer PETER ATKINS version of the film. Interestingly enough Screenwriter RAND RAVICH also did some uncredited re-writes on HALLOWEEN THE CURSE OF MICHAEL MYERS a film that suffered the same fate as BLOODLINE. None of this is all that surprising, since the directing style noticeably varies at times in various sections of the film. While some of the direction is really good, other parts of the film, feels rather hackneyed in approach. As a result of this, HELLRAISER BLOODLINE comes off as a rather underwhelming affair at times. It makes very little sense, with plot lines noticeably being dropped, while others are not fully developed. Making it a rather routine effort. BLOODLINE certainly has the best plot out any of the HELLRAISER movies, but it is never taken full advantage of. The segment set in the 18th century tends to suffer more than anything else in the film, not only is it brief, but many of it's more captivating sequences were left on the cutting room floor, making the whole segment underwhelming in it's execution. The segment set in present day, is a little more interesting in the first half, but quickly degenerates into the usual stalk & chase horror movie that concludes unsatisfying. While the space station segment comes off as a rather cheap looking B movie rip-off of ALIEN, that just seems to be getting interesting when it ends abruptly & confusingly. It also appears to be missing certain scenes, not to mention any kind of real suspense or atmosphere. Angelique the lead demon who plays a major part in the first two segments winds being underused here, she turns up as a cenobite follower of Pinhead's & there's never any scenes where she confronts the space station hero like she did his ancestors. The segment ends with a shot of the dark prince of hell himself Pinhead being finally destroyed, uttering the words Amen before his death. It seems the film-makers were hinting at something here. One comes up with the crazy notion that the dark soulless villain of the series, may have repented & asked for forgiveness for his many years of indulging in evil, but it's rather useless to speculate. Angelique wanting to become human was an interesting little subplot, but that to is seemingly dropped midway into the film, as is the scenes that suggest that present day descendant John Merchant is having an affair with Angelique but this is never fully developed. The plot holes come in with the following At one point after his wife & son are abducted by Pinhead, John leaves Angelique to go looking for them, terrified of who has them & where they are, but how did John know they were in trouble? Did Angelique tell him something? Why did Angelique summon Pinhead to help her, when she really didn't need him at all? It seems pointless especially later on in the film, when it looks like she is set to betray him by forcing John to open the portals of hell for her, before Pinhead showed up? & what became of Angelique & the cenobite twin brothers, after they kill the head commander of the troops sent to arrest Merchant's ancestor in the space station? They just collect the box & disappear, with their deaths never being shown? the whole ending of the film feels incomplete, plus Angeliques feud with the Merchant family is never resolved satisfyingly & what is her connection to Pinhead? it seems they know each other, but chronologically this would be impossible, since Angelique left hell in the 18th century, while Eliiot Spencer became Pinhead in the early days of World War I? The performances for the most parts really aren't all that great & that maybe due to the constant script re-writes that went on during production. The only ones that really shine here, are CHRISTINE HARNOS & DOUG BRADLEY, They make for a fun set of villains & we finally do get some questions answered as to who made the box & whyAll in all, HELLRAISER BLOODLINE is worth a look for horror fans. Despite word of mouth & its bad history, it really isn't that bad of a movie & remains fairly watchable for what it is, but coming in at an 85 minute running time, a film like this should have been executed on a far more epic & grand scale, especially the ending, since it is supposed to be Pinhead's last outing on his path of destruction. But it all comes off as a watered down film. As it is, it remains a very passive effort. Followed by a direct to video sequel, HELLRAISER INFERNO*** stars "},{"Title":"The beauty of Bloodline is that it's both the first and last film in the Hellraiser chronology.It's sort of the last Hellraiser sequel that matters.","Date":"4 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" it's easy to write off Hellraiser Bloodline as the one set in space, but the reality is that only 1/3 of the film takes place in the future. The underrated sequel brings an incredible amount of mythology to the table, and though I'd be lying if I said it all worked, it's the ambition that makes this one somewhat of a gem. Given the low budget and messy production, it's no minor miracle that it works as well as it does.Hellraiser Bloodline tells both the beginning and ending of the story Clive Barker unleashed on the big screen in 1987. Not only do we find out how the puzzle box was created, as well as by whom and for what initial purpose, but we also get a front row seat for its destruction, providing a sense of closure to the franchise.other sequels followed, but by jumping so far into the future for the outer space-set finale, Dimension Films was able to make the rare franchise sequel that actually feels like the end of the franchise. Not only is the puzzle box destroyed but so too is Pinhead, and there's something to be said for the definitive nature of Bloodline. In many ways, it's sort of the last Hellraiser sequel that matters.Ambition and a respectable amount of imagination are also on display in Hellraiser Bloodline's standout makeup effects, particularly when it comes to the birth of a siamese Cenobite that Pinhead creates by literally twisting two twin brothers together. The film also introduces the awesome Chatterer Beast, a hellish pet hound composed of human flesh. He doesn't get nearly enough screen-time, but he's pretty damn cool.Hellraiser Bloodline tries way harder than most horror sequels. And for that, we should all respect it.The beauty of Bloodline is that it's both the first and last film in the Hellraiser chronology. "},{"Title":"Bloodline did bring back the same element of sexual line that the original film did in master seedy fashion.","Date":"2 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" We start out in the year 2127 on the space station Minos with Dr. Paul Merchant (Bruce Ramsay) using a remote controlled droid to open the Lament Configuration in a sealed chamber. The droid succeeds only to be blown to pieces as a most unsatisfying victim, as Pinhead puts it. Meanwhile, the station is stormed by a small group of Marines sent to capture Dr. Merchant for hijacking the very station he designed. He's captured before he can put his potential plan into action, and thus, pleads with them to allow him to finish his work. After enough pleading, he convinces the female marine to hear his story. Merchant tells of how his ancestor, Phillip L'Marchant (also played by Bruce Ramsay), created the puzzle box in the eighteenth century based on the specific instructions of the most famous magician in France, Duc De L'Isle (Mickey Cottrel). Phillip never could've imagined what it would unlock. De L'Isle used the box to bring forth a demon in a woman's skin, and named her Angelique (Valentina Vargas). Paul says that Phillip witnessed this devilry and attempted to undo it by designing the Elysium Configuration - something he would be incapable of implementing as it had to do with the reflecting of light beams to be a counteracting prison for these demons...the Cenobites. The design was passed down through the family's bloodline (hence, the subtitle), and eventually, the twentieith century descendant, John Merchant (Ramsay, again), a achitect / computer designer, had potentially built what could become the Elysium Configuration, but Pinhead states that it could be a very large doorway (the office bulding featured at the conclusion of the previous film). Angelique attempts to seduce its secrets from John, but Pinhead states that seduction is useless as pain and suffering are the way of hell now. Pinhead attempts to trap John by holding his family prisoner, but in the end, both sides lose. In the twenty-second century, Dr. Paul Merchant believes that he can destroy the Cenobites once and for all, but the marines' untimely arrival have prevented that. Naturally, no one believes his elaborate story, but he must find a way to destroy the Cenobites or else the bloodline will end with him.Barker's original vision was something far more grisly and seedy than what was shot. Still, the film holds together with a decent story. The scenes in eighteenth century France are probably the best in the film as they are the most Hellraiser-like. It also has the richest art direction, and actually contains no Pinhead. To me, it is the most fascinating segment of the film. Though, as the film goes on, we see the further divergence from the original, established mythology. Pinhead once again creates his own Cenobites despite not having the power to do so. Performance wise, Doug Bradley seems quite comfortable here, playing bringing back the coldness of the character.Bruce Ramsay shows a great flexiblity as he portrays Phillip, John, and Paul. Each one is a different type of character. Phillip being the niave little man, John being the protective father, and Paul being the intelligent and cunning one of the lot. I hand it to him for showing the diversity of his acting abilities.The overall style and look of the film is very slick and smooth. There's less artistry and more commercial sensibilities in place with the cinematography and direction.There are several cut scenes including Angelique's Party in the first time period, and in fact, the story was to be totally chronological instead of starting with Paul's narration from the future. More things were undoubtedly cut, and it would be wonderful to see a Director's Cut someday, but it seems highly unlikely. Also, these marines are idiots, and it would've been better if they were more like the Marines out of Aliens or the team from Predator. Capable, intelligent, believable, and highly aware. These marines are just meat ready to be ripped apart by Pinhead's chains. Even the grunts from Jason X would've been greatly better than these slaughtered lambs. Anyway, it had potential, and probably still does in that aforementioned, yet unseen director's cut. All that I will mention about Clive Barker's vision, if it had been adhered to, is it woulve' been a far more visceral and nasty film with Phillip L'Merchant being a highly disturbed serial killer obsessed with creating dozens of puzzle boxes, and a deeper, more textured backstory overall being explored. As it stands now, Hellraiser Bloodline fails in some places, has some shining moments, but all in all, still delivers some chilling scenes with a good story, great makeup work, and good visual effects. "},{"Title":"An ambitious concept That deserves more credit , kudos must go to writer Peter Atkkins, a veteran of the series at this stage .","Date":"29 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Written by Peter Atkins, with Clive Barker serving as executive producer, Bloodline is the century- spanning origin story of the puzzle box that featured throughout all the Hellraiser films up until this point - and the sequels which followed.Director Kevin Yagher disowned the film when the studio began re-editing it, ordering re-writes and re- shoots, and generally preventing him from realising his grand vision. And what a vision this could have been. Sadly the budget, and aforementioned studio interference renders it a run of the mill, rather underwhelming slasher movie with but a few moments of surprising creativity.Yagher had previously made a name for himself as a master of special effects, working on such titles as A Nightmare on Elm Street 2 Freddy's Revenge, Child's Play and The Hidden. He was so aghast at the changes imposed on Bloodline, he removed his name from it and replaced it with the Directors Guild of America approved pseudonym, Alan Smithee. Directors can do this when they feel that their artistic vision or creative control has been severely compromised by the interference of pesky studio executives more interested in money than creativity. Apparently many of Yagher's more elaborate designs and ideas never even made it to the screen, including Cenobites decked out in French period garb. When Yagher walked away from the project, just before it wrapped, Joe Chappelle was hired to film the remaining scenes, reshoot some material - including the narrative framing device onboard the space station - and tie everything up. Chappelle had previously directed the equally misguided- but- strangely-fascinating Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers.Again, as with the prior films, there is a strong sense of continuity present in Bloodline, and kudos must go to writer Peter Atkins, a veteran of the series at this stage, who, with the character of Angelique, creates what actually feels like a bona fide Clive Barker character. Alluring, seductive and deadly, she is a demon inhabiting the skin of a beautiful prostitute offered in sacrifice to her. When she emerges at the finale, complete with full-on Cenobite make-over, her appearance harks back to earlier female Cenobites, and reeks of the same morbid sensuality; a sensuality that was markedly absent from the prior instalment. Bloodline gets one thing right at least; it feels like a Clive Barker film. Albeit a rather flawed one. Bloodline was clearly intended to be the final installment in the flailing Hellraiser saga and in chronological order if watched as a prequel and a sequel its the final chapter of the hellraiser franchise. "},{"Title":"Alan Smithee's best film","Date":"28 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Alan Smithee's best film. Hellraiser Bloodline, a picture that spans centuries and brings the series to a logical conclusion* while setting something of a trend in plopping Horror icons into the vacuum of space. Both the Leprechaun and Friday the 13th series's would follow suit in the years to come, but Bloodline at least makes sense of the setting and smartly works it into the plot rather than haphazardly building some ten-cent story around the idea of Horror figure in space. It's never as goofy as it sounds, but as the fourth picture in the series, it's a misunderstood genre masterpiece. Bloodline is good enough to satisfy fans while bringing to light some of the history that's heretofore gone unseen and unknown in the diabolical world of Pinhead and the grossly disfigured Cenobites.Hellraiser Bloodline sees the franchise come full circle. 10/10 It needs a special Editon treatment and directors cut to appreciate it's vision. "},{"Title":"I'm certainly in the extreme minority of people who can appreciate the ambition behind Bloodline.","Date":"23 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm certainly in the extreme minority of people who can appreciate the ambition behind Bloodline. Though the film got hacked up and reduced the plot to a mess (as only Dimension and Joe Chappelle could do it!), the multiple story lines stretched over three time periods makes for an interesting take on the Hellraiser mythos. It also features some slick gore and makeup gags, which comes as no surprise considering Kevin Yagher was at the helm (before he was unceremoniously dumped in post-production); A three part anthology spanning five centuries, it explores the origin of the puzzle boxes and the family that created them.The movie worked as an excellent slipcase for the entire series. It gave us a definitive start to the story, wrapped up threads from the earlier movies and gave us a definitive ending. "},{"Title":"Part 4 is scarier then the first 3","Date":"4 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Don't get me wrong the first three Hell raiser movies are very scary. But this one is scarier. This is one of the scariest movies ever made. This movie starts out in the further. Then goes back to the 1700's. Then is goes back to the further. Then goes to modern times. Then it goes back the the further. There is one actor who is in all of the time pieces. All the three of the characters he play are related to each other. The later sequels take place just after the modern time in this movie. But before the further time. And the past part takes place before the first one. The later sequels are not very good. But this one is great. It is one of the best horror movies ever made. It has great acting. It also has a great story line. It also has great special effects. See it. It is a must see. It is very intense. "},{"Title":"Sever the Line.","Date":"21 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Hellraiser 4 Bloodline (1996) Dir Alan Smithee / Cast Doug Bradley, Valentina Vargas, Bruce Ramsay, Charlotte Chatton, Kim Myers Sickening wretch bent on graphic violence. The image of a human body suspended by hooks is enough call to vomit. Subtitle suggests generations of evil. Story regards an ancient toymaker who made a cube that can summon and destroy demons. It is obvious to anyone after seeing the movie that this wasn't regarding a Rubics Cube. It might have been more interesting if it was. See if Pinhead can get all the colours matching. Anyway, a rescue team invades a space station and finds the film's narrator. Soon Pinhead and his demons arrive and make short work of them in all sorts of graphic ways that would create more vomit than an evening of heavy drinking. Filled with great visual elements matched with a screenplay overrun with idiocy. It assembles a bunch of nameless peons who die graphically for the sake of entertainment. To top it off this film is directed with the alias Alan Smithee, which means someone other than the audience hated it too. Bad acting headed by Doug Bradley as Pinhead and Valentina Vargas, Bruce Ramsay, Kim Myers, and Charlotte Chatton. While the original film is intriguing and creative with its visual elements, this third sequel is an exercise in gore and guts that belongs in a barf bag with viewer's results. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"The Merchant family tries to close the doors to Pinhead and company.","Date":"1 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The film opens on 'Space Station Minos, 2127' which is quite a shift from HR3, made in 1992. There is a single male adult on the station before it is boarded by armed, uniformed troops. The man attempts to manipulate a puzzle cube remotely. This does not go as expected.The man is Dr. Merchant, who designed the station for a company. The boarding party is from his company. They are attempting to figure out what is going on, and then to restore the profitability of the station. They imprison the doctor, then interrogate him.So, we start an ongoing set of pieces of flashback to some 400 years previous. Dr. Merchant's ancestor, Phillip le Merchant, after occult studies, constructed the first of the puzzle cubes that opened a passage to the cenobites to Earth. In 2127, Dr. Merchant was attempting to finish the process of closing that passage. Of course, the boarding party did not help.Phillip sells the cube to the Duc de l'Isle, an evil minded magician. The duke uses it in a number of bloody rituals conducted by him and Jacques over the murdered and dismembered body of a peasant girl. The rituals raise a demon. The duke is stupid enough to think he can command the demon, whom he names Angelique.Phillip tries to get some support for stopping the duke, but the 18th century is in the Age of Reason, so no one really believes him. Still, one of this friends tells him to design a mechanism that will close the doors to the demons. Phillip sets about to do this.Phillip clearly failed in his own time. Angelique meets Phillip's descendant John in the 20th century. He is a famous architect, whom Angelique hopes to recruit. Evidently John failed as well. Will Dr. Merchant succeed in 2127? -----Scores-----Cinematography 7/10 Dark, a bit fuzzy, but mostly OK. I could do without the almost mono-colour palettes.Sound 5/10 Music composed by Daniel Licht, the credits say. Sound overall was not that effective.Acting 3/10 Bruce Ramsay was the lead, I suppose. Unfortunately, his acting was beneath poor. Doug Bradley and Mickey Cottrelle were reasonably good, but the bit players were terrible. Valentina Vargas was marginal.Screenplay 2/10 So we have artificial gravity in 2127? Sounds great. The jumps are many and not helpful among the 18th, 20th, and 22nd centuries. Changing directors in mid-stream due to the interference of the producers did not help. There might have been a coherent idea here at one time. The final product was way too muddled with threads that go nowhere.SFX 4/10 There were lots of CGI (computer generated images), but few of them were well done. The film had plenty of blood and ripped flesh for the gore hounds. The worst FX was the stupid lipstick on John and Paul Merchant. "},{"Title":"Geez, these people need to stay away from that box! Grab a friggin' Rubic's Cube!","Date":"17 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When we think about what famous horror films like A Nightmare on Elm Street, Halloween and Friday the 13th, what do they have in common? They all have a million sequels. The series that seems to be the underdog that most people forget about but know it's main villain is Hellraiser which has a decent amount of sequels. However the sad part is, after the first three movies, every sequel that came out was a direct to video so I don't think the series had much of a chance to stand up to the big boys on the block of the horror genre. Hellraiser was the series that was not only darker but more serious when it came to horror and wasn't afraid to show off the gory side of torture. Think about it, I don't think we could have films like Saw and Hostel which owe a little thanks to Hellraiser for giving us the blood and guts. Also it gave us an extremely dark villain, Pinhead who feels no mercy and enjoys the pleasure of putting pain into your body and pulling your flesh every way possible with chains and hooks. But where did the puzzle box come from? Well Bloodline takes us into the story of the origin of the cenobites.In the year 2127, Paul Merchant, has a robot solve the puzzle box that holds Pinhead. However, several guards led by Rimmer capture Paul. Paul tells Rimmer the story of his bloodline. Philip L'Merchant, a French toymaker, makes the puzzle box for a wealthy aristocrat, who is obsessed with dark magic. He and his apprentice kill a woman and use her to summon the Cenobite slave Angelique. However, Angelique betrays and kills the aristocrat. L'Merchant, in the process of inventing a design to destroy the demons, attempts to steal back the box but is discovered. Jacques, Angelique's master, callously informs the toymaker that he and his bloodline are cursed until the end of time because of the box he created, before ordering Angelique to kill him. However, his wife survives and gives birth to his son, thus continuing the bloodline and to the future where Paul is trying to destroy Pinhead and Angelique once and for all.So I really did enjoy the story of Bloodline, it was a great idea that deserved more time and money. The film does well with what it was given, but since you can tell they were not given such great finances, the film falls short in the acting and shortness of the film. It feels like a made for TV film at times that was just more bloody than others. I couldn't really get into Valentina Vargas as Angelique nor did I find her incredibly evil like Pinhead, she didn't send any chills down my spine. But the last fight with Pinhead was cool and there are some great one liners. Pinhead screaming how he couldn't die is classic considering how many more sequels there are, but this was meant to take place in the future so who knows? Maybe Pinhead really does die in the future. I was a bit disappointed that we didn't have any more Elliot Spencer who is also a very interesting character. But this story was more about how the box was created and the family and their curse to fight the cenobites forever. Over all, it's worth the look, I think this was the last good sequel before it started getting weird and that's odd to say considering this is the Hellraiser series.5/10 "}{"Title":"FINALLY a decent Hellrasier movie.","Date":"25 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In my honest opinion, I think the Hellrasier franchise is extremely overrated in the horror genre. I didn't like Hellraiser 1 at all. I thought it was poorly acted and directed. Hellrasier 2 was an OK movie but certainly not a classic at all. Hellrasier 3 was just awful and ridiculous. So I decided to watch 'Bloodline' last night expecting to see another poor Hellrasier movie. I was completely surprised. It was actually a good movie! Unlike the other Hellrasier movies, 'Bloodline' focuses more on important story elements but it certainly doesn't shy away from the nasty death scenes which have become synonymous with Hellrasier. People will either hate the direction this film takes or will enjoy it. I personally enjoy it and think it's superior to the other Hellrasier films. That probably sounds stupid as Hellraiser 1 & 2 are often touted as horror classics - I've never understood why they get so much praise as classics, whatever...'Bloodline' has both story and gore - the perfect combination for a horror flick in my opinion. People who found Hellrasier 1,2 and 3 lame might just find 'Bloodline' a decent horror movie. Watch it. "},{"Title":"Another Hellraiser, Another Accurate Subtitle","Date":"31 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Okay, let's start with I just don't want to spend too much time on this movie. It was okay for what it was and though it had an interesting concept &#x96; past, present and future, with each storyline (or is that Bloodline?) having its own beginning, middle and end &#x96; it just really didn't fit the Hellraiser lore, so far.Besides, who could get past the PINHEAD&#x85;IN&#x85;SPACE! (said in best PIGS&#x85;IN&#x85;SPACE! voice-over) main selling point? Sure, this preceded the soon to be, laugh out loud trend of putting slashers in outer space Jason Voorhees in Jason X and Leprechaun in Space. (Did I miss any? No, Critters already came from there.)There's more, though not much, to it. Apparently, there's this Toymaker in France, L'Merchant (Ramsay in three Merchant ancestor roles) who made this box &#x96; what's that box's name anyways? Oh! I just now looked it up after having revisited the first four Hellraiser movies The Lament Configuration, if Wikipedia's telling the truth &#x96; in the 1700s that inadvertently was used to summon a demon. L'Merchant's concerned because, well, that's not the purpose of the puzzle box, but nonetheless, the story begins.Fast forward to present day 1996 (also) France and the demon, Angelique (Vargas &#x96; who has screen presence, so probably just did this for the paycheck) breaks free from her master Jacques (Scott) and goes after the bloodline within (now) John Merchant in the USA. John's trying to decipher the antibody, or cure, or drawling of grandpappy L'Merchant in order to contain light to the demon's (Cenobites) darkness.Here's the one thing I believe I liked most in this ho-hum movie. This second story or present day, represents where Part III left off a high-rise tower in the shape(s) of The Lament Configuration. In addition, it was interesting that this mid-section was as if it were a movie all its own, much like if Creepshow's multi-segments were connected, other than the comic-book narrator.Well, the heroes, or John and his family, are able to thwart Pinhead, who shows up to meet both an heir of The Lament Configuration's Toymaker and the demon Angelique for the first time. Pinhead brings his dog, awww and makes new friends out of twins. Let me stop there; in a movie that's only 86 minutes, not only did most of the movie feel like it dragged on, but when they introduced twin guards into the fray, it seemed not only irrelevant, but just a space-filler.But, I digress, fast forward to the future, on a space station where the last of the Merchants is telling the story to his arresting officer &#x96; apparently he went rogue! &#x96; in order for him to complete the giant light box to kill Pinhead&#x85;once&#x85;and&#x85;for&#x85;all! As expected, it gets cheesy in the closing and falls under the typical bad FX with typical one-two-three killings until, you guessed it. Our (well, new, sorta) heroes confront the (by-this-point overly) preachy Pinhead. Rules bygone, reality and fantasy mix unevenly and we may have the end to the downward spiral of a series Hellraiser has become.This is a SKIP. For any fan of Hellraiser, this is an abomination, irrelevant and almost completely suspenseless &#x96; even III had some level of frights. It's not the absolute worst I've seen in any horror part IV, or even one that takes a horror icon into space, but again, it's a back-story of the box that's really not that interesting or relevant. "},{"Title":"Pinhead Suffers Another Scratch in His Creepiness, This Time Caused By 'Alan Smithee'.","Date":"30 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" ***SPOILERS!*** I sometimes wonder what makes sequel-makers think that they have to explain (and therefore destroy) the mysteries behind iconic Horror films. The original Hellraiser of 1987 was an absolute masterpiece and probably one of the scariest films ever made. The 1988 sequel Hellbound was also a fantastic Horror film, though I personally didn't like how the viewer got background information on the Cenobites, some of the all-time creepiest Horror-villains in the original. The third part, Hell on Earth (1992) was already quite a mess, whose makers obviously thought it necessary to add a dose of humor to the formerly incomparably creepy lead-cenobite Pinhead (a typical 90s stupidity) and therefore destroyed most of his scariness. This fourth part Hellraiser Bloodline (1996) is slightly more atmospheric than the third one, but it lowers this quality by inventing even more silly and completely unnecessary 'background information' about the cenobites and the opening of the gates to hell.Seriously - did we need to know how the mysterious puzzle boxes that open the gates to hell are being made? I think not, and that is not the only mystery about the cenobites that is stupidly destroyed in this film. The setting of Bloodline goes back and forth in three different periods. The film begins in a 22nd century space-station, when scientist Dr. Merchant (Bruce Ramsay) attempts to close the gates to hell forever. When government soldiers disrupt his mission he has to explain his reasons. In 18th century Paris, Merchant's ancestor was a toymaker assigned to build a puzzle box by an aristocrat obsessed with the occult. An evoked demon, the princess of hell, took over the body of the beautiful Angelique (Valentina Vargas). Since the only person capable of destroying the gateway to hell is the one who built it, the bloodline of the toymaker would be cursed and his ancestors infested by cenobites throughout the ages... The film, which takes place in the 18th century, the present, and the 22nd century, really is quite a mess. I admit that the part set in the 18th century has a creepy atmosphere and is by far the best part of the film, but its also its smallest part. The parts set in the present and in the future are quite weak, and filled with stupid and unworthy elements. The film's undoubtedly strong points are the terrific make-up and gore-effects, the absolutely ravishing Valentina Varagas as the she-demon, and Pinhead (Doug Bradley), who, in spite of having lost some of his creepiness, still is a menacing villain. It is an almost offensive idea for Hellraiser fans, however, that Pinhead is supposed be defeated by a ridiculous light-show. Overall, Bloodline is not a complete disaster, but it sure is an unworthy sequel to a series that began so brilliantly. Even director Kevin Yagher was obviously embarrassed about it, as he preferred to be credited as Alan Smithee. Overall, this is only recommendable to hardcore Pinhead-fanatics, and most of them are probably going to be angered by another diminution of their favorite demon's creepiness. All others are well-advised to stick with the brilliant first, and excellent second part of the Hellraiser franchise and skip all the others. The makeup effects in Bloodline are creepy as hell, but almost everything else is disappointing. My rating 3.5/10 "},{"Title":"Pinhead's trip to space is a troubled, yet enjoyable journey.","Date":"23 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" You know your horror franchise is in trouble when it resorts to sending its villain into space. And you know a movie is in really big trouble when it's been directed by none-other than Alan Smithee, the pseudonym coined for directors disowning their films. But despite all it's got going against it, Hellraiser Bloodline is a surprisingly well-made and entertaining entry in the Hellraiser saga. Not without huge flaws, Bloodline would be the last Hellraiser flick to make it to theaters, followed by a cluster of direct-to-video releases that, sadly, are much worse. The director of the film, it turns out, is Kevin Yagher, the go-to guy for creature effects on such franchises as Child's Play and A Nightmare On Elm Street. It seems he was at odds with Dimension (the studio that produced the film) and when they decided to go behind his back and re-shoot some stuff with director Joe Chapelle (Halloween The Curse Of Michael Myers) in tow, he walking away, burdening this film with the Smithee trademark.Truth be told, there's an interesting story beneath all the issues this film has, mainly a back-story that tells the creation of the puzzle box, and the war raging between Hell and the bloodline of the creator of the puzzle that spans from the 18th century to modern day (well, 1996, mind you) and all the way to the final frontier of space. Bloodline manages to engage and entertain with its tale, especially in the 18th century and modern day bits. These bits (really, 80% of the movie) are the meat (bad word usage considering the film, I suppose) of the film, bookended by the space tale. Aboard a strange spacecraft, we watch Pinhead and the cenobites stalk their way through the crew, which feels less like Hellraiser and more like Friday The 13th (Jason X to be exact) but that's forgivable. What really kills this film are the bits where we watch Pinhead plot and scheme and make rambling speeches. What was once meant as a minor and mysterious character has been reduced to a Freddy Krueger-type (thanks goes to Hellrasier III Hell On Earth) and nearly every time he shows up on screen and opens his mouth, the narrative comes to a screeching halt. On the upside, however, the rest of the story is fairly faithful to the source material. The back-story that opens the film is about as mean and gruesome as Hellraiser can get, and the modern day piece might have made an okay sequel in its own right. The film also looks good, which will come as a bit of shock considering Yagher's lack of experience in directing. The Joe Chapelle scenes, while directed well, stick out like a sore thumb and are a serious detriment to an otherwise solid sequel.All in all, for a film that was directed by Alan Smithee, Hellraiser Bloodline is a worthy affair. Fans of the first two films will feel a rush of relief that most of the corniness at play in Hellraiser III has been abandoned (no CD throwing here!) and that, for the most part, this flick remains true to its roots. For all it's got going against it, it's overall entertaining and certainly more respectable than certain other entries in the series. "},{"Title":"Last real Hellraiser","Date":"31 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw it in the theater when it came out because I was a huge fan of the series and the first two movies in particular. At that time, I didn't think it was very good.Eleven years later. I still see the flaws but I appreciate it a lot more now. In fact, it was on cable tonight and I am sitting here watching it thinking, wow this movie is pretty brutal even compared to the horror/torture genre of movies that have been coming out the past couple of years. Almost every scene is a bloodbath and I really love the Angelique character. Vartina Vargas played her great. It is a very mean spirited movie and for the most part, left out the cheese which is in the third movie.However, it is obvious that the studio interfered and screwed things up. It could have been a lot better. It is a textbook example of why Hollywood is a joke because everything is about the almighty dollar. Like someone else said, it suffered from a low budget too. It was almost as though they spent the budget on the Space Station sets and then ran out of money for everything else.For someone who hasn't seen it, I would recommend it because it does have it's good points. Just don't expect another Hellraiser or Hellraiser 2 but at least it does try to explain the Hellraiser myth and is really the last true Hellraiser movie because from Inferno on, the series breaks off into an entire different tangent. "},{"Title":"Implausible and pointless","Date":"19 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie, although not as brutally horrible as Hellbound, certainly wasn't horror movie gold. At least it had a semi-coherent plot this time. It's implausible, though, that the bloodline of toymakers was never brought up or even discovered in the first three movies. Also, the movie would have been fine without the idiot from the future telling his story in a flashback. It could have just been the modern day John Merchant finding out about his bloodline, instead of Pinhead-in-ancient-France and Pinhead in Space in the same movie. The only reason this movie earned a 5/10 was the fact that Pinhead himself saved the movie from total cinematic crap...he's just too cool (even though he took backstage to a useless villain again like in Hellbound.) The Pinhead's death ending is implausible as well, considering there are four more movies after Bloodline. Also, Merchant's wife was beastly looking. "},{"Title":"Pinhead's Space Adventure","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is actually the story of the Puzzle Box more than a story about Pinhead and as such is a fine addition to the franchise, you may say that it dosn't fit within this franchise and that when you bring an franchise of this age (present Age) into space you give the franchise the death punch, but I don't think that's the case here, sure it dosn't fit anywhere into the story line of the series but I see this as a story more of the Puzzle Box (Lament configuration) than of Pinhead. While there appears to have been quite a few arguments between the director (Kevin Yagher) and the producers, this comes together fairly well if somewhat chaotic at times, but this should probably not be appointed to any failings on Yagher's abilities but rather on the producers lacking understanding of Yagher's ideas. As an sequel, well it stands out due to the fact that it dosn't revolve much around Pinhead or somebody that comes into contact with the Puzzle Box but more on the story and creation of the Puzzle Box itself. And this is in my opinion a nice twist to the franchise and a welcomed one at that (I Can't help it but I'm a sucker for background/story on anything up this alley).The effects is good enough while not being spectacular, they do what they are supposed to and nothing more. The acting is not Oscar worthy or anything close to but works good enough. Doug Bradley is as always when portraying Pinhead splendid although he dosn't do that much here, is more in the background than taking any significant part. Bruce Ramsay does a lot of character jumping in this one and while he acts the roles of Phillip L'Merchant/John Merchant/Paul Merchant with nicely enough passion it comes up somewhat lacking, you just don't feel that much for the different Merchants that you should considering that the Family is the creators of the Lament Configuration. Valentina Vargas is good as Angelique; the princess of Pinhead's Hell; She plays her as a uncaring bitch, as the character should be played. Christine Harnos does a good job playing Rimmer; a soldier interrogating Paul Merchant and being very confused and not quite able to get to grips with what he's saying (I guess pretty much anybody would have trouble doing just that.).All in all I think this is a good addition to the franchise and I give it 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as it's rated","Date":"24 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Hellraiser IV is a solid addition to the Hellraiser series.IV is based in the future aboard an Earth based space station. It begins by showing basically a deserted ship with one man left aboard, Bruce Ramsay as Paul Merchant. Merchant is using a remote controlled robot to manipulate the puzzle box. An armed recovery crew interrupts him, and this is where the background for the movie, and ultimately the series begins.Christine Harnos as Rimmer (anyone know if this is a Red Dwarf reference?), proceeds to interrogate Merchant. We are told the story as a lengthy flashback. It's revealed why and how the puzzle box came to be. As the flashback continues it's learned how the bloodline is important, pertaining to the original maker and how his bloodline was cursed for creating the puzzle box. Doug Bradley as Pinhead, of course makes a triumphant return, but no other Cenobites from previous films do. The film also introduces I believe a new character, Valentina Vargas as Angelique, a demon who was summoned by the original petitioner of the puzzle box.There's a lot to be enjoyed in this movie. There's the classic Hellraiser moments and effects. The acting is good, and Bradley has never been better as Pinhead. Valentina Vargas portrays her demon character very well too. The story is written well, and really covers a lot of ground in this average length film.Fans of Hellraiser really should appreciate this movie as part of the series. It's unfortunate that many view this episode as the bastard child of the series, it's really not bad at all.6/10 "},{"Title":"Very Good","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Rarely seen a movie that deviates so much from the original premise and still remains (more or less) acceptable&#133;Bloodline is a rather short (which is a good thing in this case) escapade that focuses on the mysterious Hellraiser box. Who wanted it to be made and how it cast a spell on the entire bloodline of the man who eventually created it. We're introduced to 3 generations of the Merchant family (all played by Bruce Ramsey); one in 18th century Paris, one in the present day and the last one in a future galaxy far, far away&#133; Opinions on this storyline may differ a lot&#133;either you think it's very idiotic and far-fetched or&#133;original and dared. The initial atmosphere and setting by Clive Barker has completely vanished, yet the morbid surrounding remains and several sequences are still very creepy and unsettling. Hellraiser Bloodline contains quite a lot of exquisite slaughtering and the charismatic presence of Pinhead (Doug Bradley) still is an extra horror-value. Pinhead &#150; accompanied by a pet puppy this time &#150; still knows how to kill&#133;too bad he talks too much and his vicious speeches tend to get boring quickly. Best aspects in this production are the newly introduced 'cenobites' and the occult Parisian portrait. Giant turn-offs are the weak script, the absence of the typical macabre humor and the lack of references to Barker's initial masterpiece.Although not highly memorable itself, Bloodline stands as the last watchable Hellraiser film. After this sequel, the series went downhill completely. So far, 2 more sequels came out (2 more are still in process) and neither of those is worth seeing. HellraiserBloodline suffered from a lot of production difficulties and the director eventually preferred to be credited as Alan Smithee&#133;Meaning he doesn't want to be remembered as the director of it. Who could blame him? "},{"Title":"Overall a decent film despite poor pacing.","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This fourth entry in the Hellraiser franchise is set in 2127. Pinhead is aboard a spacecraft orbiting earth, causing all kinds of mischief and mayhem. While Bloodline has a number of problems, the most prominent being the slowly-paced first hour of the film, there's a lot to like here too. For one, the creature and make-up effects look great (I loved the canine-like Cenobite), there's lots of gore, decent enough acting (though the twin security guards were easily the worst two actors ever to grace the screen) and a lush musical score by Daniel Licht. This was the directional debut of effects artist Kevin Yagher, who later had creative differences with the producers and left the project before finishing some scenes, and rather than attaching his own name to the film went with the much-abused alias Alan Smithee. Additional scenes were shot by Joe Chappelle, who later went on to direct the excellent 1998 Dean Koontz adaptation, Phantoms. Yagher has yet to direct another film.Not nearly as bad as you'd expect a fourth entry in a horror franchise to be, Hellraiser Bloodline is worth checking out if you're a horror fan. Watch for actress Kim Meyers, whom horror fans will recognize from Nightmare on Elm Street 2.6/10. "}{"Title":"What we have here is a flawed but underrated entry in the series. *** out of *****","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" No, this isn't the greatest entry in the series but it isn't as bad as a lot of people have made it out to be.I personally found it ultra interesting to see the history of the box and how it was made and all that. Pinhead and his cenobites are as cool as ever. The new chatterer beast is the one that really stands out though.I do find it hard to believe that they could be killed by conventional methods though. I mean, I always felt the cenobites were border line supernatural. I didn't think they could be blown up. Then again, Dr. Channard battled the cenobites and did away with them all. But then again... that was by another cenobite. Not a human. Hmmm... I suppose it's something to ponder.Anyways, don't go by all the negativity you may have heard. Check it out for yourself, you just might like it like I did. "},{"Title":"A change of pace.....","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is my favourite of the HELLRAISER franchise. This 4th entry in the franchise is my favourite because the plot follows 3 generations of the family that created the Lament Configuration Box that ultimately opens the doors of hell and summons Pinhead and his fellow Cenobites. I have read reviews on this film saying that because this film is so different (the lack of the Kirsty Cotton character) to the films before and after it's a letdown, but i think the change of plot is refreshing to the series. Be warned, the entries after this film feature pinhead less and less as the series goes on making them more irrelevant to the franchise. "},{"Title":"Better than it is made out to be","Date":"7 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" HELLRAISER BLOODLINE (1996)starring Bruce Ramsay, Doug Bradley, Valentina Vargas, Kim Myers, Charlotte Chatton, Adam Scott, Mickey Cottel.plot In the year 2127, Dr. Paul Merchant (Bruce Ramsay) battles Pinhead as did his ancestors in the 1800's and 1996. We also see the birth of the lament configuration.the good This was a very fun Hellraiser finale that explained the birth of the lament configuration, explained the ending of HELL ON EARTH and put an end to Pinhead. It was a great, noble ending for the villain and the film was very dark.I especially loved the 1800's segment, it was dreadfully filmed and had the best little story to it.Doug Bradley is great as Pinhead, as is Bruce Ramsay in three great roles and Valentina Vargas as the beautiful cenobite.the bad This movie had a very low budget, making some scenes look faker. They did pull off the hell dog thing perfectly, but everything else was sad.It also had some paper-thin characters and an abrupt ending. "},{"Title":"All right movie,no where as good as the others...","Date":"18 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The character of Pinhead had basically became the new villain for the Hellraiser series by now.The first film he had a bit part,the villain was Frank,Pinhead was just brought in to send him to hell.Perhaps it was the way Doug Bradley udder-ed We have such sights to show you or perhaps it was the great make-up job,but people fell in love with Pinhead.In Hellbound,we find out who Pinhead really was,and a bit of about the demon he is now.I admire Hellraiser III for taking an all most Freddy Krueger like approach,but it couldn't reach one or two.By Bloodline,most of the story wore thin.Bloodline tells the story about how the box was made,and about the cursed family.Pinhead should have had a lesser role here,it's not his story,he plays a part in it though.Angelique is basically the main villain,but when she gets out of line Pinhead turns her into a cenobite.The film has some interesting elements,but is flawed overall.5/10 "},{"Title":"Inventive","Date":"12 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Bloodline is my personal favorite. This film explains everything from the history to the present then the future. It's quite a masterpiece. I'd never seen so many credits at the end in my life, so quite a lot of work must have been put into it and it was all well worth it. Most of the hellraiser films are'nt so good, they're mainly about bringing on gore and chains,  But bloodline was interesting. I thought the special effects were great. Not fake at all. I give it a 10. "},{"Title":"If you have to choose between Jason x and Hellraiser 4, see Hellraiser 4.","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've never been a big fan of the Hellraiser series- it reminds me too much of the store hot topic and teen angsty goths, and any of the bad Nightmare on Elm street sequels are better than most of the hellraiser ones. But the first two were at least extravagent in the artistic department, and in the third one it was cool to see the new cenobites. This one has nothing good to offer. It seems like the makers of the film took two movies and spliced them together- creating a mess of a movie that could've been an epic 3 hours long, but thankfully they've reduced it to a monotonous hour and a half of garbage. Nothing's really new in this one, except -oh yeah- they've added an entire new plotline (No more Kristy or old pinhead, the toymaker's now the main focus) that you can never really acept or get a hold on because the movie moves too quickly, from one dull pointless grusome scene to the next. The movie just seems to be a collosal waste of money, but it's still beats Jason X. "},{"Title":"Not the worst...","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"    After reading reviews that slapped this film around, I have to say something good about the picture.  Bruce Ramsay has done an outstanding acting job.   Yes, you're dealing with Pinhead in space, but it's not as pittiful as Jason or the Leprechaun in space.  And Angelique is the best cenobite since Pinhead.   The thing that always strikes me is Peter Atkins' ability to write for pinhead.  The vocabulary is inconsistant, but overall the energy is right.   I found the plot well paced, and made a lot more sense than 'Hell On Earth'  After watching that, this is an outstanding improvement. "},{"Title":"Pinhead phones it in.","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Doug Bradley seems to be a little bored in this film.  Gone are the dulcet tones and howls of rage.  The regal stride through the smokey cracks in the walls is there in a token effort.  Some of his lines are wonderfully deranged, but he sounds like he's a little tired of it.For me, that kind of ruins the movie.  The story is good and the cast does a decent job.  Notable was the performance by the Angelic(sp).Movie stays true to the details of the previous movies and builds on them. That was a nice touch.I found Pinhead asleep at the wheel and driving it in to the canyon of forgettable movies.   "},{"Title":"I don't think so . . .","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Acknowledged Kevin Yagher felt this film was taken away from him, hence the Director Guild Psuedonym reserved for the cause. Is the director's vision better? I have my doubts.This is basically three separate hour long movies truncated and crammed into one 90 minute or so feature. Maybe this would work as a 3 hour movie, or 2 or 3 separate movies, or maybe even a miniseries, but one 90 minute film? No. It tries to bookend the Hellraiser franchise in 90 minutes--think about this, 90 minutes is going to explain the origin and finale of the Hellraiser Trilogy that came before it with a little mid-plot thrown in between for good measure. You can't bookend another film (much less a franchise) in 90 minutes.Like all bad horror sequels, this tries to explain and (even worse) cap off the series. Yeah, right. I don't think so. Then again, this came along during the kill all the slasher villains phase in the 90s, starting with Freddy, going to Jason, now this. Even worse, (yes, it gets worse) this combines the In Space concept behind many horror films now. Nowhere else to go? Take it to space! Where no man has gone before! Cue Star Trek theme. We get three timelines, and not one is handled with any particular interest. The first flashback is the most interesting of the three, so the film feels like it put some bait out front to lure you into watching the rest of its dull unenthused running time. New characters (some of whom played by the same actors in the new time) pop up in the new timelines, but I never really had anything to invest in the previous characters so scrwe the new ones.This disjointed nature destroys the film. There's nothing with 'flashback' nature films, there's nothing wrong with 'space' films if they're handled right. Space films not handled right turn out hokey, and if you cannot handle linear storytelling, flashbacks will not magically enhance your ability as a storyteller. It's not automiatically 'sophisticated' or 'elegant'; it takes talent and knowledge to know when to use it. This film was lacking one or both, and it's hokey.In the end, it's a hacked together jumble of ideas which do not work together as a solid story should; it violates the crime most sequels commit in trying to cap the series AND tries to explain, explain, explain--we do not need any more explanations in horror sequels! You can't have a mystery stay a mystery if it's explained, and you can't be scared knowing all the facts. The original hellraiser had its shimmer because no one knew anything about the box other than you probably don't want to open it, and your guess was as good as mine as to where Pinhead came from.Hellraiser II managed to pull off a nice explanation about Pinhead, but you'll also note they introduce a bigger, badder cenobyte to haunt hell and discard Pinhead because he's been explained and is no longer scary. Granted the new cenobyte does not pose as big a mystery as Pinhead, but I haven't seen very many other films that manages to explain anything coherently and maintain its atmosphere reasonably well. Enough about Hellbound, back to Bloodline There is no mystery. Everything is out in the open--all the ideas are under bright florescent lights where no shadows can hide anything. Say bye bye to scary, there's nothing left to explain in the Hellraiser world, which also means there's nothing left there to scare us.Given the reasons above, I cannot possibly see how the original director could have done much better with the material I've seen. I don't see how the Explain everything about Hellraiser in a series of brief meaningless flashbacks while capping the series in space could possibly work. That combination of bad ideas would require one hell of a craftsman to suspend my disbelief and make me say Whoa with the concepts behind this film.Having said that, I still wouldn't hesitate to watch Yagher's rendition, but at the same time I highly doubt he's talented enough to make this disaster work. Nothing against Yagher, I can't think of *any* director that could make this disaster work. May Yagher prove me wrong some day, and I'd welcome that . . . but I can't imagine this crap being good. "},{"Title":"Good but has it's flaws.","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Hellraiser Bloodline is the fourth instalment of the series.This time it is set in the near future and it is set in space.A man on an abandoned ship tries to capture Pinhead and co.He is soon caught and arrested.They don't believe his story until the cenobites come after the crew.HellraiserBloodline along some levels is good,even if it is one of those straight to video movies.It has it's flaws,but don't most sequels.I would say It was just as good as Hellbound,with a little more suspense.Hellraiser fans maybe a little dissapointed but it is well wort the watch in my opinion.I rate 3/5. "}{"Title":"Not as bad as part2","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Cheap and not so cheerful mix of Alien and Hellraiser with bargain basement sets and some good effects by Midlands whiz kid turned LA horror guru Gary Tunnicliffe. If you think Scooby Doo is a fresh idea, this man was working on an animatronic version 12 years ago so nice to see he's finally made it in Hollywood. No classic but not as bad as it could have been. "},{"Title":"Can't be beat!!!","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Why does anyone want to see a clive barker Hellraiser movie? I'll tell you why, Blood, Torture, special effects of the sick and nasty kind!! A lot of people can't stomach Pinhead for too long!! There is nothing out there to date as sick as Clive barkers Hellraiser series!!! Three was made for kids though, not enough blood, and corny characters other that Pinhead.. 1 was great, but she is old.. 2 the same.. As long as Pinhead has great lines and torture you simply can't go wrong.. Who need a script with this guy!?! Torture someone!!! But Bloodline does have a script, in fact, if you never have seen a Pinhead movie before, see this one!! This movie covers every basis, anything and everything you want to know about Hellraiser is in this movie!! We find everything out from exactly where the Pandora's box came from, right to how exactly to stop pinhead for ever!! Good thing this move was set in the future, cause they can't make a sequel to this one!!! All they can do is make movies in between 3 and 4.. And they did, Hellraiser Inferno.. But you must be warned, you do want to see Inferno if you are looking to see Pinhead, or blood, or torture, see it if you want to play the guess who game!!!! Pinhead is in Inferno, but he is not a main character at all.. This movie was done not with good production, but great production, and good acting as well!! Crystal clear picture!! No Hellraiser will ever top this one, and that is because to many people out there had a different things to say, and now they are being made as Independent films.. AKA you won't ever see them at the movies, Unless maybe Clive Barker has something to do with them again.... 8 to 10 on the horror scale, 10 on the sick torture scale!! "},{"Title":"Not as bad as I supposed","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This fourth installment in Hellraiser saga is directed by the man, Kevin Yagher, who has made many great special make up effects during his career. His work includes A Nightmare on Elm Street sequels and The Hidden. He wanted to use the legendary Alan Smithee pseudonym after some producer did his own changes to the film. So it would be nice to see the director's cut someday..This time we learn how and why the little box was made as we time travel through years of cenobite terror. The film is set in the future and in a space craft where a man tries to eliminate Pinhead for ever. The plot is pretty confusing and many characters are there but it's not too hard to follow.The film is not a masterpiece but couple of scenes are pretty creepy and well crafted and the gore effects are plenty, too. *minor spoiler* The transformation of the brothers is very convincing and horrifying as they become one of the most interesting cenobites in the whole Hellraiser saga. *no spoilers* So it is not as bad as some people have said, but maybe they have seen only the censored version which is available at least here in Finland. I watched the full version but as I said, it would be nice to see the director's own vision of the film.An OK sequel but not as great as the other films in the series. First Hellraiser is an immortal classic, the second is pretty gory (and often stupid) and nightmarish, and the third film is also pretty innovative and is set in a city. This 4th Hellraiser, Bloodline, is the most unpretentious in the series and nowhere as effective as the Clive Barker classic from the 80's.4/10 "},{"Title":"Good, but not a masterpiece.","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have seen this film four or five times and I think it is good, but not a masterpiece, I am an avid fan of Mr Barker's work and I feel he has explained much in this film. Although I feel he should have probably made this one first, as it shows how the box was created and the other three don't. The best of the Hellraiser series is in my opinion, undoubtable Hellraiser III - Hell on Earth. In Bloodline, the cenobites are as evil as ever, and it was very imaginative to have a cenobite of a Rottweiller!!!! I was scared witless when I first saw the hairless canine. Anyway the ending could have been alot better. "},{"Title":"Another classic from Alan Smithee","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I knew I was in trouble when I saw the credit Directed by Alan Smithee come up on my TV. Alan Smithee is a nickname that a director will use if he's made a bad movie he's embarrased to have his name attached to. Also, I should have factored in the rule of thumb with horror sequels. They get worse the higher the number. This movie didn't follow along with what was set up in the first 3 Hellraisers. It jumps around the timeline (Highlander style) telling the origin of the puzzle box. I'd rather not know the origins than see this.Peter Atkins, who did a decent job writing Hellraiser 2 and 3 dropped the ball on this one. Doug Bradley unfortunately doesn't get to walk around as himself like he did in 2 and 3. He has more lines as Pinhead in this one, but as the old saying goes, less is more. "},{"Title":"Hmm...","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well, I don't hate this film.  I would, however, have liked to see the version that was supposed to be, but was never made/released.  This very short, quick film is very colorful, and full of blood and mayhem.  Doug Bradley give yet another excellent performance as Pinhead, and the character of Angelique is diabolical.  I did not like the idea of Pinhead in space...Alot of Horror Sequel in the 90's put the villians in space...Leprechaun 4 for example...and now Jason X is gonna be set in the future...I do like the tone and mood of the film....not anything like the first, but it develops itself and a separate film.  Going through time, the creation of the box, the presence of evil...all blend well to make this film a decent installment in the series.  However, The series did not pick up in theaters after this one...They are all direct to video now.7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Winner of Most Depressing Movie","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you've seen the previous Hellraiser movies, then you'll know they're not exactly feel-good films. In fact, it will leave most feeling pretty disgusted. Whether it was the buckets of blood, creepy crawlies on dead flesh, gore, decapitations, and ripped skin, Hellraiser films always turned heads. The movie in question here is Hellraiser 2, arguably the most gruesome film ever recorded.Well, after seeing this, a more daring, productive sequel, I have to say it's even more disturbing then the first sequel. The fourth film is set in 2147 on a spaceship, and Pinhead decides to wreak havoc on a bunch on under-paid actors, resulting in buckets of blood and gore. The film ventures into the past of the evil Rubiks cube, where it came from, and how it evolved. But this time the results are even more morbid.The acting is of amateur standard. The special effects are low budget and look cheap. The storyline is a little flaky, and the setting on a spaceship started to make it feel like Babylon-X. But one thing they did get right. Before some of the Hellraiser scenes were unintentionally hilarious. Everyone remembers the CD death from Hell On Earth, and the most ridiculous romance storyline in horror history in Hellbound. But this time the scenes are exceptionally cruel, brutal, and so severe only a mental case would find them amusing. The deaths are even more fantastic (meaning of fantasy, not enjoyable in the slightest). They really have hit the nail on the head (if you excuse the pun, Pinhead). This was the idea, but I certainly don't think your typical audience enjoy this sort of defilement. For example, here a helpless cop gets his head twisted into a deformed cenobite, so they become two. Later on, a more disturbing death occurs when the cenobite couple stand on either side of another victim, and all three heads twist together in hideousness. It certainly creates an evil atmosphere, and I award this the category of Most Depressing Film.The direction of this film is all over the place. Some would argue that there's too much talking and not enough action. I also share this view. They didn't space the action out enough. The first two-thirds of the film are a complete mess, going through the history of the box, with the odd death. After seeing this, I say I'd rather keep it a mystery. The last third is an all-action, blood-coated climax. Not to mention disturbing.Hellraiser Bloodline is not a good film. It is strictly average. It seems clumsily put together, like the way a four-year-old child inserts stickers into his Pokemon album. Phantasm 4 also went the same way, except that was even more of a shameful monstrosity.2.5/5  "},{"Title":"Good movie, well worth a view","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Once again we are emersed in the wonderful world that is Hellraiser. Unfortunately, they didn't go far enough.  Without giving away the movie, I believe that the origins of this entire ordeal could have been explored much further.  I urge you to watch it.  I am a big fan of the Hellraiser series. I'm still dying to get my hands on a working model of the Lament Configuration (The Box) - minus the demons and the gates to hell !!!I came away from this movie the 1st time saying, Well, could have been better.  The second time that I watched it, it seemed better (don't ask). Oh well, it's a good view, anyway. My favorite is still Hellbound  Hellraiser II.  Hellraiser III was good, and Hellraiser I was great as well.  Hellraiser V  Oblivion could have been much better.  Cheers.  "},{"Title":"No,no,no!","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Why did they bother? When I saw Hellraiser 3, I thought that was bad enough. But when I walked into my local video shop and noticed Hellraiser 4 sitting on the shelve I nearly fainted.For some reason, I bought Hellraiser 4, well at five pounds I couldn't really argue.Once I watched it, I was appalled. Yep, just the same old Pinhead wrecking chaos, his evil army of Cenobites and lots of gore. But this time there's something else. Pinhead isn't in Hell, he's not even on earth, he's in space and to be honest I thought the idea of Pinhead in space was crap.The whole Hellraiser thing has gone on for long enough. They should of stopped it after Hellraiser 2. For me there was no need to make a Hellraiser 3 and 4. I tend to think Hellraiser 4 was rushed as well as having a really crap story line.Not looking forward to Hellraiser 5.4/10. "},{"Title":"okey dokey doggie daddy","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I remember reading Fangoria and them speaking of all these promising things once this film actually made it into the stage of production. What kind of promising things? Things like characters from the first two hellraiser films making cameos during some of the timeline sequences, Them slaughtering an entire village of people to find and kill the toymakers descendant. Of course, this never made it to the final cut, although was most likely filmed since they had descript coverage on this small interval of the film. Strangely enough, a lot of unecessary things made it to the films final cut. A few things that I feel could have been cut out completely in order for them to concentrate on some of the larger holes in the script. Character development can only go so far when once a new character is introduced he ultimately dies a few minutes after. Of course, there was a bunch of hooplah (do not ask, ok) on who was to direct, and a few changings of directors. In the end, the tried and true favorite of mine, Mr. Alan Smithee came out of seclusion at what is it...98 years of age, to be apart of the filmmaking magic of Hellraiser Bloodline.I think a special edition of Bloodline is in order...unlike the one-minute-longer-than-the-r-rated version, unrated edition of Hellraiser 3, where as the only difference was seeing a stripper take her top off. Oooh. Dare! "}{"Title":"Hellraiser...Yeah right","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"    I'm sure that lots of Hellraiser fans always wanted to know where that box really came from. Now that we know I think its safe to say it would have been better left as a mystery. Doug Bradley is the only reason this movie gets a 1/10 since he is what makes a Hellraiser movie a Hellraiser movie. This movie doesn't answer questions but instead leaves you with more. The acting in this movie is worse than the acting in Friday The 13th. Also Dimension Films has a Directors cut with almost 25 minutes of new scenes. Now I don't know if this movie company knows this but when they have Director Cuts they are a lot better than the trash they originally released. Look at Halloween 6. The producers cut is a hell of a lot better than the one they put out. Maybe the Hellraiser fans will get a treat and get to see the movie in its whole. Until than, stay away from this Disappointment. "},{"Title":"Spectacular!","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Honestly,what's so bad about this film that caused it to be branded with the It wasn't my fault user name Alan Smithee? I found this film the absoloute best in the series,with fantastic costume and set design(especially the 18th century period),marvellous acting,particularly the always dominating Doug Bradley(who was over 60 when he did this film) as the philosophical Pinhead,brilliantly orchestrated theme song and very clever plotting.So why did Kevin Yagher want his name off the film? Reportedly it was cut so heavily that in the end it turned out nothing like he expected,but in my opinion,it couldn't have worked out better.A triumph of a horror movie,way better than the first 3. "},{"Title":"No more!","Date":"17 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After what was a great trilogy with #3 showing us that Pinhead was dead and gone they had the nerve to release a direct-to-video quickie that has the same feeling of the teenie bopper horror films of today. This time we find Pinhead on a space station in the year 2017 where he is after the final descendant of the boxes creator...but who cares? Good effects, and acting, but unoriginal plot and too short. **1/2 out of *****.They better not make a part 5! "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time.","Date":"2 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Life is too short for movies like this. In every aspect,Bloodlines is the biggest snooze of the series, even eclipsingthe shameless marketing exercise of Hell on Earth. This onestarts out on a space station, flashes back through a lamehistory of 'the box', and follows a 'past, present, future'framework, which doesn't even contain the logic and complexityof a second-rate comic book. The story doesn't even work in itsown terms, and despite makeup artist cum auteur Kevin Yagherhaving his directorial credit removed, I can't believe thatsomehow a passable film was left on the cutting room floor. Theone thing this movie has going for it is the stalwart DougBradley reprising his role as one of the great contemporaryscreen villains, Pinhead. But unlike the earlier three movies,he is used to little effect, rambling through long monologueswhich don't inspire a fraction of the menace found in earlierepisodes. At one point the hero slips away while Pinhead isbragging about what he's going to do to them. Pinhead was neversuch a ham, more frequently letting his hooks do the talking forhim. And what is he trying to achieve in this movie? Why doesthe toymaker go to the trouble of summoning him to destroy him,instead of just leaving well enough alone? His efforts are agood analogy for the whole movie. A lot of time, money, talent,and technology wasted to destroy something which it seems wasalready finished to begin with.         "},{"Title":"Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad. Too bad to be taken seriously","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  No doubt, the worst part of Clive Barker's Hellraiser, which was shamelessly explored 3 times already. Bad story, bad directing by Alan Smithee, but good make-up effects by Kevin Yagher (Freddy Krueger). You know ,this story with Hellraiser actually has a lot in common with Leprechaun. Exactly like this movie, Hellraiser gets worse and worse with every part. There we do also have  Leprechaun in space, and believe me, it's as bad. "},{"Title":"Boring sequel","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There was already trouble coming along with this film when the words Directed by Alan Smithee popped up and had nearly everyone at the theatre laughing. Most of the film is a silly re-telling of the legend of that dazzling box that brings the evil spirits back. Its not a bad idea and with makeup whiz Kevin Yagher (who was the Alan Smithee of the film) has some impressive gore FX, but it can't save from the poorly written script, wooden acting (with the exception of a wasted Doug Bradley who doesn't get to have as much fun playing Pinhead, but makes the best of it), and a very slow moving pace. Stick to the first three, which at least have some interesting things going for them. Still, MSTK3000 crowds may want to give it a shot. It has enough unintential humor that should keep b-movie fans laughing. Otherwise, a lame sequel "},{"Title":"Ambitious but lacklustre.","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It has been quoted that Clive Barker himself wishes for an end to the Hellraiser movies, and on the basis of this latest outing it's understandable. Unlike Bloodline, the first Hellraiser film was a respectable foray for Barker and the first real success at putting his dark visions onto celluloid, as was the more 'out there' sequel, while 'Hellraiser III' wanted to commercialise the series and seemingly slot old Pinhead beside Freddy Krueger and Jason from the 'Friday the 13th' movies.This the fourth in the series catapults Pinhead out into the stars to a space station while shifting the story back in time to the origin of the infamous puzzle box and the female cenobite it summons, and it is here where the film flounders the most. Though the story provides answers to a lot of questions asked before, the epic timeline sacrifices characterisation, and a horror movie without characters you care about is just a day out at the abattoir.Pinhead has surprisingly little to do in the movie despite Doug Bradley's usual steadfast portrayal. And it's puzzling why the female cenobite is allowed to steal so much airtime, apart from possibly injecting more sex into the script. The cenobites in space theme also seems misplaced and results in an uncomfortable mix of sci-fi and horror that never really gels like it did in 'Alien' or to a lesser extent 'Event Horizon', which this film has a lot in common with.Kevin Yagher's directorial debut is acceptably workmanlike, though his use of the Alan Smithee pseudonym can only indicate his disappointment with the final production, maybe even as much as I was at having to watch ANOTHER group of victims run around ANOTHER techno-junk filled corridor out in space. "},{"Title":"It had possibilities but...","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Hellraiser-series are now far removed from Clives original, unique vision. From what Ive read, in this case its all due to some confused producers whore too afraid to let artists do their own thing without interfering. Congratulations, your meddling with this film turned it into a sorry excuse for a Hellraiser-movie. From what Ive read about Peter Atkins original script, and Kevin Yaghers ideas, it had possibilities of turning out well, but...There are some strands of the original good ideas present, but they are unfortunately too buried under a confused, unstructured, comic-book-plot, that they dont stand a chance of saving this turkey. If this is the way they will go about making future Hellraiser-installments, I wont bother anymore. Another example of good ideas and intentions being churned to nothingess in the Hollywood-grinder. "},{"Title":"Yechhh! Blechh and Hurl!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What a pitiful scrap of direct-to-video garbage.  Just when I thought it wasn't possible for the Hellraiser series to plummet any lower, this howler proved that Barker's franchise could do just that.  Bloodlines astounded me with its poorly conceived Babylon 5-esque space sequences, its shmattering of been there done that horror effects, its snail pacing, its uninteresting characters who one just can't care about, and some of the worst acting outside of a porno movie. In addition to which this film can't decide what it is; it's one of the corniest pastiches I've seen in years. SKIP.. "},{"Title":"Sloppy Work!","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was looking forward to Bloodline,once i watched it,i realised it WAS the worst of the series.Although not such a bad movie in general,Pinhead was least active in this film,but was taken over by the Angelique mole.I think this movie would have succeeded if Angelique was OUT...and Pin was back in it,he did nothing here!A lot of good special effects,but not worth it,some disgusting scenes which i seriously didn't enjoy.Like those 2 cops heads twist together,that was awful,but i think i've seen worse,anyways a disappointment to a series going well,try it if you think you have un-finished business about the series.5 out of 10  C- "}{"Title":"Oh Please!!!!","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was waiting for something to happen in this movie and pop - right into the wall.  Whenever a movie has to rely on memories of what happened before and then shows you the origin of what is happening now, one has to wonder. Without going back to the past, this movie did not have a story or a plot to tell.  And don't get me started with Pinhead.  I was waiting for him to cause some damage, he didn't, he just did a whole lot of walking and looking.A real yawner, if you ask me. "},{"Title":"Get me out of this movie!!!...","Date":"26 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first movie is much better than this crappy sequel. Pinhead is a wimp in this film.I didn't understand this picture at all. The movie jump one place to another very fast. It's get me too confused.Hellraiser Bloodlines is the worst horror movie I've seen since Wishmaster and Disturbing Behavior.They can't think up anything new for crying out loud. Why did they ever made this film? The third movie is bad already.I hope there will be no Hellraiser 5.I will give this movie No Stars out of **** "},{"Title":"almost epic","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Hellraiser Bloodline is the fourth installment of Clive Barker's infamous flesh-feast series. This time around, the Hollywood process generated this film by fusing together concepts and input from various screenwriters, directors and studio executives.  Not the combination that usually results in a cult-horror film.  And Hellraiser Bloodline doesn't exactly deliver a cult-horror film; instead it delivers an interesting, reasonably complex film that works best if seen as a stand-alone story, rather than a popular horror film sequel.This fourth movie focuses less on the sadism elements of the original films, and plays around with ultimately more interesting ideas... such as 'technology vs. myth/spiritualism' (a conflict that is decidedly resolved in the satisfying finale) and the possibility of redemption for pure evil (the demoness Angelique, played nicely by actress Valentia Vargas).The storyline itself is quite strong, paced like an epic saga of the traditional good against evil conflict played out against the backdrop of human history.  The sheer ambition and scope of this sequel far outweighs the simple blood-letting of the original films.  Acting performances are pretty decent all around.Naturally, die-hard fans of the original movies will be shocked that their favorite evil icons are placed into such a decidedly non-Hellraiser movie, but they can take comfort in the fact that they can just go back to watching the originals on videotape if that's what they prefer.  However, viewers who appreciate dark stories with an edge, should enjoy Hellraiser Bloodline's fusion of the horror and science fiction genres into a grand period piece. Fans of the film 'Event Horizon' should definitely check this out, as the tone is quite similar.Depending on your mood, there is plenty of opportunity to view this as a comedy too, due to the over-the-top nature of many of the set pieces (actually the fact that Pinhead has one-liners in this film should tell you not to take the whole thing too seriously).  It may ultimately be a flawed film, but it has plenty to offer and tries hard to entertain.Even though the original director removed his name from this film because it wasn't what he originally envisioned, the fact remains that the final product is quite unique and highly watchable. "},{"Title":"boring","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  what a boring movie. i only saw the first movie and this one. what a real dumb movie this is. it's boring and it is not so cool as the original hellraiser. i think the story is very silly too of this awful film. don't watch this one. it's bad "},{"Title":"To All Things An End...","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Here it is, the last of the Hellraiser Movies.Many have criticized both actors and writers for this series and more still insist it should be ranked with the likes of Halloween or Friday The 13th. I think they're not looking at the big picture.As with any series, you can't judge the whole by one or two of it's parts. Look at Star Trek.  If I judged it on the first film it wouldn't even rate a star, but as a whole it was very entertaining and I would be interested in watching them all from beginning to end.As for Hellraiser not being quality entertainment, I beg to differ.  In my opinion, only the first actually suffered; mostly because of a lull that wrapped the movie up and wouldn't let it go.  The other's were better due to a larger budget, more prep time and a display of quiet calm moments that are suddenly shattered by lightning quick and gruesome action.All in all an excellent series and one worthy of renting or buying and watching in sequence. "},{"Title":"This movie was pathetic!","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was absolutely hilarious!  Now don't get me wrong,  I'm not saying this movie was good or anything - But classified as a Horror movie, this flick should've given me the chills at least,  but it made me laugh till I cried.  Like the part where those twins got their heads twisted together,  and when they stood on either side of that other guy and twisted his head in the middle of theirs!  They should've shown what all three of them looked like joined together,  but nooooo - the tight budget disallowed that.  The dog looked more plastic than those gorillas in Congo!  The funniest parts would have to be when that guy got sliced in the mirror,  and when that African-American guy got the skin ripped off his face and a drill went through the top of his skull... Oh boy was I in tears!Too bad they didn't explain anything... like how they pathetically tried to explain that the Puzzlebox was created by that french dude.  I guess in between raising hell at the Boiler Room and the Chanard Institute,  Pinhead was killing this French guy over and over with each new generation.  Gimme a break!  And that Angelique woman,  what was up with her?  That ugly kid with the blonde hair from the second installment could act better than her.This movie was a joke!  "},{"Title":"one of the worst movies I have ever seen","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this movie was sooo terrible.  it is not scary at all.  my 63 year old grandma was over while i was watching it and she didn't ever get scared. not to mention it was too hard to find out what was happening.  it was funnier than anything.  like when the twins heads got the twisty thing done to their heads.  i started cracking up.  it was so dumb.  also  the thing that got shot through the guys neck, and that thing came out and chopped off  the guys head.  and what is it with chains flying out of nowhere to kill people.  anyways it is an awful movie, and i would not suggest anyone to watch it. "},{"Title":"The hound of the Cenobites","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As the final part of our Hellraiserthon, Bloodline returns to some kind of plot, with an aging Pinhead extending the merciless ego introduced in Hellraiser III.  While the new plot-line is interesting, as is the introduction of the hound from hell, there are some contradictions to the premises introduced in the first two films.  While better than the third incarnation, I would still avoid this final episode when watching a horrorthon again. "},{"Title":"Better ....","Date":"15 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Being a long time fan of the Hellraiser series, it was painful for me to see what had been done to Pinhead in Hellraiser 3. It was a bit too campy and silly, but there were some very good scenes, but as a whole Hellraiser 3 was a disappointment. With Bloodline, Pinhead is back to his evil and twisted self without seeming silly. This film was very dark, so much so that unless you are a fan of the series, it might just escape you. This film finally explains alot of things that were left open in the first 2 and gave us one of the most twisted female demons ever.Although it is not as good as 1 or 2 I would definitely say that this is a film for any serious fan of the Hellraiser series and it redeems the series.At the writing of this, I am told there is a part 5 in the works, but I fail to see the point.  "},{"Title":"An Alan Smithee Film  Burn, Hellraiser, Burn!","Date":"15 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Hellraiser Bloodline was a low budget horror pic directed by popular 1980s make-up artist Kevin Yager who was so angered that the studio tampered with his film he walked off the set resulting in Dimension hiring Joe 'Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers' Chappelle to film additional scenes to salvage what they could. original Hellraiser director and author Clive Barker received a production credit on Bloodline which tells the story of the Lamarchand puzzle box's origin and how the family has been cursed by demonic forces throughout the centuries. It's an ambitious film whose narrative takes us from 17th century to the year 2029 where the final battle with the cenobites will play out in the depths of the solar system. Fans have been clamouring for a 'director's cut' for years insisting Bloodline would be greatly improved were the lost footage restored. It's doubtful. Followed by a slew of direct to video sequels. "}{"Title":"It's better than the second one anyway","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" There's a lot of ketchup but not a lot of narrative sense in this supposedly explanatory third sequel, which piles on the crummy visuals to no effect. Good old Alan Smithee directed this one, in which various members of the same family (all played, poorly, by Bruce Ramsay) are terrorised by Pinhead (Doug Bradley, wheeled out of mothballs for the umpteenth time).Peter Atkins tries to imbue his script with poetic touches but doesn't seem to realise that his dialogue is as deep and meaningful as a plate of vomit. The incoherent plot fails to adequately fill the movie's meagre running time, although this may have more to do with studio interference than anything the filmmakers intended. "},{"Title":"He back, and this time he in space.","Date":"28 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This my first watch of this movie, , I loved first 2 move in the series and I enjoyed the third one, i thought it okay sequelHowever this one, i did not like as much as the other sequels, I just could not get into this story at all, I really bored for most of the time in them movie.I did not care for any one in this movie, the acting was not great but it still worth watching i sayThere were some decent gory scenes in this movie but I didn't find anything scary or creepy about this what so ever.I found this very dull and boring with bloody parts in here and there, Over I give 4 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Complete Package But With Timidity","Date":"12 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Three stories are wrapped up in this version of Hellraiser and the storyline has a nicely cyclical completion from beginning to end. The irony with this version that it seems to have toned down the very nature of hell and pain and in a timid move edited out some of the more horrifying potential elements. Not as elegant as THE CELL (2000) and variations of THE HOUSE ON HAUNTED HILL (1999), is the storyline that keeps this movie's momentum up to the end. There are elements of ALIEN but the monsters are not that spectacular and the script seems unable to capture the emotive richness available in the storyline, the temptations, the conflicting loyalty and lust associated with real life. Nevertheless, this complete package has its qualitative, if not quantitative horrifying elements. "},{"Title":"Space, the puzzle box and a family tree.","Date":"26 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Kevin Yagher directs this third sequel in the Hellraiser series but there was some uncredited work, apparently, done by Joe Chappelle and the final credit went to that name synonymous with quality and satisfaction, Alan Smithee.While Hellraiser Bloodline is a bit of a mess throughout it remains quite an entertaining mess, despite the factors weighing against it. When things start we join an apparent madman (played by Bruce Ramsay) on a spaceship as he tries to open a certain troublesome puzzle box and end a nightmare that has plagues his family through centuries. We find this out as Ramsay relates the tales of his family history (all featuring a male predecessor played by Ramsay) and reveals some more about the grand plan of the cenobites.Sound okay so far? Well, you will also be pleased to hear that there are some enjoyably unpleasant moments here, complete with decent special effects, and one particularly impressive new cenobite design worth looking out for.The movie assumes knowledge on the part of the viewer, which is fair enough considering it's the fourth instalment, but also seems to ignore a lot of the events from the first three films (especially in regards to Pinhead).Then there's the acting which is pretty terrible from almost everyone. Ramsay has three roles and is awful in all of them, Valentina Vargas is supposed to be sexy and evil but doesn't have the talent to convince as either (which is a great shame as she has a large part in the movie), Adam Scott has a small role that I'm sure he doesn't bring up in party conversations and Kim Myers . . . . . well, she actually does a lot better here than she did in Freddy's Revenge. Thankfully, Doug Bradley is as excellent as ever in his Pinhead incarnation and his scenes bring the movie back up to an acceptable level.It's a shame to read up on the background of the movie and to consider what WASN'T filmed but many movies are compromised and changed from their inception - this is a step up from many other Alan Smithee movies, as damning faint praise as that is. "},{"Title":"Such a shame!","Date":"8 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was actually the first Hellraiser movie I saw. The trailer really blew me away, so of course I was very interested to see it, and some of you will guess how disappointing it was when I finally did. It was the most boring crap ever. Truly the worst movie I have ever seen even up till now. However, yet back then I felt that the movie was kinda disjointed. And we all have read what troubles the project has suffered being made, so let's just hope this gets a director's cut someday, and as for now just avoid it because believe me it's unwatchable to the limit. It almost makes you sick physically for numerous reasons - general disjointedness - it starts in the space, then takes us to Paris, then to L.A., therefore it's total mismatch, then - it has no suspense, the writing is lame, they could at least accomplish some good lines for Pinhead, but even pinhead is very boring in Bloodline after Hellraiser 3. The editing is bad, the photography is bad, actors don't really know what they are doing. I'd rather say they didn't know what they were doing from the very beginning. I believe it was enough bad and the producers made it even worse. They should have either let Yagher finish his version or just get a new script, hire a new director (why not Tony Hickox?) to re-shoot a whole new movie. "},{"Title":"Interesting but flawed fourth installment shows the franchise is getting stale","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" While I thought the premise of Hellraiser IV was fairly promising, someone (or a bunch of someones) dropped the ball (or since this is Hellraiser, they dropped the bag full of blood and steaming entrails) and so part IV didn't live up to the expectations set up by the ferocious energy of the first two movies and the more subdued but effective tension of the third one. It's hard to say what hurt the film worse - the obviously limited budget, the casting, the cuts made by the studio (which lead the director to take his name off the film) or the lack of inspiration in the screenplay.The movie does some things well. Pinhead is a striking character design, and Doug Bradley plays the part to the hilt. Pinhead gets to spend lots of time declaiming his philosophy of, well, I hate to call it life...let's just call it his philosophy. Vargas is a major babe; in this movie she absolutely oozes danger and sexuality, and since she is a relative unknown, the viewer doesn't have the problems with cognitive dissonance that a better known actress would cause. The production, art and sound design folks did an impressive job of getting as much atmosphere and mood out of the money and time available as was humanly possible.But the whole thing just falls short. I have to blame the male lead, Bruce Ramsey for some of this - the movie stands or falls on how well his character is written and how convincingly he pulls it off, and he just can't carry the movie, at least not with the character as written. Imagine a low-energy Tim Curry, only not as interesting or magnetic or funny. I am sure he is a fine actor, and I wouldn't hesitate to watch him in another major role, but he is 2nd rate goods here.And the writing and dialog is weak in some spots, and very weak and sluggish in too many other spots...even Pinhead gets to be a bit of a blow-hard in some spots. For a movie about families and history, IV just feels like it takes place in a social vacuum, on a sound stage instead of in the world.A lot of people have commented unfavorably about the movie resorting to the idea of Pinhead In Space, and it's possible that the movie would have been better if so much of its budget wasn't spent on space station CGI. But it works here, and adds a nice contrasting visual theme to the film, and I figure it was worth a try. Pinhead is Pinhead, after all, no matter what context you put him in.Cable TV has been putting Bloodlines in fairly heavy rotation recently for some reason, and I have caught bits and pieces of it here and there. In fairness to the people who put this movie together, I have to admit that once you know where the 'good bits' are, the movie holds up well to repeated viewings...you can sit through some of the draggy or weak bits because you know that the good part with the hooks is coming right up. They have also been showing a later direct-to-video chapter called Hellseeker which is more of a Twilight Zone puzzler, and far less shocking than even this lesser effort....so count your blessings, Pinhead fans, and enjoy what there is to enjoy here. Bloodlines was probably the last real Hellraiser film. "},{"Title":"This story really follows sequence...","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  From the first movie on, the story really follows sequence (except V). From some reasons which I can't explain, I expected more from this one, but it doesn't... But it is still good for entertainment. "},{"Title":"So inept, it should have been titled Pinhead In Space!","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film hardly had anything to do with the rest of the Hellraiser films. Much like the third installment, the fourth entry's only obvious connection to the original story is the useage of the Puzzlebox and Pinhead.Unlike the other entries in this series that identified Pinhead's true identity and his self-destruction as a human being, this story tries to examine the origins of the Puzzlebox. The story kicks off back in the days of the French revolution and Marie Antoinette. A French toymaker (Bruce Ramsay) has constructed a 'puzzlebox' for a wealthy mad man who has intentions of using it to open up the portal to Hell. He has invited a French whore to his house of which he uses as a vessel to be occupied by Satan once he murders her by strangulation and skins her. When Ramsay delivers the puzzlebox to the mad man, he witnesses a vortex opening in the floor as incantations are spoken. The whore's flesh hangs via several hooks over the vortex and is 'filled' once the incantantions have stopped. She becomes 'Angelique', a woman with the face of beauty and the heart of a demon. Ramsay doesn't get far once he witnesses all of this horror. He is ultimately murdered but his legacy is continued through the birth of his son.We follow Ramsay through several generations (the same man playing the same character) as he meets Angelique and dies an untimely death each time. It almost comes off like 'Groundhog Day' where the scenario keeps repeating itself, but each time, his son survives and we get to the point where it is now several hundreds of years later and the setting is now aboard a space craft. Through all of this ridiculous hack storytelling, there is one good scene where two twins are turned into cenobites by Pinhead, but unfortunately, that was not enough to save this turkey.Basically, Pinhead and Angelique stalk the corridors of the space craft as they kill off members of the police force one by one in amusing ways. One man gets sliced in a mirror. Another man has hooks rip off the flesh of his face while a drill protrudes through the top of his cranium. There is even a cenobite dog that attacks a man! AND through all of this, Ramsey's character has devised a plan to create a puzzlebox via laserbeams projected through sattelites that will send Pinhead and Angelique back to Hell once and for all. I have no idea who wrote this story, but I can guarantee he/she won't be working in Hollywood again.This really shouldn't have been labelled as the 'fourth' entry in the Hellraiser series as nothing about it was releated to the main storyline or even had anything to do with what 'Hellraiser' is all about. The thing I've always liked the most about Pinhead are his black pupils and his yellow teeth. The poster for this movie portrayed him as having a green head with shining red eyes! That alone should tell you that this is an imposter in the franchise.I realise that this came out before the (hopefully final) fifth entry in the series and that movie was worse than this one. But if you're watching these movies in numerical succession of each other - try to stop at No. III. This will only ruin it for you.4/10  "},{"Title":"Pins forever","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I guess Doug Bradley will go on playing Pinhead until, well, he runs out of pins to stick in his head. Someone should do that to the director though. I really like the Hellraiser series. It's entertaining has lots of gore and is above all scary. The only thing is I can't enjoy this one. Ever since we found out that Pinhead started life as a normal man, well, it's just not the same anymore plus where else can you go with it? We've been to hell and back and everywhere in between. Die hard fans and gore lovers will like this one. I give it 6 out of 10. (Because at least they kept one original cast member, the very imposing Mr Bradley). But I think it's just an average sequel of a sequel of a sequel of the film. "},{"Title":"So So sequel","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When released Hellraiser Bloodline was the worst sequel to date. From watching the film one can tell about the studio cuts etc. Kevin Yager's cut is supposed to be good and goes more into depth about Pinhead's story. The film's biggest problem is no Kristy Cotton. For die hard fans only. "}{"Title":"Great Potential, But Overall A Disaster.","Date":"17 October 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Joe Cool Review - Hellraiser BloodlineStarring Bruce Ramsay as Phillip L'Merchant/John Merchant/Dr. Paul Merchant, Valentina Vargas as Angelique and Doug Bradley as PinheadPlot This follows a timeline of the lineage of the Merchant bloodline, which started with Phillip L'Merchant, who created the box that opens the doorway to Hell. Starting with the 18th century to present time when Pinhead first meets Merchant and tries to sever the bloodline..(he's the only one who can stop Pinhead, you see) and finally in the future, in space, where Paul Merchant has finally figured out how to send Pinhead to hell for good.Openers This is a movie hated so much by the people who made it, they declared fictional director Alan Smithee would be the credited director. They only pull Smithee out of the woodwork when they really think they've made a terrible movie, such as classics as The Birds II Land's End or Bloodsucking Pharaohs in Pittsburgh. No I didn't make that up. How did I like it? You're reading this so I'm sure that's what you want to know.The Good This movie isn't as bad as you've been led to believe. Oh I'm not going to sugar-coat it. This movie was filled with so much potential and ended up being a disaster, but it does have some positives. Cooler cenobites this time around for starters, such as the twins and the demon Angelique. Pinhead is still in a main role, and still has good lines(Pain has a face, allow me to show it to you) and it's somewhat entertaining throughout. Gorehounds will love the movie because of it's endless supply. There is also some continuity with the rest of the series, although you'll have to look hard to see it. The Chatterer Dog is awesome.The Bad But for a story about Hell vs the cursed Merchant bloodline that could close the gateway forever, it was really complicated and held together with duct tape. Nothing was really explored to it's full potential and there were some really stupid things included. Pinhead kidnaps a kid and holds him for ransom! Random deaths just to feature more blood(not always a bad thing, but not for the sake of the story). Pinhead is at his worst here, he rants and rants and rants even when he's about to die! For the very smart demon that he used to be, he's been reduced to nothing more than a Bond villain, at best. If Hellraiser fans ever needed a reason why he was moved back into a cameo like role, this is it. Bloodline ruined it for us all.The Ugly Gore is always mentioned here. This one has skin ripping, drilling, hook impaling, beheadings, and more goodies. The Chatterer Dog, while awesome, reeks of bad special effects during the chase scenes.Final Verdict This movie had the potential for something great, even Hellbound levels of greatness. But all of that was wasted. Who knows exactly what went down to produce this crap, but we can only blame Alan Smithee.Compared to the rest This movie is the worst of the Hellraiser series. For completists only.Rating 1/2* of ***** "},{"Title":"bloodline is a superb film, top marks","Date":"3 July 2004","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  i am very surprised at some of the comments made towards this film, i am a big fan of the HELLRAISER series but must admit to only seeing the first four films. but i found bloodline to be very exciting and enjoyable, the films plot is original and helps to shape the series, Doug Bradley as the greatest horror movie creation pinhead is again on tip top form, his speeches may bore some but for most fans they bring the character to life and give him more added menace, in my own humble opinion rarely have sequels to horror movies been almost or better than the original, Elm streets and Halloween to name a few, but in the case of Hellraiser this has happened, in fact many feel the 3 sequels surpass the original i am in agreement with this, this film keeps up with the gore and horror of its predecessors and still manages to make you sit on the edge of your seat, i would highly recommend the Hellraiser series to all horror fans who have not yet see them, even if you are not a fan of the genre i would still urge you to give them a try you may be very surprised. WHATS YOUR PLEASURE SIR.  "},{"Title":"If not for this, Hellraiser would be a neat little trilogy","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie sucked. It was soooooo boring, just talk, talk, talk, with none of the charm or daringness of the first, second, or even THIRD Hellraiser. The cenobites bite, and the humans are insipid and dull. Pinhead is hardly ever around, and when he is, he's just talking. Some boring woman Pinhead calls Princess does all the killing, which entails people being tied to chairs and killed. BORING! The one time there's some cenobite-forming action, it's completely predictable (beforehand the future victims say stuff like Let's stick together and Somebody's messin' with our heads).The first two Hellraisers are good, solid horror films, and the third one is passable, a credible effort if not a successful one. This is a boring piece of crap, more suited to being a Sci Fi Channel original movie than a theatrical-release sequel to a beloved Horror series.Pinhead is dead. "},{"Title":"* out of 4.","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Thankfully short sequel / preequel traces the origins of Pinhead and the mysterious box, then zooms to the future with Pinhead and company aboard a spaceship killing off the crew. This was supposed to be the final entry in the series, but we all know they lied. This is sorely missing the intensity and gruesome special effects of the original. Boring, pointless film from Alan Smithee!! Rated R; Graphic Violence and Profanity. "},{"Title":"A complete waste of time","Date":"26 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Want the only idea that's dumber than Pinhead in space? A movie with an 80 minute back story (set across two time periods!) just to justify bringing Pinhead to space. Yeah, the entire movie was basically an extended flashback so that the writer could justify the space setting, and then that stuff was lame too (it was basically a slasher movie... but we'd spent maybe 20 minutes here top. So we didn't know anyone's name and it's faceless people being killed slasher-movie style + 2 underdeveloped leads. One of whom just exists so the guy has someone to tell the back story too)And that's not even close to giving justice to how horrible this was. The characters? They exist for no reason other than to drive the plot forward (or die gory deaths after one scene) There's underdeveloped, and then there's these utter non-entities with such little effort put into characterizing them that you feel like your watching a living, breathing, speaking prop. Every single one was a plot device to move the plot forward, much like the plot was basically just an extended back story to bring Pinhead to space. See a pattern here?And the best part is that they couldn't even do the back story (which is a good 80-90% of the movie) properly. There's more holes in this movie's plot than there are in Swiss cheese. How is Jaques still alive 200 years later? How is the body Angelique is possessing still functioning 200 years later? How could Phillip have any descendants when the film never hinted at a child? What exactly were Jaques and Angelique doing for those 200 years while she knew Phillip's descendants were running around? If she wanted that line wiped out, you'd think she'd try to do that as fast as possible. And how does Angelique know Pinhead? She left hell before he got there! I'm sure there's more that I forgot, but nothing about this movie's plot holds up under even the most basic analysis of its events.As far as its relation to the series goes, I'm kinda surprised this one was meant to be a Hellraiser film. It has the basic story stuff (Pinhead, the box, etc.), but the movie's tone feels nothing like Hellraiser, Pinhead feels nothing like Pinhead, and it has zero connections to the previous films besides the franchise basics. Even 3 tried to sorta tie into 2's cliffhanger.Put all these flaws together and you have an awful, incompetent movie that was just utterly boring. A 90-100 minute movie should not feel like 90-100 years. This did. "},{"Title":"The lamest and the most boring entry compared to the previous 3","Date":"31 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This 4th installment has the most when it comes to the story compared to the previous other Hellraiser movies, well it tries to have more when it comes to the story. But it's also the lamest entry compared to the previous ones. The plot deals with how the origin of how the box came to be and the bloodline of the maker of the box. What I give this movie credit for is how it tries to tie the previous Hellraiser into this one. Not really in depth or anything like that, even when it comes to the characters but at least it tried. It's also not that bad when it comes to taking a horror icon into outer-space. Which some horror franchises in the past tries to do and just ruins the franchise in every way possible like Jason X for one. The thing is, although this is the most story focused than the previous 3, the story is actually quite thin despite the effort. It just gets really boring, it's not suspenseful or enticing in anyway. It seems to mostly focus on the female demon Angelique, who is actually quite forgettable. Doug Bradley nails it again as Pinhead. Again though, the story does come off pretty darn bland and just doesn't seem like a Hellraiser movie most of the way through.3.8/10 "},{"Title":"As bad as you've heard","Date":"24 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Directed by everyone's favorite pseudonym Alan Smithee, this disowned by everyone involved fourth entry is worthy of its horrid reputation. The Weinstein's got their hands on the franchise and went to town with interference making this barely coherent as it spans hundreds of years ends with a whimper in space. It plays more like an anthology film, with each story that's more lame than the next. As per Dimension's demands, there's more Pinhead than usual, but less is more and he's just a boring boogie-man. There's some OK gore and make-up, but beyond that, there is nothing - absolutely nothing of value. This film devalued the franchise to direct to video status for the cheapie sequels that never seem to end. "},{"Title":"Poorly executed and as empty as the 22nd century space setting.","Date":"2 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This instalment of Hellraiser, IV follows the bloodline of the creator of the puzzle box the 'Toy Maker' and his plan to summon and to destroy Pinhead forever.Despite a theatrical release, bloodline looks and feels TV movie-like and the acting is below average, possibly due to the script. That said, Doug Bradley is fine as Pinhead and Valentina Vargas is note-worthy as the demon Angelique.The story's concept is quite good, and includes (one assumes) the building in the 3rd and the history of the box. It is told in flash-backs by Dr. Paul Merchant in the year 2127 and follows his descendants Phillip L'Merchant in the 18th century and John Merchant in 1996. Sadly, it's just poorly executed and let down by an uneven screenplay, bland direction and sub-par sets. The effects are a mixed bag, some are well done while others are less-convincing and tame. It appears to have a troubled shooting history as there were two directors Alan Smithee (under an alias Kevin Yagher) and Joe Chappelle (uncredited). This maybe one cause and result of such an less than satisfying fourth.Overall, producers didn't give such a bankable character as Pinhead the attention he deserved leaving the viewer as empty as the 22nd century space setting. "},{"Title":"directed by Alan Smithee","Date":"10 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" this fourth installment of the series is the last to get a theatrical release,though it feels like a direct to video movie.it's OK,i guess,but nothing special.the acting is the worst of seen in the series up to this point.and like the third movie,there isn't much in the way of imagination.also,the sentence directed by Alan Smithee is never a good thing.Smithee is the pseudonym directors use when they want nothing to do with the movie.anyway,its an acceptable movie in the Hellraiser series,but not much more than that.it's a slight drop in quality from number three,and a huge drop from the first two.for me,Hellraiser IVBloodline is a 4/10 "},{"Title":"Cenobites in space.","Date":"8 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In Bloodline, the fourth film in the popular Hellraiser series, the cenobites go where no horror movie icons have gone before into space (although both Leprechaun and Jason have followed since). Having failed to unleash Hell on Earth in Part III, Pinhead and chums attempt to deliver sweet suffering and torment to the occupants of a space station, after being summoned to the facility by its designer, Paul Merchant, who intends to destroy the evil creatures once and for all.Although the film starts and finishes in the future, most of Bloodline's story takes place in the past, as Merchant recounts his family's history, detailing how a distant ancestor, French toymaker Phillip L'Merchant, was tricked into making the first lament configuration, and also how subsequent generations have suffered for his mistake.The result of a very troubled production&#151;one which resulted in director Kevin Yagher opting to use the infamous Alan Smithee pseudonym&#151;Bloodlines sometimes feels rather disjointed and a little confusing. However, despite this, the film isn't as bad as one might expect and still offers plenty to enjoy the origin of the pesky puzzle box fleshes out the whole Hellraiser mythos nicely, there is plenty of the nasty splatter that fans have come to expect from the series (including the bloody creation of a brand new cenobite made from a pair of identical twins!), and the film's fun final sees a surprised Pinhead getting his just desserts by way of the biggest puzzle box in the galaxy.A long way from the greatness of Barker's original, but better than part two, and no worse than three, Bloodlines gets a reasonable rating of 6/10 from me. "}{"Title":"Bloodlines= (","Date":"4 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" this movie is so bad and Hellraiser part 1 to 3 are so great. Nothing is good Bloodline... a lot of gore but without meaning and the majority of time without originality. the movie is about the past, the present (1996) and the future of the puzzle box. The creator of the box and his offspring fight against some demon but nothing link up seriously the 3 stories. Pinhead is in the movie...but it isn't Pinhead, he is just a boring bad guy who kidnap kids and kill bird, and the worse...he talk too much. A thing that I really didn't understand is why the dog from hell????? He can't be a cenobites because he had nothing human. Why the dog can be killed by the pressure if the other creature from hell can receive bullets without problems????? Bloodline is incoherent with the movie series in many ways. For example Pinhead and Angelique are old friend in this movie but it's impossible that Pinhead met Angelique because Pinhead is just a soldier from the First World War and Angelique is an old demon and she live in Paris since sometimes like 200 years. "},{"Title":"Hellraiser 4","Date":"28 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Hellraiser 4 continues the trend established in Hellraiser 3 Hell On Earth, in that rather than making the monsters scary, it makes them characitures, the same way Freddy Krueger went. What started out a fresh, and lets face it, terrifying vision of hell, has rather turned into what can best be described as a comic book version of the same story. This time, Kirsty's character is again been ditched for an insanely one dimensional (that's not to say Kirsty wasn't one dimensional, but hey, she's a Scream Queen) family bloodline (geddit?) called the Merchants. Following the family through the ages from when L'Merchant created the Lament Configuration in France through to a un-unique vision of the future, it shows the Merchant family haunted by the Cenobites in periodic parts of history. This was the first time Clive Barker removed his name from the series, and to be honest, I would too. Very unsatisfying entry. "},{"Title":"Actually pretty good, but kinda stupid.","Date":"19 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  So it's come to Pinhead in space!  Actually, the movie follows the creator of the puzzle box and his bloodline through hundreds of years of meeting up with the cenobytes.  At first I was put off on the fact that it starts in space before flashing back in time to tell the story, but it's not too bad.  It even refernces the 'Lament Configuration' building the last movie ended with.  The effects were pretty good, considering it's a low-budget film (was this straight-to-video?); and the acting was really good for a low-budget horror sequel (nice to see the Meryl Streep look-alike chick from A Nightmare On Elm Street 2 found work again).  I wouldn't say this film is scary or even gory, but very watchable in my opinion.  Overall, I went into this film with really, really low expectations after seeing Part 3, but I was pleasantly surprised by the quality of the movie and surprised that the absurd storyline actually works. "},{"Title":"oh boy, is this movie bad...Alan Smithee strikes again","Date":"18 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was one of the unfortunate few filmgoers who saw Hellraiser Bloodline in the movie theater, and what a disappointment. The plotline has its possibilities, telling the tale of Pinhead and his cynobites and the magic box as they move through the ages, from Medieval times and through the Romantic and Restoration periods, the twentieth century, and into the future (where the film beings on a chintzy-computer animated spaceship).But, the film doesn't live up to its imaginative promise, proving to be thick in stupidity, delivering stiff performances, cheap special effects and costumes, and one of the worst scenes of a character wandering around in the dark (I know that some security gaurds are not so bright, but cmon! This guy would be confounded by a stop sign).The ending is anti-climactic...in fact, in the theater I saw the film in, it looked as if the film had broken during the climax and the theater had done a terrible job splicing the rest of the footage together. God, this movie is bad ! This is a shame, because the second and third Hellraisers were fairly smart, imaginative little gothic-gore horror tales that I thought were about the best scary movies of the 1980s and 90s. This, however, is about as bad as a movie can get; Ed Wood, are you reincarnated as the director (who is hiding behind the Hollywood-screwup pseudonym Alan Smithee)?Hellraiser Bloodline was so bad that the audience I saw it with was heckling the film throughout, some people called out, This movie sucks!, Don't go in there, you idiot!, and one person turned to me and said I wonder if I could go and get my money back.Aside from Independence Day, this is the absolute worst film I have paid to see in a theater. Needless to say, I haven't watched the two Hellraiser sequels made since then, and I probably won't. Why bother? And, if I were Clive Barker, I would have removed my name from this film just as the director had; it would have been a smart move. Barker is a talent; this film is far beneath him.What an insult to anyone's intelligence!!! "},{"Title":"I want my ninety minutes back","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Some sort of accolades must be given to `Hellraiser Bloodline'. It's actually out Full-Mooned Full Moon. It bears all the marks of, say, your `Demonic Toys' or `Puppet Master' series, without their dopey, uh, charm? Full Moon can get away with silly product because they know it's silly. These Hellraiser things, man, do they ever take themselves seriously. This increasingly stupid franchise (though not nearly as stupid as I am for having watched it) once made up for its low budgets by being stylish. Now it's just ish.  "},{"Title":"Great story turned into a sloppy film","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I realise that there is a good deal of controversy about a director successfully applying to the Director's Guild and having his credit removed from a film that has been altered beyond his vision.  And this movie begs the question was the director's vision of this film going to be better than the version that the studio released (after changing it against Yagher's wishes)?  Who can say for sure.  One thing is very clear when watching this movie the premise is very interesting and alone it demands a better treatment.  I'll analyse what I think is going on with this movie.We have to skip the futuristic introduction; it looks nice but is confused.  We don't know enough about the why, and only some of it is revealed at the end of the film, this despite the story being told from the POV of the future protagonist.  This leaves us with two choices either ignore the introduction or fill in the narrative ourselves (the latter leads to disappointment later on as our imagination is clearly better).  Either way, we forget what we see and optimistically we find ourselves in Renaissance France.Act I France, opens well and sets a tone of spookiness that captures the suspense aficionado.  The footage is quite beautiful, if macabre, and is in line with what we would expect to see.  Clearly though, something has been excised from this Act of the film because the relationships between the characters change without warning towards the end the entailments from what we are told previously do not coincide with where the Act leads (which just gives us loose ends, or unresolved plot-lines).  It is jarring for the viewer, not so much because of the material, which is jarring to say the least, but as it seems a little rushed (which adds to the sense that something is missing).  That much could be forgiven if the film settles into a pace that can be followed without too much trouble, but this is where HellRaiser Bloodline collapses and never recovers.  Act 2 New York.  This is a mixed up cutover from Act I the sudden end of a relationship which sees the initial antagonist, Angelique, heading to New York to locate the toymaker, who has meanwhile constructed a building that acts as a big containment device for Cenobites (in a manner not unlike the Lament Configuration it seems).  Bizarrely, there is no reference to the building or to its strange setup until we are *in it*, following some erstwhile security guards to their timely ends.  But then there is something about a kid as bait, and a wife trying to save herself from a Cenobite dog (werewolf?).  And Angelique is suddenly forced into becoming a Cenobite.  Is that what is happening?  Obviously on this detail I am lost.  She comes across as a Julia-like character in Act I and for most of Act II but is then inexplicably confronted by Pinhead and seems to turn into a Cenobite herself... is this usually what happens now in these movies?  Seems at odds with HellRaiser folklore to me.Act III Future Space Station.  This part looks like it was filmed on the Event Horizon or some similar spacecraft and is stylish.  HOWEVER, by this time the chop and slop we are being served doesn't add up.  We don't understand why Dr Merchant is being hounded by the thugs with guns, or worse still, why the hell are those goons so utterly incompetent?  In any suspense/horror setting, it is much more exciting when the guys with guns are intelligent and well-trained, but still no match for the bad guys (ie the Cenobites).. on that point compare with Aliens.The main thing this movie suffers is not even just that the pace is messy, which it is, but that the relationships between the central characters and the various plot devices are totally shattered and mismatched.  Who would put such a shoddy piece of work together?  I think we can all guess that meddling by the studio played a big part in this.  (Cast your thoughts back to Brazil and how much better the Director's vision turned out to be).As far as the HellRaiser franchise is concerned, this movie is a low point, about as bad as it gets (along with the slightly better HellRaiser III Hell on Earth, which I guess is what started the trend towards cluelessness on the part of the production team).  I am all for HellRaiser movies, not necessarily being related to any central or ongoing non-Cenobite characters, but at least give us a consistent and structured story to work with! "},{"Title":"not really that good","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  They should have stopped with the third one. This movie was so bad. Some of the F/X was pretty cool but the movie period isn't worth watching. It just wasnt as good as the frist three movies. And whats the deal with that Princess. Like I dont want to see her, I wanted to see Pinhead. But I guess if you like the Hellraiser movies you might like this one. I recommend this movie to anyone who likes the Hellraiser movie or a horror movie. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies ever.","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sometimes a movie can have lots of killing and entertain you. I loved Rambo movies. But there is something in a killing film that Mr. Alan Smithee (shame nickname for the director) forgot. He forgot to make the kills entertaining. Instead, making every victim seem unpleasantly tortured.I don't want to care about the victims. In Hellraiser III, someone threw sharp CDs at victims. That can be entertaining. Quick death. That's it.In this hump of a Alan Smithee movie (the word film does not apply), you see skin peeled off victims, especially two twins, that insults an audience's view of entertainment. It is a sick dream of trying to upset horror fans. After seeing Pinhead torture kind people, it is ironic how he gets a quick death (escape until part five).I have a feeling that this film could have been the used in A Clockwork Orange to help Alex stop being evil. Turn it off! The director didn't deserve the Alan Smithee cover up because he filmed these cruel scenes. "},{"Title":"The worst of the series (and that's saying something!)","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  With serious rumours of a fifth sequel to this ailing horror series, it's perhaps important to look back over the four films that made up the Hellraiser story over a decade.I like the original, it is a decently packaged horror film, though does suffer from a slightly nasty undertone, an excess of gore. The second is essentially the same, though in retrospect, every action, every spoken line of dialogue, is played with tongue so firmly in cheek it reaches the ultimate in high camp.The third is, on second glance, a vaguely-commendable attempt to repackage the film series and introduce it to a wider audience. Unfortunately this involved giving the lead villain, Pinhead, super powers and cracking jokes. Completely inappropriate for such a visceral character, just as his constant eulogies grate in the fourth.And so I came to see Bloodline for a second time, a movie which, initially, I was pleased gave a seriousness back to the characters. Second glance reveals it's absolute tripe of the highest order.A pinhead in space sequel, this one falls between both horror and science fiction genres, though is unlikely to worry aficionados of either. Holograms are involved, and a character called Rimmer stalks the ship (maybe the production team had been watching episodes of Red Dwarf?) The central plot involves Bruce Ramsay as Mr.Merchant, a man who, in his ancestral past, invented the box that started the whole thing off. This idea to fill in the back story must be commended, but then Psycho IV filled in Norman Bates' back story and look at what a lame film that was.This handy device of a line of Merchants (Philip, John and Paul) means that they can all be portrayed by the same actor. The notion of having one actor dress up in silly wigs and put on a French accent in a medieval setting is something that has delighted the makers of Britains' Children's Film Foundation for many a year in the 70s, but this is an adult film of the supposedly-sophisticated 90s. Cheap-looking, we follow these flimsily-written vignettes through to a present time and then to 2127. If your idea of film entertainment is seeing a temptress in ball gown turn her hand into a bright green claw then rip off half of someone's face and prod their cheekbone then this is for you. Personally I found it unnecessarily crude in it's vulgar gore.And so we reach the present timeline of the series, a place where a no longer scary Pinhead feeds scraps to a chattering plastic dog and preaches a load of half-baked nonsense about Hell and damnation, God and religion... all the usual stuff, but even less inspired than usual. This conclusion aboard the ship only lasts for just twenty minutes, indicating that ideas were low on supply for this exceptionally short film.This really is just pulp-schlock-gore, though in fairness this isn't Atkins' worst script for the series, it's just the direction and acting that make it seem worse than it is. Budget, too, seems lacking for what is a high concept for the series, and comes off as a low-grade tv movie. But then, set on a high-tech spaceship, do we really believe Merchant is in any danger from some bloke with a pin cushion for a head? The film even ignores it's own rules, that of a cenobite can only take the lament configuration box if it is freely given. Here Rimmer gets it whipped out of her hand by the Jezebel Cenobite, Angelique. If the writer has such a lack of respect for his own borrowed concept, then how can we respect his screenplay?Clive Barker wrote the script for the enjoyable Hellraiser. The state of decreasing returns were all penned by Peter Atkins, based on the original concept. However, I bet Barker isn't complaining, he sold the rights to the lot for a million. Ironically, then, it could be Barker that sold his soul... for this truly is an awful movie. "},{"Title":"Oh why...","Date":"19 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The third movie pretty much said everything that needed being said.  Bloodlines just doesn't add much to the series.  Ashley Lawrence is sorely missed, and only Doug Bradley's ability to rise over the mediocre script  (the man can say his lines, give him that), a bit of backstory, the idea of  Pinhead in Space, and some originality with the F/X make this worth watching. "}{"Title":"Depressing trash...","Date":"23 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" After the failure of Hellraiser III Hell On Earth, the chapter that served as a kind of 'death blow' to the franchise, another embarrassing cheapo cash-in did not come as a surprise. An abysmal attempt to explain every single mystery of Pinhead and the puzzle box, covering literally centuries of history, in a film that runs UNDER 90 minutes... On display is sub-par to wretched acting, sup-par to wretched B-movie special effects, and a ludicrous and insulting attempt at dark humour, while STILL attempting to keep the whole project completely serious. I'm wondering, how many freaking directors did this thing have? Poor Pinhead has SO MUCH screen time, that every bit of mystery and menace that this iconic character possessed, is completely lost. After an hour of hearing long-winded speeches and dramatic posturing, we simply want to tell the guy to shut up! mildly entertaining in spots, especially in the first segment, this mess begins to look and feel like a cheap, ugly made for TV splatter flick after a while, and ends in the most ridiculous way imaginable Pinhead, along with his pet Cenobite dog, killing a bunch of idiots... in outer space! I'm sorry, but any true fan of the first two films in the series, that gave this abortion of a film more than 3 stars, should be ashamed. On a side note, the film that follows; Hellraiser Inferno is actually a surprisingly intelligent, and stylishly-made film-noir piece, that brilliantly reinstates 'Pinhead' as a master of illusion and cruelty, and brings back the concept of the inherent evil in human kind, that was the centerpiece of the original film, and the whole point of the story. For any serious horror fan, see Hellraiser I & II, skip the lousy III & this one, and continue with 'Inferno.' You won't miss a thing by skipping this garbage... "},{"Title":"Shame on you Kevin Yagher and Alan Smithee!","Date":"6 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Hellraiser Bloodline is where the sequel mediocrity of the Hellraiser series well and truly sets in. Gone is the imagination and invention of the first two movies. Gone is the ethos of Pinhead and his minions. Gone are the sick desires of humans. In fact everything that once made Hellraiser so original has been trashed by this mess of a picture.All that is left is that basic premise of Christian mythology that there is a Hell with evil Demons. What happened to the evil that men do? This watered down excuse for a Hellraiser movie is padded out with endless Psycho Babble, so that Pinhead becomes a nonsense spouting philosopher and not the harbinger of doom as he is meant to be. The film uses the most basic of film formulas with characters separating and getting individually killed. Pinhead is not Alien. The link between the box and the 'demons' or 'Hell' is never established it just arrives at a sacrifice and sits on a sideboard.The lead female Character is called 'Rimmer' and the producers obviously think it really funny because everyone keep saying her name. Really the film should have been retitled to give it that characters name.Shame on you Kevin Yagher and Alan Smithee. "},{"Title":" Give me the powers of Hell","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Bruce Ramsay is curt as Phillip in this hideous horror film. The remaining cast is tolerant. The costumes are stylish. One of the fair flicks in the genre, Hellraiser 4 Bloodline drops rare spooks. 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Do I look like someone who cares what God thinks?","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Bloodline was not as bad as I thought it would be, but it wasn't really great. This fourth installment of the series is done like an anthology. Taking us to the past, the present and the future, Bloodline reveals the origin of the puzzle box and how the gates of Hell were opened. While the plot is original and interesting, the touch of Clive Barker is sorely missed. Of course, had the director gotten to do what he wanted to do, this probably would've been a better movie. Another problem with this movie is that there isn't enough Pinhead. His role is more limited.On the plus side, Doug Bradley gives an excellent performance as Pinhead. Also, the film does have great special effects. Like the other films in the series, there is also lots of gore and blood. The dark tone of the movie is also perfect.Bloodline has it's good points and bad points, but it packs enough of a punch to have some entertainment value. "},{"Title":"The most entertaining Hellraiser sequel","Date":"2 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This third sequel continues the series in the Hellraiser III direction, giving us lots of what we want to see Pinhead, the Cenobites, graphic slayings and lots of blood. Isn't that what Hellraiser is all about? Hellraiser Bloodline is very like the third in that it's all action with no suspense or stupid puzzles. Whereas the first HR was a cult horror classic, the second started well but ended up boring the hell out of everyone with its stupid labyrinths. The third was the most fun, I have to say - Doug Bradley was on top form as Pinhead. And here, 4 years later, he's on even better form. Pinhead kicks some serious ass this time, I think this is the goriest Hellraiser yet. Even though it's cut, it by no means holds back on the blood.It starts out in space.. So you're thinking... Why do all horror franchises end up in space at some point? Friday the 13th.. Critters.. Ghoulies even! Especially when a sequel in space is the last thing the series' fans want. Well don't worry, it starts out in space but leads to a flashback in 18th century France, resulting in a sort of prequel explaining how 'the box' was created. And it's not boring either. This plot is very entertaining to watch - Bruce Ramsay is convincing as the toymaker L'Merchant, and Valentina Vargas is deliciously evil as the demon Angelique. This plot takes up most of the film, and it ends with a Jason X-style slaughtering of the space crew, while Pinhead stalks and teases Merchant with his classic one-liners. Great sequel! I enjoyed the hell out of it... "},{"Title":"Mildly entertaining, but totally unnecessary","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A fourth Hellraiser movie was not needed, but we got it anyways.  This one tells us how the box was invented, why it's cursed, and supposedly ends it.  Surprisingly, the film leaves no room for a sequel--that's about it for originality.  The movie is an OK time filler--nothing more.  The film is too dark and the script is confused.  Special effects are OK, but what really sinks this film is the acting.  The female leads are very good, but all the male leads are lousy.  Some of their acting was so bad that I couldn't believe this was the final cut--didn't anyone look at the footage?  Also the film gets (needlessly) bloody and graphic and I gave up on the film when a young child is put in danger.  So, it's a diversion only for the special effects and female leads.  Otherwise, there's no real reason to watch this.  And if you think they add something to the mythology of the box...they don't.  Clive Barker had nothing to do with this film...and it shows. "},{"Title":"an incoherent mess","Date":"17 October 2006","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" By the time the Hellraiser franchise was reaching it's forth film the premise was wearing a bit thin. Dr. Paul Merchant (Bruce Ramsey) is a scientist in the future, whom while prisoner regales his captor of the story of how his ancestors (all played by Ramsey) had first built the evil Lament Configuration puzzle-box that sets evil upon the world and how his bloodline had subsequent dealing with said box. The film is a awash with lack of continuity in regards to the other films and lack of coherency in this one. Yes, this could be due to a combination of rewrites, massive cuts in the original version of the film, or what have you. But I'm reviewing the film as is, and not what it was or could have been. And as it is now it's a mess. Sure the franchise will go on indefinitely with direct to DVD sequels, but this one was pretty much a death-nail to it's chances of getting a new one released theatrically ever again.My Grade D- "},{"Title":"In CGI Space - Nobody Can Hear Your Boredom...","Date":"23 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Pinhead in space! Hey - it worked for the Leprechaun. You know you're in trouble when a once reputable horror franchise throws a katching sound effect at you before the opening titles. The plot, dealing with the history of those responsible for the notorious puzzle box, is sadly done in relatively cheap flashbacks (with limited sets). Most of the (surprisingly minimal) gore is unnecessary (such as the autopsy of a body for no apparent reason), and the now cut-rate CGI box looks incredibly lame. Also, the conclusion - where a space station folds into a giant puzzle box - left my forehead bruised, as I smacked it in disgust. The worst of the theatrical entries. You may just want to skip ahead to Hellraiser Inferno, as it's a pretty decent little thriller. Directed by everyone's favorite pseudonym, Alan Smithee. "},{"Title":"Hellraiser IV Bloodline","Date":"21 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The first film was good, the second film was disappointing, the third film was okay, and this next sequel I expected to be pretty much exactly the same standard as the last one, and it would be the last played in the cinemas. Basically it is the year 2127 on the Space Station Mionos, and the man who built the station Dr. Paul Merchant (Bruce Ramsay) has built a robot that can solve the Lament Configuration, i.e. the puzzle box, but the robot is destroyed and he is captured, and he tells his kidnapper Rimmer (Christine Harnos) the story of his bloodline. The story flashbacks 400 years earlier, where French toymaker Philip L'Merchant (Ramsay again) creates the Lament Configuration, he believes it will be just a simple puzzle box for wealthy aristocrat Duc De L'Isle (Mickey Cottrell), but he has black magic in mind and uses it to release Cenobite slave Angelique (Valentina Vargas) from the dark regions. The toymaker also invented the Elysium Configuration which he uses to destroy the demons, the Duc's apprentice Jacques (Adam Scott) informs him that his bloodline are cursed until time ends because of his creation. Two hundred year pass, and the next in the bloodline John Merchant (also Ramsay) is the architect who built the building seen at the end of Hellraiser III, where the puzzle box was placed in the wet cement, and after Jacques is killed by Angelique she travels to America and tries to seduce John, the puzzle box is taken from the ground, and a man solves it and as a result releases Pinhead (Doug Bradley). The Cenobite leader wants the Elysium Configuration to be be used to open the gates of Hell and allow him and his dark forces to do anything he pleases, and he knows the best way to force John to do it is by threatening his child Jack (Courtland Mead). The Elysium Configuration is forced to be used, but it does not work, so Merchant is killed, while his wife Bobbi (Kim Myers) is the one who sends Pinhead, Angelique and the other Cenobites created back to Hell. Back in the future 2127 on the space station the Cenobites are freed once again, Rimmer realises the danger they are all in and releases Paul so that he can destroy the demons, using the main purpose the Minos was built for. Pinhead is distracted while Paul and Rimmer escape in a shuttle, and the combination of powerful lasers and mirrors create a blast of light, and the space station is transformed into a giant version of the puzzle box to trap the Cenobites within, and it self destructs as well, and destroying the connection between Hell and Earth as well. Bradley still keeps you watching as Pinhead with his philosophical like dialogue and his malevolent love for torture and death on humans, I will be honest though I don't fully agree with the critics giving it an average review, I think it is nearly the most ridiculous of the films in the series, going to the future and into space is a daft idea, only the origins of the puzzle box and the bloody effects is what kept me interested, apart from that it was a slightly disappointing horror. Okay! "},{"Title":"Welcome to Hell's Circus","Date":"21 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the XXII century an architect by the name of Merchant (Bruce Ramsay) commandeers a space station, which he personally designed. As can be predicted a special force is sent to retake the expensive station and put Merchant into custody. Upon arrival they find him partaking in a weird ritual with the use of a mysterious cubical. During interrogation he reveals that they must let him finish, what he has started or else the hell he has released will bathe in blood... In order to convince the officers holding him captive he reminisces about his heritage, about the toymaker who built the box and about the reasons as to why he is here in space...The movie that is essentially the same to Hellraiser, that The Quickening was to Highlander. Something to be ignored and forgotten, as so it won't influence the lore of Hellraiser to much. By far the most trashy of the franchise with a much more low-grade feel to it than its predecessors (who let's face it were B or C class films).Acting at times seems to be influenced by a mid-budget porn-flick with wooden unbelievable performances, that actually have you thinking So when are they going to undress and start with the intercourse? Surprisingly not much sex in the movie, albeit the introduction of the seductress-demon Angelique (a totally superfluous character that unnecessarily messes with what we know of the world of Hellraiser) offers ample opportunities for the love-making.Basically the movie consists of three abruptly pasted together separate short stories (one in the future, one in the present and one in the past) which lack focus and are rushed along in amateurish fashion. The end result is extremely poor, basically underlined by the fact you have no interest into what happens to any of the characters in the film.Some decent gore in the flick, but apart from that an utter failure. "}{"Title":"Repetitive torture film with a villain called Pinhead.","Date":"25 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Hellraiser Bloodline is only a so-so film. I believe it's the fourth installment in the Hellraiser series.I missed the beginning, and all I remember from there was some topless women and a box-shape thing on a computer screen. But, using my wit and intelligence, (and the Info Button) I soon found out that the villain (Pinhead) was released from Pandora's Box, which, I believe is a gateway straight to Hell.So, anyways, Pinhead somehow comes out of the box and terrorizes the Toymaker's family. And, that's about it. Oh, and not to mention the random tortures of various people that cross his path. Yawn.What mainly happens in this film is that Pinhead captures the kid, and then unleashes the dog on his wife, and then kills a random person. Then he husband comes along, blah, blah, blah. Who cares? Why it fails is because Hellraiser Bloodline is too corny to be scary. Look at Pinhead's minion of creatures a cheesy dog that looks like it's been turned inside out, two men whose heads and bodies are connected together, (Siamese twins in a horror film?) and some person who is supposed to be a princess of some sort. (I haven't seen the previous films.) Now look at the main villain. His name is Pinhead. Isn't that the name you call somebody when they're stupid? He has pins in his head and hooks coming out of his fingers, and he has blue skin. I suppose he would make a decent villain if he didn't have such a corny name, and a corny speech. Somewhere in the film, two cops approach him and say Don't make us put some pain on you! Pinhead replies Pain? How dare you use that word! I AM pain&#133; blah, blah, blah, blah blah. It sounds a bit clich if you ask me.Don't forget the final half of the movie. The characters (and audience) get to experience more torture when Pinhead attacks some futuristic asylum. Some person who we don't recognize (Maybe he was in the previous films. I don't remember him in the beginning of the movie.) This scene is basically one thing played over and over again A guard goes to inspect a mysterious noise.Some other guard Oh no! He's down. I will go check on him&#133;by myself!After he dies the same thing happens again.(SPOILERS) Here's the thing I didn't get. In the film Pinhead is supposedly sent to Oblivion at the end. So, how does he come back for another four films? Are they prequels? Why hasn't he died in the previous ones? Geez. The makers need to come up with an idea for a different series. (END OF SPOILERS) Hellraiser Bloodline is gory and full of torture scenes, but has little thrill or scare value. Just forget it. Bad special effects with bad&#133;everything else make this more of a snooze-fest than a good horror.Good Well&#133;some people may enjoy the topless women in the beginning. Plus, Pinhead's voice is pretty cool. I suppose if you like ultra-violence, you might like this too.Bad None of the reasons above make this a very good film. The corniness and repetitiveness are pretty bad. And, who names their villain Pinhead?Feel free to send me a Private Message regarding this comment. "},{"Title":"A muddled mess of a movie.","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's true, no one really expects anything from sequels.  But even by that low standard this is a terrible film.Essentially an anthology movie, this fourth installment in the Hellraiser saga tries to be an origins story and a wind-up to the entire series at the same time.  An ambitious idea.  But none of the cast is given enough screen time to do anything with their characters and rookie director Yagher abandoned the film rather than give in to studio meddling.  The result is a steaming pile of mediocrity that even fanboys have trouble defending. Unless you're an Alan Smithee fan, avoid this one. "},{"Title":"Bloody and stupid.In fact,bloody stupid.","Date":"25 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsAlmost every horror movie franchise is done to death,and the Hellraiser series is a prime example.Even though the idea of Pinhead in space does sound like a strangely intriguing one,there's a very cheap feel to the sets for a movie that got a pretty big promotion over in the States.Pinhead looks rather deteringly silly too,and the person responsible for the demon dog should be shot.A truly shoddy mangling of plasticine if ever one was seen.The whole thing is wrapped up way too quickly for the emotional scenes to have any lasting effect.And what's Kevin Yagher got to be so scared about?Hardly Martin Scorsese is he.** "},{"Title":"A bit of a mess really...","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Hellraiser Bloodline starts in outer space on the 'Space Station Minos' during the year '2127' where Dr. Paul Merchant (Bruce Ramsay) has taken over the station, the station which he designed. He opens the Chinese puzzle box which releases Pinhead (Doug Bradley) & his twisted Cenobites & opens the door to hell as he plans to destroy them forever but he is stopped when a team of marines sent to regain control of the station capture him. Merchant pleads with them to let him finish what he has started & tells his interrogator Rimmer (Christine Harnos) the story of the deadly little puzzle box which dates back to 17th Century Paris where his ancestor Phillip L'Merchant (Bruce Ramsay again) built the box for an evil magician named Duc de L'Ise (Mickey Cottrell) who gives it it's power & uses it to open the gates of hell, Merchant then goes on to continue the story through the generations until now where he intends to finally destroy the box & close the gateway to hell forever...Oh dear, this the fourth entry in the Hellraiser franchise had a few behind-the-scenes problems. Originally set to be directed by special effects man Kevin Yagher the producers at Mirimax didn't share his artistic sentiment & they re-cut the film extensively & hired another director Joe Chappelle to re-shoot some of it & turn in the film they wanted, apparently Hellraiser Bloodline was going to be very different then the way it eventually turned out so Kevin Yagher disowned it & the director now on the opening credits is the infamous Alan Smithee. The script is credited to Pete Atkins but who knows exactly how much of it has actually ended up on screen, anyway I can't quite believe that anyone would think that putting Pinhead on a space station over a 100 years in the future would be a good idea. The basic concept is rather neat with a chronological time-line that charts the Chinese puzzle box & it's origins but the finished result is a bit of a mess, the character's are poor, the dialogue that comes from Pinhead's mouth is terrible, it's stupid, it ignores just about everything that made the first two films so brilliant, shooting Pinhead with laser guns at the end looks silly, there is no journey into hell & to add insult to injury they've given Pinhead a pet dog! Having said that I found that it moved along at a nice pace & isn't boring & there's a fair amount of gruesome gore (yeah!) if nothing else, at least it entertained me right through to the end.The film has a certain gloss to it but it lacks the imagination that the first two Hellraiser films showed & it comes across a bit flat & lifeless at times, it definitely doesn't have the dark sadistic edge or atmosphere of the first two. A lot of stuff was changed & re edited, I'm not sure if I should be saying this but if you have a search on Youtube.com you can find some of that stuff although it's not exactly fantastic & obviously taken out of context with the rest of the film. The special make-up effects are very good but the CGI effects are poor & that space station really does look cheap. There's some nice gore including the usual skinless bodies, hooks embedded in flesh, a cool decapitation by a hook with blades on, someone is decapitated with a mirror, there's plenty of maggots & worms, lots of blood, open wounds & an exploding dog.With a supposed budget of $4,000,000 Hellraiser Bloodline is well made save for a few poor CGI effects & has that Hollywood polish about it, unfortunately that's not what the Hellraiser series is about. The acting wasn't exactly Oscar worthy if you know what I mean.Hellraiser Bloodline is a bit of a mess & I can't in all honestly see too many people getting that much from it & it comes as a huge disappointment after the previous three films all of which where pretty good especially the first two. This was the last Hellrasier film to be released theatrically, the series now stands at 8 films. "},{"Title":"A great sequel until its last halve.","Date":"12 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" At first I was like; why did you removed your name from this movie its credits Kevin Yagher? This movie is just great and certainly better than the third one and maybe even the second. I liked were the movie and its story was heading to but then it suddenly made a turn for the worse. I should had known better with a sequel that gets set in space...Still it's far from an horrible movie and it still is actually quite a watchable one. At its first halve it does a great job at further expanding the whole Hellraiser story and universe, by digging deeper into the past. Even though this the Hellraiser movie that is set in space, it also for most part is set at the present and the 18th century. The movie is being really original with its story and it was an interesting watch.The second halve felt far too rushed, as if they desperately wanted this movie to reach a spectacular conclusion. It simply doesn't fit the characters and the entire concept of Hellraiser to be within a spectacular movie. The more low key the movie plays things, the effective it works out.Luckily the character Pinhead still works out better in this movie than he did in the previous one. He's back more evil Doug Bradley handles this type of dialog way better than that of the last movie, in which he really had to act more serious.It's also a more gory movie than any of the other previous Hellraiser movies. Appereantly director Kevin Yagher shot many way more gory moments but got overruled and called back by the studio, who favored more on-screen time for the Pinhead character and pretty much did not care for much else that had to do with this movie.A movie with a really great and interesting first halve, that almost gets entirely ruined by its rushed and far less good second halve.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"The Scarecrow reviews Bloodline","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" From what I understand, this was supposed to be a series of films dealing with the bloodline of a toymaker named L'Merchant who unknowingly created the dreaded puzzlebox for which is a gateway to hell where Pinhead comes from amongst other minions. If that had been the case, perhaps things would have turned out better. Instead we have three different timelines of L'Merchant placed in a 90 minute movie and I feel you can see lots of things left out. The whole film feels uneven and I never could shake the idea that post-production killed an interesting premise. The first timeline shows Phillip L'Merchant creating the puzzlebox for demented magician Duc de L'Isle(Mickey Cottrell)and his pupil Jacques(Adam Scott)who wish to summon a demon for their pleasure and servitude. Angelique(Valentina Vargas)is a prostitute who is selected for such a purpose and once she is killed, her soul is resurrected but this time it's in demonic form. I'm guessing Jacques and Angelique decided they didn't need L'Isle because when Phillip wishes to destroy the puzzlebox he finds the magician almost dead and badly beaten. He is attacked by Jacques when Angelique gets his attention and almost dead when he informs his wife to flee with their unborn child. This first story is badly underdeveloped and that might be due to cutting it into a 90 minute film. This story suffers, but the second film had much potential. This time, the setting is modern day New York and John Merchant has become quite a famous artiste extraordinaire. His design for a high-rise has a sculpted puzzlebox artform. Angelique wishes to dump Jacques and kills him when he breaks some sort of demonic rule or code(this doesn't get proper explanation). She awakens Pinhead from his puzzlebox layer thanks to a doorman who thinks he's about to get the greatest lay of his life. Instead Angelique suckers him into opening the gateway and releasing Pinhead and his demon dog upon the earth. Pinhead stays within a hidden room in the highrise for he desires for Merchant to open a much larger puzzlebox from a design in the building(this whole angle makes little sense and has some sort of connectional link with a computer). John's wife is played by Kim Myers of A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 2 fame and looks great if I might say so. Anyway, John's son is used by Pinhead as bait to open the large puzzlebox gateway in the high-rise. While this scheme is being concocted, Pinhead has a little fun with twin security guards having them crushed together. Unfortunate for Pinhead, John's wife has courage and opens the smaller puzzlebox while the inventor programs his computer to overload the larger design model to explode. The smaller puzzlebox pulls Pinhead and Angelique back inside(along with the demon dog..Myers fought them all bravely), but not before our star demon of pain killed John via beheading by chain. In the third story, Dr. Paul Merchant(who also serves as narrator to a group of soldiers assigned for some reason to bring him back to Earth)has designed an elaborate space station and brought Pinhead, Angelique, the demon dog, and the twins(now some sort of conjoined monster)out from within their small puzzlebox. The soldiers assigned to bring Paul back to Earth search the spacestation and become victims of pain thanks to Pinhead and his posse. For some reason, Paul is considered a threat to Earth so the soldiers check throughout to see why he is in space. Paul has told them why he has created this vessel and his goals to finally put an end to Pinhead forever, but this final act feels severely cut and one might wonder where Angelique and the twin monsters vanish to after they kill some soldiers. Pinhead has no idea that Paul has designed the spacestation as a uniquely created puzzlebox in the design of L'Merchant to destroy him. This whole film seems like one crudely pieced together exercise. It's incredibly nice to look at and Pinhead has much more screen time than in the next few films that will be made. He gets supplied plenty of eloquent phrases describing the pain he shall cause. He declares to some victims..I..am..pain! I particularly like the final sequence when he realizes he has been defeated and finishes the film with his final word..Amen. The film really seems to have much potential if it had been a series of films as perhaps planned by Kevin Yagher. There so many problems with the story of Pinhead and Angelique I don't know where to begin. Does Yagher abandon the third film's ending. How come the puzzlebox is in this pillar of the building and how does she know it is there(in modern day New York)? How does she even know about Pinhead and vice versa? Perhaps much back story is missing because of bad editing. What has been left on the cutting room floor? That perhaps in the ultimate question. Too much of meat is missing and all we have in this film is leftovers. It isn't all bad for like I said above..we do get to see the ominous Pinhead much more, but the what ifs of what a trilogy of stronger, more beefed up stories containing Pinhead & Angelique does have me ponder what might've been. "},{"Title":"Bad On Just About Every Level","Date":"15 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Hellraiser Bloodline (1996) * 1/2 (out of 4) The fourth film in the series turned out to be the last one to get a theatrical release but how this thing ever got released at all is rather amazing considering how poor it is. The film starts off in 2127 when a doctor has taken over a space station trying to find the secrets of the puzzle box. The film then flashes back to the 17th Century Paris where a toy maker creates the box so that a magician can bring demons to Earth. Finally, we then flash forward to present times where Pinhead (Doug Bradley) is back and trying to force a relative of the toy maker to build a new and bigger box. HELLRAISER BLOODLINE, according to legend, featured a pretty good screenplay, which ended up being tossed out when the producer's felt they needed more Pinhead and less story. This caused the original director to walk and what we're left with is something of a half and half between what the original screenplay called for and what the producers wanted. I can't imagine a Director's Cut being much better since he apparently didn't get to film everything he wanted to but either way what we're left with is a real disaster as nothing ever makes too much sense and you can't help but feel as if you're watching something that incomplete. The biggest problem I had with the film is that there isn't an ounce of energy in the thing. Not once do you feel any sort of emotion be it tension, drama or anything else so it's impossible to really care about anything going on. There's no humor or anything else so you're pretty much just sitting there becoming more and more bored with each passing minute. None of the three segments are very entertaining and in reality they don't mix too well either. The stuff set in the future looks cheaper than those ALIEN rip-offs that Roger Corman was making in the early 80s and the space station is just downright laughable. The Paris stuff isn't much better because it's so dry. Then we have the stuff set in modern times but this too is rather boring and doesn't contain a bit of imagination. The performances really aren't too bad and some of the special effects are good but this really can't help overcome all the major issues with the film. With such a lackluster screenplay and a messy production, HELLRAISER BLOODLINE is a complete misfire on most levels. "}]