[{"Title":"Snake is Back, baby","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"45 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Summer 1996 really was NOT the right moment to bring back Snake Plissken. America was caught up in Olympic fever and was riding the mad, patriotic wave extremely high with the release of ID4 and other huge action hits such as Twister and Mission Impossible. A sobering reality check of the grim, forthcoming future instigated by a hypocritical government with a cynical, outcast anti-hero was NOT what anyone wanted.I remember sitting in the foyer at the now-demolished ABC cinema in Edinburgh on September 21st 1996 (we had to wait a month after the US release) waiting for the screen to open. A couple of young women exited the previous screening loudly proclaiming That was the worst film I have ever seen. Bad Boys II had not been made at this point.I don't think that Escape from LA is a bad film, but it is a failure on many levels, not the least of which are the shoddy CGI effects which look like they came from a mid-90s CD-ROM.Since the massive spike in crime in America in the late 1980s, and the subsequent transformation of Manhattan into a prison colony, the United States Police Force and their religious lunatic Head of State has slowly but surely erased all liberty from the American people, denying them the rights to swear, have sex, eat red meat, smoke, or drink alcohol (all for their own safety of course), while at the same time expanding their empire by pushing into foreign territories.Any of this sound familiar? In 2000 a massive earthquake strikes Los Angeles and the city is transformed into an island, declared no longer part of the United States, and becomes the new, west-coast prison colony. Whether you're a murderer or an atheist, you lose your citizenship and are dumped on LA Island. Unless you opt for a quick electrocution before deportation.It had been 15 years since his famous escape from the Big Apple, but Snake had remained a strong cult character and had a big following. This time he's dropped into the Big Orange in 2013 with the promise that if he retrieves a doomsday device he will be able to walk free.Freedom? In America? asks Snake. It died a long time ago. This was 1996!Carpenter and Russell could clearly see the dark path their country was heading down. If only they conveyed their ideas and satire in a more cohesive, intelligent fashion. Escape from LA has big ideas, huge ideas even, but a cheap 101 minutes is not the best way to fully explore and develop such satire. As with his previous movies, Carpenter's vision is epic, but the execution is implied. This may work with horror movies like Prince of Darkness but it fails here. It really, really fails.When Snake shuts down the Earth at the end of the movie do we see the effects of such devastation on the planet? Do we see highways and cities go dark, do we watch mankind revert to the stone age as the juice he has relied on to keep him warm runs dry? No. Instead we see a couple of lights go out in a drab police compound. Wow! That's so not freakin' exciting, Carpenter! So much potential, so much disappointment. At the very, very least it works as a trashy action movie but it should have been so much more. "},{"Title":"THE BEST SATIRE ON America EVER FILMED BY AN American!!!","Date":"18 January 2005","Score":"101 out of 175 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't think there's a better movie describing today's atmosphere in America and you can easily forget Escape From New York cause its political themes are pretty much restrained. Also Escape From L.A. is kind of timeless in a way that it satirizes all what America is known for, from motorcycle gangs, hookers, Hollywood agents, face-lifts, politics, freedom, violence TO implied peculiar American (created) all movie genres (sci-fi, action, comedy, western) to movie characters (typical US movies bad guys/good guys), music (typical western score, typical US orchestrated score), dialogues, typical US action movie scenes and especially parodying Hollywood stupid copycat sequels. You can find so much about America through this film, you just have to know how to watch it.Also i think the fact that the story of this film is only borrowed from EFNY is done partially on purpose because Russell & Carpenter wanted to do it with familiar story and highlight especially those aspects only characteristic to contemporary America and make fun of them. Carpenter did surely one of his best films ever that already no doubt surpassed his inferior classic Escape From New York. Gee what amazing piece of work Carpenter created do you even realize that? And personally i think Escape From L.A. over time will definitely gain well-deserved status as one of the greatest master-pieces in American movie history! "},{"Title":"Entertaining Follow Up","Date":"21 July 2004","Score":"35 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Escape from LA follows almost exactly the same plotline as Escape from New York; A city has become a colony for criminals, something gets lost in the city, the government don't have anyone but Snake Plissken that is able to get it back, so he goes in, has a few misadventures with the locals and eventually brings it back. This film very much lacks in originality, mostly due to it completely ripping off its predecessor. In fact; it could be said that this film is a remake of the first. However, what it lacks in originality is made up for with a great cast of support characters, which includes Steve Buscemi, Pam Grier, Peter Fonda and a great little turn from the god of B-Movie, Bruce Campbell himself. Kurt Russell returns of course, as the film's anti-hero; Snake Plissken, complete with a very cool new look; courtesy of a long black leather coat and leather trousers. Kurt Russell's performance in this film is pretty much the same as in the first movie, whereby he is only required to look cool for the duration; and that is something he does well. The support characters, however, are this film's main asset. Obviously Kurt Russell is the star of the show, but it's the colourful characters around that really make the film interesting. The effects in Escape From LA, considering it was made in 1996, are awful. Whether or not the effects are bad on purpose as a tribute Escape From New York, I don't know; but I really felt that they could have done more regarding the effects. Escape from LA is a very silly film that many people will find hard to take seriously, however if all you want is to enjoy yourself for 100 minutes or so, and not use your brain too much; Escape From LA is your movie. Originality aside, I would say that this film is on par with Escape From New York. "},{"Title":"Cheesy, unrealistic, outdated and fun!","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sure, Snake Plissken is a relic from the ultra-macho 80s action craze. Sure, Carpenter's use of effects is often obvious (though occasionally brilliant). Sure, the film is nothing but a slab of highly fragrant cheese, but it's FUN cheese. It's unapologetic cheese. It's the extra $1.50 of gooey, greasy, slimey mozza that you throw onto your 16 meat-lover's... sure, it's excessive--maybe even unhealthy--but it makes the pizza.Escape From L.A. is pure, unabashed, old-fashioned fun. It's one of those movies that everyone claims they hate, but they really love in that deep place, way down in their mind, where belching contests are still fun. It doesn't pretend to be anything more than entertainment--and it's good entertainment at that. When I first saw the trailers for this film, I groaned. Kurt Russell's faux-Eastwood-does-pirate routine rubbed me the wrong way, and I was unfamiliar with John Carpenter's work. After having seen the original Escape, Halloween, The Fog, Vampires, The Thing and especially Big Trouble In Little China I know that Carpenter is interested in one thing giving his audience an escape from reality, and this film is perfect for that. It doesn't make a lot of sense, and it takes a lot of suspension of disbelief, but in to paraphrase Roger Ebert Who can hate a film where Kurt Russell and a transsexual Pam Grier swoop from the sky in hang-gliders firing automatic weapons at an amusement park compound?Add to the mix a delightful turn by Steve Buscemi and an amusing (albeit unrecognizable) cameo by Bruce Don't Call Me Ash Campbell, and you have a really fun, really dumb, really cool MOVIE!Recommended for the 10 year old boy in all of us. "},{"Title":"Less of a sequel; more of a remake","Date":"20 January 2006","Score":"27 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is what would've happened if Carpenter had just left Escape from New York as a stand alone. It would've been remade into a hyped-up overkill Hollywood remake.But instead, he did it himself. I love this movie, it doesn't take itself seriously like Escape from New York did. People who loved Snake's camp in New York will love this. People who loved Snake for his bad-ass charm and the creepy moments in New York wont be as pleased.Snake's a regular action-here in LA. One-Liner's and angry sneers all the way. And the creepiness has been replaced with campiness... this is essentially a polished B-movie.Gotta love the villains. With a main baddie who looks like Che Gueverra, where can you go wrong? Okay, so the rest of the characters are extremely ridiculous (Map to the Stars Eddie, Hershey Carmichael, Bruce Campbell as the Surgeon General) but who cares? This movie isn't meant to be serious. It's meant to be a ridiculous laugh-out loud film.This film was just the tip of Carpenter's sarcastic action movies. Vampires and Ghosts of Mars followed. "},{"Title":"greatest movie ever","Date":"6 June 2004","Score":"54 out of 99 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I saw escape from New York starring Kurt Russel I thought that they could never begin to make a better movie than what i had just seen. The amazing special effects were exhilarating and got my heart racing. When a friend told me about Escape From LA i was going crazy. I must have watched it 10 times in that one day and every time it got better. When Snake hits the three pointer hook shot from half court my jaw dropped. When he got shot in the leg, stood up, got on a surf board, road the tsunami, and jumped off the tsunami to catch someone, it was as if my life was complete. WELCOME TO THE HUMAN RACE was the perfect end to a perfect movie. Thank you Kurt, and everyone who was a part of insanely incredible movie.  "},{"Title":"Sounds familiar.","Date":"5 August 2009","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" That sums up one of the most undeniable aspects about this flick It is enormously reminiscent of the first. Whether or not that's a negative thing is up to the individual. It still holds great surprises, and is definitely a fun ride. There is more satire in this than the first. The tone of this is often overdone and campy, in stark contrast to how serious that of New York was, and there are those that will miss that. This is humorous, if a few gags and jokes fall flat. Everyone but Russell(who nails the part again) is newly cast, and the choices are all fitting. This has some rather memorable occurrences(a couple of them for sheer weirdness and imagination), and certainly puts several breathtaking visuals up on the screen. The effects vary, though there are excellent ones herein. Dialog has quotable lines, and is well-delivered. The music is cool. Cinematography and editing are marvelous. The acting holds good performances. While it does bear a striking resemblance to that of the original movie, the script of this is interesting, creative and well-done. It has a nice pace, and you gotta admit that it's packed with action. Each sequence is exciting and intense, and differs from the rest in some way. There is strong violence and language in this, as well as disturbing content. This is bigger than the '81 film. Unfortunately, it also cost a larger amount of money, and only made about half back. It's too bad that Carpenter's work has a tendency to not be appreciated by the masses(only the fans and/or cult following) when it is initially released. I recommend this to anyone who wishes to watch it, the two aforementioned groups in particular. 6/10 "},{"Title":"That's how we should speak about freedom of creation","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Snake is back, and they shouldn't have tried to f*** with him. This movie is one of the best sci-fi movies these years, because first it's not serious at all, we see that John Carpenter is one of the most creative directors in the world in general and in USA in particular, that's why this movie didn't work, he doesn't have limits to his purpose, to the characters, he dose what he wants, and that's why he's not appreciated as he ought to be. That's also why he's appreciated here in France, we appreciated the character, Snake Plissken, very independent, not like those fake heroes as in ID4 or Armageddon, Snake Plissken is a kind of anarchist, nobody can make him do what he doesn't want to except if his life depends on it. He's called to save the world, he says f*** off. The end of the movie is one of the best ends of a movie in these last years. The cast is really good, with of course Kurt Russell, Steve Buscemi and Pam Grier (wow!) in a different role than Jackie Brown but the end is why I loved this movie, I didn't know that there were still free men as Carpenter in art creation in the USA. "},{"Title":"snake's back","Date":"9 October 2004","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  SNAKE'S BACK!!!!! in the real world, its been almost a generation since snake got out of new york... but some things just don't change... snake's still the meanest baddest dude out there.i don't know why this film was received as poorly as it was... because it is- quite simply- the greatest movie ever... there has never been any movie ever with so much attitude!!!!SPOILERS!!!firstly... if you've seen escape from new york, then you know what's going to happen in this movie... almost. ... but that's not the point... this movie is neither a rip-off nor a remake of the original movie... its just that snake's been updated for the 90's. the ending of the movie is a comment on the dependency on electronics that we are faced with. this movie is intelligence disguised in pure testosterone.the most amazing thing about this movie is its attitude.... just watch the scene where snake has a gunfight with the bad guy's goons and see what i mean.  "},{"Title":"Underrated Action-Packed Sequel! Snake is Back! One Of Carpenter's Best!","Date":"31 May 2012","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Escape From L.A is great action sequel to Escape From New york and in my opinion one of John Carpenter's best films and is a film that deserves a second chance.Set in a futuristic Los Angeles in 2013 L.A has been turned into a prison for the entire country where you go in and don't come out. When a black box containing a doomsday device is stolen, antihero Snake Plissken(Kurt Russell)has been hired to bring back the device in 10 hours once again putting Plissken in another hellish adventure.I've always loved Escape From L.A since I first saw it and I don't understand the hatred this film has gotten over the years. Is Escape From L.A similar to the original? Yes. But L.A works so well if you don't take it seriously. Where as Escape From New York was a dark and grim vision of the future,Escape From L.A has a light,campy,satirical feel to it and Carpenter just rolls with it. One of the things I love about EFLA is how Carpenter takes the story and concept of the first film pushes takes it to new heights. Given a much bigger budget of 50 million dollars Carpenter is given much more to do with this film and you see a lot of locations in L.A that you'll see that have been destroyed or kept around like Beverly Hills or the iconic Los Angeles coliseum. Another thing I love about EFLA is the campy satire Carpenter injects in the film and the bizarre situations Snake gets into and the crazy characters Snake meets. Carpenter obviously loves L.A and takes time to make a satire of the city and flipping L.A on it's head whether it was earthquakes,agents,gangs or sports and it's wild and funny. Snake's situations and the characters he meets are just weird and crazy like the original. Snake has to deal with crooked agents,surfers,nutty plastic surgeons while getting into gunfights and trying to survive the mission at hand. Its seems like Carpenter and most viewers are in on the joke and Snake at times does not get the joke. Carpenter is pretty much making fun of the Action film genre and movie sequels,mocking the clichés with the shootouts and explosions and over the top villains that became associated with the Action genre during the 80s and 90s. But the Action scenes in the film are great and have a manic energy to it. One of the best Action scenes in the film is the Basketball scene where instead of winning a Basketball game,you have to win to save your life or you die. Carpenter loves NBA Basketball and takes the sport of Basketball and turns it upside down and makes Basketball a dark and funny game of death. As a NBA fan myself I wonder how would NBA legends like Michael Jordan,Magic Johnson or Larry Bird do in a Basketball game of death. A great scene. Carpenter also mocks Hollywood for coming out with a countless number of sequels in the 80s and 90s and it's so true even now how movie franchise sequels repeating the same thing over and over again. Carpenter always wanted to make a Western and you can see a lot of the influence of the Western genre in this film,with Snake being a futuristic of the Clint Eastwood Western movie gunslinger,the villains wearing black and brown dusters like the great Sergio Leone Westerns and the photography with a brown,dirty look of Sam Peckinpah's style came into the future. If you thought EFNY's ending was wild and bold,EFLA's ending is even bolder and one of the best endings in movie history and one of the reasons for Escape From L.A's brilliance and excellence.Kurt Russell does a great job again as Snake,almost like Russell took the weekend off on Escape From New York and came into Escape From L.A on Monday. Russell plays Snake with the same toughness and grit like in the original and is brilliant and unforgettable. Stacy Keach is fun as Malloy,the warden of the prison. Steve Buscemi is great and funny as a Hollywood agent Map To The Stars Eddie a weasel who will represent anyone. Cliff Robertson does a fine job as The President who's evil and a coward. Bruce Campbell is excellent and unrecognizable as the surgeon general of Beverly Hills who puts Snake in a dangerous position. George Corraface is great as villain Cuervo Jones. Pam Grier is wonderful as Hershe a former associate of Plisskin's who helps him out. Peter Fonda is memorable in his short role as surfer Pipeline who helps Snake out in a funny and bizarre scene. Valerina Golino is good as Taslima who helps Snake out for a short time. A.J Langer is good as Utopia,the President's daughter who rebels against him. Michelle Forbes gives a fine performance as Brazen,Malloy's right hand help and assistant. This is a B-movie lovers dream cast.John Carpenter's direction is wonderful,moving the camera at all costs bringing a crazy energy to the film with the pace never slowing down. The action sequences in the film are well done with enough gunfights to satisfy any action viewer,it's some of the best action scenes Carpenter's ever done. Great direction by Carpenter.The score by John Carpenter and Shirley Walker is great and well done mixing Carpenter's Western and Blues and Walker's big action score. I also loved the new version of the Escape From New York theme for this film. Great version. Also great songs on the soundtrack from White Zombie(The One),Tool(Sweat)and Sugar Ray(Ten Seconds Down).In final word Escape From L.A is an underrated classic that gets better with repeating viewings and is a film that deserves more respect and is one of John Carpenter and Kurt Russell's best films. Highly Recommended. 10/10. "}{"Title":"Misinterpreted and underrated","Date":"7 July 2004","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Now Escape from New York is a darker, grim action thriller that suits the environment where the story takes place. When one thinks of New York, you think of a dark, seedy, big, bad city. This is not what comes to mind when one thinks of L.A. You would think sunny, plastic and strangely creepy. Hence the change in tone with this looser, tongue in cheek near self-parody. Now the reason why I say the film still works is Snake Plissken. The only character who is played completely straight against the stable of B-movie cliches and skewed Hollywood stereotypes. Maybe in a few years this film will gain the respect it deserves. Still, although I reasonably enjoyed the picture (especially a few choice cuts like the Bangkok rules scene) I must admit I liked the first one better too.      "},{"Title":"Plissken doesn't disappoint!!","Date":"7 January 2012","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I wasn't expecting a whole lot from this movie, but I was really glad I watched it! Bad-ass Snake is back and his new assignment sees him enter a run-down LA in search of a 'black box'. Standard Escape stuff, again we assume he's been drugged and has no alternative.The visual effects come thick and fast There is a mix of some really great effects early on and some equally awful ones, but as this was the dawn of comic book style films they're all totally acceptable in the film world. A lot of them were really nice, even the tacky nature of them still holds good value. But what I really liked were the epic long shots and large models that I thought really gave LA and edge over New York.The plot does twist and turn more than you expect. Just as I was getting to like Plisken's love interest...BLAM! Just as I thought some boring secondary cast member is about to join the plot - BAM - it's Steve Buscemi! The next minute Plissken is surfing a mini-tsunami through LA!! This film really delivers and personally I think it makes a great sequel to NY. There's more attention to sci-fi detail, some gripping sequences and wonderful locations. The supporting cast don't do a bad job of it either. There's dramatic irony and also whatever the reverse of dramatic irony is - bits you just won't predict happening...Kurt himself as Plissken is a joy to watch - never says a lot - you often wonder what he's thinking and Kurt plays this part of unease and uncertainty about Plissken really well. The fact Snake's reputation follows him in this film also adds to the fun factor.There's no need to take this movie in too deeply, I did not - and that way I really got into it and enjoyed the world it portrayed. The final shot of Plissken is hilarious and made me clap out loud because it's just the perfect finalé to the world of Snake.I really hope they bring Kurt back for a third film, because the effects could be at a whole new level in this day and age. And definitely get Shirley Walker and John Carpenter to write the music together. The progression in LA from Carpenter's classic slow synth style through to Walker's upbeat 20th century classical really interested me.If you're looking for light entertainment, a fairly mature sci-fi romp with Kurt Russell from a time when computer effects in films were really beginning (though the use of real locations (and some big ones!) were not to be outdone by computer graphics in this film) - be sure to watch this!! Oh and please finish the trilogy Kurt!! PHAT "},{"Title":"Well done to all involved!","Date":"13 January 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Out of the shadow of the 90's came a few good films, and this one is top of my list! A remake? Perhaps. A retelling? Definitely. A ridicule of all things a sequel is thought to be? I thought so.Listen to the soundtrack, to the songs in the background. What are they telling you? Mostly that you've been here before. Listen to the dialogue. John carpenter doesn't just write dialogue to fill gaps around the action. Look at the situation Snake finds himself in at the beginning of the film, same deal as E.F.N.Y, with the virus in his system.Then take a look around at what Carpenter and all have created for you, an America not too different to the real one right now! And they were meant to poking fun! Also have a look at the Hollywood setting and listen to how everyone talks. It's all about deal making and clearing a profit and screwing people over to get it. But it's also a survival film, with everyone out for themselves, a situation I'm sure many film makers have found themselves in over the years.This was a new breed of action film. A film with many layers and great characters. Which is the next point. The film's look is very retro, right down to the choice of actors. Nothing in the film is there by mistake.The topper for me is the surf boarding sequence. I can only imagine Carpenter sat there thinking that there would be no way studio executives would allow it in the script but low and behold it ends up in the movie! It's a love note to the stupidity of Hollywood and I for one lap up every second of this film. Again and again and again.There is a point to this film ladies and gents, so seek it out and enjoy. It's up to you what to make of it. "},{"Title":"one of the most audacious films of the 90's","Date":"27 August 2004","Score":"53 out of 103 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  At first i love both Escape films but this film is the real proof what Carpenter movies are really about and that's the story. It reminds me the fact that those who constantly complains about EFLA didn't get even Escape From New York &#150; this visual style, atmosphere and other great surrounding stuff, as everyone praising these days, doesn't make a good movie, it was, is and will be the story, and as for the richness of this Escape From L.A. is definitely far better including that it's the most personal Carpenter movie ever that is kind of philosophy on the freedom and also today's real problem in modern America. For these elements it&#145;s unforgettable and only waiting for its time to be reevaluated again. "},{"Title":" The more things change, the more they stay the same","Date":"7 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Both Escape from New York and Escape from L.A. are decidedly anti-establishment films. They both have this cynical view of the government; in these films, the government is not to be trusted. There are terrorist attacks aimed at the government on both films. ESCAPE FROM L.A This second one is tongue in cheek every step of the way. Watching Escape from L.A. feels like watching a cheap Italian Rip Off like 2019 After the Fall of New York (1983), but with a bigger budget. Actually, Escape from L.A. has a lot of similarities with 2019 After the Fall of New York, so in a way, this is Carpenter's pay back for all those cheap Escape from New York rip offs that the Italians made. Ultimately, I love both Escape from New York and Escape from L.A. for different reasons. And for all the tonal differences between both films, they still have many similarities. No matter where, Snake Plissken will always be Snake Plissken, you can tell Russell has lots of love for this character. Plissken is what kept me watching. The opening and closing segments of the films are extremely similar as well. And here's where we get to the best part of the film, the ending. Not gonna spoil it don't worry, but I will tell you that it is the best thing about the movie. Russell himself came up with it and I applaud him for it, it encapsulates everything Snake Plissken is in terms of attitude. That idea that maybe the world would be better off if we simply started again, from scratch, screw the way things are, let's try something new! Welcome to the human race my friends, welcome to the human race.t does criticize fascist forms of government, it also criticizes rebellious leaders who instigate their followers towards committing violent acts. So it doesn't side with anyone. On this film, both sides are wrong. The film pleads for a new beginning, it's asking governments to forget their old grudges and start from scratch. Snake himself says it in one scene I shut down the third world, you win, they loose. I shut down America, they win, you loose. The more things change, the more they stay the same This is one of the ideas presented in the film that I truly liked. The idea that both sides should just call it quits and bring on the peace, bring on the freedom. Again, this last bit demonstrates how much of Kurt Russell's Libertarian views are on this film. After all, he wrote a lot of it himself along with John Carpenter and Debra Hill. These are three life long buddies writing a movie they would find amusing, which makes this film a labor of love. This is probably why the film has a more laid back, 'were having fun here' vibe to it. "},{"Title":"Slightly better with a second viewing.","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I remember seeing this film a few years back and really didn't like it, although I did like Escape From New York.  Not too long ago I watched Escape From New York and then after watching it I thought I'd give the sequel a second chance.  After watching it again and having super low expectations I have to say it wasn't as bad as I remembered.  Granted, it still has some MAJOR flaws in the film, due to John Carpenter in my opinion (not a fan of his work, as you can tell from my other reviews of his films).This film really could have been great, without too much work and editing.  First of all get rid of the stupid Surgeon General of Beverly Hills character...in fact get rid of the entire scene (Bruce Campbell, I love your work, but I'm sorry, you've got go).  Secondly, get rid of Peter Fonda's character and any scene involving surfing within the film.  Next, axe Pam Grier's character, or at least give her a character overhaul and rethink the whole transsexual thing...pretty dumb!  And lastly, make a few minor adjustments here and there on various things and you've got yourself a pretty decent movie.I remember being less than impressed with the film's special effects when I first saw it.  With this second viewing of the film, I found them to be much better than I remembered as well, or at least tolerable.  Sometimes they were really good, and other times not so much, but in most cases, good enough for the film.All in all, I couldn't in good conscience say this was as good as the previous installment, but it had some good things going for it.  Surprisingly enough, I liked the story in the film quite a bit, it was rather interesting and quite original.I did like seeing Steve Buscemi and Bruce Campbell in the film, even though Bruce's character was just god-awful.  Steve was a pleasant surprise though.  Kurt Russell did a fine job in the role of Snake Plisken, even though I don't care for his whisper-voice in this film.  Pam Grier and Peter Fonda both did fine jobs acting, but their characters are less than great.  A.J. Langer was the only cast member I was truly impressed with, not really because of acting skill (although she isn't bad), but because she is quite the looker.  I'll be keeping a watchful eye for her future work.  The rest of the cast was ok, but nothing worth mentioning.I must say that the soundtrack/score in this film is FAR better than the atrocious music in Escape from New York.  ...And the end credits song, White Zombie's The One, is probably one of my favorite White Zombie songs to date.I don't think I would go around recommending this film to everyone, but if you are a fan of John Carpenter, then go ahead and check it out.  Why someone would be a fan of his work is beyond me though.  I would definitely recommend seeing Escape From New York first though, and if you like that one, then go ahead an give this a shot, but remember...low expectations.  I hope you enjoy the film...and if not, perhaps you should give it a second chance, someday down the road.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"Great movie.","Date":"3 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Simply as fun adventure and bizarre atmosphere (such a grotesque version of present day L.A.)  this is a great movie. But the message is quite serious at the end. The image of Snake holding the pack of American Spirit cigarettes is a moving one. It might be a comic book setting, but the purity of the this is what America is all about comes right through. "},{"Title":"Has the right attitude","Date":"10 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the most underrated films that I've seen in recent years. The audiences didn't like it nor did the critics. Well, they're wrong. You just have to love a movie with an ending like this. Even if the rest of the film sucked the ending would be enough to save it. Suck it doesn't but takes delicious digs at such American sacred cows like political correctness, the so-called moral majority, the institution of president and Hollywood itself. The action scenes are so over the top that it satirizes it's genre. Kurt Russell is great as Snake and can see that he's having fun playing him. If you go to church every Sunday, want to be a soldier when you grow up, have a crew-cut and think that Lynchburg is an apt name for your capital, you probably won't like this film. If these aren't your affinities you'll have loads of fun.  "},{"Title":"Welcome to L.A.","Date":"23 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" After sixteen years, Snake Plissken is back. A long overdue vacation if you ask me.Escape from L.A. starts off with the new America. After a devastating earthquake, L.A. is now an island on the coast of America. After a new president takes over, L.A. becomes a deportation point to take out the trash. However, after being apprehended, Snake is forced to go to L.A. The setup beforehand is nice. The interaction with Snake and the local authorities is good stuff. Snake has his mission.The look of the new L.A. is quite something. The land is destroyed, the chaos is frequent, and the locals are quite lethal and always watching their backs. Makes sense. This is not going to be easy.Kurt Russell is great as Snake. He admits that Snake is one of his favorite characters to play. He had fun here. The plot works. Would make perfect sense if this did happen. Cliff Robertson is cold and calculating as the president. The action is fun. The look of the movie is perfect. L.A. looked like a wasteland. Be on the lookout for an appearance by Bruce Campbell. He has a small, but memorable role here.The Last Word Fun. Escape from L.A. is a fun ride through the bleak future. Not as dark as Escape from New York, it's a lot more lively. The humor at times has poor execution. Other times it works. The special FX is quite cool looking. Especially the underwater scenes. Good stuff. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Don't get on Snake's nerves ...","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Snake (who was never the most even-tempered of men) gets to crash an extremely expensive boat into a buggered Los Angeles after being forced there by a woman I swear I've seen in a Stallone movie. After his arrival he kills just about everyone he comes across whilst scowling a lot and wearing a vest. Amongst the targets of Snake's unreasonable temper are a man who's dressed like Che Guevara, a REALLY freaky looking plastic surgery guy, and loads of Mad Max movie extras on motorbikes. After escaping LA by the skin of his teeth alongside Foxy Brown, Snake (who by this stage is bloody furious) throws the human race back into the stone age ... presumably because it's got on his nerves.God alone knows what would happen if Snake found himself yet again forced to go on some wild goose chase around say, Las Vegas? If he did I would recommend we all found a different planet to live on, just to be on the safe side. "}{"Title":"A Pleasant Surprise!","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've been a sort of a John Carpenter fan since I was a teenager (been a while), and always regarded his movies as guilty pleasures, with the emphasis on pleasures. These days, I really have to ration my movie trips for reasons related to time & $$$, so I hadn't seen this till tonight. I figured this would be a nice little follow-on to Escape From New York, which I really liked, but have to admit I didn't expect a lot more than just a thrill ride.Got the thrill ride to be sure, but so much extra brain candy! Loved Peter Fonda's apocalyptic surfer, Steve Buscemi's slimeball entepreneur, Georges Correface's Che clone, Pam Grier's tranny, and especially Cliff Robertson's Son Of A Bush! I have to admit, my worst nightmare scenarios about W's reign are fully realized in this movie, and Cliff Robertson played the antiamerican to perfection. The ending was surprising and, I found, surprisingly satisfying. I now love John Carpenter just a little bit more than before. "},{"Title":"So much better than its rep","Date":"5 June 2014","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Escape From L.A. doesn't waste a moment of its running time. It begins with Snake already in custody and about to be shipped off to LA like garbage, when he's propositioned by the president to do a mission for a full pardon. It's a subversive satire within a very ridiculous action film. Whether in the moral US or decadent LA it's full of self important wack jobs that Snake doesn't take serious and could care less about, which is the perfect character to follow in this type of film. After the theocratic president of America orders Snake on his mission, Snake gives a snide, but honest remark who are you? Perfectly sets the tone of the film and character. Once he reaches LA we are introduced to an assortment of characters who aren't so much quirky as they are absurd and fit in wonderfully to this nonsensical world Carpenter created. Even though this much maligned sequel has been marginalized as one of the bottom of Carpenter's films, it's miles better than its reputation and consistently hilarious. It's also impossible not to notice, or mention the truly awful visual effects. Effects this terrible are clearly the case of the studio pulling the money plug on a film they probably knew was too expensive to make back a fraction of its costs - not because of incompetence. There isn't a single effect that is polished or finished, but the slapdash vfx don't detract from how much the film gets right. "},{"Title":"For the fans","Date":"17 December 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Personally, I just don't understand why many people hate this film?! So what, if the plot was almost identical to Escape from New York. Did anyone expect Snake to play a house sitting father or a fisherman in the sequel? No! Snake is a trained killer and decorated war hero. It would seem appropriate for Snake to save the President of the United States for the second time. What else can he do? He can't do anything else but save or kill people with a bad ass attitude and this is why I thought Escape from L.A. was great! Not to mention, Kurt Russell returns as Snake Blissken. Russell has strong screen presence as Snake and his performance doesn't slow down. There was two cameos from Peter Fonda as the lonesome surfer and horror legend Bruce Campbell as the general surgeon. Steve Busemi, Cliff Robertson and Stacey Keach filled the rest of the supporting cast. The rest of the actors were played by no names but still gave decent performances. John Carpenter is excellent as usual and I don't think I need to say more about him. My only complaint about the film was the special effects. There was a few scenes in the film were I shook at my head in disbelief because the effects were that bad (Check out the surfing scene if you don't believe me). Also, the basketball scene was a bit cheesy. Although, if you watched New York, you can find a few scenes that are mindless as well. All in all, as if you loved Escape from New York and Snakes Blissken's bad ass attitude, sit back and enjoy. "},{"Title":"It is not just a remake of Escape from New York","Date":"24 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The film has been critized unfairly as cosmetic remake of Escape from New York. I don't share this viewpoint. There is something new in Escape from LA. In the movie America is a high-tec ultraconservative Christian society. In addition to banning cigarette smoking, the society threw atheists and Moslins into the same garbage can as prostitutes and drug addicts.The other camp,'the enemy' is led by a Che Guevara-like type called Cuervo and he reminds of a typical image of a traditional Latin American 'liberator'. but he is as ruthless and cruel as his counterpart in Latin America.There is no bad guy and no good guy only the human race.I like particularly the final scene of the movie as a western like music was playing in the background Plissken finds a packet of cigarette with the suggestive name 'spirit of America',lights up a cigarette and finally inhales his Way out to Freemon,at least in his mind and says-Wellcome to the human race. "},{"Title":"Earthquake of a Film","Date":"14 August 2007","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Snake, the man with the patch is back doing his thing in what used to be LA and he strolls down what is left of Wilshire Boulevard and takes time to shoot hoops at the Coliseum. Snake, (Kurt Russell) enters into the 9.6-quaked Los Angeles of 2013 in order to retrieve a black box which is a sort of end of the world device. Snake has friends and foes, Steve Buscemi, Peter Fonda, Stacy Keach, Cliff Robertson and a good actress Pam Grier. There is also plenty of action where Snake dive-bombs a Happy Kingdom theme park. The ending of this film is perfect and I enjoyed this film as much as Escape from New York. John Carpenter & Kurt Russell did a great job in the production and directing. Enjoy "},{"Title":"a new word SNAKE-TASTIC!!!!","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"34 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this movie is fan-friggin-tastic!!! yet everyone in the world disliked it, and forced the movie industry to call it, a bomb. do you even realize how much that sucks? this movie is so great. snake plissken is one of the COOLEST characters in film. he's one of those bad-ass guys, who can't lose. the movie is done in much more of a comic-book way than the first was. in fact, the first one is in more of a serious tone, whereas L.A. is like reading a Punisher comic book. which this may be why a lot of people disliked this one. and now, we probably won't ever see an Escape From Cleveland or Miami or Earth or Escape From ANYTHING, because the industry called it a bomb, and therefore production companies wouldn't want to put money into another Snake installment. yet we are forced to see sequels to crap, like Legally Blonde 2 or Airbud Golden Receiver. i mean come on, what is going on in this world o' film!!!!! (well actually, Legally Blonde wasn't all that bad, i just couldn't think of another bad movie that we are being forced to see a sequel to... hahaha) the point is I WANT ANOTHER SNAKE PLISSKEN MOVIE!!!!! "},{"Title":"Greatest movie of all time","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"39 out of 76 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the best movies for anyone because if you like cheasy action movies with one liners then you'll love this, but if you're like me and think that action comedys like this are just pure pieces of art then you'll want to see this movie over and over again.I have to admit after seeing escape from new york i wasn't that excited to see this because it just seemed like an update but it is so much better and will you keep you on the edge of your seat from start to finish.By the way Bruce Campbell is in this movie and has one of the best appearences in any movie ever created and if you look closely you can also see an appearence by the wwf wrestler Triple H even though he wasn't that popular when the movie was made. "},{"Title":"Better than Escape from New York","Date":"16 June 2004","Score":"55 out of 108 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was superior to Escape from New York in almost every way. Snake is more badass in this sequel, it's more up to date and believable. The social commentary is astounding and the ending...wow, one of the best endings ever in a movie. People who say Escape from New York is superior are living in the past. Escape from N.Y. had a darker atmosphere but L.A. fit it's atmosphere as more light and campy similar to L.A. itself. Kurt Russell utilizes his character here more than Escape from N.Y. Snake is the ultimate badass. The special effects were good for their time and everything from the 1st one has improved. The social commentary is great. No smoking , no alcohol, no swearing, no sex-unless your married, no red meat, no foul language in which Snake replies. Land of the free it doesn't seem far off from our current society.  "},{"Title":"Understanding the mind of Capenter. Don't 'watch' this movie, rather, LISTEN TO IT.","Date":"26 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" It truly is a travesty that this film was not appreciated for what it was, but then again, to appreciate it, you'd have to UNDERSTAND it first, which for many, wasn't possible, as sadly, most tend to look for the external eye candy, glimmer and glitz of HW today, rather than for what a film's deeper meaning is and the message the director is trying to broadcast through the use of allegory and the proverbial 'peeling back of the onion layers.' Yes, Escape from NY and LA will not 'wow' you with amazing special effects and action of Aliens, T2, etc. But most of John Carpenter's films have never focused on any of this, because that is not where is heart, mind and soul are placed. You see, you wont find Carpenter doing interviews for Time, Esquire, GQ, or on your normal mainstream news show being interviewed by some generic movie pundit about his next movie, or have the enormous marketing campaigns and fanfare that a Cameron or Spielberg movie would have. And there is a reason for that...Many of his films focus on political and societal issues, and the schisms within our world, the main one being freedom vs tyranny, and those trying to break out of the current matrix, or those awaking to it and understanding that all is NOT what it seems. People aren't what they seem, government isn't what it seems, laws aren't what they seem, and mankind isn't fulfilling its rightful place as it was intended, due to those who crave power and the corruption that comes with it. Carpenter made this film in 1996, which takes place in 2013, and to blatantly ignore or not even understand how our world is quickly becoming the world depicted in the film (and its prequel), well, all i can say is you need to wake up and brush up on some history, my friends.One of my favorite scenes in the movie, and one that spoke to such great parallels of our world today, is with Snake and Tamisla (Valeria Golino, some will remember her from Rainman). She tells Snake she was put there for being a Muslim, which was criminalized after some time. Well, its safe to say thats pretty much happening today everywhere, in a sense pertaining to the demonization and attacks on Islam, but on Christianity as well. Its no secret the anti-Muslim approach has been overwhelming today, with the ethnic profiling and illegal set ups of patsies that NYPD itself has been found guilty of, as well as all the attacks on Christians today, where advocacy groups working directly for the Pentagon, want Chaplains in the Army to refrain from proselytizing to troops, which of course, is everything being Chaplain is all about. They are removing crosses from bases, with all this politically correct garbage we see so much of. God or the word 'god' is removed from schools, prayers, the Pledge of Allegiance. We all remember the Tebow debacle, and how grad students cant 'thank Jesus' at ceremonies anymore. The list just goes on and on. Yet, the funny thing is that one of the police thugs in the beginning of the movie tells Snake how all the 'bad people, unwanted and the ATHEISTS', are thrown into LA. Well, see, this is more hypocrisy, we because all know who the real atheists truly were, because if they were moral and real Christians, including the lunatic President, they wouldn't be doing what they were doing in the movie. But this here, is a HUGE, and i mean, HUGE allusion to real life today.He then asks Tamisla why she wont just leave and go south to MX or something. She says 'Why should i? We are more free here than out there. Out there is the real prison.' Pure gold there. She is right. Just how free were they before? Just how many rights did they have before? Well, now they can 'wear fur coats' as she says, or practice whatever faith they like, without any interference from the 'loving and benevolent government.' But you see, Snake knows all of this. He knows how bad it is and he wants no part of it. This is why he said in the beginning of the movie, when told he would be granted 'freedom' by the President if he completed his mission, 'In American? Pfff...that died a long time ago.'Well, its sad to admit, but yes, quite a bit of freedom has truly died in the America we live in today, and that's a fact, jack.In the first film, you may remember how Snake always said 'Call me Snake', when the government agents would call him 'Plissken'. You see, he didn't like them referring to him in a way that would show they are relating to him as his 'old self', or his 'citizen self'. He sees that as a way of relating to them, which he doesn't like nor wants to be a part of. This is contrasted so well at the end, when the great Lee Van Cleef says 'Snake, i have a deal for you. A job, you and i, we'd make a great team'. Here, Snake says 'Call me Plissken' and walks off. Here, Snake is once again detaching himself from these state minions, not wanting to be all 'buddy buddy' with them, as he hates what they stand for and what they are allowing to be perpetuated day after day.But these things here, is what Carpenter is touching on.Draw your own conclusions. Make sure your opinions are your own. Question everything. And most of all, take pride in your freedom, because it is the most precious thing all men and women need always to protect. ) "},{"Title":"Snake's back!","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I honestly believe that this film is just as good, if not slightly better, than Escape from New York. It's essentially the same flick... Plissken coerced by the government of moral America to rescue the President's daughter in this case. But it follows the same formula. Break into prison compound, meet and deal with oddball characters, rescue hostage, get out and get the antidote to whatever poison they injected Plissken with. I can't quite place my finger on why I like this film... I'm just into this kind of stuff. Kurt Russell rules as Snake, and there are some useful cameos, most namely by Bruce Campbell. And the ending is something to think about, wouldn't it be great if that happened for real!! "}{"Title":"A not-so-great follow-up to a sci-fi cult classic !!!","Date":"11 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Escape from L.A. is a great film since it sticks with the original flavor of the first film Escape From New York. The president remains unnamed, a city is an island prison and someone has to be retrieved. Caution Spoilers Ahead!!!True, I agree with many a critic that says EFLA is a rehashing of the first movie, but the second installment has more disturbing features concerning present-day social satire. For instance, it is now 2013, Los Angeles has been all but completely destroyed by and earthquake/tsunami and the entire United States of America is a Militant Fundementalist Christian fascist theocracy. Hence, it's more of a Nazi-like police state that makes Iran look as liberal as San Francisco during Gay Pride Week!There is not only no smoking, there's no alcohol, guns, extra-marital affairs of any kind, no foul language, even red meat has been outlawed! But what lured me into the film itself, was L.A. turning into rubble, an entire city disintegrating, something that was missing in Escape from New York. There some hidden part of us that wants to see LaLa Land turn into a smoldering ruin populated by crazy people who were wrongly accused by their own government. Some of the special effects were less-than-fantastic. But the campy and imperfect enqui of EFLA is something that gives it a certain niche that many films lack today.In EFNY, no one knew what the Duke of New York looked like as if he were some mythical being hidden from view. This movie didn't have the mystery and grittiness of the first installment. The characters are entertaining, but cartoonish and somewhat cliché. You got the Latino revolutionary/gang leader, the rebellious First Daughter, the uptight psychotic President, and the robotic police officers/soldiers of the United States Police Force, the shady asshole/weasel movie agent, the surfer/hippie, and the transsexual gun slinger(in L.A., no really, you don't say) and then there's Snake Plissken, the outlaw! They could've been a little bolder and 3-dimensional.Where this movie reveals present-day problems in little moments of satire it becomes a creepy-ass and eerie glimpse into our future ! The America in the film has a dictatorship of conservatism. We are getting closer to having censorship, prohibition, and certain religious beliefs forced upon us. They have a neo-fascist/racist solution to the illegal immigration problem; so do we. They are at war with terrorists with anti-American views; nuclear technology in careless hands; hey take a gander the next time you watch CNN! In fact, this film hits way too close to home and the resemblance is uncanny. The only part that made me say Wait a damn minute! is when Snake shuts down the world's technology with the same EMP doomsday device that he was supposed to retrieve in the first place. Gee! Let's slap the human race back into the god damn 1500's so that disease, murder, cannibalism, and social anarchies can run rampant! Great f%cking Idea, Snake! Why the hell didn't he kick ass on the fascist bastards who sent him there and caused all of this bull in the first place? Or show the 3-world invading America! Anyway, the country would've become a hellhole inhabiting the criminally insane and the psycho-desperate assholes. The ending could've been better and less end of the world as we know it! However, it gives people that realistic not everything has a happy ending vibe. What it should really have the aura of the What's next?  like they did in the ending of EFNY! "},{"Title":"The name, fear the name !","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think this is a great movie for entertainment. I really liked the way they're bringing the characters. Usually in a movie you don't always remember the name of the main character, just the actor name. Now Snake Plissken is a name I will always remember. It has influenced the work of Hideo Kojima in his video game Metal Gear Solid (Snake, Iroquois Plissken , Goes to an island by sub, he's infested with a virus, etc...) And a lot of questions remains... (why that eyepatch?) (What happened in Cleveland?)now... it's not for me to decide if you should see this movie or not and if the director should make any other movies (I'm not your God like a lot of people think they are). The best move would be to see a neutral review and think (yes, think for yourself! stop being influenced by others!) then you'll find if it's the kind of movie you like or not. "},{"Title":"Somebody needs a good beating!","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  People often stop me in the street and say things like `I can't believe you liked Escape From LA!' To which I reply, `Do I know you?'  But it's true, this is a great film, one that surges high above anything that had pulled itself out of the quagmire that is called Hollywood. Why is it a great film? Well I'll share a few of its virtues with you1) It's got Kurt Russell in it.2) The main Character is Snake Plissken3) There are no child actors.4) Snake Plissken destroys all the world's electronic equipment.5) He also surfs a tidal wave and then jumps into the back of a moving car.Come on guys! How often can you have all of those things in one film? Well you just can't, but John Carpenter did and people choose to sneer at him because of it! Well shame on you all! What sickens me is that Mr Carpenter can make a film of this quality and have abuse thrown at him, but Roland Emmerich can make a film like The Patriot and everybody thinks it's wonderful.Oh man, I'm gettin' angry now and the red mist is rising!! "},{"Title":"Very good action movie","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is campy fun. It has some cheesy dialogue that makes this movie fun to laugh at at times, but it still has the kick butt attitude of any Arnold movies. Kurt Russell does a great job of acting in this movie. He really tries to be Snake Plissken, who is the person Kurt was born to play. The graphics in this movie are the only thing i would have to complain about this but I till really like this. If u want to watch a good action flick then see this. Nobody draws until this hits the ground, you ready? 10/10 "},{"Title":"Not as great as the first, but still a lot of fun","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  John Carpenter's Escape From New York is(In my opinion.)his best movie, with Halloween as his 2nd. Then, we have this sequel to the 1981 hit. The action was more intense and the stunts were more dangerous, but that didn't save the film from being a rehash of it's predecessor. But all-in-all this is a cool flick, with an ending I did not expect. O.k. story, good acting, and effects. ***1/2 out of *****. Can I be in the 3rd one? "},{"Title":"A worthy entry in Carpenter's career.","Date":"3 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Like Escape from New York, Escape from LA is not to be taken seriously. Instead it is a social commentary on the politically correct attitude that society seems to have adopted. Escape From New York poked fun at the establishment as it was in the early eighties, as does Escape From LA with the politically correct nineties. I mean the whole film laughs at what western society has become. Looked at this way the movie is amusingly good, if taken seriously the film is seen as slow and misguided. Carpenter never meant the character of Snake Plisken to be seen as Rambo, he is a combination of cliched characters from other action films, all be it with some extra bite. Kurt Russell's performance in both films is spot on, and worth the price of a rental alone. The only thing lacking in EFLA is for some reason at least 1/3 of the visual effects seem poorly executed. I put this down to the fact that the movie had an enormous scale, and unlike movies such as Lost In Space there were budget restrictions. All in all a good movie. 6.5/10. "},{"Title":"Better than the Original","Date":"6 March 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'll admit, I'm not a huge fan of Escape from New York. It has a ton of plot holes and none of the characters were all that likable. I usually like Kurt Russell's performances (he was quite good in The Thing, Executive Decision, and Tequila Sunrise) but I didn't really like his performance in EFNY. I thought he was trying too hard to talk and act like Clint Eastwood. But I decided to give Escape from L.A. a chance and I actually liked it quite a bit. And I kind of have gained a bit more respect for the original after watching EFLA. I think the original could have been like this if it had a larger budget. EFLA has basically the same story but its budget allowed it to be far more over the top. There definitely are plot holes in ESLA but I just didn't care.I really like how EFLA doesn't take itself seriously at all. There's this one scene where Snake Plissken surfs off a tsunami onto a car driven by this one guy played by Steve Buscemi. And Kurt Russell is far better here than in EFNY. You'd think a character who unhesitatingly sends the whole world back into the Dark Ages would be unlikable but Snake Plissken was actually a likable character.Some of the special effects are bad and the sets aren't the best. But the story just has a charm that is lacking in other films with far better visuals, like the insanely imbecilic 2009 Star Trek reboot (I really, really, really hate that movie). It's too bad Escape from Earth is probably not going to get made. I'd really like to see what happens to Snake after the events of this movie. "},{"Title":"Brilliant movie.  Classic Snake","Date":"4 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Seriously, if your a fan of 'Escape From New York', you shouldn't be disappointed with this terrific installment. My only sadness is that it didn't seem to do well at the box office which is a crying shame as this movie had it all and was very SNAKE.If your a fan of the legendary 'Snake Plissken' your going to love this movie. It's terrific and I wish there could have been at least one more movie to provide a trilogy to the Snake Plissken saga. Alas with the barely scraped back budget I doubt that's ever going to be a possibility.To conclude this is a movie for fans, it's not a movie for winning Oscar's or achieving amazing accolades in special effects etc, it's a down and gritty 80's style film, which is at the core of the Snake character.For those who are not aware there was a Snake Plissken comic book(which I of course own)that got a single issue. It's worth while reading if your a fan too. (Just trying to assist fans as sadly Snake is constantly overlooked and I'm certain Marvel would do well to bring him back to the big screen today. Kurt Russell could still play Snake without blinking an eye lid(that's a single eye lid, you have to have the patch). Fingers crossed John and Kurt could work together again.The most underrated anti-hero in existence has to go to Snake Plissken.JUST REMEMBER TO CALL HIM 'SNAKE'!!!! "},{"Title":"hated it","Date":"28 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I loved the original Escape From New York... I saw it in a East Coast theater and everybody applauded at the end. It ran for years on HBO thru the mid 80's late at night, and I must have watched it at least 50 times. When this was released in theaters back in the day I drug the woman I was dating to see it, telling her how great it was going to be. Not only did I feel stupid after it was over, she thought I was an idiot for talking it up as much as I did. I spent the next hour trying to backpedal with how badly they screwed it up.The original, while campy, had a serious, dark, menacing undertone that was missing in this one. It was replaced with over the top attempts at campy cheap action that came off very sophomorically and failed hard. I understand a lot of it was an attempt at poking fun at Hollywood, but I didn't go to see John Carpenter poke fun at Hollywood. I went to see Snake Plissken be a bad ass. Trying to figure out what surfing, basketball, transsexuals, tiny homemade hand gliders had to do with anything took away from what could have been a great plot about how the political right & left have taken away all our rights. John Carpenter was prophetic with the part of the film about no swearing, no sex, no red meat, no smoking, or no alcohol (in everyones best interest of course) part of the plot... I just wished he had stayed away from the temptation of cheap gags. "},{"Title":"Escape From LA and into my Car!","Date":"27 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This remake of Johnny Baker's 1981 classic Escape From NYC is superior in every way. The acting is better, the excitement is higher, the graphics are awesome (especially the extraordinary surfing scene) and the story is wildly different. Whereas the first film saw Sneak having to 'sneak' into NYC and rescue the president before the time runs out and they both die, this one sees him having to sneak into LA and rescue the President before the time runs out and they both die. There is no comparison. Kurt Rustler re-creates his role from the first film with more style, guile, wile, and skile (skill). He has certainly grown as an actor and surrounded by a terrific and huge supporting cast (Steve Buscemi) we are sure this is going to be an immortal film.The film starts in fifth gear and races into top gear from there. Snake is captured by the army and blackmailed into rescuing the President of a country he doesn't care about. Snake is a rebel, a loner, an anti-hero, he lives and plays by his own rules and doesn't have time for The Man. In a homage to an earlier Carpenter character (Napoleon Dynamite from Assault On Policeman 13) Snake repeats the line 'Got a fag' throughout the film. Of course all the one liners he made famous in the prequel make a not unwelcome return Snake Plissken The name's Stilskin.And in the spooky and 'I didn't see that coming' shock ending he creates a new favourite (after having shut down all machinery in the world) Snake Plissken Welcome to the party pal! Snake has many fights with bad guys here, and all the characters have cool names Mappy, Pappy, Joe The Dyke, Crusher Frankenpower, Ligthening Jack, Terry Spitfire, Trashcan Bandido, Cabbie Borgenine, and Timothy. There are explosive car chases; neck snappings, gunshots, and an insane game of netball which just has to be seen to be believed- you won't believe it! In an exciting cameo, everyone's favourite chainsaw wielding idiot Bruce Gambell appears! Basically he flaps about backwards for a few minutes chasing his hands about a room before Snake gets bored and shoots him in the ear with a dart. 'I'm your King, Baby' he quips bewilderingly.The central themes of all John Computer films are here- the loner against the world, living on the edge of a right wing government, standing up against those in power, fighting for individual rights and freedom in a collapsing world, siege warfare, scary masks, spectacular set design, high quality synth/country music. For some reason this wasn't a success, but this is clearly both John Carpeter and Kurt Ruskill's best film.Best Scene It has to be the surfing scene where snake infiltrates the city via a magic surfboard on a huge wave, jumps off, and has to sneak through a building full of guards. He has to hide in various cupboards and ceilings, then swing down, break the guards necks and hide the bodies. It is very cool and has never been seen before in any medium. "}{"Title":"Kurt Russell at his best","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Kurt Russell is in my opinion the best living actor, and this film is his crowning achievement in my eyes, in this Kurt is simply cool. The plot of Escape from L.A. is very similar to that of Escape from N.Y. but this is not a bad thing it is simply more of a good thing. There are many stand out moments in Escape from L.A. aswell as stand out lines, The characters are enjoyable to watch for example Maps to the stars Eddie, played by Steve Buscemi. The most disappointing aspect of the film is the CGI which is laughingly poor, but in a way suits the corny tongue-in-cheek feel of the entire film. My advice is to check your brain at the door and just sit back, enjoy and munch some popcorn!~OB~ "},{"Title":"Lost potential","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was expecting a sequel to Escape From New York with Snake Plisken perhaps living in a hostile decadent LA and being contacted by the authorities to do another unique mission for them. Instead the LA adventure is essentially a rehash of the original with much the same set of circumstances taking place. While some reviews have this intentionally being made as a corny and cheesy film it shouldn't have been. Too much potential is there with the Snake character to simply do a remake of the original with a different city involved. See the original and pass on this one. "},{"Title":"Passable but inferior sequel filled with  thrills , spectacular  scenes and  frantic action along with enjoyable sly humor","Date":"23 November 2014","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Exciting and spectacular rescue into Los Angeles destroyed by earthquakes, floods, mudslides, and become a top-security prison . This thrilling picture results to be an inferior sequel to Escape from N.Y. , the latter become a real Cult Movie . It contains mystery , chills , noisy action , thrills , fights , social critical , bits of humor with tongue-in cheek attitude and a weird atmosphere with dark and surprising ending . Snake Plissken (Kurt Russell, he was the only cast member from the original film to appear in the sequel)is once again called in by the United States government (Stacy Keach as officer , Michele Forbes as deputy and Clift Robertson as President) to recover a potential doomsday device from Los Angeles, now an autonomous island where undesirables are deported and finds itself under siege by violent gangs . A previous war hero named Snake Plissken gone rebel must execute a daring adventure and bring up a powerful artifact in twenty four hours . Snake must recover it and along the way facing off villains like Cuervo Jones (George Corraface) . He's only helped by a sympathetic rogue underling (Steve Buscemi who took the part in this film to help fund his directorial debut, Trees Lounge) , and action women (Valeria Golino, Pam Grier) . As Snake Plissken to get in and out of Los Angeles . The film is a comic book plenty of action , fun , adventures , suspense , thriller and surprise-filled entertainment . Magnificent plethora of characters with decent performances by its entire cast . Middle-budget by Paramount Pictures , in fact its President Sherry Lansing was a fan of Escape from New York and wanted John Carpenter, Kurt Russell and Debra Hill to make the sequel in the same vein as the original. Kurt Russell as tough and valiant renegade is terrific . At the beginning of the film, Kurt Russell wears his costume from the original film, which still fits after 15 years . Kurt Russell not only came up with but wrote the entire ending of the movie , in fact it was the first and only writing credit . Escape From LA was caught in development hell for over ten years . A script for the film was first commissioned in 1985 but John Carpenter thought it too light, too campy . An initial script was written , but it remained dormant until Carpenter and Kurt Russell got together with frequent collaborator Debra Hill. It was Russell's persistence that got the film made ; Snake Plissken was his favourite character, a character he loved and wanted to play again . Support cast is frankly good such as Peter Fonda , Cliff Robertson , Valeria Golino , Stacy Keach , Pam Grier , Bruce Campbell , Michelle Forbes , A.J. Langer and Peter Jason , Carpenter's usual . The picture contains an imaginative and memorable production design by Lawrence G. Paull . Colorful and glimmer cinematography by Gary B. Kibbe . John Carpenter also made the atmospheric music score along with Shirley Walker . The movie likely to satisfy action enthusiasts and Kurt Russell fans .Director John Carpenter is in familiar ground with this well-done tale on the style of comic books and old Sci-Fi serials . His films often feature important visuals shown from a video screen , as the end-of-the-world transmission from the future in ¨Prince of darkness¨ (1987), the Norwegian recordings of the expedition to uncover the aliens in ¨The Thing¨ (1982), various TV sets and the general anti-TV motif in ¨They live¨(1988), etc. ¨1997 escape from N.Y¨ was realized during his best period in the 70s and late 8os when he directed classics as ¨Halloween¨, ¨The fog ¨, ¨Christine¨, ¨They live¨ , ¨Big Trouble in Little China¨ and ¨The thing¨ . The sequel ¨Escape from L.A¨ rating  average but entertaining . The movie will enjoy to noisy action fans but packs a roller-coaster thriller and wholesome amusement . The film will appeal to John Carpenter enthusiasts . A third sequel was going to be made titled Escape from Earth which would have had Snake escaping Earth after a dark matter experiment. However, the negative reaction to this film prevented the sequel from being developed. As the movie was a notorious failure on release, making around $25 million , just half its budget , at the US box office. Many reviews criticized the film for being too violent or for being too similar to the original film . "},{"Title":"Can't touch the original...","Date":"27 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Escape from New York is by no means a classic film, but it's memorably dark, seedy, suspenseful and even funny. You might call it a worthy cult favorite. Alas, Escape from L.A. is not nearly as memorable - in fact, it plays out like a tired remake of its far more amusing predecessor.Both films have essentially the same premise; corrupt government officials send criminal tough guy Snake Plissken to infiltrate the ruins of a once-great city and retrieve some MacGuffin for them. In both films, Snake is reluctant to cooperate, but the government secures his compliance by threatening his life. So, Snake duly treks off to an urban wasteland, wasting thugs and meeting a variety of wacky characters on his way to completing his desperate mission.Because the two films are so similar, I find Escape from L.A. tedious - it simply doesn't break enough new ground. And, to make matters worse, this tepid sequel does everything worse than the original movie. The villain is inferior, the president is inferior, and even the special effects are inferior (note the positively laughable CGI when Snake pilots his submarine to L.A.; the approach to New York in the first film is infinitely classier.) And, though both films are comedies (of a sort), I find that the jokes in the first are simply better. In L.A., there are some attempts at social satire, but by and large they don't work. For instance, the much-praised plastic surgery segment feels really isolated and pointless to me. It's a one-joke sequence that goes nowhere and contributes nothing to the plot. Ultimately, I think the first film has the edge in the comedy department because it was co-written by Nick Castle, who reportedly lightened up the script and was quite a wit in general (though Castle is credited on this movie, I believe it's only because he wrote the original film.) Perhaps the crowning aggravation of Escape from L.A. is its exceedingly preachy social commentary. Now, I happen to be fairly liberal, so I agree with some of this film's criticisms of the religious right - but I also find the presentation of these criticisms to be superficial, condescending, and obnoxious. To be perfectly blunt, this movie is not literate enough to have serious political aims. It's just too silly and in-your-face; it doesn't have the subtlety to work as a satire, and it certainly lacks balance. Suffice to say, if you're conservative, this movie will annoy you, and even if you're an open-minded liberal, it will probably still annoy you by representing your views so poorly.Yeah, this is basically a dud, though I sort of enjoy the Luddite-like sentiments in the concluding scenes. It's got some good cameos, a few decent scenes, but in the end...it just ain't the original. What a waste of 50 million bucks! "},{"Title":"escape from America and Dubya.","Date":"19 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have not seen this film since 1997.Thats along time.I think all this film really needs is a update on all digital effects.This movie is brilliant in every way.The music and sound are right on the money.Pliskin is the ultimate rebel in the land of free and home of brave. Look at America and compare are jackass president to this one in the movie. Notice any common traits? Carpentar is the master now and forever.People don't understand this man thinking.I am glad to be his greatest fan.............. This is a great film and hope to see it released as a two disk SE someday real soon.I thought you be taller Snake. "},{"Title":"Escape From L.A. is non-stop dumb action fun!","Date":"26 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Kurt Russell returns as Snake Plissken in this high energy action packed sequel to Escape From NY, while NY was very dark and gritty, LA is just the same however it is more fun due to the fact that it doesn't take itself too serious. The action and the special effects are cheesy but enjoyable and the music is some of Carpenter's best since Halloween. The cast is great and the film's style is very detailed and really looks like a real bleek future. Snake is greatest anti-hero ever and anyone who watches this film will instantley like him and will root for him throughout the film. So do yourself a favor and watch this movie, it's great if you don't take it seriously and the ending is highly original, entertaining, and cool. "},{"Title":"Bitterly disappointing sequel/remake of an 1980s trash classic.","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Back in the mid-90s when I first heard that John Carpenter was planning a sequel to 'Escape From New York', my initial reaction was Why?. I'm a big fan of Carpenter's early movies from 'Dark Star' to 'The Thing', but by the 1990s it was obvious he'd lost his vision and the idea just seemed like a cynical money making exercise. I was bitterly disappointed by the movie when I first watched it and subsequent viewings haven't made me enjoy it more. I don't know why the movie turned out so bad. Was it the big (for Carpenter) budget? Did Kurt Russell having a hand in the script and the production having anything to do with it? I really don't know. The movie is as much a remake as a sequel to the original. Once again Snake Plissken is forced to go on a mission to save the Government's ass, only (as the title makes clear) it's a post-apocalyptic Los Angeles this time instead of New York. Russell isn't half as much fun this time around, in fact NOTHING about the movie is half as much fun this time around. The only thing I can say for it is that Carpenter has assembled a supporting cast that is a movie buff's wet dream - Stacy Keach, Cliff Robertson, Steve Buscemi, Peter Fonda, and blaxploitation legend Pam Grier to name a few. Even Bruce Ash Campbell pops up in an unrecognizable cameo. But sadly few of them are given anything memorable to do or say, and around the half way point I always have to fight the urge to hit the fast forward button on my remote. My advice is skip this one and watch 'Escape From New York' again. At least you know you'll enjoy yourself. "},{"Title":"Worst Movie by John Carpenter","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is one of the worst movies by John Carpenter. It borrows heavily from the Escape from NY movie without success. The plot is lame and the acting is non-existent. Lets hope there are no more Escape movies. "},{"Title":"The Worst I have EVER seen","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Believe me I have seen some corkers of movies yet this is the worst. I must admit I enjoy some of the clichéd lines from films but this has some of the worst cringing ones, delivered by the terrible(in this film) Kurt Russell('My name's Plissken')also the basketball scene is awful, in fact all the scenes are awful, recently I have been trying to write summaries on some of my favorite films but it has proved extremely hard, as for drivel like this its easy....1/10 "},{"Title":"as good as the original,with a few differences","Date":"22 April 2007","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" this sequel to Escape From New Yorkisn't half bad.it doesn't have the gritty,unpolished look of the original,and it's not as edgy.however,i did find it more humorous,and it's more of an action adventure movie,than pure drama,unlike the the original.the movie had a lighter feel to it.i didn't find it had the same sense of loss and decay.i did find it entertaining,and fairly fast paced,though there were a few mildly ridiculous scenes that felt out of place.i also noticed(as anyone who watches it will)that the general plot line was almost a carbon copy of the original,with a few variations in detail.i still liked it,and thought it was as good as the original,though,like i said,if you're expecting a departure from the formula of the first,you won't find it.For me,Escape From L.A. is an 8/10* "}{"Title":"Tragically lousy on every level","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"13 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Thing. Escape From New York. The Fog. They Live. Halloween. And THIS?! I'd be willing to cut Carpenter some slack if this film wasn't so tragically lousy on every level.Should be required viewing for all first year film students, serving as a cautionary study in how the seduction of technology can turn even the brightest talents into boiling fecal fudge. I'm actually angry that this film exists.Aspiring Dictators and other practitioners of mechanically inhuman torment should welcome the news that film DOES in fact exist. Escape From L.A. will certainly find its way (along with the theatrical release of Highlander 2 The Quickening) into the dens of filth & suffering utilized by those most cruelly ambitious men. If Christ were alive today, he might submit to a viewing of Escape From L.A. to save us from our sins. "},{"Title":"great","Date":"17 February 2004","Score":"27 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Escape from L.A. is a great movie, perhaps even Carpenter's best, and Kurt Russel makes Snake Plissken ten times more macho than Bruce Willis did with John McLane in the Die Hard movies.The movie is much better than the original (Escape from New York) with good music and better humor than most action movies. "},{"Title":"Best Ending Ever ! ! !","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"40 out of 79 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  So, recently if seen this amazing movie again, sitting on my couch and listening to this incredible genius made music. I really don't know, why most of the people prefer Escape from N.Y. When I first saw N.Y. it really didn't get me. But one must be said for sure ESCAPE FROM L.A. DO HAVE THE BEST ENDING I'VE EVER SEEN IN A MOVIE MADE UNTIL NOW! So all of you, who haven't seen it yet, go get it!PS Sorry, if there are some gramatical errors, but my English isn't that good.  "},{"Title":"A Very Strange Sequel","Date":"4 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Snake Plissken (Kurt Russell) is once again called in by the United States government to recover a potential doomsday device from Los Angeles, now an autonomous island where undesirables are deported.John Carpenter insists that it was Russell's persistence that allowed the film to be made, since Snake Plissken was a character he loved and wanted to play again.Commercially, the film flopped and critically it was mixed. Roger Ebert gave the film 3 1/2 out of 4 stars (which seems absurd), while Kim Newman of rated it 2/5 stars and wrote, Apart from a few good characters, this is really not up to scratch in most departments especially the ludicrous plot. Newman is definitely more accurate. This film is far too cheesy to even be associated with the original.Oddly, it seems the film today may be better known for the soundtrack than the movie itself. The soundtrack (which is very edgy, very 90s) stands up twenty years on. The film has gained a bit as far as nostalgia value goes, but few would call it their favorite Kurt Russell or John Carpenter film. "},{"Title":"Quickie Review Escape from LA","Date":"24 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I watched L.A, the long-awaited sequel to the Carpenter classic Escape from New York, I enjoyed it. My now I'm sure you've realised my taste in movies is utterly terrible, right? Well, unlike most people who waited over a decade for Snake Plissken's return, I wasn't even born when Escape from Ney York came out. Therefore I didn't have that hype building up. If I did, I'm sure I would have disliked it, much how I didn't like Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull after waiting ages for an Indiana Jones sequel. Like Ghosts of Mars, I can't argue that it's a good movie, because it's not. It's cheesy, campy, the special effects are laughably bad and the movie is more of a remake of New York than a sequel anyway. But I can't help it if I enjoyed the cheesiness and campiness. LA was Carpenter's attempt at pushing a long-in-production sequel into reality and from what I've heard he wished he hadn't bothered. I had a ball watching it however. Russell slips back into his signature role perfectly and the b-movieness around him is a delight to watch &#x96; there's a scene where he has to put a basketball into a hoop in an allotted time or die, and even a part where he surfs a wave down a street. Nowhere near as impressive as the original, which is legitimately a good film. Oh and whisper it, but the budget for LA was a whopping $50 million (compared to New York's measly $6 million), making it the most expensive Carpenter film and one of his biggest bombs. In fact, both Escape films work perfectly at showing what was right with Carpenter's earlier career and what was wrong with his later work.Best Scene The part where Snake's submarine device swims through the sea is when I stopped taking the film seriously, but I'm gonna go for the ending, which was one of the ballsiest I've seen. "},{"Title":"Just watch it as you would a parody","Date":"11 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Most people see this movie as less of a sequel to Escape from New York and more of a poor remake. While that is valid, I find a much more enjoyable way to watch the film as if it were a parody. Though even with that frame of mind, this movie stills remains nothing more than mediocre.Kurt Russell is actually still pretty cool in the role of Snake Plissken, still cool as age 45. The new president, an extremely religious and cruel man, sends Snake into the earthquake-ravaged L.A. to retrieve a device stolen by the president's daughter and given to L.A.'s leader and her lover, Cuervo Jones. The device threatens the country, and Snake goes in again under the same life-threatening conditions he was under in the first film.The cast is pretty much wasted. I was thrilled to see Steve Buscemi and Bruce Campbell in a John Carpenter film, and I was quite disappointed, especially with Campbell. Things like the CGI effects are exactly what I mean when I refer to watching the film as a parody of its predecessor, they're so bad you think they'd have to be intentional.Don't expect too much, and just watch it in comparison to Escape from New York as you would watch Spaceballs in comparison to Star Wars, though it's nowhere near as funny as that film. I can't recommend it very much even with the parody mind frame, but it's not terrible either. "},{"Title":"Catches on quick doesn't she?.......","Date":"28 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the year 2013, the city of Los Angeles has been separated from the country by a series of earthquakes, and like New York, has transformed into a corrupted prison. The United States has become a more moral society. Cuervo, a Cuban terrorist has used the President's daughter to steal a device that controls a special orbiting EMP weapon system. The President has called upon mercenary Snake Plissken, and to ensure his cooperation, they have implanted a virus inside his body, and it will inject the virus into his body in 9 hours, so Snake must stop Cuervo, and get back the Weapon's device.....Less of a sequel, and more of a remake, EFLA, is a lot like Evil Dead 2, Carpenter has decided to make the same film, but with references to the original.And this is where the film gets criticised, people wanted something different, and to wait sixteen years to make a sequel, is a long time, and to add salt to the wound, its a remake, and to a brilliant cult movie.But I enjoyed it, and I enjoy it now as much as I did when I first saw it in cinemas in 1996. Russell is great as usual and Carpenter still knows how to craft a movie, but it still goes back to the original so many times.Losing your vehicle when you first reach the island, playing a sport to survive, call me snake, and many more.Other characters are great, but utterly pointless, and the special effects just add to the charm.If your not a Carpenter fan, or don't understand the concept of irony of self referential movies, you will hate this.I liked it, it was great to see Plisskin back on the big screen, and it was a whole bunch of dumb fun. "},{"Title":"So-so in LA","Date":"12 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The satirical elements in this work very well. The sly look at LA's cosmetic industry with future failures needing fresh injections of living flesh is a delightful concept, as is the over-the-top dig at surf culture. It is only a pity there is not more of this. There is perhaps too much dumb action however. Most of it looks good but is rather silly. This is particularly the case of the hang gliding sequence, which would have left Snake and co as sitting (flying?) ducks in reality. But I realise that this is not a film to be taken too seriously.My main beef is the framing sequence. The American President is depicted as a one-dimensional baddie capable not only of electrocuting his own daughter but summarily executing Snake in front of a world wide audience. It is unconvincing and shows Hollywood once again seems to want to depict Christians as inhuman monsters. "},{"Title":"Not Bad Escape Sequel!","Date":"19 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Kurt Russell, Stacy Keach, Steve Buscemi, George Corraface, Pam Grier, Valeria Golino, A.J. Langer and Cliff Robertson star in John Carpenter's 1996 action sequel. This takes place 16 years after the events of the first film and L.A. has become a deportation island for unfit people of society. Criminal, Snake Plissken (Russell) is once again sent on a mission to find a stolen doomsday device for the President (Robertson) that his daughter, Utopia (Langer) stole and now she's the mistress of terrorist, Quervo Jones (Corraface). Keach (Body Bags) plays command leader, Malloy, Buscemi (Reservoir Dogs) plays Eddie, a seller of maps who helps him, but is Quervo's right hand man, Golino (Rain Man) plays Taslima, Grier (Foxy Brown) plays Hershey, a transvestite who is an old friend of Snake's and Bruce Campbell (The Evil Dead) makes an appearance as the Surgeon General of Beverly Hills. This isn't a bad sequel, but it's long-waited and sort of imitates the original. There's also cheesy CGI effects, but it's nice to see Russell reprise his role as Snake and I wish he and Carpenter made another film together. I still recommend this. "},{"Title":"Essentially a remake of Escape from New York","Date":"26 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" There are some good things about this movie, such as the setting and the ending, but generally I think the original, Escape from New York, is a far superior movie. The plot was exactly the same and in essence it was simply a remake of the original movie with better effects.The thing that irritated me the most about this movie was Snake Blisken. Now I like Kurt Russell but I thought that this character was very contrived. It was as if he was trying too hard to be a cynical and selfish character rather than simply falling into the role. The character seemed to smooth out later in the movie, but at first it seemed to be very contrived.The plot is that the daughter of the president stole a disc that gives access to a defense network and gave it to an anti-American terrorist and the government blackmails Snake into getting it back for them. So he has to go to Los Angeles and get it back and for doing that he is given his freedom.As I said previously the setting is actually very good. The United States had become a cesspool of corruption and people feared for their lives. In the year 2000 a huge Earthquake struck Los Angeles turning it into an island. Later a new president was elected onto a purely moral platform and he declared that Los Angeles was not apart of the United States and would exile people guilty of moral crimes there. The United States thus became a theocracy and a police state where all who refused to be Christian were considered dissidents and exiled.The ending was good, but bad as well. Snake Blisken walks out on top and the bad guys - the Americans and the terrorists, were all killed. The president, who was a sadistic man corrupted by power and deluded by this to believe that he could change America and make it a state of morality. In the end his beautiful state is destroyed, all through the actions of Snake Blisken, who simply did not care.Another thing this movie addresses is the reliance that we have on technology. The key to this are the good old fashioned stick matches. They were the only non-technological things in the movie, and they symbolised that Snake did not need technology to survive. Throughout the movie, the President uses the threat of destroying people's technology as a measure to keep control, but he relies on technology to do this. In the end Snake uses the Presidents technology against him and walks off lighting a cigarette with the matches showing us that he really does not need technology to survive.I guess the reason that I gave this movie such a high rating was that it got better after the start, but there were still some really bad things about it, such as the scene where Snake surfs a tidal wave and catches up with Steve Buschemi's character. Once again, the plot was contrived on the original plot in Escape from New York, and I would suggest that if you wanted to watch a movie like this, go for the original rather than this one - it is far better. "}{"Title":"Escape from L.A. (1996)","Date":"29 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" More of a remake than a sequel. This has Snake going into LA (now a prison) to retrieve something for the president. He's blackmailed into it, he gets into a fight, has one of his legs injured etc. etc. It's too similar to be really enjoyable, but there are some nice moments. The plastic surgery people were comical, grotesque, and a dig at the world of Hollywood. This is what the film could have used more of. Satirical wit would have elevated it into a whole new ballpark, as such an absurd premise is perfect for looking at the world in its current state. The effects are so terrible that they add to the charm. See Russell and Fonda surf with the poor CGI. Picks up towards the end, but you may as well watch Escape from New York. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the original, sometimes recycles things from it. But at least it's entertaining","Date":"1 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" If anyone wants a sequel that surpasses the original then this is not for you. The plot is that sixteen years after Snake's famous Escape From New York he is sent in again to retrieve a doomsday device and kill the terrorist holding it and the President's daughter, All are in LA, since an earthquake LA is it's own separate island which, like NY in the original is now a prison colony.Out of the sequels I have seen John Carpenter make (there are 2, this and Halloween 2) neither are better than the original, Halloween and Escape From NY are definitely John Carpenter's best work so I decided to sit down and watch this.Critics criticized this film for being too similar to the original, if you want a sequel that is similar to the original watch Flying High 2, the only thing that I thought made this similar to the original was the tape mix up. My opinion it was funny in the original but this time it seemed a little overused.The Hated It reviewers are extremely harsh to this, I have seen movies that are much much worse, granted this is not a masterpiece and the recycling the tape gag was bad.Overall decent sequel but I'd rather watch Escape From NY "},{"Title":"Mixed bag, but I love it","Date":"11 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Bangkok Rules showdown. It was the money-making shot of the original trailer back in '96, and my fifteen year-old self took to it immediately. (I have to see this!). Bear in mind that I'd never seen the original movie at that age. But that little bit of marketing did its number on me, and to this day, that scene takes me back to that adolescent glee. It's for that reason that I will always have a soft spot for this movie, shortcomings and all.And those failings can be significant, seeing as Escape from L.A. runs on familiarity. It repeats the formula of the first movie to a T, and it's a clunky satire (at best). But we also want that familiarity; to see Kurt Russell don the eyepatch again (the guy wears Snake Plissken like a glove) and witness his signature brand of anarchy. It's irresistible.And despite the awful effects, this movie does maintain a distinct watchability. Even if you're disappointed, you find yourself hanging in there until the end. And it's a great ending.7/10 "},{"Title":"More Fun Than the First Escape!!!","Date":"8 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" If Snake Plissken had an attitude problem in Escape from New York, wait until you behold the havoc he wrecks in the long-awaited, slam-bang sequel Escape from Los Angeles, a memorable apocalyptic science fiction satire that more than compensates for many of the shortcomings in the original.In August 2000, an earthquake has separated Los Angeles from the California mainland. An ultra-conservative Jerry Falwell-type politician, who predicted the earthquake, has exploited his good fortune to win the presidency for a lifetime in the next election. He rewrites the laws so that he can hang on to the post for life then relocates the nation's capital to Lynchburg, Virginia. A new morally white-washed America has emerged by the year 2013. Cursing, smoking, pre-marital as well as extra-marital sex, and eating red meat now constitutes crimes. The government deports anybody who doesn't conform and sends them to the gang-infested cesspool of Los Angeles. The U.S. Police Force maintains a chain of forts along the coastline to repel the efforts of a South American revolutionary, Cuervo Jones (George Corraface of Christopher Columbus), who plans to spearhead a Third World invasion to reclaim America. Things take a turn for the worse when the President's naive daughter Utopia (A.J. Langer) steals the black box. The black box contains the remote control to activate a necklace of lethal satellites designated 'the Sword of Damocles.' These satellites encircle Earth, and they can fire a magnetic pulse beam with pinpoint accuracy that can disable any kind of electric engine. Utopia hijacks Air Force 3 and the jetliner crashes in L.A. She allies herself with Cuervo Jones who threatens to use the weapon against America. The U.S. Police Force dispatches a rescue team, but all die. Enter 'war hero' Snake Plissken (Kurt Russell of Tombstone), unshaven, sporting a black patch over his left eye and his typically surly attitude toward authority in general, in handcuffs with a police escort. The only thing Snake seems to be interested in is where he can get his next cigarette. The police infect Snake with a deadly virus that gives him less than ten hours to retrieve the black box. Reluctantly, Snake agrees to take the mission and rides a nuclear mini-sub into Los Angeles.Snake shares the sentiments of Marlon Brando's motorcycle maverick from The Wild One. When asked what he rebels against, Brando's black-leather clad biker replies What have you got? Whatever it is, Snake is against it. Snake thumbs his nose at the rules and the rule makers. He is the ultimate anti-hero, sent to save a civilization that he abhors. Former Disney star Kurt Russell reprises the tough guy tongue-in-cheek role he created in Escape from New York. No, you don't have to have seen the original to appreciate Escape from Los Angeles. His fastidious performance boasts equal amounts of put-on and posturing. Russell delivers his dialogue in a low, rasping monotone that parodies Clint Eastwood's 'Man with No Name bounty hunter character. Snake resembles a fashionably rode-hard but put-up-wet Marvel Comic super hero clad in skin-tight, black garb, with matching pistols. Nevertheless, Snake hardly qualifies as a super hero. The filmmakers have a great time poking fun at their one-eyed protagonist. Instead of calling him 'blue eyes,' they refer to him as 'blue eye.' Everybody who comes into contact with Snake for the first time expresses surprise that Snake isn't taller. Snake acts rather gullible on occasions when he has to depend on characters who double-cross him.While the first Escape represented a triumph of style over substance, the Escape sequel triumphs both in style and substance. Escape from New York attained classic cult status as a darkly comic, industrial-strength escapade where Snake rescued a U.S. President from a grim maximum security prison on Manhattan Island. The story generated at least a modicum of tension because Snake had to contend with the severe time restriction. He had been injected with a poison that would kill him if he failed to accomplish his mission by its deadline. Strictly a follow-the-numbers formula melodrama, Escape benefited from its gritty looks, fantastic orchestral score, and the eerie atmosphere. The beauty of Escape from Los Angeles lies in the producer's refusal to stray from its formulaic origins. Moreover, the filmmakers have beefed up the budget, broadened the scope, and pumped up the story. Once again Snake battles the clock in his strenuous efforts to recover a device that can trigger world-wide destruction. There is a far greater sense of urgency in this Escape as we see Snake cutting corners and blowing away the opposition at every turn to save time. Director John Carpenter never lets the story slow down so we can catch our breath. Just when you think that you have it all figured out, he pulls a fast one with a clever surprise or two that enlivens this Escape. Escape from Los Angeles pushes the envelope further in all directions. Carpenter penned the script with producer Debra Hill and Kurt Russell. Snake's mission is no picnic. The filmmakers plunge Snake headlong into one rigorous, hair-raising adventure after another. Several familiar faces pad out the cast. Stacy Keach of Mike Hammer fame plays the same role Lee Van Cleef had in the original. Keach ranks as the top cop who coordinates between Snake and Cliff Robertson's scene-chewing president. Rain Man co-star Valerie Golino and Pulp Fiction's Steve Buscemi help Snake navigate through the rubble of Los Angeles. The only thing Escape from L. A. doesn't do better is repeat the same orchestral score. John Carpenter received credit for the music, but Shirley Walker of Batman) puts a spin on the theme that doesn't compare favorably to the original. If you thought the first Escape remotely entertaining, Escape from L.A. should blow your mind. Watch out for all that R-rated violence and profanity. "},{"Title":"Kurt Russell Steals The Show...","Date":"22 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'Escape From New York' became a CULT film. It left a lasting impression on film buffs. John Carpenter and Kurt Russell got the credit for making the action film memorable, as carpenter directed it and Russell ripped it up with his performance as War Hero Snake Plissken. 'Escape From L.A', which is a sequel to 'Escape From New York, and which re-formed the team of Carpenter and Russell, released years and years later since it's prequel and flopped at the box office. I had seen 'Escape From L.A' years back, and I remember enjoying Russell's performance. I re-viewed 'Escape From L.A' recently, and even though it doesn't leave a strong impact as a film, I really enjoyed Russell's performance once again. He Steals The Show, in a role, that, probably, he has immortalized for his fans. The patch in his eye, the rusty look, his body language, everything seems perfect. In 'Escape From L.A', Snake has been given the responsibility to bring back a potential doomsday device from L.A, which is now reduced into an autonomous island where undesirables are deported. And he has been given a Time Limit. Carpenter and Russell's Writing appeals in bits and pieces. The film begins well, and Russell helps you grab the narrative with his dedication. But, the writing loses pace in the latter portions. The climax is decent, but the desired impact is missing. Also, Peter Fonda's character has been given no importance. Carpenter's direction is decent and you only wish if his writing material could've been tighter in the latter portions. Cinematography is good. Editing is fair. Art Direction is well-done. In acting, it's only Russell who stands on his own and holds the film. Snake Plissken and Russell gel well. Stacey Keach is okay. Steve Buscemi is fairly nice. Peter Fonda gets no scope. On the whole, If you love Russell, you have to watch this action-fare. "},{"Title":"Underrated, so singular","Date":"13 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Some 15 years after its release, this film appears as a minor film in all of Carpenter's work, one director who appears himself to be a minor director in the whole cinema history. Few creative people have the gift to divide between fans and haters like Big John, and in view of my recent re-watching of Escape from LA, I do intend to defend one of my favorite directors. Carpenter is full of superlatives, in my opinion  he is one of the last artisans making his films with low budgets and maximum viewing pleasure, he is not ashamed of his positions  not anti capitalism, not pro socialism, with touches of anarchistic and cynical denunciations, but the purest fans know he is just a free thinker and doesn't give a... about political labels. This film illustrates what he is in the best of ways  shutting down the Earth's technologies instead of favoring one camp or the other ; criticizing our system's superfluity like the surgical failures - whose chief is Bruce Campbell - who have to indulge to some sort of cannibalism to survive ; a resurgence of primitive and tribal ways of life in the midst of nuclear chaos, etc. This film is excellent in that it deals with most of science fiction's classic themes and reveals the so unique all-against-the-grain-not-giving-a-...-about-it attitude that characterizes Carpenter and his alter ego Snake Plissken. I suggest this film should be reinterpreted in our times of crises and rediscovered as one excellent yet minor piece of cinema... Get on your couch, grab a can of beer and grow a pair of balls and listen to the Snake Plissken/Carpenter part of you. "},{"Title":"Snake is Back.","Date":"22 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" It was probably a bad idea from the start. A sequel to a film that had already become dated before the 80s were over. But perhaps, some thought (i.e., moi) this flick would help expand Snake's alternate universe. From the moment it starts, a strong sense of deja vu washes over you. This isn't really a sequel, its just a rehash, with a few names and words changed, and some scenes shifted around. This was made on a much bigger budget than the original. But bigger hasn't resulted in better. Apart from a spectacular earthquake sequence, most of the special effects and production design looked shoddy, even back in 1996. Amazingly the film looks far more dated than the original 1981 movie.Kurt Russell is still cool as Snake Plissken, but some of the big names in the supporting cast either ham it up (Cliff Robertson), or are completely wasted (Valeria Golino). What stops the film from being a total waste of time is the go-for-brake full-speed-ahead approach of the film, zipping from one episodic encounter to the next without leaving you to care (too much) about its many flaws. "},{"Title":"Snake Rides Again...","Date":"13 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I didn't see Escape From L.A. in theatres, but I do remember seeing the trailer for it when I was there to see something else, and I will never forget the whoop of joy that arose from the audience when the words SNAKE IS BACK appeared on screen. Unfortunately, when the film was released that joy apparently didn't translate into big box office money, and the film sank pretty quickly. Despite that, I thought Escape From L.A. was a fun ride when I finally saw it on video sometime later. Like most B-Movie fans, I had loved 1981's Escape From New York, but I had honestly seen it so many times over the years that I had made myself sick of it; therefore I was simply happy to see Snake Plissken in a new adventure.The main problem is that Escape From L.A. isn't exactly a new adventure - it's basically a re-tread of the first movie, just with a new location (the West Coast) and with a whole lot of cheap CGI thrown in. Kurt Russell's still bad-ass as Plissken of course, and it's fun to see him in action again, I just wish they'd done more with the story.This time it's 2013, and Los Angeles has been separated from the mainland U.S. after a massive earthquake. The uber-religious U.S. President for life (a hilariously over the top Cliff Robertson) has declared L.A. to be a sinful place and it is now used as a dumping ground for anyone unlucky enough to get deported from the new America for smoking, for eating red meat, for practicing the wrong religion, or thinking for themselves. L.A. is controlled by a gangster/revolutionary named Cuervo Jones, who is amassing an army in preparation for taking back the American mainland. His assistant is the President's turncoat daughter Utopia, who has stolen an important black box from Air Force One containing some sort of ultimate weapon and is now part of Cuervo's gang. The President and his men know there's only one man bad-ass enough to recover the girl and the package before the invasion - Snake Plissken, who's now in federal custody after an unexplained adventure in Cleveland. Once more, Plissken is impressed into service (via an injection of a virus that will kill him if he doesn't return in 12 hours) and dropped into the ruins of L.A., where he runs afoul of just about everybody in the city on the way to complete his mission. His trek through L.A. leads to mucho ass kicking and some funny bits featuring dependable character actors like Steve Buscemi (Map to the Stars Eddie), Bruce Campbell (as the insane Surgeon General), Pam Grier (Her-She) and Peter Fonda (as a survivalist/surfer dude). It's all very light hearted and un-pretentious, which is fine by me.Much criticism has been thrown at the film's use of (cheap) C.G.I. I'll say that it works well in creating the ruined landscape of Los Angeles, giving the backgrounds the feel of a comic book, but when Snake and Fonda the Surfer dude ride a wave caused by a tsunami into the middle of the city, the effect is so obviously fake that you can't help but roll your eyes. Still, Russell and the rest of the cast are clearly having a ball and as with most Carpenter films, there's a sly sense of social satire throughout the proceedings.Escape From L.A. is not a classic by any means and Escape from New York is still the superior movie, but it's still worth a watch if you catch it on late-night TV or find it in the Wal-Mart $5 DVD bin (which is where I got mine). "},{"Title":"Not bad at all!","Date":"6 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Let me put it this way, Snake Plissken as a character saved this movie. I mean he's just awesome and seeing him escaping yet another prison island is just extremely fun for an each fan of escape from New York. Many people have criticised this movie for being to similar to the prequel, but I say that's the point. I was amazed how they had managed to create such identical events but doing them in an entirely different fashion.The story takes place in 2013, 16 years after the events of escape from New york and the US is even more screwed up than before. L.A. was turned into an island during an earthquake in 1998, and all criminals, prostitutes, atheists, or people who simply think radically, are being dumped on the island. The president's daughter has rebelled against Americas new ways and hijacked Airforce 3 and stole the controls for a bunch of doomsday satellites (I won't tell you what they exactly do, it'll ruin the fun). She crashes in L.A. and joins a rebel faction. And of course, once again Snake Plissken has been captured and they'll offer him his freedom if he can get the control back. Now I'll stop here and let you enjoy the rest of the film.Now except from a few slightly a dumb and corny scenes (I've seen worse)this is an truly entertaining movie. Snake is as bad-ass as ever and the stakes are the same as before, his life. I really don't have any more to say, if you're an escape from New york fan or simply liked the movie, you MUST SEE this one. If not you might find it a little bit hard to understand and you'll have a hard time appreciate what you see. The prequel was better but this was not bad at all! "},{"Title":"Go-for-broke action film,","Date":"1 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" *Spoiler/plot- 1996, Escape from LA, Into the 9.6 quaked damaged Los Angeles on 2013 comes Snake Plissken. His job is to wade through LA and retrieve a Domesday device. He visits all the major attractions and neighborhoods of LA. He mixes it up with friends and foes.*Special Stars- Kurt Russle plays 'Snake' Plissken. Clif Robertson plays the US president.*Theme- The lone experienced individual anti-hero will win every time.*Based on- Sequel of Escape from New York.*Trivia/location/goofs- John Carpenter directs.*Emotion- While this film is a go-for-broke action film, it doesn't rise to the level of the first and original. The casting was weak and that made the character uninteresting or uncaring about. "}{"Title":"The Cinema of John Carpenter Escape from L.A.","Date":"5 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Escape from L.A. (1996) was the long awaited sequel to John Carpenter's cult classic Escape From New York. Snake Plisken is in trouble again with the law. After receiving a presidential pardon for his daring rescue of the former president from New York City, the new president has his own personal problems, such as running a police state that seems to be on the verge of collapse and his runaway daughter who was persuaded by a charismatic revolutionary leader leader who's living in the penal colony of Los Angeles. Can Snake bring back the daughter home to daddy? Will this be a quasi remake of the first film? Who will help Snake this time? Find out as Snake Plisken tries to Escape from L.A.An entertaining sequel, not a classic like the original but it's fun. A lot of hot stars from the 90's appear in small parts as well. Cliff Robertson plays the president, Peter Fonda cameos as a surfer dude and Pam Grier makes a guest star appearance as well.Recommended "},{"Title":"Pretty good satire with excellent ending","Date":"26 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film doesn't match the aesthetic value of Escape from New York, and isn't meant to I suppose. EFNY is believable with a small suspension of disbelief where as this one...well if the basketball and surf scenes were changed a bit! The plastic surgery scene with Bruce Campbell is not for the queezy, and the beautiful Valeria Golino only gets about ten minutes of screen time. Russell himself plays the part true to form. Look more for a statement on society here rather then realism. That having been said, the final scene is a class act, with the exception of Snake lighting up, as I'm always against smoking! (I'm sorry IMDb, this is all I have to say about the film without spoiling it, you're making me write ten lines of text, why?!) "},{"Title":"I am sorry to say this...I liked it better than New York.  I am so ashamed.","Date":"6 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yes, I thought this movie was a bit better than New York. Not by much mind you, but this one has a much lower score so I know I have chosen the wrong one to like. Snake is back, and Kurt Russell once again really brings life to the character. I am sure even those who did not care for this movie can at least say he did a credible job. The plot is a bit different a bit the same. The president's daughter has joined in with a criminal from LA, which is somehow an island now and a maximum security prison just like New York. America is now ruled by strange laws combining the worst of conservatism and liberalism. Add to that the fact other countries wish to invade the US and are using what the president's daughter has to try and make their plans work. What does she have you ask? Some sort of device that controls satellites that can cut power off to all machines and such. It can do this to any region or even the entire earth. Well once again Snake has been captured and once again he is duped into going into LA and retrieving the data, but not the president's daughter. So off he goes with a cool new outfit and some nice weapons and gadgets and just like the first one things almost immediately. He gets caught a couple of times in this movie, once by a strange bunch of people addicted to plastic surgery. He also has to play a deadly game of basketball and fly off with his allies in a strange helicopter. Hell, there is even a crazy surfboard scene with Peter Fonda. The movie is a bit goofy compared to New York, but I rather like the over the top way this movie is done. The effects are hit and miss, the actors are hit and miss and so is the action, but overall I think this movie is rather cool. Of course, I may think that only because Snake is back. "},{"Title":"Kurt Russell in 'Escape from LA' reprises NY version- so-so","Date":"19 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yes, it's true. Plissken is baaack.Sometimes you can run across fun movie classics on late night cable TV.Yes, this is the cinematic fun stuff you can always catch on late night cable TV.Well...the scenes may be more corny and squalid (compared to the original cyberpunk version) from an esthetic standpoint but the movie- a cult classic -- is still entertaining.Plissken (Russell) is older, more cynical than his previous role in the New York version. But he still commands the screen. The movie is told through his perspective - as a noble but burnt-out man trying to salvage one last assignment at the government's bidding for a chance to live.Along the way he encounters every specimen of dastardly vagrant, villain, and vermin.But Plissken (Russell) is unfazed and he's nonchalant at every turn. It's his disinterest and cool detachment that makes him such a compelling character.Ramiro Burr "},{"Title":"Escape From New York plus...","Date":"9 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I ventured, at the time of its release, that ESCAPE FROM NEW YORK might one day prove prophetic (as had THE CHINA SYNDROME). Then came Ronald Reagan and his Reaganvilles and John Carpenter's poke at it all, THEY LIVE. Roddy Piper and Keith David were struggling to survive (as were we all) in the Reagan Republic. In the end, of course, it turned out that the Moneyed Folks were in on the coming alien takeover. When Carpenter more or less followed up, years later, with ESCAPE FROM L.A., he and co-writer Kurt Russell envisioned a U.$. Theocracy in which personal freedoms were being whittled to nothing- by Law. At the time of the movie's release, I was urging everyone I knew to see it. Unfortunately, most of them saw it as nothing more than a remake of ESCAPE FROM NEW YORK. Which means they didn't really get it. I argued that this was a movie that, like the 1984 version of NINETEEN EIGHTY-FOUR and THX-1138, was a movie that needed to be seen by everyone in this country. Forewarned is forearmed. "},{"Title":"Interesting enough","Date":"2 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" After seeing Escape from New York, I heard about the sequel, Escape from L.A.. I did not know what to think, but I'm glad I saw it now.Kurt Russell returns as the great Snake Plissken. And he is just as good as he is in the first movie, despite a 16 year difference. Steve Buscemi was great as Map to the Stars Eddie. I wouldn't say AJ Langer was anything special though, but she wasn't terrible. Same with Georges Corraface. Stacy Keach was good as Malloy, the Bob Hauk replacement. Pam Grier was really good as Hershe. Cliff Robertson wasn't half bad as the President, but he was no Donald Pleasance. Valeria Golino was promising as Taslima. Peter Fonda was really good as Pipeline, the surfer. and Michelle Forbes was good as Brazon, Malloy's assistant.The shots of the earthquake were amazing, and the overall plot was great.However, there was some really really bad CGI in this movie that was not necessary in most parts.Besides plot holes and bad CGI, this movie was still good.7/10. Fans of the original should see this one. "},{"Title":"A poorly executed sequel which is missing the old Carpenter magic","Date":"9 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" There's very little in Escape from L.A. to remind you that you're watching John Carpenter's own sequel to the original '80s classic. It's a poorly executed film which pushes the suspension of disbelief too far. With possibly the most unsatisfying green screen sequence I've ever witnessed, one of the action scenes is so ludicrous that the whole film just isn't credible. Despite a great cast including Steve Buscemi, Stacy Keach, Michelle Forbes and the delectable Pam Grier, Escape from L.A. fails to really come alive. It's a limp affair with few memorable moments. Even Capenter's music isn't the same this time 'round.6 out of 10. Despite a promising intro, this Carpenter offering ranks as one of his worst movies to-date. "},{"Title":"A sequel as good as the original","Date":"18 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Out of all his films, 'Escape From New York' is the one that John Carpenter directed a sequel to. Why I don't know, but I'm glad he did because it certainly deserved it and so did the character of Snake Plissken. It took 15 years, possibly because the original was only a modest hit and some of his work since not so much, but it finally came. Unfortunately it too was not a box office success, but don't let that turn you off. Especially if you enjoy a good action flick.Pros Another great cast of familiar faces, good performances from all. An improvement in both production values and design. Moves at a lightening pace. A good score, combining an updated version of the original theme with some decent new material. A pretty good attempt at satire. Some nice touches of humor. Some pretty decent CGI, my favorite being in the surf scene. Lots of awesome shots of the devastated L.A. Some good moments of action. A way cool ending.Cons Recycles a bit too much from the original. Some poor CGI. As with the first one, this sequel is lacking in supporting characters to get attached to.Final thoughts I never really understood why some people don't like this movie. Sure it rehashes some things from the original, but despite that it really is a lot of fun. It's too bad it didn't do so well because had it done better we'd have at least one more installment to enjoy. But hey better one sequel than none at all.My rating 4/5 "},{"Title":"Escape from New York Deluxe","Date":"23 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the year 2000, Los Angeles suffers an earthquake; that cause it separation from the mainland. Now L.A. is not more part of the US and is a like a prison just for the people that don't accept the new moral laws. In 2013, Cuervo (a terrorist from L.A.) steals from the president's daughter a doomsday device so the new mission of Snake is to bring back that device and kill Utopia (president's daughter). To force Snake to do the mission, they plant in him a virus so he must return in 9 hours to get the cure.If we take a fast look into the plot of this film, it looks like Escape from New York. Mostly is the same but in this film we have a great critic to the US, maybe that's why this film wasn't a commercial success. I mean, the thing that the government did in the film to L.A. is like a critic to the racism that exist in the US. Also the dialog of the land of the free is great. And also in this film Snake most deal with a problem that involves all the human race and that can change the future of the world so things like that saves the plot of Escape from L.A.The cast is great, Kurt Russell is great like in the first one; is always cool to see Steve Buscemi and in this film is great. Also the cameos of Pam Grier, Peter Fonda, Bruce Campbell and Isaac Hayes (uncredited) are great.So this film is like Escape from New York Deluxe, since the budget ($7,000,000 to $50,000,000), the magnitude of the problem in the plot and of course the expectation of all the fans of the first one.For me this is a very good film that was really misunderstood when it was released and that have a cult following but there will be always the magic of the original in which Carpenter creates an environment that is not easy to recreate and in my opinion is one of the best environments in sci-fi/action films ever. Conclusion if i have to choose between the two Escape from... films, i will always choose New York but for me this is a very good film that works because of the great political and social critic and of course because of the great Snake. 7.5 out of 10PS the end is nothing but great, in part similar to New York but in the very end with the phrase welcome to the human race is truly one of the best ends ever. "},{"Title":"Stupid Fun","Date":"7 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Kurt Russell dons the ripped jeans and distressed leather jacket once more to play one-eyed anti-hero and Clint Eastwood circa 1964-wannabe Snake Plissken in the belated sequel to director Carpenter's Escape from New York. He doesn't get to keep them on long, though, because soon they're replaced by slick post-Matrix black leather threads as he is once more forced by the evil establishment to race against time to save the president's daughter from the recently-formed island of LA before he dies from a genetically engineered virus.Hang on, haven't we been here before? Well, yes and no, really. No, because even I know LA is on the opposite side of the country to New York and yes because all Carpenter has done is dust off the old flick and make a few superficial changes before rolling the cameras. The budget is probably a fraction of the original's, and the extensive use of sound stages and poor effects gives it an even cheaper look, but that's just about John Carpenter's level these days &#150; he hasn't made a decent film for ages. Not that this one isn't enjoyable &#150; it is if you treat it as the stupid fun that at is &#150; but it just isn't the Snake we know and love.Carpenter tries to insert a few satirical barbs into his story &#150; the wretched freaks who've overdosed on cosmetic surgery and must kidnap normal humans from the streets in order to receive the endless retouches that will keep them alive is a cute (if stupid) touch, - but mostly he panders to those who want to slouch in their seats with a bucket of popcorn in their laps. The cast is good Steve Buscemi plays his usual weaselly criminal whose allegiance changes by the minute; Bruce Campbell is creepy as the Surgeon General of Beverly Hills; Cliff Robertson makes a believable puritanical President and Peter Fonda plays a spaced out hippie-surfer dude. "}{"Title":"thing fall apart, the center cannot hold...","Date":"28 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie represents the beginning of a decline in the work of Director John Carpenter. Vampires and Ghosts of Mars were both very disappointing. When I first saw Escape from LA, I was disappointed in much the same way; but after repeated viewing it began to grow on me in a way the others never have.But let's start with the positives The openly satirical episodes (e.g., the 'surgeon general' sequence) may at first appear just too obvious, until one realizes that much of their humor relies on Russell's dead-pan response to them. He knows the surgeon general is a loony, but he doesn't have the time to be amused, and he can't afford to be afraid. Once we get this, a lot of the comedy develops a Swiftian pointedness - even Russell's Snake Pliskin is a bit of a parody, but even if he knows (and he does) he has a job to do and can't stop for self-reflection. So the reality of post-apocalyptic LA, however absurd, must be taken at face-value, if Pliskin is to do his job and survive.Once that is accepted, than we can also recognize that we have a host of really charismatic actors here, who all make their rather disreputable characters not only believable (given the situation), but even almost likable.And certainly, the action sequences, which are clearly intended to be slightly less than credible (what, you thought the surfing sequence was to be taken seriously? i think not), are so over the top as to not only exciting but amusing.Very well; now we need to address what does not work in this film, because the same problems show up in the later Carpenter films as well.The most important problem has to do with narrative construction. Prior to EFLA, Carpenter's strongest ability was to develop a story in such a manner as the audience was left with the sense that not an episode could be cut - what didn't actually move the story still further enhanced the theme. But there are episodes in this film that don't actually seem to be doing anything, even when they are amusing in and of themselves; the 'surgeon general' sequence is a case in point. Once I got the humor of this episode, I then had to find a place for it in the story as a whole, and discovered that I couldn't. Take this scene out, and not a thing about the rest of the movie is altered.Most of what I am referring to here is not on as large a scale as the 'surgeon general' episode; but there are just too many useless bits and pieces cluttering up this movie.Which brings me to a larger issue. When this sort of thing happens, and a film begins to feel over-long because of extraneous material, it means only one thing - self-indulgence. It means the director has lost the ability to view the material in an objectively critical manner. If an idea occurs and the resources are available, it goes down on film and gets shipped to theaters.While a couple directors have actually turned this temptation into a virtue - even a life's work, as with John Waters - self-indulgence is really a director's vice, and the cause of a loss of creativity and of the ability to communicate with one's audience - Think Costner and Waterworld, or Spielberg and 1941; think Cimino and Heaven's Gate. Audiences don't want to see every idea a director has; we only want to see 'just enough' - possibly even less.One more really big problem with this film, that darkens even further carpenter's later work Although the politics of this film are openly libertarian, which has both positive and negative statements to make about contemporary America , what's disturbing is the development of a real paranoia coupled with a profound pessimism. Mixing paranoia and pessimism is like slugging a fifth of gin to wash down a jar full of sedatives - a real downer. And I freely admit that I am alternately paranoid and pessimistic - but it's the alternation of these attitudes that keeps me cheerful. With Carpenter's later films, I'm afraid they come bound together. If the universe is really as bad as we see it in Vampires and Ghosts of Mars - quick, gimme the sedatives and gin, let's get it over with.Well, if it weren't for Buscema and Russell, EFLA would be just as dark. But Buscema adds a touch of dumb capitalist optimism, and Russel a touch of savvy survival ism (as well as his dead-pan response to the absurd), to the extent that we can overlook how terribly bleak this world has become for Carpenter. And setting aside that dark view is what we need to do to appreciate the comedy, and thus stunts, that actually make the film worth viewing. "},{"Title":"Snake slithers into a Silly L.A.","Date":"14 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" We are not really meant to take much of this seriously. This comes across as almost a parody of the much earlier Escape From New York of '81. It's intentional, because the locale has switched to Los Angeles from New York City. Where New York is gritty, L.A. is just silly. NYC is dark; L.A. is light - you get the idea. At least, L.A. appears to have been co-opted by all the silly elements known for the area plastic surgery, wave surfing, vapid residents and so on. There are some nice wave / quake FX in the prologue, explaining how L.A. is now an island. Then Carpenter moves into full dark satire mode, introducing a deranged religious fundamentalist obsessive (Robertson) as the President of the USA (Carpenter seems most comfortable taking potshots at the Presidency, even though this was during the Clinton era). The film pretty much duplicates the plot of the earlier film; in this case, top cop Keach substitutes for the van Cleef character. Snake (Russell) is drafted once again into a 'mission impossible' journey, looking angry during the whole thing.Once again, Snake encounters weird natives in a land which, though technically part of the U.S., seems to be on another planet (actually, we learn the crazy Prez did strike L.A. off the U.S.map). L.A. is anarchy, with everyone doing whatever they're into, usually weird stuff. We're back to the premise of what strange thing will Snake see next? But, though there is dangerous gang activity, as in the previous film, I'm surprised even the grim Snake didn't break into a grin or even start laughing at some of the ludicrous elements he encounters. You keep picturing his thought processes, such as 'you gotta be kidding me,' for most of the film. The entertainment value is there - especially for fans of the darker Escape From New York. At least they have the Snake character back for one more outing, even if in an 'Escape-lite' version. When we get to the execution-style basketball challenge, replacing the standard arena of the 1st film, I was ready to think 'ok, this is too much' - this crosses the line for silliness. But, I admit, that's probably the one scene I look forward to seeing again in re-viewing the picture. I also admit I like the finale - it's pure nihilistic Carpenter / Plissken. "},{"Title":"Jaws The Ride? Escape from Cleveland?","Date":"1 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie. It is so shitty that it rules. Everything about it is great, especially the part where Snake Plissken shoots a lot of people. Also, the hang-glider scene is straight awesome.There are two things that troubled me, however.Is the shark that we see in the underwater submarine scene supposed to be real, or part of a Jaws-themed attraction as the proceeding Universal Studios Hollywood sign would seem to imply?Also, more importantly, in the scene that takes place aboard the Queen Mary, Snake reminds Hershey a.k.a Car Jack Mallone of what happened in Cleveland.What did happen in Cleveland? Is there another movie? A book? Anything? Please say YES.  "},{"Title":"Burn, Hollywood, burn","Date":"30 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  * * * ½ (3½ out of 5)Directed by John Carpenter, 1996.Going back to Escape from L.A. - 5 years after my first viewing - turned out to be a nice surprise.I remember disliking the movie originally; not just as a poor sequel to the cult benchmark Escape From New York (1981), but as a bad movie.While I can still relate to the hokeyness I objected to back then, I also discovered so many more charms to 'L.A.' on my second time around. Maybe the lighter, goofier style in 'L.A.', compared to the dark bluster of 'New York', provoked me more than it should have since I was (and somewhat still am) biased about Carpenter making a sequel to a (his own) great movie by simply doing a shot for shot remake on a larger bag of money. What on Earth was Carpenter thinking? Well, in fact, it turns out he was thinking about a whole lot of things, including our Earth, and with 'L.A.' he managed to bring some intriguing what-ifs to the screen in his trademark part-screwball, part sci-fi action-adventure style.These were the early days of computer generated effects (James Cameron's Titanic would surface a year later) and on a mid-range budget of $50 mill - however big that was for director Carpenter and co-writer/producer Debra Hill - the special effects in 'L.A.' seem to fit somewhere in between ludicrous and intentionally funny. It's then a testament to Carpenter and Kurt Russell - who reprises as the bad-ass, cynical Snake Plissken without missing a beat - that they make the cartoonish and apocalyptic world not only seem fresh and sharp but downright audacious.There's actually so much vibe to 'L.A.' that you forgive it being largely identical to 'New York'. Here we are in California where a massive 9.6 earthquake has separated Los Angeles from the mainland and the area has become a deportation prison for all of America's unwanted. An island of the damned, home to murderers, immigrants and those guilty of moral crimes. In 2013 the United States is a non-smoking nation. No drugs, no alcohol, no women - unless you're married - no foul language and no red meat. The land of the free. It's hilarious.The brilliant added bonus now though, what nobody could have foreseen, is the relevance of Carpenter's prophecies today. He spoofs a future America as a police-governed, ultra right-wing Christian theocracy, unpopular and isolated from the rest of globe (at war with most of the Third World and the Middle East), featuring a President-for-life in a White House that's relocated south (okay, to Virginia, not Texas). Geez, huh? It's 2004 and we're well on our way already. On a highway to hell.'L.A.' also addresses the charming denial and magic lure of the city of Los Angeles. Today, tomorrow or in 2013.In a future Beverly Hills people stalk for fresh body parts to supply and support their deteriorating mass plastic surgery (a great cameo by Bruce Campbell) and in downtown L.A. gang crime is at an all-time fever pitch. The best scene comes as an eerie shock amidst the bubblegum glossy feel - It's actually not a bad place, if you learn to understand it, says inmate Taslima (Valerie Golina) in trying to defend her hometown and other Angelinos. A second later she's gunned down out of the blue by a 13-year old Korean gang-banger.With the big quake of 1994 still fresh in mind, the bad economy and power shortages, the yearly mudslides in Malibu and the fires that ravaged California as late as 2003, it all rains support to the core of the thread that Carpenter is displaying. What are you doing in L.A., Taslima asks Snake in an earlier scene. Dying, he dryly replies, in reference to the deadly virus he's allegedly been injected with by the police so he won't skip town. But Carpenter's metaphor is redwood-thick shtick all the same.Still, it's unfortunately not all a flickering, beautiful neon sea as viewed by an evening cruise on Mulholland Drive. The action scenes are mostly stiff and slow and 'L.A.' is maybe the best example of how Carpenter was never an action director - much like Tim Burton never was - no, like Burton he's an inventive and suspenseful creator of unique movie places and worlds but not the man for editing interesting physical action. It also doesn't help that new baddie Georges Corraface as Cuervo Jones pales immensely compared to Isaac Hayes' Duke of New York. Furthermore there's a feeling of wasted opportunity in the otherwise smart casting of ageless hippie Peter Fonda and indie hero Steve Buscemi. Although they do evoke a smile now and then.Russell is luckily super game and - it's amazing, to his credit for reprising this role - the man fit the same clothes he wore back in 1981, 16 years ago. The famous gladiatorial fight in 'New York' has been replaced with Snake shooting clocked hoops at the Coliseum (shots Russell made himself). It features another cool blow from Carpenter by way of Jones declaring to Snake You might have survived Cleveland. You might have escaped New York. But this is L.A., and this city can kill anybody!Having the City of Angels as the new 'Escape' playground is every bit the meaty material the Big Apple was. Carpenter and Russell are enjoying a field day on the west coast and the colorful setting makes for a fun, punchy time.Hey, even Snake seems thrilled. When offered yet another Presidential pardon instead of a deportation, Snake says no deal - F**k you, I'm going to Hollywood. He's in denial too. "},{"Title":"Its a hard thing to admit","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  but I love this movie. At first when my dad first described it as a waste of his time to drive with my uncle (his odd brother) all the way to the  boonies to see a free screening. I thought so to but its been on Cinemax a few times and each time I see it I like it a little more. Its true this movie does fall into the realm of B movie because it is so hokey and silly that its hard not to watch. The basket ball scene is just one of these moments. Over all the whole movie is beyond ridiculous but again very fun to watch because of that. I recomend you check it out when your in a silly mood because its really uplifting in violent sort of way. "},{"Title":"Has it's moments","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  An earthquake has separated Los Angeles from the mainland.The year is now 2013And In the New Moral America, all citizens who do not follow  the new laws deported to L.A., now a penal colony. The President's daughter has stolen a doomsday device and has fled to L.A.It's up to Snake Plissken(Kurt Russell) to find the President's daughter and retrieve the doomsday device before its too late.Cast also includes A.J Langer, Steve Buscemi, George Corraface, Stacy Keach, Michelle Forbes, Pam Grier and Cliff Robertson.Cult Icon Bruce Campbell has a cameo.The Script was written by John Carpenter, Debra Hill and Kurt Russell.The Script was ok nothing great.Director John Carpenter does a good job but not his best outing.Escape From L.A. suffers from silly scenes that are a bit over the top.Escape From New York was a hell of a lot better.This is not one of Carpenter's better movies, it seems with the end of the 80's John Carpenter just can't make a good movie.He made some great movies in the 80's, he is one of my favorite Directors.I hope someday John Carpenter can make a movie the way he once did.Escape From L.A. is worth watching on a rainy day.I give Escape From L.A. 5/10 "},{"Title":"A BASKETBALL CHALLENGE?","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was just bad, plain and simple.  At first, I thought maybe this movie would have been OK as long as you were unfamiliar with the FAR superior original.  But now, I just know it was a bad movie.  And we waited a decade and a half for it?Much of the plot is rehashed from the first.  OK.  I can't hold that against the movie.  Most sequels have a lot of rehashing.  But it how ridiculous the minor changes were.  Here is a great example of just how bad this movie is compared to the first.In the original.  Snake and the big bald guy are fighting to the death in the abandoned Theater of Madison Square Garden boxing ring.  Baseball bats with nails on the end, and only garbage can lids for protection.  Great scene.Now flash forward to LA.  No Madison Square garden.  No arena even.  They go to a stadium and for some reason there is an outdoor basketball court set up?  And instead of a fight to the death, Snake is forced to take a BASKETBALL CHALLENGE?What the hell?  For the life of me, I cannot even begin to understand what the writers were thinking.  The death fight scene in Escape from NY fit so well with the movie.  And it was believable all around.  But we are supposed to believe that this evil Cuervo gets his kicks watching people shoot LAYUPS before being gunned down in a hail of bullets?  Ooooh!  Big tough guy Cuervo!  He forced his victims to participate in an NBA's All Star Saturday-style competition.  Or maybe he grew up watching the Jeep Superstars.  Either way, it was just plain silly, out of place, and TOTALLY unbelievable.  And Snake making the half court shot followed by an 80 foot heave just made it worse.Don't waste your time.  Rent the first one.  Better plot.  Better stars.  (Georges Corraface vs Isaac Hayes?  No contest.  Pam Grier vs Adrienne Barbeau?  Same thing.)  Better city.  Better ending.  Better everything. "},{"Title":"Deja-vu all over again","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The phrase that best sums up this film is, been there, done that!  It's pretty much the same film all over again.  Substitute the president's daughter for the original president, Peter Fonda for Ernest Borgnine, Steve Buscemi for Harry Deant Stanton (Pam Grier takes up some of that role, too) and the guerrilla leader for the Duke, and you have EFNY, with a bigger budget.  Still, it has it's moments.  The idea of the religious right controlling the government and launching an attack on immorality is an intriguing premise, but it's not expanded enough.  The illegal gunfighting and rebel areas sounded more exciting that what we got.Stacy Keach was an improvement over Lee Van Cleef, as the cop who sends Snake on his way.  Buscemi is always good and Peter Fonda gets at least a few chuckles.  Any Bruce Campbell cameo is worthwhile, but I would have liked to have seen more from him.It's too bad Carpenter and company couldn't come up with a new story to make the better budget pay off.  Still, it's not a total loss. "},{"Title":"Can we start again?","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In the end all a man really needs is a good smoke and a cup of coffee. Those famous words were delivered by Sterling Hayden in that fantastic Nicholas Ray filme called Johnny Guitar. These same words could be the summary to Escape from LA, another great movie from that other great director called John Carpenter. In France I'm an auteur, in Great Britain I'm a filmmaker and in Hollywood I'm a bum, once said Carpenter . True, all the three assumptions. He is an auteur, a filmmaker and, for Hollywood standards, he is really a bum, just like some of his heroes (Roddy Piper in They Live, Kurt Russell in the Escape films). But, in fact, John Carpenter is a storyteller, one of the greatest of this time. And Escape from LA is one of the most caustic and acid visions of the shape of things that are coming to us. Look at the figure of the President of the US, portrayed by Cliff Robertson, in all is religious fundamentalism and ultra-conservadorism. He sure looks familiar to the guy who is now in the White House. Escape from LA was made in the Clinton time, but looks into the American society as a serpent's egg the evil (intolerance, racism, belicism) is already there, just waiting for the right man in Washington. Just like in They Live! (a strong attack on Reagan politics), Escape from LA is the work of a man who sees his country going in the wrong direction. It is a sequel, it is a big studio production, but it is also a very personnal movie, as a real signature by an auteur, by a storyteller. John Carpenter made few compromises in his career, and, in this particular case, he directed a sequel that was so much more cynical and disturbing than the original. It's not a pretty picture it shows that serpent's egg, that evil that man do, the shape of those things to come in a cutting edge way. It's a film-blade direct to the throat of our society. In the end we see Snake Plissken ready to cure this strange and ill-fated world in which he lives (it's in the future but it closely resembles ours...). As he turns out the lights he lights the cigarrette that was denied all through is adventure. He has that opportunity to right the wrongs and start it all over again. Can we start again, is the question? Sure, because all a man really needs is a good smoke... (and a cup of coffee...)  "},{"Title":"Escape From N.Y. Lite","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is Escape From New York Lite in more than one way, lightweight as well as lighthearted, the tone perfectly captured in a scene where Snake plays baddies to a draw Bangkok style. Attractive cult cast are doing their thing, the fx are however not paticularly convincing. However the original is still numero uno. 6/10 "}{"Title":"TERRIBLE EXECUTION OF A GREAT IDEA!","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Being a fan of John Carptenter films, I was really surprised at how terrible this was.  I have a lot of respect for John Carpenter, sure he has put out few stinkers, but who hasn't?Escape from New York and The Thing are two of my all time favorite movies. I was there opening day when EFLA came out.  I couldn't wait.  Gradually, as the movie started my smile and excitement went down with it.** Warning Spoilers Ahead**I was okay with the fact that it was basically the same story (although a new and original twist would have better), but it was the moment that I saw the 'holograms' that this movie started going down hill for me (c'mon, what a cheap audience trick.  Like they could really place the holograms at exactly the right point, facing the right direction, making the appropriate eye contact to the extent that it would fool anybody - that is anybody but the audience). Yes, it was there that my smile gradually began to fall and it turned into horror when I saw that incredibly bad CG shark try to take a bite out of the sub.Everything in this movie was so unplausible that it made the movie dumb. C'mon, that ridiculous way that snake pliskin escaped from Bruce Campbell was absurd.  The scary thing was that I heard it took so long for John Carpenter and Kurt Russell to do a sequel because they were waiting on the right script.  You mean to tell me that 15 years later they couldn't find a better script than this?  Hollywood must be in really serious trouble (although with the movies being pushed out over the past few years, that is no surprise!)It is painful for me to write this review because I really wanted to like this movie.  I really want Carpenter to keep pushing the envelope with his unique ideas and twists.  It is just a shame that a movie as great as Escape from New York was followed by something as terrible as this.  If you are a fan of the original, I highly recommend you avoid this one at all costs.  "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A very fun film, a sequel/remake to ESCAPE FROM NY. I found this movie to have a different path to NY thus while giving the viewer the feeling of deja vu, a new experience. The film features good acting all round, nice characterisations (Maps to the stars Eddie springs to mind) and a quick, fast moving plot.I think the only movie I've seen move more consistantly faster is Aliens or maybe Evil Dead 2.This film is a good session of fun and easy to watch. Enjoy!  "},{"Title":"Snake is back ...that alone makes it worth seeing","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Action films coolest hero (anti-hero) ever is back. The movie is more polished and over the top then the original, but is full of action and fun. Not nearly as good as the first (escape from new york) the main character still makes this movie worth watching. Snake still has all the attitude and swagger. I absolutely love the gunfight with Bankok rules. If you havn't seen the first check it out first, then come back just to catch up with Snake. I will admit liking this movie better the second and third time, and Bruce Campbell has a small part which is always good. "},{"Title":"Great cartoon adventure","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I can see why there is going to be a comic book adventure written about the the tales of snake plisken.That is what this story was meant for.Now it is also great as a movie adventure as well.This movie is made in much of the same way as the Batman movies and all of the comic book heroes which you have seen on the screen.If you look at this movie from this perception you can realize that yes this is a pretty good damn movie!Cheesy, yes, but well worth it.I am a huge Carpenter fan and for the most part have regarded this film as fluff,but after seeing several times on dvd i realize thst this is basically a great weekend afternoon popcorn movie that should be based off of a comic book hero!!Go Snake!! "},{"Title":"Campy fun, Bruce Campbell, and a guy named Snake! How can you go wrong?","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm not really sure why I love this movie so much. Maybe it's the camp. Maybe it's because I love to see the Religious Right get stomped to pieces. Maybe it's because I have some strange attraction to Kurt Russell. Or maybe... just maybe, it's because it's just plain fun. Who woulda thunk it? "},{"Title":"It's All In Good Fun People!!!!","Date":"16 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Whoever says this movie is campy or cheesy or whatever....  That maybe so, but take it for what it's worth.  It's fun!  Relax your anus.  Seriously.Carpenter is a director for people who love the fun of film making and if you're not up for that, don't bother with this movie.  But if you're looking for something that you can watch over and over again and have fun, it's definitely for you.  Oscar worthy?  Nope.  But who cares??!!Carpenter Rules! "},{"Title":"Call me Snake.","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First off, Kurt Russell is still cool.  Got that out of the way, okay.  Snake Plissken is back, and this time he must escape from a more appropriate location, Los Angeles.  L. A. has broken away from the United States after a devastating earthquake and has been declared a prison state.  The president's daughter is lured there and of course she has a gadget that can shut down the planet.  And then Snake is brought in and the plot is basically the same as the original.  Escape From L. A. is about fun though.  John Carpenter knows how to have a good time and entertain.  And this movie is exactly that, entertaining.  I love the Bangkok rules scene.  That's a classic.  The casting is good too.  There are alot of big names running around this movie.  From Steve Buscemi and Stacy Keach to Pam Grier and Peter Fonda.  There are even some cameos that are hard to spot (Leland Orser, Paul Bartel, and Robert Carradine).  Of course my favorite bit of casting is Bruce Campbell as the Surgeon General of Beverly Hills.  Where will Snake escape from next? "},{"Title":"Second verse same as the first...","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I watched this over the holidays and it was okay. The action and acting were fine, but there just seems a little too much of the original story resurfacing. Russell does a fine job, and his support cast is proficient, but otherwise it is basically the first with a few new catches. "},{"Title":"Well, it's bad, that's what makes it so good","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I first saw this movie, I thought, Kurt Russell, dodgy special effects, a plot with so many wholes in it.  Well this movie is all those things but if you don't take it seriously it's definitely worth seeing.  Personally it had me laughing my head off when he was riding the surfboard, you would not believe how funny it is to see Kurt Russell playing basketball. This started me thinking, hmm, maybe this is worth it after all, now I get urges to see this movie every once in a while just for a bit of a laugh.I recommend everyone go and see this movie every now and again, just for a laugh.Dave  "},{"Title":"Good, but not great","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Snake is back, he's cooler then ever. Kurt revised his role as the great anti-hero, and his performance was great. However, the plot is a little on the weak side. However, John Carpenter was making a good point of how we rely too much on technology, politically correctness, and how intrusive the government has become in our lives, When Stacy Keach said America is a smoke free, alcohol free, no red meat, and no sex unless you're married state Snake replies, Land of the free, home of the brave Keach says Exactly! At the end, Snake lights a cigarette and said, Welcome to the real world! Point taken! "}{"Title":"A bad movie?","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  That view is subjective. Yes, EFLA is no Ben-Hur. It's also no Waterworld. =) What was so horrible about this flick? Steve Buscemi was great. Russel I thought did a good job, lots of nice action scenes, and an interesting plot. OK, it was a recycled plot, but I enjoyed EFLA a lot more than many many other movies I've had the misfortune of seeing. It's a no-brainer film that you can stick in the VCR and play while you do other stuff, but also engrossing enough that you can sit down and watch it and *enjoy* it.EFLA isn't deep or fresh, and can't even be really classified as a sequel to NY, but it sure as feck is *fun*. And that, I think, is what counts. "},{"Title":"a really underrated movie","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Comparing it with the first exploits of Snake Plissken, this Carpenter own's self parody of the previous box office hit is normally dismissed as a bad movie, a remake of the first one without any redeeming qualities. In fact, the movie is very good as a long ride in fun, full of splendid little in-jokes, cameo roles to fill your list for months to come, sapid sentences. Prepare for the ride and enjoy this movie from start to finish, following the continuing saga of one of the greatest movie heroes of all time (a Kurt Russell still fit for the role after so long a time compliments, Kurt!). "},{"Title":"I guess that the director insisted on attaching his name to the title so we wouldn't confuse John Carpenter's Escape from L.A. from, say, Woody Allen's Escape from L.A.","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This futuristic, action-packed adventure is dark and cartoony, but it provides a few good laughs here and there. It has been 15 years or so since Plissken (call me Snake) escaped from New York. If you thought that the Big Apple was a hellhole, wait until you see the Big Orange. A massive 9.8 earthquake (finally the Big One?) has separated Los Angeles from the rest of California making it an island. Orange County to Malibu is now the dumping ground for all the undesirables as defined by the militantly puritanical US Government. Sunset Boulevard hasn't changed much. It is lined with hookers, and one looks suspiciously like Divine Brown. The Beverly Hills Hotel is pretty run-down now and is a haven for those who've had too many face-lifts and those who are looking for other replacement body parts. So what else is new? Motor-mouthed agents like Map To The Stars Eddie (Steve Buscemi) still try the fast-talk routine, though the entertainment business is a thing of the past. Wildfires burn out of control around the landmark Hollywood sign. Snake has come to town, against his will, to recover a little black box that can control the world. The villain in charge of LA island is named Cuervo, a Latin strongman who looks like a youngish Castro. Before it's over, Cuervo will force Snake to play hoops for his life in the LA Coliseum. With a firing squad waiting for him to miss the basket, shot clock takes on a whole new meaning. Snake also meets up with an aging surfer (Peter Fonda) whose favorite word is tsunami. Together, they get to hang ten on a well-timed wave down Laurel Canyon. Not quite totally awesome due to some rather horrible special effects. There are also fun times with a transsexual gang leader named Hershe (Pam Grier, sounding like RuPaul with a chest cold, but sporting bigger hair) and Utopia, the renegade daughter of the President (Cliff Robertson), who wears black leather hot pants and thigh-high boots. She doesn't look a thing like Chelsea Clinton.This movie should be thought of as a spoof of the brilliant original Escape from N.Y. and nothing else.  I did rather enjoy the ending though.  "},{"Title":"brilliant not to be missed","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a great B movie in total lines with John Carpenters other films. It should not be viewed as a sequel to EFNY more as a re-make. The special effects are brilliant for their comedy value, and give me great pleasure on each re-viewing of the film. Kirk Russel and Steve Buscemi are perfect. "},{"Title":"average on it's own, a stinker compared to the original...","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Escape From New York is one of those great cult movies... Once my parents got cable in the mid 80s, I watched it whenever it was on. So, many many moons later when the sequel came out, I was excited. Oh boy, was I dissapointed. It didn't measure up to the original very well...EFLA is one of those films that is much, much better if you have no idea that it's a sequel. It has some interesting social commentary / satire. As mentioned in other reviews, the plastic surgery addicts are pretty amusing. (Bruce Campbell has an over-the-top, but memorable, performance)However, the whole film has a rushed and cheap feel about it. Maybe this was some type of intentional master plan by Carpenter, but if it was I didn't get it. The original 'Escape' film was much more somber, gritty and lent itself to disbelief much easier. This sequel seems to tell us Hey, this movie is Escape from New York on lots of drugs and mini-thins...The plot followed the first film far too closely, and the special effects were pretty laughable most of the time. Bad production values aside, watching Kurt Russell try to shoot basketball was hilarious!! Steven Hawking could probably kick his butt in a game of horse!!!Anyways, taking this film completely detached from EFNY I'd give it a 6/10. It was mildly entertaining, but rode that mediocre middle ground between cheese and action and satirical comedy. Much like Hudson Hawk... you never knew what to think of the movie until you watched it a few dozen times...Judging this as a sequel to EFNY, I give it 3/10. In my opinion, it just doesn't compare very well to the original. The plot is derivative and the cheese factor kills the 'edge' that the first film had.  "},{"Title":"Good plot, Just not carried out good!","Date":"26 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Being a die hard fan of E.F.N.Y, I waited for a long,long time for a sequal to be made. Unfortunately, I was not satisfied with the movie. The earthquake senario was the perfect backdrop for the sequal, but it's like they rushed through the story line to get to the bad guy. In E.S.N.Y., almost forty minutes pass before the DUKE OF NY appears in the movie. In this movie, you see CUERVO JONES appear in about 20  min.              I only hope the mini-series carpenter is planning to do about our fav. tough guy is much better than E.F.L.A.(check out the snake plisken fan page). "},{"Title":"Escape From New York Remix","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It is hard not to like the Carpenter movies, especially when you've got Kurt Russell as a shoot-em-up, take no prisoners action hero as the main character.  Its interesting to note, though, anyone who's ever seen Escape From New York will quickly see that Escape From LA is essentially the exact same movie, simply transposed into a Los Angeles backdrop.Escape From LA is one of those sequels you can't miss if you've seen the first - its loaded with all kinds of hidden jokes and parodies.  Stacy Keach and Cliff Robertson do an excellent job as Snake Plissken's adversaries, but it doesn't hold the same cheesy yet cool performance of Donald Pleasance and Lee Van Cleef as seen in the first film.A big plus to this parody/remix/tribute include an improved version of the Escape From New York theme, a better historical intro, and, of course, more weapons and toys for Snake.  All in all a great film. "},{"Title":"slightly disappointed...looked as if it was rushed out by the studio","Date":"25 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ESCAPE FROM LA is the riveting tale and an allegory on what happens when intolerant jesus freaks/ultra lefties try to clean up the United States. This film could have been better but in hindsight was enjoyable. Sort of. it was more tongue in cheek than the dark, somber original. I would have preferred to have seen a sequel where snake and Hauk team up as was hinted at in the end of the original. There are some neat touches here...George Corraface as a CHI Guverra style street gang/mob leader, terrorist, Ciff Robertson as Pat Robertson style tv evangelist and AJ LANGER as his AMY CARTER style troubled daughter...complete with TRUE LOVE WAITS button. This was more of a slam on the religious right and the ultra left than a action movie but there was action and a brief homage to 1960's surfing movies. This wasn't bad but I was disappointed in the wake of the cleverness of the first film. However, this is worth a night at the movies or vcr. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly enjoyable","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A sequel to escape from New York will just be more of the same, pointless mindless violence for the sake of it.Or so you'd think.  This was actually surprisingly fun, as Kurt Russell as Snake Plissken had far more dialogue, and got to deliver some excellent lines as the character as a whole was developed all round.There were some good action scenes, but the star as ever was Steve Buscemi in a role that only he can play in this way, as the agent for the Shining Path leader who is attempting to hold the USA to ransom.Worth seeing definitely. "},{"Title":"Not good...","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I didn´t like this film at all. Some of the special effects were poor and the cast isn´t really the best one. If you like Kurt Russell see this. I don´t like this kind of stupid mindless action films.I give this 3 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Snake is back!","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A pretty good sequel even though, most of the movie has easily fake scenes. I like John Carpenter movies, he's my favourite director but most of his movies have an open ending which is different. This was still cool, it has an all-star cast just like the original, S. Buscemi is funny here. Bruce Campbell makes a cameo as a mad doctor.  This is worth having along with original. "},{"Title":"Campy? Try dull","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A movie is not campy if it is dull. I grew tired of Kurt Russell, Stacy Keech, and especially Steve Buscemi fairly quickly.The ONLY inspired moment was the plastic surgery scene -- that was funny.Otherwise, John Carpenter's other attempts at Los Angeles parody were flat. I mean, in Escape from New York, Snake dueled a big, almost unstoppable hulk-like creature.In L.A., he has to play horse on a basketball court.Huh?Camp parodies stupid, not emulate it. And Escape from L.A. was stupid. Not even a good parody of Los Angeles lifestyles. "},{"Title":"Escape From This Movie!!","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I hated this sequel.  I waited half my life to see it and was so incredibly disappointed.  The first one was such a classic.  It was dark, it was scary. It just plain sucked you in.  This sequel just plain sucks.  It's just too Hollywood.  It doesn't have any of the dark scariness of the first one. They added all this camp to make it a parody, but that just sucks.  It ruins the whole movie.  And I thought the basketball scene was way too long and pointless.  I was looking forward to seeing a horror/adventure sequel, not a campy Hollywood parody.  I do not recommend this movie if you loved the first one. "},{"Title":"Nice ending, shame about the middle","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There are two good things about this movie the beginning and the end. Unfortunately the rest -- basically almost everything in LA itself -- pretty much sucked. Sure, there are a number of amusing LA jokes along the way, but most of it seems to be either copied from 'Escape From New York' or just plain stupid.But -- nihilistic as it is -- the ending is still the best I've seen in any movie for a long time. It's a real shame that it goes through so much crud on the way there. "},{"Title":"the last true rebel still got the blues.","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Welcome to the human race.The way John sees it we're going there and it's bumpy. And not so far. He's the last rebel, one true author and nihilist in these days of crapiest things ever put on the screen ever.Paradox What's amazing and at the same time absolutely normal is that almost no one got the joke, the sarcasm, the satire, the sadness and finally the blues as this is one of the movies that got the worse reviews ever and bombed at the B.O. so dramatically. But as Carpenter puts it, his films were never appreciated when they came out, only in retrospect they grow and grow and they become classics or cult follow-ups. Sad but a perfect example for how muddy the waters of attempting mainstream filmmaking may be these days.Carpenter is Snake more than Russell not in EFNY but in LA. The eye-patch sends us to the true pirate (could be John Ford's eye-patch that inspired the gimmick, or the other directors-Lang, De Toth?), the smuggler (check Scorsese's approach of term). Question Why re-do it if not to add something new? Answer Do it in a fun, wild, free way. Remember Kurt's line Your rules are beginning to annoy me?That's Carpenter speaking. And remember the preview, great trailer, you need guts to do that these days. And check these things too Lynchsburg as capital, Utopia as president's girl,the Buscemi agent's blabbering,Stacy Keach's pony tail and cactus,the quakes and Robertson's grotesque ridiculous postura, Pam's gender and Campbell's Surgeon General of Beverly Hills. And the Leone anti-homage in the Draw thing. Or try see the Duke (John Wayne)jumping from truck to truck in the motorcycle chase. And that Easy ride on the wave...True sense of dark humor, anti-heroism growing into mythical proprtions, a bleak vision of the future of America (hell, it's 2013), nihilism and a mock of the city of the industry, now a real true nightmare.Great use of Panavision, Russell's excellent low key one-eyed bearded tireness and flegmatic approach, a most daring ending with a wink to the smart true film dude in the audience-this is me, John, I'm still here, growing older, still smoking and getting tired but I can still kick ass.And I can still play the blues, and as we all now the blues as it gets older it gets better.Cult actors in glorified cameos, jokes about the industry and inside LA jokes and a brilliant score. Can't get the humour? It's a satire, it's EFNY on the reverse,  a super ride and totally there. Carpenter tried before a genre parody in Big Trouble in Little China-tragic business when it came out, great fun always. Can't you see the links between They Live and The Carpenters joke in ITM of Madness, and Snake Plissken, the darkest anti-hero we still have? Why what worked in Spielberg's Raiders worked? Cos it was less subversive? You buy Indy Jones and not LA? It's better, more honest and less pocket grabber.And there's no toys potential and it's an anti-franchise.Escape was not ill-conceived but done on purpose. Don't blame the filmmaker for the studio wasted money, Carpenter did it right and that was the way he wanted it, with the cheesy shark, with the bad surf wave and the added flames on guns. And the blues.And Paramount will make the money back, just from video, DVD and this is a movie that's gonna have more fans in 5-10 years. Sad again but the best is yet to come.The line more the things change, more they stay the same is the motto. The last rebel, still kicking ass...mr. John Carpenter proved he still has it.Get a sense of humour if you don't have it or forget about it, see something else. One advice still, instead of making Escape from Earth as rumored, make Escape from Cleveland. That should have been really hellish...American Merit, light'em all.With a bang.You got a problem with that? "},{"Title":"Oh how the mighty have fallen","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What on earth has happened to one of America's greatest suspense directors. How can one go from making the following movies Halloween Escape From New York The Thing Star Man Big Trouble in Little China, to stuff like ----- Village of the Damned ------- and this, possibly his worst movie - Escape from LA.Escape from LA is really just a half-hearted remake of Carpenter's original 1981 effort, but while the original managed to be extremely entertaining, this movie just falls apart at the seems.The film had even less plot than the first movie and you could see the cast really were squirming with each banal line of dialogue. As for the action, it manages to be so stupid in its execution that you could be forgiven for thinking this was a comedy - well, maybe that's what the cast thought???I recommend you miss LA and watch the far superior original (NY). It's hard to believe how far this director has fallen. I really hope Carpenter manages to get out of this streak of bad movies he has made, because we all know he can make great movies...Escape from LA is unfortunately an extremely bad one.2/10. "},{"Title":"More than just a piece of fun entertainment.","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this film. I seem to be a sucker for movies that have a somewhat dark perspective of the future (Planet of the Apes, the Terminator, the City of Lost Children, Dark City, Twelve Monkeys, Escape from New York). With Escape from LA I found it was so easy to just sit back and watch what appears to be just a piece of fun entertainment. But after it was over I was still thinking about some of the deeper issues in it. A particular line I liked was Snake's ironic The land of the free. The association of cigarette smoking to independence (check out the brand name - American Spirit) was I think about the only thing I'd be a bit wary of. I think Snake is good as a symbol of freedom and independence, but hmm... Smoking=freedom? Other than that - a wonderful bit of escapism!  "},{"Title":"With all of this talent, couldn't they do any better?","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was a teenager when Escape From New York came out and I remember from reading SF mags like Starlog how John Carpenter was considering making a sequel, perhaps in L.A....well, 15 years or so later this comes out. I actually got a few people from work to come with me, thinking it might be something worthwhile. What a bloody disappointment! A parody of action films is one thing but out and out stupidity is another. All of the cool, nihilistic elements of the previous film are gone. There isn't any suspense since no one cares about any of the characters. Instead of concentrating on a new, interesting story, Carpenter and Kurt Russell give us a boring retread of the original. This shows contempt for the audience. Did they really think that people would have forgotten the original? "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"20 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I felt that this was a great movie.  Almost everyone in the movie thought that they could just push Snake around and he could do nothing to them, mainly because he was injected with a virus that would kill him in 10 hours unless he got the antidote.  In the end he goes back to the U.S. and gets completely even with them.  I think that if anyone was in the position that he was, they would do the same.  That is why I feel it is a great movie. "},{"Title":"Campy fun","Date":"19 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is really good for simple reasons.  First, it doesn't take itself too seriously and it's approach to spoofing action and b-movies is great.Many people don't realize that this movie is intentionally corny and cheesy.  "}{"Title":"I don't care anymore !","Date":"26 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I will just write simple and direct.This movie is great,I have good feeling for HQ Films and this is one of them. Ratings on IMDb and Rotten are totally unfair and absolutely too low. But good movie lovers know this and thats why so much positive reviews. My realization is that if you want to have quality life full of purpose,happiness and fulfillment it is very much important that you stop listen to others,specially so called top critics,many times I would rather called them top fools he he ) But seriously listen to your own heart and I can guarantee to you that your life will be happy,joyful,meaningful and full of love, but if you let others to guide you,same life will be dead,fearful,dark, dull,colorless... I seriously hate people who write things like dont waste your time on this movie ... I would say this is plain stupid, what is nectar for some will be poison for others and opposite. Of course there are many movie which are really bad, but even when masters like JOhn Carpener made bad movie, this will be still good movie for many. So whole life you have been a sheep guided by others, so you are not in tune with yourself, of course you will made wrong decisions. Learn to trust your instincts and life will be fun, and I guarantee that you will enjoy many movies that either common reviewers or top critics,have rated low ! You will smile cause what was poison for others, was nectar indeed for You ! "},{"Title":"Escape from L.A.","Date":"10 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" So the first film was set in the distant future of 1997. In this sequel a massive earthquake hits LA and practically wipes it out in the distant future of the year 2000. And now in the present day of the year 2013 Snake Plissken is brought back to once again rescue the USA. I just find it amusing how these now old films are out of date with their distant future dates. Also on a personal note it sorta affects the films impact for me, dunno why, I guess it doesn't hold the same futuristic feel obviously.Snake is back! he's still bad, he's all in black and grunts more than ever (did he really need that heavy full length trench coat?! oh wait...it was for the coolness factor wasn't it). Was this specific adventure required? no not really, the plot is exactly the same as the first film, swap a President for a black box. I think the problem here was everyone wanted to see more from Snake and we all knew damn well it had to go down the same route really. I mean sure we could see any kind of action thriller with Snake but it had to have that same kind of lingering dread, the same countdown threat for Snake to feed off. In that sense the film works well and does offer another nice apocalyptic atmosphere.Yet despite Snakes awesomeness we all know how badly this film turned out. I think the main issue was the fact the film simply plods along from one set piece to another like a video game, accept the plot in between is very thin. It also comes across very obviously that Carpenter wanted to include as many extreme sports/situations for Snake as possible with no real reason for them, just to boost the coolness levels. We see Snake surfing on a tidal wave!, hang gliding whilst using a sub machine gun, riding a motorbike (although admittedly that was uber cool), playing basketball like a pro etc...Like many sequels/reboots/remakes Carpenter makes the classic mistake of going totally totally overboard with everything when he didn't need to. The first film didn't have all these extravagant set pieces, it was just Snake being the epitome of a badass in that epic Clint Eastwood/man with no name kind of way.From the very beginning the film just follows the first film too closely. Plus the initial narration makes little sense, the President seems to know about the pending quake yet no one else does? no one does anything? It conveniently leaves LA as an island...like the President said it would? wut? how did he know?? Why didn't they just create their own area for the unwanted instead of waiting for a quake which may or may not do what they were waiting for?...or so it seemed.The other main poke in the eye was the absolutely horrific CGI and bluescreen work all the way through the film. I saw the film when it was first released in the cinema and I do recall thinking even back then it looked a bit hokey, of course at the time it was fine but looking back now its dreadful! The sequences of CGI look amateurish at best, the underwater sub sequence is bordering on the kind of B- movie trashy CGI you'd expect from The Asylum...if not worse. Lets not talk about that hideous Universal Studios homage with the 'Jaws' appearance. Coupled with that you then have some awful bluescreen work throughout which just sticks out like a big red sore thumb. The casting in the film is good, again don't get me wrong not everything was bad, but it just wasn't utilised correctly. Did we need government men being all gruff like Van Cleef from the first film? Bruce Campbell and his plastic surgery nightmares were a good touch but all too brief and again highly campy, Pam Grier is in the dictionary under cult movie star but her role here is just plain lame and not fully realised, Fonda's character is pointless and the main bad guy Cuervo was like an old campy Bond villain...plus he has been clearly modelled after Guevara. It really is such a shame as everyone wanted more Plissken badassery and this film was like a bit of an insult really. There are some nice touches dotted around don't get me wrong, Snake on the bike was cool, seeing an old Snake was cool, the brief showdown with Bangkok rules was nice errr...I'm struggling. Carpenter pretty much rehashed everything from the first film but made it more campy, the grittiness was gone and replaced with lame characters from a panto. Name of the game...campy.Its a strange mix really, a blend of top ice cool imagery and quips alongside watered down camp hijinx, with a small small smattering of blood. The film seems to be almost parodying the genre yet at the same time going along with it and trying to be semi serious. Myself I do like it to a degree mainly because of Snake but I just wish there was another chance to make up for this damp entry. The film does end with a good setup for 'Escape the Earth' or maybe how about some Snake Chronicles? we need to see Snake once more before its too late (and no new casting with reboots thank you very much).5/10 "},{"Title":"Not good enough to be a cult classic...","Date":"12 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'Escape from New York' is a cult classic but a sequel doesn't come any close. Kurt Russell is washed up in here, never was a fan of his acting but could always appreciate him if he did a good performance. Here - he didn't. I mean he's still Kurt but his acting here could have been a lot better. There are nice supporting parts by Steve Buscemi, Stacy Keach and Cliff Robertson but nothing to be crazy about. Whole film is rather fast paced and we do have a lot of special effects on a good level which is always nice to see in a blockbuster movie. Music score by John Carpenter is probably the best thing in entire movie - It's tense as it should be which is great. I liked the satire on politics and society and there is nothing really bad about 'Escape from LA' but It's just not near that raw, brutal and tense as the original was. I found the movie to be OK at best. Russell couldn't keep me interested enough. Maybe one day I will give it a chance again but for now, I don't feel like I need to own it in my collection. "},{"Title":"Acceptable, But It Could've Been Better in Some Ways","Date":"16 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Escape from L.A is an old school (i mean that 80's school) action flick, reuniting Carpenter and Russell on his personal favorite role as SNAKE PLISSKEN, and what's good about this sequel is that it stays true to the first's (Escape From N.Y) formula, thanks to master Carpenter's dark vision. These one doesn't have those cool characters from the first movie, the ones like Cabbie (Borgnine), Brain (Stanton) and Hauk (L. Van Cleef), but has some OK ones like Eddie(Buscemi) and Pipeline (Fonda), and these is one of the two issues that i have with the movie, it could've had some more funny characters... and the other thing that i wasn't pleased with and that stays as a weakness of the sequel is the special effects, which by all means in some scenes made the movie look like a B category movie. My favorite part, by all means, was the end which was almost in the same level with the first one... - And the best thing that could happen from these action-saga is a sequel, with the old Snake being sent somewhere for a final mission, with someone new on the director's chair (Carpenter is kind of too old to return) that would follow Carpenter's dark vision. "},{"Title":"Welcome Back, Snake!","Date":"3 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Two years after Oliver Stone's Natural Born Killers courted worldwide controversy for its black-humored lampooning of the American obsession with wholesale murder, and 3 years before David Fincher's Fight Club both disgusted and amazed audiences with one man's disenfranchisement distilled into bruises and broken bones, John Carpenter unleashed one of his most audacious (and best) films upon unsuspecting box office patrons--Escape from L.A., a wildly irreverent sequel to 1981's genre-defining Esacpe from New York (and every bit as subversive as the aforementioned films). From Assault on Precinct 13 through Ghosts of Mars, Carpenter has always made his contempt for authority (or the blurry lines between authority and criminality) known, and Snake Plissken (Kurt Russell) has become the ultimate icon for such a mentality a man of few emotions who is seemingly out for himself, weathered by a hardened apathy, but who derives an understated delight in sticking it to The Man. The setup and progression of L.A. tweaks New York in delicious ways, transforming the titular island (shook loose by a massive earthquake) into a haven for heathens no longer permitted in a morally purified America; in an extreme fit of youthful rebellion, the President's (Cliff Robertson) daughter Utopia (A.J. Langer) hijacks Air Force 3 and has in her possession a device that could throw the world back into the dark ages with the push of a button. The reluctant Snake is called in to find the device and kill the daughter, or else a slow-moving virus will kill him (sound familiar?). Of course, part of the fun of Carpenter's post-post-apocalyptic adventure is watching the side-trips that Plissken makes on the way to karmic redemption a game of basketball with deadly consequences; a hospital populated by plastic-surgery disasters; surfing with burned-out hippie Pipeline (Peter Fonda, in a great cameo) down Wilshire Boulevard; and an aerial assault on a theme park converted to a rebellious rendezvous point, among others. The cast is populated by game character actors like Stacy Keach, Fonda, Robertson, Steve Buscemi, Bruce Campbell, and Pam Grier (as a transsexual who once ran with Snake), who play the material with the right amount of straightness and tongue-in-cheek satire (the film never dives into the ridiculous silliness of a Michael Bay-styled action flick). And while the film contains a few fleeting instances of bad early CGI, one must admire Carpenter's adherence to practical effects and stunt work; there are some matte paintings that brilliantly portray an epically burned-out Los Angeles. Bottom line Escape from L.A. is a more-than-worthy follow-up to Escape from New York,--intelligent, bitingly satirical, and action-packed. "},{"Title":"Not quite the train wreck I originally thought.","Date":"8 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I knew this movie was in trouble when I watched Kurt Russell appear on a talk show months before it opened. The host asked him why he was growing his hair out. Kurt smiled at the audience and said getting ready to play Snake! He was expecting cheers and applause. He was met with the air conditioning clicking on. Then the week it opened, he was promoting EFLA on Jay Leno. They went to the surfing scene, and Kurt looked like an uncomfortable salesman demonstrating a product he knows nobody wants. When the scene was over, the audience reacted with polite, strained applause.Not that this really bothered me. Escape from New York was one of those movies that I loved and most people hadn't heard of. I liked it that way. I did, however, want to see the sequel succeed and maybe launch a franchise.Didn't happen.A movie I had been waiting for most of my childhood/teenage years finally arrived and landed like a big, wet turd on the sidewalk. Critics hated it, nobody went to see it, and I couldn't blame them one bit. I wanted to like the movie. i really did. But I couldn't. I found the effects awful, the acting lame, the action scenes totally lifeless (not to mention ridiculous and stupid), and the whole movie a flatly shot, lazy retread of the first . I left the theater seething and hating John Carpenter.I still can't say that I like the movie. I still think all the things above. But I have come to appreciate some other aspects of EFLA. The current state of politics probably has a lot to do with it. I've always loved John Carpenter's movies, but is the guy psychic too? Islam illegal, all moral undesirables outlawed, etc...Patriot Act in ten more years? A religious nut for a president...Robertson even looks like Bush. A Police controlled population...we're on our way. As I watched this again (I finally forked over $5 for the DVD - the only Carpenter film I didn't own) I began to see some of the brilliance in this movie. I'll bet the screenplay read a lot better than this movie was executed.I still don't get the cheesiness of it - the original was serious as a heart attack and so much more subtle. This is a clunky, over the top satire that to me sits uncomfortably next to EFNY.I do love that ending though. American Spirit baby. "},{"Title":"Snake returns","Date":"3 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I really enjoyed John Carpenter's Escape from New York so when I saw the sequel Esacpe From LA I bought it, Kurt Russel returns as Snake bringing more of a bad attitude in a even more hostel prison island that was once LA. The film sees Snake going into LA to assassinate the Presidants daughter who has gone to LA with a powerful device that can shut down any part of the Planets power source, Snake must also retrieve the weapon to the President since they injecting him with a virus similar to the charges injected into his neck in the first film.Snake encounters a couple of people along the way, some friendly and some not like the Surgeon General of Beverly Hills (Played by Bruce Campbell) and Map to the Stars Eddie (Played by Steve Buscemi). Escape From LA is a great sequel to a classic that shouldn't be missed. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Carpenter drops the ball again","Date":"14 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember once seeing John Captenter on British television in 1979 on a program about cult sci-fi movies (he did Dark Star as a college project). When asked about Close Encounters of the third kind he told the interviewer that he thought the director (Spelberg) had lost control of the movie part way through, and I agree with him 100% on that. Interestingly, during the interview, he was sitting outside of the old house in Haddonfield(sp?) since he was midway filming Halloween.The problem for me is that with the exceptions of his first few movies (Halloween, Assault on Precinct 13, Escape from New York and The Fog), his movies give me the appearance of lost control, from someone who started out with close to perfect filmic vision and directorial control. What went wrong? I watched Escape from LA the first night it came out in Mid-town Manhattan, and there were boos from the audience, not at the villains, but at the movie. Parts of the movie are very good - the action scenes (I'm assuming not a second unit production) are really well directed, but rehashing the plot of Escape from LA was a bad mistake. But it was good to see people lining up around the block waiting to get into see a Carpenter movie, even if briefly. "},{"Title":"S10 Reviews Escape from L.A. (1996)","Date":"14 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Kurt Russell partners up again with John Carpenter to bring back to the screen one of my favorite film antiheroes&#133;Snake Plissken. He's half John Wayne and half Man with No Name but pure Snake. Sixteen years after his infamous and daring rescue of the then president from the penal island of New York Plissken is once again suckered into service for his country with the promise of a nasty viral death. The new president (Cliff Robertson) has some domestic issues he would like Snake to help out with, namely retrieving a suitcase containing the controls to the most dangerous weapon conceived. The weapon was stolen by his daughter and delivered to a terrorist who has set up shop on the penal island of L.A. Snake must retrieve the weapon and tie up the president's loose ends before the US gets invaded.I'm very fond of J.C.'s Escape from New York and was very excited to learn of a sequel being released. Sadly Escape from L.A. didn't live up to my expectations. The script is so unabashedly hokey it becomes laughable. Outlandish set-pieces follow at regular intervals trying to outdo the previous ones and only succeed in making the viewer role their eyes. Long gone is the low-tech down-and-dirty original and out came the big budget action bonanza with some of the worst CGI scenes of the modern age (some would have looked cool in The Last Starfighter). What we basically are given is a remake with very little of the original's charm. Russell's Snake still has his venom but some of the dialogue he is forced to spit out pretty crazy. One of the few highlights of the film are the wide array of actors that pop up (Bruce Campbell , Pam Grier , Stacy Keach , Peter Fonda and Steve Buscemi to name a few) who pop up at regular intervals. The music score is also an updating of sorts but this time you get the prerequisite metal and rock soundtrack for commercial purposes. It is safe to say I was very disappointed with the end result. I do like L.A. in a bad movie gone horribly wrong fashion but it really could have been a lot better. "},{"Title":"Escapism from L.A.","Date":"21 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think thats what a lot of viewers reports of this film have failed to recognise. It's pure escapism. Based around LA, how could it not be? The movie is a send up of the original Escape from New York, and played much more for laughs than the original.Personally, I like both movies and the sequel works for me becasue it offers a change of mood from the darker original. The original was an unknown quantity. Here, in EfLA, you know Plissken is not going to get killed right from the start. It's a foregone conclusion and you are left to enjoy the process of him getting from one point to another.Along that journey we get the likes of Steve Buscemi (and any film with him in is never going to be that serious) and even Bruce Campbell makes a brief appearance as The Surgeon General of Beverley Hills.It's campy and hokey, but great fun nonetheless. I've probably seen it more times than the original now, yet every time it comes on I find myself watching it again, even though I know it backwards by now.Carpenter's portrayal of a future American president as a bumbling, religious nutcase is also highly amusing, as is the society he presents where everything fun is banned. It's interesting to see (as a non-American) how more apt this description is becoming as the years go by.The ending of the movie, for me, is one of the most fitting to come out of Hollywood for a long time and really plays up to Plissken's anti-hero image. It's nice to see a hero who is likeable, yet still dark and menacing at the same time, which probably explains why I like such films as the Dirty Harry movies and Pitch Black.If you like the strong, silent hero type of movies, then this one will be right up your street, providing you don't mind the campiness of it all. "}{"Title":"Good But Not Better Than The First One","Date":"28 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I First saw Escape from New York I thought Snake Plisken was a great character and Kurt Russell gave a great performance. Then when I saw Escape from LA I thought to myself good but as good as the first one. I found it shorter than Escape from New York but it had a lot of action which made the film good but the ending was dull.   "},{"Title":"Horrendous campy remake","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*Snaaaaake Plissken. You'll wish you were dead. Once again, Plissken gets his arm twisted by the government to do some dirty work. Instead of escaping from New York, this time he has to escape from LA. It's completely different! Snake gets thrown into LA and goes through the escaping motions in this terrible remake of the great Escape from New York.First, let me say something positive. Two words Snake Plissken. Kurt Russell is the only good thing about this movie. He's up for it. Russell still looks cool in his all black leather outfit.Unfortunately, the rest of Escape from LA is a goose egg. The overriding problem is that this movie is so deliberately campy that it turns Plissken, (one of the coolest of all movie heroes), into a toothless cartoon character.There's one scene in the middle that knocks you over the head with its deliberate terribleness Plissken surfs a giant wave through the city and lands in a guy's car. Egad. Awful.  Everything copied from Escape from New York was watered down to flat beer level. Instead of a fight with spiked baseball bats, we get a basketball game.  My God, this movie was a disaster.Carpenter has given us so much joy over the years but this was terrible. Plissken was ready for a serious action movie but he had to settle for a campy remake. This was the nail in the coffin, head and heart of the franchise.  "},{"Title":"Pretty good movie with interesting social commentary","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"     I saw this movie the day after it opened with my nephew. I remember leaving the theater and having a local TV news crew interview us about the movie. I said, It was a bad movie with a stupid plot. My nephew said the same thing. I noticed that as the TV news crew interviewed a couple that was sitting next to us during the movie. They apparently loved it and thought it was the greatest thing since sliced bread. I wondered to myself  What movie did they just see? I went home and tried to forget about the whole bad experience and the 5 bucks I just wasted.  This was a big disappointment because I liked John Carpenter's Escape From New York and had waited for a sequel That was four years ago.    I recently saw a tape of Escape from LA. (Please do not ask me why I sat through it a second time.) This time around I found myself enjoying John Carpenter's social commentary in this movie. The way conservatives have taken over by something akin to the Moral Majority.  This Moral Majority government exported all people of other religions. They made people who smoked and ate red meat leave America. They deported everyone who fornicated. Basically they deported everyone who wanted to have fun!   I finally see what Carpenter was doing. The first time around I took the movie to seriously when it wasn't to be taken seriously at all. As I watched it again I found myself laughing at the pure arrogance of Snake Pliskin. The scene in which he destroys the mini-sub because he wanted to push it to the limit. Then he gets caught like a big dummy. Another funny scene is when he turns the weapon on two of his captors knowing he can get away with murder because they need him. This guy Pliskin is pretty mean and dumb. He just adds to the absurdity of this film. I now number this movie among my guilty pleasures.    Oh yea the scene where he surfs on a Tsunami down the street with Henry Fonda as a middle-aged surfer is way over the top. I kind of liked it.Rayvyn "},{"Title":"Carpenter's Worst","Date":"29 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What happened to one of my favorite directors; John Carpenter? He used to make moody, atmospheric flicks that I could watch over and over again, many of which rank as my all time favorites. Now he seems determined to drain every ounce of credibility from his name by churning out lifeless, disjointed, seemingly intentionally awful films.Escape from LA is far and away his worst. I love the original and was thrilled when they announced a sequel. Once I saw it, I sat in amazement at how bad it was. Cheesy effects, stupid music, cornball over-acting, and a storyline that simply rehashes the original but is nowhere near as effective. Some say it was done on purpose. OK...why? The first film is a serious, suspensful film with underlying statements about our future. Why make a sequel that spoofs films like it? Escape from LA plays to the original like Airplane plays to Airport. I would think the Zucker brothers made it if I didn't know better.Was Carpenter being a rebel and made a terrible film on purpose to waste Universal's money? He hates big studio politics, and they gave him 5 million to direct, so I guess he took the money and ran. To bad he had to ruin a good potential franchise in the process. Hopefully, John Carpenter will decide to put his considerable skill to good use and make an entertaining, thought provoking film for the first time since They Live. When Vampires is your best work of the decade, you know something's wrong.  "},{"Title":"Big Mistake","Date":"11 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Escape from L.A. was one big, stupid mistake. It absolutely amazes me that Carpenter directed and helped to write both movies, because watching L.A. makes me think The people who made this didn't understand Escape from New York at all!. I guess Carpenter looked back on the first movie, smiled at it's popularity and somehow convinced himself that it was a silly movie that people liked because it was sci-fi, action and because of the Snake character. He was wrong. Concentrating on action and sci-fi wasn't wrong, but he concentrated WAY too much on the silly, and in fact made Escape from L.A. an action/sci-fi/COMEDY. What a joke. "},{"Title":"Snake Plissken at it's best","Date":"10 January 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Greetings from Lithuania.Escape from L.A. (1996) is an ultimate flick with one of the screen bad asses - Snake Plissken himself. This is a great action / sci-fi flick that features a lot of action, very cool settings and a simple yet entertaining plot. Kurt Russel once again star in a underrated but iconic role of the 80's hero, or in this case maybe antihero, as Snake Plissken never was a save the universe type of a guy, he as well as John Macklane were dudes that always were in the middle of events that they didn't want it to be. There are cool special effects, great cameos, cartoonish but cool for the flick characters and so on.Overall, Escape from L.A. is a very cool and unfortunately underrated gem from 90's. It features everything that pure escapism picture could have. Do your self a favor and check this picture - 2 hours of pure escapism is a guaranty. "},{"Title":"Who You Gonna Call-------Snake Plissken","Date":"2 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Kurt Russell revives his Snake Plissken character from Escape To New York where several years later Los Angeles is now also a place for all the exiles to go. Except now there is a much wider definition of just what is an outlaw.If you thought things were bad then, a certain rightwing preacher played by Cliff Robertson who managed to get himself a certain amount of credibility by predicting the big one finally hitting the west coast and Los Angeles becoming an island. He rode that to the White House where a constitutional amendment has made him president for life. And to further drive home the point of who we're talking about, the capital of the nation is moved from Washington, DC to Lynchburg, Virginia.So under our new president we've got all kinds of biblically based laws and those who deviate from them can accept exile in La with all kinds of real criminals as well. And there is no Escape From LA.But even the best preachers have some troublesome kids and he's got a beauty in daughter A.J. Langer. She's stolen the black box which contains the codes to some advanced satellite weaponry and she's defected to Los Angeles where Che Guevara type leader Georges Corraface is now reported who will turn the weaponry on the USA and lead all these third world countries on an invasion. After all you can't imagine with this kind of country we've got too many allies left in the world. You can't even imagine Laura or Jenna Bush doing this to dear old dad.Based on his track record of rescuing one president from New York, of course Cliff Robertson sends for Kurt Russell for this job. He's even got another Lee Van Cleef type soldier as Russell's handler in the person of Stacy Keach who has the equally ruthless Michelle Forbes working for him as well.That by the way is the biggest problem of Escape From LA. Escape From New York was imaginative for its time in 1981, but I think director John Carpenter should have put Kurt Russell in some new situations. He took so much from the first film and just reworked it for Escape From LA.He did give Kurt Russell a new outfit, one I think more to fit in with what would be considered a socially deviant crowd in Los Angeles. Russell looks like a leatherman's dream in what he's wearing.For what it's worth Escape From LA is kind of fun, but it does suffer horribly from a lack of imagination. On the other hand you've got some fine players really hamming up there parts like Steve Buscemi as the talent agent gone bad, Bruce Campbell as the surgeon to the stars, and Peter Fonda as an old surfer dude. They're the best reason to see Escape From LA. "},{"Title":"Why, John, why?","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Will somebody please tell me what John Carpenter was thinking when he made this piece of junk? I love Escape from NY, and looked forward to a sequel. I was stunned at how bad this film was when I saw it in the theater, and it still boggles my mind. Snake Plissken surfing down Santa Monica boulevard in front of a bad green screen? Cheesy animated helicopters that look like something out of a video game? A script that rehashed every plot point of the first film? Carpenter totally trashed anything he accomplished with EFNY by making this film, not to mention his already failing reputation.Some people think that JC did made this film bad on purpose. I think they're giving him too much credit. First of all the films budget was 50 million dollars. That should have been fine, but 17 million went to Russel, JC and producer debra Hill. Now you've got a 33 million dollar movie, which is average for Hollywood. I think Carpenter got caught short on effects money and did the best he could with what was left. I can't see any reason why he would want to ruin the memory of the first film by making this a campy spoof on it. Money issues or not, the surfing scene is the worst one ever put to celluloid.Well, I've vented enough. If you can't tell that I hate this movie...I hate this movie. The only good thing about it is that it makes Vampires and Ghosts of Mars seem like classics by comparison.   "},{"Title":"Poor attempt at a sequel of a cult classic.","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is an awful cheap shot at creating a sequel to a cult classic by filming exactly the same sequences, with an almost identical script and adding a special effects set piece, which is so badly done it looks like it was created before the original. The main characters are all there, just some different actors and slightly different mannerisms. There is an amusing dig at people addicted to plastic surgery, a gang who suffer from serious sagging flesh. Unfortunately the same thing was happening to this script!The first film was written with some seriousness and a low budget, the humour and the over the top acting and plot came out a bit more subtely than the sequel. If you've read this far you'll realise that this film is not great, it's a parody of itself and a poor, poor copy of the original. Miss it, and miss a big bucket of cheese. "},{"Title":"Some Snakes Never Change&#133;","Date":"26 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Call me a hopeless optimist, if you must, but I'm strongly convinced John Carpenter and C° never had the intention of making a sequel that would be equally overwhelming and morbidly unsettling as the original Escape from NY was 15 years earlier. The producing parties presumably wanted the belated sequel to pass as some sort of identical remake to attract audiences from a younger generation, but I believe John Carpenter, Kurt Russell and all the other cast members simply considered it a good opportunity to elaborate further on the apocalyptic themes, the political satire and the eccentric anti-hero character of Snake Plissken. Escape from LA is an enormously trashy and entertaining sequel with an all-star cast that clearly enjoyed themselves, and a screenplay that is stuffed with ludicrously over-the-top action stunts. The plot is, as said, extremely similar to the one of Escape from New York. In the not so distant future, the new President turned America into a prudish nation with enormous restrictions and very stern legislations. LA became an island since a very heavy earthquake and now serves as a prison colony for criminals and moral sinners from all over the USA. But when the President's rebellious daughter Utopia threatens to hand over her father's biggest secret &#150; a doomsday device &#150; to the self-declared leader of LA, the authorities call upon Snake Plissken to go to LA and recover the device. Injected with a lethal virus and armed with only his legendary reputation, Snake infiltrates into the desolate wasteland of LA and encounters a whole army of unreliable and double-crossing weirdos. This is a pretty cool flick as long as you interpret it as a light-headed spoof and intentionally OTT action movie. Carpenter and co-writer Kurt Russell are at their best when mocking typically American &#150; and then preferably Californian &#150; phenomena, like plastic surgery, crazy surfing and celebrity-spotting. The absolute coolest sequence involves a totally unrecognizable Bruce Campbell as a deranged surgeon who continuously has to renew his and his patients' skin in order to stay alive. These are, in fact, also the only truly new and inventive sequences in Escape from LA as all the other footage &#150; although a lot of fun &#150; are merely recycled ideas of the original. There's the cowardly president (Cliff Robertson replaces Donald Pleasance), Snake's sport match to life or death (basketball instead of boxing), the unlikely alliances, the government agent with a secret admiration for Snake (Stacy Keach replaces Lee Van Cleef), the running jokes about Snake's personality and so on. The soundtrack is awesome and the (deliberately?) dated special visual provide the film with a charmingly cheese 80's atmosphere. "}{"Title":"Horrible Followup To Escape From New York","Date":"30 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Escape From L. A. is a very bad sequel to the cult classic Escape From New York (1981). It has way too much humor in it for a story that was dark. I mean i like Steve Buscemi, he's kinda funny, but what was the point with him being in the movie? I also didn't like how they turned Kurt Russell's character of Snake Plissken into a character that says one liners, i mean we already have enough of those! They tried to turn Snake Plissken into a character that he shouldn't be. And the whole Cleavland references are just plain stupid. I hate this movie a lot because too much humor can kill a movie and that's what it did here. I mean the original was very good, but this one sucks! No wonder this god-awful piece of crap didn't do well at the box office! I mean John Carpenter? Come on, you can make better movies than this! (Halloween,Escape From New York,The Fog,etc) "},{"Title":"Trashy and weak but strangely enjoyable","Date":"13 November 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In the near future, America has become a moral state where `undesirables' are exiled to Los Angeles (which has become an island due to earthquakes).  However, the President's daughter has joined rebels on the island and has fled there with a device that controls a weapon orbiting the earth.  With the original strike team killed, the military capture Snake Plissken.  Injecting him with a time limited poison, they send him to LA to recover the device and return it to the US. Like Snake would say `same sh*t, different day'.Joining the list of `why?' sequels, Escape from LA is a belated follow up to Escape From New York.  Apart from trying to kick-start the stuttering and stalling career of John Carpenter, the reasons for making this film are not too clear.  The plot is a straight lift from the original film with a few details changed.  The film is quite basic and episodic with jokes and scenes that are partly designed as part of the plot but mostly aimed at having digs at LA and providing cameos.The problem is that a great deal of this doesn't really work.  Some of the gags are just too obvious (Snake's capture by plastic surgeons) and many of the cameos are pretty lame.  The fact that the scenes are used for comic swipes at LA mean that they aren't designed just to move the film along and, as such, occasionally slow it down and make it all feel very bitty and muddled.What is good about the film is that it is pretty self aware and also seems to play to it's trashy side very well.  The script has a nice running gag about Snake seeming smaller than people expect while the whole style of the film plays like a sci-fi spaghetti western.  It was this aspect that helped me enjoy the film more as the trashy western side of it worked well.  However, the script is poor and most action is just plain silly &#150; I could just about buy Snake making a full court shot in basketball, but the surfing alongside the exact person he was looking for etc all makes it feel a little insulting to my intelligence.Russell sends his character up pretty well, giving his best Clint Eastwood impression throughout.  However the film becomes weak once you look past him in the lead.  Cameos from Buscemi, Grier, Fonda and Keach are all pretty rubbish (Grier especially should be embarrassed) and help to add to the trashy feel to the film (that's not a good thing).  Carpenter does a good job as director in some regards but rubbish in others.  I liked all his spaghetti western touches but much of the action is just plain rubbish.  It doesn't help that the effect shots are nearly all very cheap back shots &#150; I know this was a few years ago and things have moved on, but even for the period the effects are really poor.Overall, this film is poorly structured, poorly presented and trashy from start to finish.  However the self mocking nature of the film and the fact that it wears it's trashiness on it's sleeve as a western homage, makes it slightly enjoyable trash.  A poor sequel but one that is watchable if you're in an undemanding mood. "},{"Title":"Plissken is back!....Unfortunately","Date":"19 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While Escape from NY was not a fine example of cinematic artistry, I can certainly appreciate its place in cult film history.  Having said that however, that should not automatically give license for a sequel to be made.  A friend of mine had mentioned that he had seen this film and that it was so outrageously bad that I had to see it.  Not one to turn down outrageously bad films (unless they feature the likes of Meg Ryan or J. Lo) I was still leery of watching it.  The result?  An unholy need to cleanse my retinas via blowtorch.  What made this a bad film?  Oh, let me count the ways  Let's see, there was Kurt Russell, having brushed the mothballs off of his Snake Plissken costume, who gave a great performance in the vein of his roles as Captain Ron and &#145;Gabe' Cash.  I absolutely could not get enough of his mumbled lines, his catch phrase of `You got a smoke' and his general joie de vivre.  There was Pam Grier, playing an Amazonian woman who inexplicably has a voice lower than the joker who sings for Crash Test Dummies.  Rounding out our featured relics from the 70's was Peter Fonda who played the wafer thin surf dude. And speaking of surfing, let's not forget the not-so-special effects that included the shockingly bad surfing scene in which we see Fonda and Russell badly outlined against a blue screen, surfing a wave along an L.A. highway.  This film was released in 1996, the same year as Fargo, Big Night and Trainspotting.  It is both absurd and abjectly sorrowful that someone would have actually walked up to a multiplex box office, possibly looked at these posters on the wall and still said, `Here's my 6.50 for Escape from L.A.'  I am beyond even imagining that this film was meant to be campy.  This film is so beyond reproach that it's very existence is an insult to anyone who has ever attempted to make a film, anyone who is a student or lover of film or anyone who has even seen a film.  *Any* film. I've seen the work of Jon Waters.  I've seen the films of Ed Wood.  Pink Flamingos and Bride of the Monster are like Citizen Kane and Taxi Driver compared to this tripe.  I wouldn't even suggest this movie be watched on a bet.  In fact, I am so disgusted with myself for spending this much time and effort on this review that I have an uncontrollable desire to either shower so I can towel off the memories or gouge my eyes out in a fit of ancient Grecian angst.  My suggestion to the developers of the sequel to The Ring?  Feature this movie as the next `death tape.'  At least that way we as an audience will understand why these saps are dying.  --Shelly  "},{"Title":"Huh? (*SPOILERS ahead*)","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  *SPOILERS ahead*Jesus! How can anybody like this film? From the scene in the submarine (where Snake refuses to use his brains and simply overloads the system) to the ending (where he has only a few seconds left, but he sends a hologram to receive the antidote??? -> at that time he didn't know the virus wasn't deadly), and everything in between (Snake just walking down the streets and not being shot like he would've been if this were reality, and the irritating Steve Buscemi character), everything sucks.Some choose to call it camp, but I just call it uninspired. Even the special effects were crappy (the wave in the much spoken of surf scene was as unrealistic as I ever have seen).It has been a while since I've seen Escape from NY, but as far as I can remember, at least *that* film was entertaining. The sequel couldn't entertain me for one second.I gave it a 1/10 (more than it deserves) "},{"Title":"John Carpenter's Embarrassment","Date":"27 May 2008","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of the dumbest movies I have seen in a long time. And I mean that; the stupid is just OVERFLOWING out of this film. I watched it immediately after watching Escape from New York, and be sure, this monstrosity of a sequel does no justice whatsoever to the first film.Let me do a recap of just SOME of the stupid for you - The terrorist in this film is the PRESIDENT'S DAUGHTER and she joins forces with a bad Che Guevara knockoff.- In one of the opening scenes of the film Plisskin inexplicably tries to blow away two of the people sending him on his mission, despite the fact that he NEEDS THEM in order to carry out his mission. His gun makes a lot of noise but doesn't harm them, at which point the two people tell him, We thought you'd do that. That's why we filled your first magazine with blanks. GENIUS! They totally KNEW that Plisskin would randomly try to kill them for no reason whatsoever.-Shortly after this scene, Plisskin embarks upon his journey to Los Angeles by way of a jet-powered submarine that can SOMEHOW GENERATE THRUST UNDERWATER (as if it were a a fighter jet) DESPITE THAT THIS VIOLATES BASIC LAWS OF PHYSICS. While underwater, he puts the thruster into 100% overdrive, ignoring his commanding officers (the ones he randomly tried to kill earlier) who advise him that he shouldn't do so. What follow are shots of Kurt Russell in his submarine careening through one of the most laughably bad CGI sequences ever put to film. The highlight of this sequence is that, as Kurt Russell is underwater, he passes the wreckage of Universal Studios sign, and a giant shark comes out of nowhere and tries to eat the submarine, but misses it completely. The shark is completely unconvincing and wreaks of not only a poor special effects budget, but also a poor effort on the part of the effects team all around.-A scene in which Kurt Russell surfs a giant tidal wave in a sewer while AT THE SAME TIME Steve Buscemi is cruising alongside him in a hot ride. (I can't make this stuff up) -And finally, in order to save his life, Plisskin must earn 10 points in a basketball court. Plisskin DOES accomplish this heroic feat (we are literally shown Russell running up to the goal to make lay-ups) and yet the bad guy (the Che Guevara knockoff) STILL decides to shoot him, but remarkably, Plisskin just hops over the fence and escapes unscathed. (Also of note in this scene. We first see a guy who doesn't get 10 points, and so he is shot. The way this is done is so brainless... basically there are tons of set up right outside the fence, lining the basketball court. So picture the basketball court as a rectangle, and there are guys EVERYWHERE, on all sides of the rectangle, tons of them. Well, when they are ordered to kill the guy, EVERY ONE OF THEM fires blindly at the guy in the center of the court. If this movie had an ounce of intelligence, most of the bad guys would be dead from shooting each other!) -Toward the end of the film, Plisskin hangglides (along with Buscemi and the president's daughter) into a warzone, mowing guys down with a submachine gun, all the while remaining completely unscathed.Now rest assured -- if you consider yourself a connoisseur of the stupid, there is PLENTY more of it in this film. What I offered are simply SOME of the highlights. And no, none of this is intended as camp. I have SEEN camp, and this is not it. This is ATROCIOUS and indecisive writing that tries to do a lot of things and FAILS at everything. As if the barrage of stupid weren't enough, the plot is also incoherent and unclear.What really kills this movie for me is the wasted opportunity it is. Escape From New York was at its core an enjoyable movie that took liberties with reality but ultimately followed it more than it deviated. In EFNY, Plisskin was just a badass war veteran taking people out with his silenced TMP submachine gun. In EFLA, Plisskin is some kind of borderline comic book super hero with a trench-coat and placticized toy-looking guns that have no place in reality. Really, NONE of this movie has any place in reality, which made my suspension of disbelief IMPOSSIBLE. The events of EFNY were a little out there, sure, but not to the extent that I couldn't suspend belief and enjoy things.EFLA is dumb trash, plain and simple. I don't even recommend this movie to hardcore EFNY fans as you have already seen this movie -- the GOOD version. "},{"Title":"A Cartoon Parody of All Things American&#x85;A Misunderstood Movie","Date":"31 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" After the initial shock that was experienced by Fans of the Cult Classic Escape from N.Y. (1981) wore off and it was understood that this was NOT done in the same serious Sci-Fi-Noir tone, but was an all-out, fully-throated, over-the-top Parody of all things American, the howling and the hooting calmed down and more respect for the Director's vision won out.The Film has not gained or even come near the Cult Status of the original, it's just not as hated anymore and viewed with the intent it was made. A violent Black Comedy on Pop-Culture, Politics, Religion, Religion in Politics, and so on.Kurt Russell returns in the call me Snake Plissken Role and was the driving force behind John Carpenter to get it made and have much fun doing it. So the Director utilized its fairly big budget to stretch the limits of SFX at the time. Stretch them to the point of absurdity. The many matte shots and other tricks were so strained they looked phony and corny and that's exactly what Carpenter was looking for.That's part of the laugh, part of the Satire, and part of the fun. There are overblown Characters, like in the Original, Map to the Stars Eddie (Steve Buscemi), The literally Bible Thumping President of the United States who moved the Capital to Lynchburg, Va. (home of Jerry Falwell), Hershe (Pam Grier), Pipeline (Peter Fonda), The Surgeon General of Beverly Hills (Bruce Campbell), Cuervo Jones (Georges Corraface), and Stacy Keach as the Military Leader.Overall, You have to be in on the Joke to enjoy this for what it is. Taken seriously it fails mightily on every level, but as an Adult Cartoon it works great. "},{"Title":"Worth It To See Snake Again","Date":"17 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Spoilers AheadFirst, of course it is not the original not even close. Yet, for all of its flaws the great Snake character is back, the AntiHero that Riddick was based upon. The scene I love the best has no explosions in it, where he says about freedom,That died a long time ago. Also, how about when he asks if either of them has the antidote, when Keach says no, he machine guns both of them; lucky for them they gave him a clip of blanks. This is what the attacks on this lesser sequel miss; look, the story was never the attraction Russell's Snake Plisskin is why we love these movies. Find me another character who just doesn't give a giant crap for the broken political system with its zombie fascists? Yes, Peter Fonda cannot act and stinks it up here but at least he has a bit part. I like the whole shut down the world EMP idea; I thought it was a clever and plausible piece of writing. This movie is such an easy review do you really like Snake Plisskin? Yes, then buy this movie. The weakest part is the weepy, religious nut-bar president played by Cliff Robertson. It does just remake the original but the EMP plot lets us see Snake do what he wanted to do so badly in the original shut down the BS. My favorite scene in the original is where the president plays that tape and American Bandstand comes on. Snake is last seen pulling the real Hartford Summit tape out and ripping it up. That is Snake Plisskin.The movie moves well with plenty of dark humor I thought Corraface and especially Buscemi did very well. This is much less dark, until the ending, with 'Bangkok Rules' quick draw, the surgeon general of Beverly Hills and the basketball game from hell. When it was released people ran to pour crap on top of it he looks too old, it is just a remake; look, the dialog is well written. Snake oozes contempt for everything and everyone. Russell has always been one of the best actors of the 20th Century; he started in those dreadful Disney movies in the seventies when he was just a kid. Before you watch this, do not expect the original's nihilistic dark, deadly serious tone. Carpenter is purposely lessening the bleak tone of the original. Keach is not Lee Van Cleef but he does a competent job here. Sometimes just the character and his lines are worth the purchase. I love when he says to the president,I hear you've got some domestic problems. Russell delivers his lines with the usual icy hate filled contempt that made this his best character in any movie.The effects are well done and it has a much bigger budget than the shoestring funding of the classic. It is not a parody or campy but the feel is much more centered on the dialog. There is the usual everywhere he goes people have heard of him or know him. The biggest weakness is the whole Hersey sub story with Pam Grier showing why she was good back in the 70's but here the character is thrown at you with no development other than she hates Corraface. Yes, Carpenter made some bad choices, Fonda and Grier, but other parts of this work very well. Buscemi and Corraface were not bad at all. I have a feeling this is the last of the series, sadly, due to Russell's age. It is not a classic, like the original, but it is worth owning. "},{"Title":"A Science Fiction/Action bad ass underrated worthy sequel","Date":"15 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Escape from L.A. (1996) American science fiction action film co-written, co-scored, and directed by John Carpenter, co-written and produced by Debra Hill and Kurt Russell, with Russell also starring as Snake Plissken. A sequel of Escape from New York, Escape from L.A. co-stars Steve Buscemi, Stacy Keach, Bruce Campbell, and Pam Grier.You may have escaped from New York, but this is L.A.A Classic Science Fiction/Action underrated film. A sequel 16 years after the original was released Kurt Russell proved that he can still act. And he Is still Snake Plissken. I know a lot of people hate this sequel to an original classic film Escape From New York (1981) even my friend does not like it. I love it, I thought is the last good action sequel that Kurt Russell did. Still predecessor Is far superior than this film but I still love it. Because of Kurt Russell and his performance, Stacy Keach Is also good in it. Snake on a surf board is awesome. Escape from L.A. is a bad ass underrated sequel. I love it and I don't care what anyone else is saying it. Draw. His best line.After sixteen years, Snake Plissken is back. A long overdue vacation if you ask me.Escape from L.A. starts off with the new America. After a devastating earthquake, L.A. is now an island on the coast of America. After a new president takes over, L.A. becomes a deportation point to take out the trash. However, after being apprehended, Snake is forced to go to L.A. The setup beforehand is nice. The interaction with Snake and the local authorities is good stuff. Snake has his mission. The look of the new L.A. is quite something. The land is destroyed, the chaos is frequent, and the locals are quite lethal and always watching their backs. Makes sense. This is not going to be easy.Kurt Russell is great as Snake. He admits that Snake is one of his favorite characters to play. He had fun here. The plot works. Would make perfect sense if this did happen. Cliff Robertson is cold and calculating as the president. The action is fun. The look of the movie is perfect. L.A. looked like a wasteland. Be on the lookout for an appearance by Bruce Campbell. He has a small, but memorable role here.The plot Snake Plissken is once again called in by the United States government to recover a potential doomsday device from Los Angeles, now an autonomous island where undesirables are deported.Escape From L.A. isn't the greatest sequel ever made but it is my favorite follow up to a cult classic film Escape From New York (1981) but it is a still a good sequel cause the action scenes are kind of good. I love Action films and this is an Action film and I don't care about the haters of this film. In my opinion is the last good Action film from the 90's. So leave this film alone if you have high expectations. It is my second favorite and best film of Kurt Russell the first one will always be Escape From New York (1981). Escape From L.A. (1996) is very hated and underrated movie, Even my friend did not like this movie I always did and do and I have watch it when I was 13.years old. First I thought it was Escape From New York (1981) but I was surprised to learn that it was a sequel. I haven't saw both of the movies in years until a week a ago I got both of the movies on Blu-ray and after re watching Escape From L.A. (1996) I was stunned from action scenes and how the film was entertaining and fun to watch. The only thing I had the problem with the movie Is that It was a hoax's and he never was infected with deadly virus they screwed him over and that really angered me.Escape From L.A. (1996) is very good underrated hated film from the 90's. Even you can see Hollywood in flames in this movie the same scene was used in Demolition Man (1993) In the beginning of that movie. I like action movies from the 90's and I really like a lot Escape From L.A. (1996) not much as I Love Escape From New York (1981).8/10 Grade B Paramount Pictures, Rysher Entertainment Starring Kurt Russell, Steve Buscemi, Stacy Keach, Bruce Campbell, and Pam Grier. Producers Debra Hill, Kurt Russell Screenplay John Carpenter, Debra Hill and Kurt Russell Rated R Running Time 1 Hr. 41 Mins. Budget $50.000.000 Box Office $25,477,365 "},{"Title":"Embrace the camp","Date":"17 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In 2000, an earthquake measuring 9.6 strikes Los Angeles separating it from the mainland. The moral President for life (Cliff Robertson) declares Los Angeles is no longer part of the United States, and all undesirables are deported to the island. Once deported there, no one ever comes back. It's 2013 and Snake Plissken (Kurt Russell) is getting deported to L.A. The President's daughter Utopia (A.J. Langer) hijacked Air Force 3 taking a secret package to L.A. She's suspected of running to gang leader Cuervo Jones, and Snake is offered a deal. He has less than 10 hours to live and must retrieve the black box. The girl on the other hand is expendable.John Carpenter returns with long time contributor Debra Hill and Kurt Russell. This time the L.A. culture is being dissected with surfers and plastic surgery. They are fully embracing the camp. They're having a little bit of fun with Snake. This would be too stupid to take seriously. However if you join them and embrace the camp, this could be an enjoyable film. "},{"Title":"It's really the first movie again but with a bigger budget and bad CGI","Date":"13 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yeah, this is not as good as the first film. It's just a silly 90's action film (set in 2013!), but a fun, silly action film.Things I loved The rock remix of the theme tune. (Even if you hate this film, you have to admit the theme tune is awesome.), Kurt is brilliant as Snake, the action sequences are great, the pacing is a lot faster than the first, it's epic, I loved the prologue and Utopia was sexy in her leather shorts and knee high boots.But the CGI is indeed horrible. Everything looks like a PlayStation game. Whereas the first movie had miniatures that still hold up to this day. The CGI in this is just laughable. The worst example is when Snake is in the submarine and it's the ocean.The surfing scene also looks fake and how is Snake able to surf properly despite having no surfing training whatsoever? And how is he able to stand up straight after getting shot in the leg?The movie's biggest flaw is that it recreates scenes from the first movie. John Carpenter can't write sequels because when he does, it's the same as the first. Halloween 2 for example.Remember that great scene in the first film where Snake had to fight the big guy in the wrestling ring? What do they make him do in this one? Make him play basketball............. Yeah.Also, he manages to get the ball into the hoop despite having no basketball training what so ever.But what about the ending? Yeah, it liked it. It's something Snake would do. Despite the fact that there could've been someone who needed an iron lung or life support machine to help them live. And Snake breaking the fourth wall just ends this epic of cheesiness.I'm a big 90's kid and I love 90's films. Every time I watch one, I just got nostalgic. "}{"Title":"Snake Plissken Returns.","Date":"12 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Director John Carpenter and star Kurt Russell return for this belated sequel set in the future year 2013(!) that has Snake Plissken, now 16 years older, but tough as ever, as he is forced to undertake another mission for his government, this time(in a similar manner from the first)he must rescue the president's(Cliff Robertson, in a sympathetic performance, ironically enough!) rogue daughter, who has gone into hiding in Earthquake ravaged L.A. with a doomsday device that a local revolutionary wants. Snake must retrieve her and it, or be killed by the poison said to be in his bloodstream.Entertaining sequel isn't quite as stylish as the first, but still has good action and satiric touches to compensate. Kurt Russell is still quite game, and has a crucial role at film's end to determine if humanity will move forward, or be sent back technologically. What will he do? Watch and find out! "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"17 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie has it all- Great action scenes, Great plot, Great acting, Weird and wonderful scenes that are a bit different from the usual.The movie sucks you in from the awesome title music and just works you from there. Great plot twists here and there to keep it interesting, with a great ending.The only negative is that some of the special effects are a bit off, and it lacks polish in places. But generally it works and didn't subtract from the experience for me.If you like dystopian, sci-fi action movies with a plot, you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Snake stands tall in L.A.","Date":"9 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" No doubt John Carpenter had big boots to fill, but his sequel to his cult 1981 film Escape from New York, I found to be a lot better than its reputation suggested. It might not come close to its predecessor, but the combination of Carpenter and Kurt Russell was always a win-win situation. Coming almost 15 years after the original, Carpenter probably wasn't in his prime during the mid-90s (although I believe In the Mouth of Madness to be one of his best) but I found his films in that period to be rather enjoyable. Escape from LA is a big-budget (although it doesn't look like it) rehash of the original, but a lot more camped up and amusingly satirical (very heavy-handed on Hollywood to the government) with an excellent cast attached of character actors. Where I see it get constantly attack is how the digital effects are lousily executed and the cheap sets look plain. Sure the quality of the visuals does come up cheesy, but it remains a colourful, if bleak wasteland backdrop. The pulpy story might not be its strong point along with a silly script, however Carpenter's up-beat tempo moves along through its stagy, but excitingly expansive set-pieces with enough insanely cartoonish action, a jaded rock soundtrack and disposable wisecracks backing it up. Some instances depended on too many coincidences, but an interesting aspect it seemed to create a spaghetti western vibe, and the character Snake Plissken can be seen as a throwback to that. Sometimes it felt like Russell was channelling Clint Eastwood. Russell reprising his role is tough as nails as the rugged outlaw Snake. Then you got the likes of Stacy Keach, Steve Buscemi (at his squirmy best), Peter Fonda, Pam Grier, Cliff Robertson, Georges Corraface, Michelle Forbes, Valeria Golino and Bruce Campbell under make-up providing entertaining support. "},{"Title":"Haven't I seen that in Grand Theft Auto?","Date":"1 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Is what the missus kept asking me, and the answer was frequently in the affirmative. This - not Escape from New York, at least not directly - is the film that inspired the developers of many of the 21st century's iconic software titles.Snake can be seen strutting his stuff across AAA titles on PC and console to this day, hissing out his subzero one-liners. He does the things that we now do when we've got a joypad or a mouse in our sweaty hands - pushing the boundaries of the script, testing the limits of the simulation. Supporting characters flit in and out of EfLA like stage allies, their existence entirely dependent on the demands of the narrative.Escape from Los Angeles is a flawed film in so many ways. The budget just isn't there on the screen; the score and cinematography are workaday; the characterisation is effective but necessarily truncated. And yet... and yet. The drive, the sly knowing comments, and the finale. That finale. So inevitable, so demanded by the characterisation, and yet still so satisfying.If Escape from Los Angeles isn't a tour de force, then ask yourself this why do you keep dropping sixty dollars to play versions of it over and over again? "},{"Title":"Escape from L.A . rehashes original plot","Date":"12 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I disagree with people who think this is a better film than Escape from New York. Plots rarely improve with recycling. The opening scenes are like a comedy club imitation of the original. But one thing is still all right. The dictator on the inside is as rotten as the outside. But is this really new? I liked the character of Snake ... well up to a point. Making fun of religious nuts is okay but Russell needs some new material here. I'd like to point out one thing just at the end of the film. Actually the neutron bomb doesn't work this way. By changing the casing of a fission device more neutrons could be released in the explosion. Originally thought as an anti-tank weapon the NB would not, beyond a short range, be much different to a conventional nuke. The idea, if you can call it that, was to produce a weapon which would tend to spare more solid objects while killing as many people as possible. The neutron bomb was also called an 'enhanced radiation device'. The weapons displayed in the film (I appreciate this is science fiction so the rules tend to get bent a little) appeared to be some kind of X-ray laser similar to the Strategic Defense Initiative Star Wars thing dropped in the 1980s. It's true that real EMT would screw up modern electronics over a fairly short range but most of this stuff could be rebuilt. The end of electricity idea is ridiculous. "},{"Title":"Call me Snake...","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The sequel to Escape from New York Starring Kurt Russell is one of the better Post Apocalyptic world action movies. To me Kurt Russell is a tough guy, and in this movie he is a little too tough, but thats just what he needs to be to engage the audience. The supporting cast is just as well known as the star itself going from Steve Buscemi as the know-it-all Map-to-the-stars-Eddie or Bruce Campbell as the LA Surgeon and they add some flare to the film. The films ending is original which is new to most mid-90's action flicks. So all in all i do recommend this movie to anyone who likes tough guys and smart one liners with a bit of suspense action at the same time.7/10 for me with a cast rating of 75% Watch for a late night action fest "},{"Title":"Snake STILL kicks ass!","Date":"13 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Snake is back, this time LA is his playground. Sent by the president himself to the island of Los Angeles to retrieve a CD and save the world in the process. Sound familiar? More like a remake of Escape From New York than a sequel. But still, if you like the original there's practically no reason why you shouldn't enjoy this film as well. While the original can hardly be considered a classic it was a hugely enjoyable B-movie. It was highly original and with an irresistible appeal to it, the John Carpenter feel as I like to call it. Escape From LA works only as a complete reminder of the first film. The plot is almost the same, some scenes nearly identical and the ending, well, cd or a tape, it's pretty much the same conclusion. That said, Escape From LA is highly entertaining. Kurt Russell is a total bad ass as Snake, one of the coolest Anti-heroes around. The action scenes are good and plenty and the cool music from the original is also present here, albeit a little altered.John Carpenter doesn't make bad movies, sometimes he falters a bit (Vampires, Ghosts of Mars, Invisible Man), but they're never boring. His lesser efforts are always at least watchable. Escape From LA is a very watchable, totally brainless yarn in the best B-Movie tradition. "},{"Title":"This movie is poorly made, but who cares, it is still fun )","Date":"22 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I know what you are going to say, this movie is horrible, poorly done and horrible. And I agree, but for some reason I find that very entertaining. The effects are cheesy, but done with purpose. Snake Plissken is the coolest man on the planet, he is even too cool for his own good, which makes his character not believable at all, but still I like this movie. Explain to me how I can like a movie that is so poorly done throughout? Well I think the answer lies in the fact that it is so heroic and exaggerated that you just sit and smile during the entire thing. Snake got more cool lines than anyone and he delivers them with such an I really don't care attitude that you just have to love it. Most of the people I know don't like this movie, most actually hate it intensely. Well I don't. If you are looking for the most brain dead action available in the shop, why don't you rent this one? If you tend to like b-movies, my bet is that you will like this one. I rate this movie 6/10. "},{"Title":"An aging Kurt(Mr. Walt Disney) Russell","Date":"1 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember Kurt Russell back in his glory days in movies such as Now You See Him, Now You Don't, The Computer Wore Tennis Shoes, and The Barefoot Executive. Not to mention cameo appearances in TV shows like Lost In Space and Gilligan's Island. When he started moving up to better? roles, he just wasn't that convincing as a lead actor. When I saw Escape From L.A., I couldn't believe how bad it was. I mean this guy couldn't even run, or bounce a basketball. It's a good example of what a Hollywood lifestyle can do to someone. Aside from so-so special effects, it was a disaster not only for Russell but his director John Carpenter as well. John Carpenter's early career was much better. Unless you got something better to do I suggest you Escape From this Terrible Movie "},{"Title":"A remake that only succeeds in showing the continuing relevance of the original","Date":"26 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Escape From L.A. is one of John Carpenter's more debated works, with many writing it off as a horrible failure of a film. The essential problem is that tries to recapture the spirit of the original film, but in so doing does little to distinguish itself as an independent work. While some elements constitute an improvement upon the original, many others come up short.As usual, Carpenter's mastery of the Panavision frame works as an incredible asset to the film. It is films like this that motivated the long overdue decision to widen television standards to 1.781 - there should be a law against cropping films such as this to fit the old shape of television. Add to that one of Carpenter's best scores, and you already have two solid ingredients for a masterpiece. Oddly enough, however, Carpenter elected to add pieces of contemporary music to the film. One wonders if the extra money offered by record companies helped complete the film in the manner Carpenter wanted.The cast is also more solid in this outing. Steve Buscemi, Georges Corraface, Stacy Keach, Michelle Forbes, Pam Grier, and Peter Fonda all deliver enthusiastic performances that keep up the entertainment factor. The problem is that in contrast to the setting and theme of the film, they seem so bright and bubbly that one could accuse them of overacting. While the plot is especially relevant, and takes many a well-deserved pot shot at the anti-choice mentality that is killing democracy, the ending feels overextended and poorly thought-out. The repetitive no-it's-in-her-pocket/his-coat business really distracted. The first moment when we are told that the Plutoxin 7 virus is not actually lethal is a childish device of plot convenience. When they repeat the point, it is just insulting.What I fail to understand, however, is why people knock this film so much. Granted, it isn't the innovation that Escape From New York or Halloween were, but compared to garbage sequels like Resident Evil Apocalypse, it may as well be. Some sequences, such as the basketball game or the attack upon the final rebel gathering are excellent examples of how great a film can be when it applies a little imagination or creativity. The fact that the characters Snake runs into during this mission have more distinctive characteristics helps a lot, too.I gave Escape From L.A. a seven out of ten. Given that it is enjoyable when watched every so often, I think that's more than fair. It's not the most brilliant thing you'll ever watch, but it's not nearly as bad as the IMDb consensus seems to be making out. "}{"Title":"I've Seen Better, but I've Seen Worse Too","Date":"2 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spoilers are very possible.Escape From L.A., or to be more precise the somewhat more egocentric John Carpenter's Escape From L.A.;(I mean, seriously, how many of us would have REFUSED to see the movie unless JOHN CARPENTER's name was in the title?) is a perfect example of what can happen when you A)Get too comfortable with a franchise B)Give a director too much of a budget, and C)Fail to take your film seriously. Perhaps not so strangely, all three apply to another horrible sequel to an outstanding original; Mortal Kombat 2. Exactly WHY both directors took the more cheesy road I do not know.. but I can guess. Usually when someone attempts to make fun of themselves in a manner such as these two cases it's because they think others will make fun of them if they don't beat them to it, and they're also ashamed for some reason.Now I'm a long time fan of John Carpenters films, and I can tell you that he's CONCEPTUALLY got a problem with sequels. He just does'nt get them. He thinks that a sequel is SUPPOSED to be a remake and that that is what audiences want. He probably also suffers from the George Lucas/Francis Ford Coppola disease of Yeah but you should really love my other stuff-itus; and so only returned to the world of Snake Plissken under protest(As did Coppola with Godfather 3, and Lucas with Episode 1, are you seeing a pattern here?)This movie does have its moments, as did Robocop 2 and countless other inferior sequels before it. I particularly liked Snakes new look, his new guns, the music, a few shots here and there (The Big Brother type stuff)and a couple of scenes. One small moment that I look for each time Spoiler Alertis when Snake is headed to L.A. underwater and the mechanical shark from the (now submerged) Universal Studios tour appears to make a quick lunge for his sub.I'm more forgiving of this movie now than after I first saw it, and what I notice now that I may have missed before with my original disappointment is that Carpenter seems to be having fun with the movie. Oh sure maybe he's having TOO much fun and should've gotten a little more serious AT SOME POINT during the production, but I do think that he was having fun. 4/10  "},{"Title":"Snake is back...so what went wrong? SPOILERS","Date":"6 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Whenever anyone makes a decent Sci-Fi thriller, why do they have to go and spoil it by bringing out a mediocre sequel that ruins the franchise. Like the Matrix, admittedly a good film, why did the Wachowski brothers then make two pretentious, pointless and rather crap sequels just to create a franchise with its own universe. Why did Christopher Lambert make FOUR Highlander movies when the guiding principle was there can be only one. So what on earth possessed Carpenter/Russell to ruin one of their finest collaborations by making Escape from L.A For a start, why have another US action film set in L.A? it's such a cliche! couldn't they have have picked a more unusual location in the US or (gasp!) the rest of the world? Hell, why not just make up a city/fortress/dictatorship for Snake to go into, it is the post-apocalyptic future after all! But what really bothers me is not the title, I can live with that. I can even grudgingly put up with the fact that the entire movie is just a lets-change-the-names-and-faces remake of the original. No, what really upsets me are the stupid, stupid, really REALLY STUPID STUNTS AND SFX!!! The earthquake at the beginning? when does a building crack in half so...unbelievably? why not just use a model if the cgi is that bad? and the surfing!!! I mean that was just so awful! why have that in at all? it had no relevance to the plot and looked...well I'll leave you to make your own mind up about that but personally I give kudos to any director who has the gall to shamelessly whore off such bad special effect sequences to a cinema audience and expect to be taken seriously! But to be fair, a film is only as good as its story and I have to admit the story does play its part in dragging the film down. The year is 2013 (that lucky number) and Los Angeles has been separated from the mainland by a huge earthquake (see above for details) hence it has become a dumping ground for America's social undesirables the elderly, tax-dodgers, welfare recipients, students, immigrants, and of course BADDIES! and no baddie is as bad as Cuervo Jones (I leave that statement open to interpretation) who's antics in teletubbie land brainwash the President's daughter, Utopia (second only to 'Exotica' for stupidest female prenom) and causes her to perfidiously steal a black box containing a terrible secret. Loving father that he is, the President orders his men to kill his daughter and retrieve the black box. They fail miserably, so it is left to Snake Plissken, recently caught (if Snake is so cool why can't he do anything without getting caught?) to do the dirty deed. Yet before he is given a chance for Deja Vu to set in, he is informed that he has already been poisoned. So, unless he accomplishes his mission and kills Che Guevera, Ooops! I mean Cuervo Jones, he'll die in nine hours. Anyway, the rest I leave for you to find out, or not find out as the case may be. Watch out for that surf scene though! 5/10  "},{"Title":"Well it's not AWFUL...","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Definitely the worst John Carpenter (although I haven't seen Vampires in years so I don't know), but not really THAT incredibly awful.  It's enjoyable for a few reasons.  Steve Buscemi is one of my favorite actors, and his presence is always enjoyable.  The idea of a Moral America is probably right on the dot.  Some of the action was fun.  Overall, it's a fun movie, ruined by WAY TOO MUCH BAD CG (I've seen maybe 2 films that have been able to pull off CG effects, and this is definitely not one of them), and a few too many cheesy, over-the-top scenes (the basketball thing, the surfing thing, and the windsail thing).  The last 10 minutes are great though, and it's a fun film to watch when you're bored.  But modern directors need to learn to cut it with the crappy CG effects.6/10 "},{"Title":"The second worst movie I've ever seen","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The worst being Black Mask, but I digress.I saw this movie in the theatres when it was released, and I still suffer from its sheer awfulness years later. It is partially to cleanse my soul that I write this review so that I may spare you, the poor reader, from its crappiness.  It would be hard to try and make a movie this bad, but somehow they succeeded. It boggles my mind when I read some of the reviews for Escape from L.A. - it makes me think that there are two versions out there, the punch-you-in-the-solar plexus, gouge out your eyes version that some people saw... and the even worse one.Do yourself a favor, don't see this movie. "},{"Title":"Just Horrible","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  My Grandfather once told me not to date a fat chick, because my friends may see me with her.  Well John Carpenter took THIS fat chick to the PROM!!! How could he even think about putting his name on this movie.  I am at a loss to define why he would remake a halfway decent movie like Escape from New York.  It is obvious that several people in Hollywood were hurting for some quick dollars that could be generated at the hope of a decent sequel.Ok, to the point now.  Thin acting by everyone involved.  Plot line was a defective clone of the first movie.  This movie made me want the whole cast to die INCLUDING SNAKE!  This movie was less of a sequel and more of an attempt to repeat the same movie with bad computer animation in a different location.  The attempt to produce stunning animation made it more comical.Skip this as a rental if you are looking for a quality action flick.  You will hate yourself if you take the time to watch it. "},{"Title":"Worst Movie, Ever!","Date":"9 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While there is some disagreement between me and a friend about the worst movie ever, I still think that it is - in fact - Escape From LA.I mean come on! The surfing scene has got to be the lowest point in cinema history.If anyone tries to convince you that this movie was good or that there is a worse movie out - they are full of ****. "},{"Title":"Roger Ebert gave this ***1/2 out of ****?!","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Roger Ebert is indeed the greatest critic of all time, but how could he give this the second highest rating? He mentioned that it satirized the genre. Um, why spend $50 million on a sequel to a blockbuster action movie? Audiences want to see action, not satire! Some people don't even know what satire is! Besides, everyone knows John Carpenter is the master of cheap thrills and shocks and he wouldn't dare put any clever stuff in his movies. This movie was a guilty pleasure. It was entertaining in spots, even though it looked like a TV movie with the cheap special effects. The scene where the two characters surf that huge wave to chase the car was terrible. Great cheesy fun. 5.5/10. "},{"Title":"Somehow I care that this is not good","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  How does a movie like this go wrong? I can't even tell you. I can tell you the things about it that look good in writing though.- John Carpenter. Long-awaited sequel to a pretty good movie. steve buscemi. an awesome bruce campbell cameo. LA falls into the ocean. sarcastic and satirical toned post-apocalyptic universe. disneyland is a killing field. intentional bad dialogue.  a rocking soundtrack featuring tori amos,ministry, and tool. Somehow it just doesn't work though. as much as you'd want it to, it doesn't. And the sad thing is that I really can't blame them for trying. "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have never seen the Escape From N.Y., but I took a chance in seeing this based on the exciting great trailer it had before MissionImpossible. Although not a good film, it really isn't bad, either. Let's just call it the Judge Dredd of 1996 fun but cartoon fun. Kurt Russell isn't acting his best in this film as Snake Plissken, but Snake is a likeable character. There is a good group of actors, but they are not very good in this movie. Any of them. The action was good. "},{"Title":"Good idea, terrible outcome.","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I heard they were making a sequel to one of my favorite films I was excited to say the least. When I heard that the same creative team was behind the sequel that was behind the original I couldn't wait. When the movie finally came to theaters I was there first. After viewing the film all I could think about was what went wrong. This movie is bad. I'll give them a little for effort, but John Carpenter should have done more with this one.  "}{"Title":"Corny and Cheesy don't equal Good","Date":"1 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Yes, I realized the movie is supposed to be corny.  But...so what?  That still doesn't make it very interesting to watch.  It's such an imagination-poor re-make of the original that one wonders why Carpenter bothered with this, when he could be out making a decent Halloween sequel (as opposed to what we got in H20, but that's another story...).  There's a few variations  Stacey Keech has none of the muted respect that Van Cleef had for Snake in the original.  But Escape from LA just goes for such blatant parody (particularly Cliff Robertson as the Republican/religious right-wing nutso) that you care very little in the end.  The movie has a bigger budget, but they should have spent it on a new plot. "},{"Title":"Dumb fun.","Date":"11 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Totally bitchin' 80s camp. If you like that sort of thing you should like this. This is not serious film. It has decent production values and the special effects are just corny enough to be just right. This is not meant as a deep commentary on anything (or at least I hope not, since that would mean I totally missed it). This is just fun movie-making, and also, I feel the need to mention, a solid step up in production values from Big Trouble in Little China, which I also watched recently.Really, just kick back and watch Snake battle his way into and out of L.A., and ignore all of the people who just don't get campy movies. "},{"Title":"Can't escape sloppy execution","Date":"25 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" At times 'Escape From L.A.' feels more like a parody of 'Escape From New York' than a sequel, and it's clear that Carpenter was going for more of a satire vibe here; A satire of (then) current political culture. A satire of big budget Hollywood action movies. A satire of Southern California culture. The problem is that it overwhelms the entire movie, and everything else feels like an afterthought to his quest to zing his targets.There are still a few worthwhile moments tucked in amongst all of the flotsam and jetsam, and Kurt Russell doesn't miss a beat after a fifteen year absence from the role of Snake Plissken, but it's just not enough to save this well-intended misfire. "},{"Title":"Welcome to the human race.","Date":"7 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" John Carpenter's totally unnecessary sequel to his classic Escape From New York. It's really just a retread of that movie with a very similar plot, similar characters, lines, situations, etc. The biggest differences being now there's a lot more campy humor and some very poor CGI. Also the supporting cast is nowhere near as good and, unlike the first movie, everybody seems very aware that they are in a sequel to a popular movie and play it up as such. It's likable enough and watchable. This is mostly due to Kurt Russell's screen presence and the little Carpenterisms sprinkled throughout. But it's not a patch on the original and ultimately there's not a lot to recommend about it to anybody who isn't a die-hard Carpenter fan. "},{"Title":"Only good in comparison to an Ed Wood movie","Date":"21 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The movie is almost a remake of Escape from New York (1981). The plot is almost identical, taking place in LA instead of NY. I tried to watch it as a B-movie and treat it that way. That didn't work either. Bad acting, bad blue screen effects and worst of all is the CGI - it's hard to believe this movie was made 5 years after Terminator 2. The CGI looks like a concept thing made by the effects team before the actual CGI - yes, it's that bad. I thought that maybe it's due to budget constraints, so I checked IMDb and couldn't believe the budget for this movie was $50 million! That's half of the budget of Terminator 2, which was the most expensive movie at the time.Perhaps worst of all is the lazy writing, which includes gems like- Oh, you tried to shoot at us? We've thought of that and put blanks in your rifle!- Oh, you tried to jump and attack us? We've thought of that and we're holograms! (only to walk by his side 2 seconds later)- This hologram is good for 8 minutes, but you can only use it once The instructors stand next to Snake just before he gets into the (badly-rendered) vehicle and 2 seconds later they are in the command room. A motorcycle falling on the ground is blown away. It almost feels like an Ed Wood movie. Even the slow-motion parts are done by slowing down the frames instead of shooting at high speed - how cheap can a movie get at a $50 mil budget???Even the Plastic Surgeon scene is a missed opportunity. It's an obvious commentary about the rich life of LA and it had some good potential, but it's made into a silly scene and it adds nothing to the plot. "},{"Title":"Not Enough Original Ideas","Date":"4 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Escape from L.A. (1996) ** 1/2 (out of 4) John Carpenter and Kurt Russell bring Snake Plissken back for this sequel to ESCAPE FROM NEW YORK. This film takes place in 2013 as Los Angeles is the new prison for the worst people in America. The government asks Plissken to go into L.A. and get a device that controls a major weapon that could destroy the world. ESCAPE FROM L.A. was a major bomb when it was originally released and this here was the first time I've watched it since opening night. I think the film has improved somewhat but it's still a major disappointment considering how terrific the original movie is. The most shocking thing is that writers Carpenter, Russell and Debra Hill didn't bother coming up with a better story. This here is pretty much just a remake of the original movie and it's a shame there weren't any newer, more original things going on here. One major problem with the screenplay is that it appears the three writers were just coming up with fun scenes and this entire film just has good scenes that never really fit together or add up to anything interesting. You have Peter Fonda playing a hippie surfer. There's Pam Grier as a fighter who used to be a man. Steve Buscemi plays a talent agent. Bruce Campbell plays a surgeon who likes to cut out eyeballs. Cliff Robertson plays the President and Stacy Keach is his main soldier. All of these people are fun actors but their roles here really aren't all that fun. We get an over-the-top surfing scene that just never works and there's quite a bit of CGI that looks really bad today. So, what keeps the film from really falling apart? I'd say it's Russell who manages to be good in the film even though he's not given as much to do here. I think the one-liners aren't as sharp and the screenplay really lets the character down. Still, Russell has no problem fitting back into the role, which he has called the favorite of his career. The rest of the cast are fun to watch even if they're not given much to do. Carpenter adds in some good looking visuals but sadly in the end it really doesn't add up to much. One really wishes that a third film would have come along to try and fix the mistakes of this one but as it stands this here isn't horrible but it's certainly a disappointment. "},{"Title":"Ecape from the theater","Date":"26 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" When an actor can get a job, what do they do? A remake. I guess it's better than standing on the unemployment line. The copy/Paste key on the computer it's very useful. I was waiting for the duke to re-appear or Brain. But then I remembered, they died in the original. The only one good thing was to see Valeria Golino,( God I love that woman) and Snake surfing ) HA HA HA. Was a Cuervo Jones using the duke's car with all the chandeliers? Wearing the same stop wrist watch. and the  I am going to kill you, when I get back line? But, in the end what were we expecting? the title was Escapr from L.A so I think we should have expected the same movie with a different title "},{"Title":"A comedy pretending to be an Action movie","Date":"21 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" On the one hand this movie is one of the worst of all time. But on the other it may become a cult classic. It reminds me of Plan 9 a bit in it's writing & execution. It could also be used in film school as to how to not make a sequel. They could have used the first 10-15 minutes of escape from NY in place of the opening, except just do a voice over of LA in place of New York and a little cheesy CGI of LA whenever New York was used. That would of added another layer of cheesiness to the whole concept. I can almost picture them at the writing conference in trying to top each other with the oddest, strangest situations and escapes they could think of. On second thought, maybe they included all of their thoughts in the final script. "},{"Title":"Fun but not brilliant.","Date":"17 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Escape from L.A. is set in the year of 2013 when an Earthquake has separated Los Angeles from the US mainland & a Christian nut-job has become President (Cliff Robertson), anyone convicted of a crime or immoral act against the US is deported to Los Angeles which has been tuned into a prison island to rot. Notorious criminal Snake Plissken (co-producer & co-writer Kurt Russell) has been caught & is about to be deported when he is offered a deal. Snake is told that the US President's daughter Utopia (A.J. Langer) has stolen a vital guidance system that controls a ring of satellites around the Earth called The Sword of Damocles that can deliver a strong EMP pulse anywhere on Earth & render any electrical device utterly useless. Utopia has gone into Los Angeles & given the device to terrorist Cuervo Jones (Georges Corrafce) who is threatening to send the US back into the dark ages, it's up to Snake to stop him & get the device back in order to secure his own freedom...Scored, co-written & directed by John Carpenter this was a sequel to his earlier excellent sci-fi action film Escape from New York (1981), well I say sequel but it feels a lot more like a remake. The script by star Russell, director Carpenter & producer Debra Hill really is a rehash of every good idea from the original, the plot for instance is virtually identical. Intstead of New York the action shifts to Los Angeles but the principal is still exactly the same, a run down island used to house prisoners. Snake is injected with some sort of poison which will kill him after a certain number of hours in order to keep him honest. Snake is offered a deal to retrieve some sort of vital electronic device. Snake has to survive attacks from gangs & all sorts of other criminals & the most well protected gang leader holds the key to his success. The boxing match from the original is replaced with a deadly game of basketball, the 'I thought you were dead' line is replaced with 'I though you'd be taller' & I could go on & on about the similarities in character's & events all day long. Having said that I still enjoyed Escape from L.A., it's a good solid fun sci-fi action flick with a good pace, a reasonable story, some nice action scenes & a decent stab at satire. From the plastic surgeon scene to the character of Eddie who sells maps so you can find your way around are obvious nods towards present day trends taken to their extreme. The idea of freedom is also touched upon, whether it's the freedom to do whatever you want & live the way you want in the lawless Los Angeles or the repressed freedom of Government. The ending is also interesting, the way Snake fools everyone & sends the entire Earth back to square one as he believes neither side is fit to rule.Director Carpenter needed a hit after some flops at the box-office & it does feel a bit like desperation to go back to maybe his single most successful film & make a sequel which is practically identical. Escape from L.A. is a mixed bag to be honest, there are some great scenes here like the bike & car chases but then there are also poor ones like the silly surfing & hand gliding sequences. Some of the action felt a little static & dull, the end sequence in particular just felt shoddily made & lacklustre. The violence is relatively tame, there's some fights, some shooting & an off screen decapitation. The basketball sequence is cool if a little improbable although having said that Kurt Russell made every hoop including the full length of the court one which is quite amazing actually.With a supposed budget of about $50,000,000 Escape from L.A. was a well funded film, the sets are good, the majority of the special effects are as well although there are one or two which don't hold up these days. Apparently shot in Los Angeles, Florida & Texas. The acting is alright & Kurt Russell is great, I must admit I've always liked Russell in anything I have ever seen him in. There are a few fun cameos too from the likes of Steve Buscemi, Stacy Keach, Pam Grier, Peter Fonda & Bruce Campbell.Escape from L.A. is a considered success for me, it has some good ideas & some good action scenes but overall it feels like a poorer remake of Escape from New York rather than a sequel. I liked it & it entertained me but I doubt I would want to see it again anytime soon. "},{"Title":"Not Terrible, But Not Good As A Sequel","Date":"14 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In all honesty, I would have loved this movie far more if I weren't old enough to have seen the original Snake Plissken film, Escape From New York, on it's first run in the theaters. Being a fan of early Cyberpunk and apocalyptic films, that one was the truly great film.This movie is good, in it's own way. Most of the cast is known B-movie and character bit actors, people that I didn't have to strain myself to recognize. The premise is good, the action scenes are fun, the various lines have some great moments. But several of the big special effects scenes are weak, and the script is almost an entire copy of the original. While I haven't done it myself, I have heard that you can play New York and LA side by side, and have almost the same general events happening at the same time, down to where and how he gets injured. The only nod to this is having the police recognize Plissken's planned duplicity from his actions in the earlier movie.I would agree that the ending is a great one, especially the last scene, which I won't describe here. If you haven't seen it, this scene alone is worth the cost of buying this movie. (If you can't find it for less than seven and a half dollars, you're not looking in the right places.) But I'd make a point of having Escape From New York also.My final critique? It's a decent film, but if I had been able to recommend Kurt Russell doing a sequel to one of his John Carpenter films, I'd have voted for Big Trouble In Little China first, The Thing second, then Escape From New York. "}{"Title":"Poor 2nd installment","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have just finished watching this mess, damn i'm disappointed with this.1st of I have to say I am a HUGE John Carpenter fan, I have enjoyed most of his other works (The Thing, Escape From New York, Halloween etc.) Though after watching this I have a headache and basically feel like crap, this movie was silly that's all there is to say about it.It started off well I was thinking to my self sweet Snake Plissken is back and he was his bad-ass usual self, I see Peter Fonda & not too shortly after Steve Buscemi i'm thinking cool, but this movie just drags on and you lose interest I was hoping for it to finish. "},{"Title":"A truly horrible film, except for the very end.","Date":"21 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Didn't they already make this in 1981?NY President is missingLA President's daughter is missingNY Snake (Kurt Russell) has a bomb inside his body and a timer on his wrist that indicates how much time he has leftLA Snake (Kurt Russell) has a virus inside his body and a timer on his wrist that indicates how much time he has leftNY People eat humansLA Botched cosmetic surgery victims (led by Bruce Campbell in a great cameo) cut off body parts NY Boxing ring sceneLA Basketball cage scene, both of which everyone is astounded he survives.Both finales end with Snake tricking someone, too.For the record, ESCAPE FROM NEW YORK has the worst special effects I've seen from the 1990s (at least for a mainstream project). And while I'm all for action sequences, Snake riding a tsunami wave up onto a highway on a surfboard and jumping onto the back of Steve Buscemi's car - with truly AWFUL effects in the background - is not something I ever want to see again.The acting is stiff - Snake isn't as cool as he used to be. Every time Russell speaks it seems as if he's trying to make Snake really cool and gruff, but he isn't. It's really cheesy.Buscemi tries his best but I don't blame him for failing to make a cliched character (the annoying bad-guy-turned-good-guy) any better. He was fresh off FARGO I guess and that's why he's billed #3 on the list of famous stars Peter Fonda, Stacy Keech, Pam Grier, Valeria Golino, Campbell, Russell, et al.What I want to know is this How on earth did they sign these actors onto a project that takes all the events from the first film and re-mixes them (minus the fun) in a MAD MAX BEYOND THUNDERDOME-esque landscape?Carpenter has lost it, I'm afraid. This is a terrible movie with some of the worst special effects I've ever seen, a wandering plot that boasts famous actors (most of whom are featured briefly, then killed or just kicked off-screen) and an exact duplication of the original's plot. Only the very, very end is any good, and for that it left a lasting effect in my mind - otherwise, I'd give this a total turkey.2/5. "},{"Title":"What a disappointment.","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Escape From New York was a great movie. This sequel isn't. In fact, it's probably the most disappointing sequel since Highlander 2. You'd think that with a much bigger budget and this kind of cast, Carpenter would be able to make a better film, right? Wrong.One of the biggest problems with this movie is that it's practically a remake of the original. Carpenter had the opportunity to either expand on the universe set up in the original or take things in a different direction. What's the point in doing a sequel if you're just going to copy the first film? Another problem is that every character in the movie is a stereotype. For that matter, the entire movie is really cartoonish. The first movie did really well in avoiding these traps. Granted, the original had a real comic book feel to it, but not to the extreme that this movie took. Especially heartbreaking was seeing Kurt Russell turn Snake from the anti-hero we admired in the first movie to a something of a parody.And the visuals? Well, the set designs were quite good. Even if pointing out every L.A. landmark got rather old after a while. But the special effects were so cheesy. They were more like the effects you'd see in a direct-to-video film (which is where this movie should have gone).I still like to believe that John Carpenter still has the old magic in him. And I hope one day (hoprfully soon) he'll rediscover it. It's sad to see a man of Carpenter's talents reduced to this.  "},{"Title":"Shoddy in the extreme","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Escape from New York was not one of John Carpenter's best films, but it's a masterpiece compared to this utterly dreadful sequel, made 15 years later with the benefit of CGI technology and a budget of $50 million, compared to the original's tiny $6 million. Where did all that money go? Feeding the film crew on caviar and champagne? It certainly isn't up on the screen. In fact Carpenter managed to produce an infinitely superior film in Escape from New York on that tiny budget. Plot wise, LA is nothing more that a tired rehash of the first film. Kurt Russell repeats his Clint Eastwood impression as Snake Plisskin, who is given a few hours to go into LA, now a prison, to retrieve a doomsday device stolen by the President's daughter, before a virus injected into his body kills him. Sound familiar? Wait till you see the actual film because the script lifts dialogue, characters and even entire scenes from the original film. Carpenter has clearly attempted to satirise the action genre and the eclipsing of democratic rights in America, only he horribly misjudges the film with a fuzzy plot, dull characters, unspeakable dialogue and one of the most risibly lame endings in years. Add that to the awful special effects, the balsa wood sets (I can't believe Blade Runner's Lawrence G. Paull designed them) and the poor photography and you've got an unexciting mess that cannot even be enjoyed as camp. My review of Escape from New York at IMDb queries why Carpenter didn't start making films on higher budgets. After seeing the abomination that is Escape from LA, I think my question has been answered. "},{"Title":"Snake is the best man for the job.","Date":"1 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  John Carpenter, Nick Castle and Kurt Russell bring the Snake back. Russell reprises the role of the clever criminal Snake Plissken, who rescued the then President(Donald Pleasence) in ESCAPE FROM NEW YORK(1981). Also back is the cool whispering reply...Call me Snake. A 9.8 earthquake in 2013 separates L.A. from California mainland and becomes a hell-hole of an island infested with gangs of several different ethnic backgrounds. The two faced Bible-thumping President of the U.S. States(Cliff Robertson)has Snake injected with a deadly virus and offers the antidote in exchange for a doomsday weapon that was taken into L.A. by the President's p***ed off daughter. Snake has ten hours to get the job done with plenty of bad guys wanting to stand in his way. There's plenty of loud and energetic action to keep you interested and a real cool double double-cross finale. The Snake proves to still be able to walk the walk and kick some ass. Also in the cast are Steve Buscemi, George Corraface, Stacy Keach, A.J. Langer, Pam Grier and Peter Fonda.  "},{"Title":"Nothing but a 2 hour cigarette commercials","Date":"6 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was obviously funded by the tobacco companies. The gratuitous speech by the Snake at the end of the movie on the freedom to smoke was almost as nauseating as the smell of burning tobacco.Yet another, not so subtle, attempt by the tobacco companies to use movies to induce people to smoke. By associating the act of smoking with the act of defiant independence (one of our  Americans core beliefs, BTW). You subtly convert a lot of impressionable people, kids mostly, into thinking I want to show I'm independent, therefore I'll smoke.Parents, beware. Unfortunately, this subliminal advertising works. "},{"Title":"Possibly the worst movie I've ever seen","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"16 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's been a long time since I watched a movie that has vied for my personal Worst Movie of All Time award. I had the displeasure of watching Escape From LA recently, and in spite of the fact that I was watching an astonishingly awful movie, I had to keep watching to find out if the movie would keep plummeting on it's downward spiral. Rest assured, it did.I am admittedly a fan of the original Escape from New York. The original was dark and somewhat believable with an admirable supporting job by Lee Van Cleef. Escape from LA is essentially the same movie, moved to the west coast, and with the special effects possible in this day an age.Note to self (and anyone else) Spending money on special effects does not equal a better movie.One last word on this movie - I think Escape from LA has one of the worst single scenes in any movie I've ever seen. I thought Jean Claude van Damme punching a snake (and knocking it unconscious) in Hard Target was bad, but watching Snake Pliskin ride a tsunami on a surfboard, then jumping into the back of a speeding car, may be worse.I'd advise watching this movie once, just to enjoy just how simply bad it is. But consider yourself warned. "},{"Title":"Escape Back to New York.","Date":"1 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Escape From L.A. (1996) Dir John Carpenter / Cast Kurt Russell, Stacey Keach, Peter Fonda, Cliff Robertson, Steve Buscemi Crappy excess in filth that rehashes the superior Escape From New York. Here the future Los Angeles 2013 has been separated by an earthquake and anyone who breaks a moral law is sent there. The President sends Snake Plisskin to L.A. to find his daughter, kill her, and retrieve a satellite control box she had. He is injected with a virus, which is another dead steal from the first film. John Carpenter pretty much directs his worst film with this piece of garbage. This is from the same director who made one of the great horror films in Halloween. Kurt Russell reprises his role as Plisskin and appears to be more super human. Stacey Keach plays the stereotypical villain who attempts to render Christianity the bad guy. Peter Fonda has a useless role as a surfer as a bad send off to his Easy Rider performance. Also featured is Cliff Robertson in not one of his best moments. Steve Buscemi plays a character named Map Of The Stars Eddie. If that is the case then perhaps Buscemi should fire his agent. Escape From New York wasn't the best in terms of special effects but it had a genuine futuristic vision and intriguing characters. In this forgettable sequel the special effects are horrible within a film that belonged in a junk yard, preferably burned within a pile of every other existing copy. Score 0 / 10 "},{"Title":"Surfin the LA channel","Date":"26 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I once saw John Carpenter on a UK television show in the late 1980s discussing horror films. He was about 40 but looked like he was in his 60s and smoked like a chimney. Now he is a few years shy of his 70th year he probably looks like he is 120 years old. Maybe he should had realised by now smoking is bad for you so do we really need all the wise ass cracks about smoking from Snake Plissken in this movie?Escape from New York was a low budget cult film with cheapo effects (James Carpenter was one of the F/X guys.) Escape from LA is a big budget film with cheapo effects. Most of the budget presumably went on Kurt Russell's salary who also gets a writing credit.Russell reprises his impression of Clint Eastwood as he is tasked by the deranged President of the USA (Cliff Robertson) to recover a remote control to a super weapon stolen by his daughter.What we get are scenes clearly filmed inside a studio with a mundane script, little humour, dull characters and bad CGI including that surfing scene. Even the action scenes look uninspiring. It seems Carpenter only made this film for the pay cheque. Most of the actors here are just wasted ranging from Pam Grier to Stacy Keach.I have heard that Carpenter hurt by the financial failure of The Thing is one filmmaker who does not give a damn, hence the misanthropic ending to this film.However Escape to LA was hyped up before its release and arrived at the theatres as a damp squib. "},{"Title":"Carpenter's Apathetic Sequel","Date":"26 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I wondered why Carpenter hasn't made a movie since Ghost of Mars until recently with Mary Elizabeth Winstead. But this movie was beginning to show what seems like Carpenter's fatigue or with the demand for more special FX laced films like ID4 or MissionImpossible, Carpenter saw the writing on the wall and didn't adapt well. He was even quoted expressing his utter disdain for the films now saying they looked ...like cartoons. Well with this film, he has no room to talk! The plot was...mediocre but what really suffered was the entire film. I actually thought that Carpenter said Print on the outtakes and either thought the camp was gonna do for this film what did for New York. Too bad it was in the middle of a CGI revolution in better and economical storytelling. Now I also know why Russell hasn't written another action flick much less starred in much of 'em. The camp worked for New York I suspect was because it came in around The Road Warrior and the 2nd Star Wars. Unfortunately he was too late in making L.A. For the outdated and lackluster CGI compared to the other CGI heavy flicks of '96. Watch ID4 and you'll definitely see how well the CGI has stood the test of time compared to this...sequel. "}{"Title":"lord what a stinker","Date":"7 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Some good people (Keach, Buscemi Pam Grier as a transgendered person?!?.Lots of money obviously spent on production.Whoever wrote the completely wooden script needs a lecture.Just an excuse for Russell (who I like, usually) to show off his physical prowess (he surfs! he hang-glides! he motorcycles! he shoots hoops! did I miss anything?).Good for a giggle, particularly if one is chemically altered for the viewing, but not in the class of Escape from NY (or much else, for that matter).Where's a slightly rotten tomato when you really need one? "},{"Title":"Its more of a shame than anything else","Date":"23 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a really frustrating movie to watch, for fans of the genre will see millions of 'potentially' good plot ideas for the snake character, because it is without a doubt one of the most loved for action movie lovers / gamers everywhere. Sadly, this film does not do him justice at all; dire plot with even worse supporting actors, but it has Bruce Campbell so my advice would be to watch it up to the Surgeon General point, then turn it off and get writing in to John Carpenter with some better ideas! I loved this movie as a child, but for anyone over the age of 10, this is one best avoided! "},{"Title":"about as pulpy as an orange in Snake's (err, Plissken's) gun holster; fun times late at night","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm not sure whether I'm in the minority or majority, or even in the middle ground, in saying that I do think Escape from NY is a better movie. It had more ambitions in being an insane punk/futuristic/spaghetti-western hybrid where somehow Lee Van Cleef and Ernest Borgnine were on the side of good and Isaac Hayes played one of the hardest villains in modern sci-fi history. And, of course, in returning for Escape From LA, is Kurt Russell, who in his dingy would-be Clint Eastwood imitation is a revelation of bad-ass-ness, and through both films him and his character can be apart of that little club of amazing anti-heroes in movies. But even with the flaws I found in Escape From LA- and I should've been a little more forgiving in watching it at 3 in the morning (albeit glued to the screen), it's still John Carpenter having the fun that he loves to have as a filmmaker, with an extremely well-rounded cast and a few really memorable set-pieces.Recyclable could be what is taken from the story of 'NY' into LA, only here it's made wonderfully preposterous by the idea that LA, through a massive earthquake, separates the den of vice and misery into its own turgid island, where now convicts run the land. And, this time, a dangerous government secret has been hijacked onto the island via the President's wayward daughter, fed up with where the totalitarian country is at in 2013 America. Who else to turn? To a man who couldn't give a rat **** about anything in the country, but has no choice due to a time-sensitive virus planted in him. So away he goes to the island, and encounters a wacky, dazed surfer (Peter Fonda), a wormy little guy with the 'maps of the starts' (Steve Buscemi), a woman who just wants to help, though not for long on this island (Valeria Golino), and other oddities, including an ex-partner of his turned trans-sexual (hilariously played by Pam Grier). Again, massive amounts of criminals, a dastardly cunning villain, and lots of balls-to-the-wall violence.So why doesn't it make for one of the great exploitation/sci-fi movies of the 90s? Well, I just couldn't get over how the special effects sometimes came off, for one thing. When Snake is going in the sub towards the island, one can immediately sense by the exterior shots how really far CGI has come along since 1996 (especially since Carpenter's real bag in dealing with special effects are matte shots, not computer animation with virtual reality sharks). And one of the most entertaining set-pieces, involving Snake surfing with a bullet in his leg right alongside Fonda, still feels a little weakened when one can see how it's not seamless in style at all. Sometimes the production design is eye-catching, though I was waiting usually for the grand, epic-style shots from 'NY'. And Golina's character is the only one I would say is a fluke, or at least unnecessary. They're not extraordinary flaws, but I did notice how the gears were churning at a much more Hollywood rate. But even with all of this to pick out, it doesn't mean there's a lot of juicy, bloody fun to be had with the picture, highlights include Bruce Campbell's hilarious cameo as an over-the-hill/insane plastic surgeon (one of the sharpest commentaries made in the movie, even if so short); Buscemi's whole archetypal performance as the uppity-talky kind of character who plays any side that's convenient; the Roman-style gladiatorial competition with the basketball; the hilariously tongue-in-cheek bits of dialog ...draw, capped alongside the anything-goes level of violence, like when they escape in the helicopter. The ending, too, could be mentioned as a highlight, as it's the one thing that topped over the original- it's a lot smarter this time around, and with a clever wink to those who get the message (however not that hard not to get). The satire in the film isn't particularly strong, not least of which compared to some of Carpenter's past film, but he still keeps it humming along at times, especially in the ending. And his style still is always in keeping with a western in mind, if not spaghetti-flavored in homage this time. With his guns on each side of his hips, his stare and swagger always stone-cold, and his attitude as inviting as a vice, Russell keeps alongside Carpenter's best intentions with the character, and he's always capable of making the movie watchable. In short, makes for a good few chuckles and a lot of grinning in the dead of night, just as long as you don't expect great art. "},{"Title":"Horrendously prophetic.","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" So I watched Escape From L.A. after having recently made my way through both of Bruce Campbell's books (the latter, unfortunately, seeming to have been thrown through the publication process simply because of the cult success of his literary debut), and I have been half-heartedly watching all of the films that he was in. Sadly, his role in this movie is one of the most ridiculous that I have ever seen, and I mean in general, not just Bruce Campbell roles. He is the epitome of the doomed B-movie actor, but why hire someone with such a massive cult following only to completely change his appearance in the movie? I find it difficult to believe that they worried about him bringing down the Hollywood status of the movie; Kurt Russell is one of my heroes, but he's hardly a Hollywood superstar.I saw Escape From New York when I was a kid, and I remember hating it passionately, and although I found this movie to be highly unimpressive, I wouldn't say that I hated it. It makes quite a strong political commentary, with a religious fanatic in the White House (this time, frighteningly, appointed to a lifetime term), whose own daughter, curiously named Utopia, says things like Now is the time to rise up against the president's corrupt theocracy of lies and terror!! Mr. President has decided to move the nation's capital from Washington D.C. to his hometown, Lynchburg, Virginia. Lynchburg?LA, at any rate, is now the city of sin (which makes me wonder how Vegas is doing), and Snake Plissken (Kurt Russell), is the most notorious criminal in US history. As is to be expected, no attempt is made to assign Plissken with a history that would in any way justify such a title, we just need to know that he's a real bad guy. He runs around talking like a real bad guy and acting like a real bad guy, all the while trying to retrieve an antidote from the real bad guys (the government) who have infected him with a virus which will give him 10 hours to retrieve a stolen black box containing the codes to control the world's energy transmission satellites. That, unfortunately, is not only more of a mouthful than I can form into a coherent sentence, but is also more of a mouthful than this movie can handle. Any movie with a main character that is called the most notorious criminal in US history and then later features that same character surfing a tsunami wave down Wilshire Blvd. in Los Angeles and then jumping onto the back of a moving car off of his surfboard is living dangerously if it tries to support too complex a premise. He is also, at one point, forced to play basketball for his life. There is something of a duality in this movie, in that it could just as easily be enjoyed by people who are genuinely impressed with the story, acting, and special effects as it could be by people who look at it as great fun just because of how wildly over the top it is. I guess I fall somewhere in between, because I thoroughly enjoy watching bad movies, although I have a hard time with special effects in general, which so often are a tool to cover shortcomings in other areas. This movie is packed with both special effects and shortcomings, so maybe the combination of the two creates something that is more than the sum of its parts. On the other hand, maybe it just comes out as a great big senseless mishmash of shoddy production values. Either way, I had a blast watching for the LA landmarks&#133; "},{"Title":"Old movie, different name","Date":"22 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Spoilers ahead, big one.If you have seen the first movie (Escape from New York), but not yet view this one, I suggest you skip it. It's not that the movie is bad -- it's quite enjoyable -- but it an almost the same movie as the first one. They just load the script into the word processor and replace New York with L.A, Mr. President with Mr. President's daughter, and you got it! Beside from originality, The movie suffers from creditability. Some scenes are obviously against the scientific laws. In the bright side, the movie has a very good ending, though quite similar to the first movie. The actions are better, the pace is much better. The environments and effects are comparable to the first movie. If you cannot get the picture, think of some high-budget B movies you see on the cable. It's about that.I recommend this movie for action fans that haven't seen the first movie (Escape from New York). But for those who have seen the first one, it's your choice. For those who are not action fans, I recommend you find something else. The Matrix (for post-apocalypse settings) or Platoon (for anti-politics theme) is a good start. "},{"Title":"I don't know why this movie isn't one of the 150 worst.","Date":"16 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" First I would like to explain why I gave this movie a half way decent rating if I thought it was such a horrible movie. It has everything! Any stupid, strange thing that you could throw into a movie is right here. First off I know this is a sequel therefore the character must keep the same name, but Snake Plisskin?? What is he a ex-mercenary polish man? My skin shakes with fear! Moving on, I usually love Stacey Keach but he must have had a few Johnny Walkers too many while filming this stinker because his acting was hardly believable and unlike his drinks, watered down.Here are just a few scenes that I was laughing hysterically about when I first saw them. OK, the basketball game of death. They capture Snake and do not torture him or cut off limbs, they force him to play basketball for his life, which is not only way over-acted but totally unbelievable. The next scene that literally blew my mind was the surfing (out of no where) and then the jump from a board to a moving vehicle on the Los Angeles freeway. A horrible movie showcasing how desperate Kurt Russel has become. "},{"Title":"And you thought LA was bad now...","Date":"25 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It should be noted first and foremost that I have not seen Escape from New York, the predecessor to Escape from L.A.If movies were graded solely on their concept, Escape from L.A. would be an absolutely fantastic movie. The city of Los Angeles has finally been hit with the big one and fallen away from California. The anarchy escalating from the '89 riots has made it the haven of moral degrady and thus becomes forcibly ceded from the United States by the new theocratic dictatorship government. It creates a beautiful scene. A post-apocalyptic setting before the apocalypse even happens.Indeed, the scenery throughout the movie is gorgeous, and though a desolate ruin, everything in the movie reiterates the distinct This is L.A. feeling, from the car-graveyard highways, to the plastic surgery patients turned organ-hungered freak shows. Aside from the now-outdated computer effects in some scenes, it's an extremely appealing movie, visually.The problem in the movie is the execution. The plot, the acting, the general meat of most good movies. While there isn't any downright bad acting, Kurt Russell as Snake Plisskin is essentially a typical action hero. He can't talk in any tone other than the gruffest, most manly voice that humans are scarcely capable of. He also is incapable of talking in anything other than catchy one-liners. This probably would have annoyed me, had I felt the movie took itself seriously.One CAN'T take the movie seriously, because there's just WAY too much belief to suspend. Then there would be many questions the movie can't answer. Why would any country willingly give up all its civil rights and liberties so easily? Why is it that Snake can barely walk with a bullet in his leg, but he can surf perfectly on that same leg? When apparently ten or so aftershocks happen everyday in Los Angeles, why is it that the one that occurs when Snake is in the sewer causes a cave-in, when the last 200 didn't?Steve Buscemi does his usual great work as the wormy map peddler, and he was the most interesting person on the screen anytime he had a scene. I noticed Bruce Campbell's name in the opening credits too, whom I'm a fan of, but I didn't even recognize him through his makeup when he appeared. His voice was unmistakable though. It's a shame he had such a small part, though.Good ideas, good production values, nice vision, the laughs are well-paced, but typically subpar action movie execution. Worth a watch though.  "},{"Title":"Stupid, stupid movie","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  My Age 13In an earthquake, Los Angeles is separated from mainland USA.  If you don't abide by the laws, you are sent there and cannot return.  Utopia, the president's daughter, played by A.J. Langer, steals a device from a weapons establishment, and flees with another terrorist whose name I did not catch, to LA.  Snake Plissken, played by Kurt Russell, is forced to retrieve the device for the government.  He is poisoned with a virus that will kill him in a number of hours to ensure his co-operation.I have never seen the original Escape From New York, and this film repels me from doing so.  It is so stupid and dumb.  It lacks credibility and has so much unnecessary violence.  The acting is horrible and the premise is also quite average.  I must admit, there are a few good scenes, I liked the ending, besides one aspect that I'm probably not allowed to mention.  I also like the character of Snake Plissken, but he deserved a better film, which he probably had with Escape From New York.Australian Classification M 15+ Medium Level Violence, Medium Level Coarse LanguageRating 34 out of 100 (for a few good scenes) "},{"Title":"Hopelessly Inept","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is the movie George Miller (Mad Max Beyond the Thunderdome) might have made in kindergarten.It had an intriguing premise, and fell completely apart in execution.It was trite, boring and lame. The violence was as silly and chaotic as Monty Python's women's club reenacting WW II in a football field, in drag.Kurt Russell's Snake character was so one-dimensional it could equally well have been played by a Chatty Cathy action figure.The special effects looked like something out of a primary school play.The only character you have any sympathy for, a Muslim woman exiled for her religion, dies in the first reel. You don't care if someone decapitates Snake, or the president's daughter, or the president. _Everybody_ in this movie is obnoxious. You don't even care if the whole world blows up if all it contains are the greedy, loud-mouth, losers that populate this film.I give the writers credit for an emotionally satisfying ending to a movie without heroes. "},{"Title":"Fun seeing snake again, thats all.","Date":"12 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was disappointed with this movie. Normally when an unbelievable idea is made into a sci-fi movie it is a good ride. Unfortunately not in this case. It is a shame that such a fun plot line was made into a dull predictable story there were to many minor plot twists that just were not interesting enough to follow, and the few great action scenes were just that, few. I do have to say that it was enjoyable to see Snake in action again. But when he stuck it to the man in the end, (what we want to see Snake doing), it was again poorly conceived. I don't want to spoil this as many may enjoy, but I will only suggest it if you are a big fan of Escape From New York.P.S. I do recommend all other Carpenter/Russell movies "}{"Title":"compare it to the Taliban","Date":"27 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm not a big fan of sequels--most of them suck big time--this is no exception in my opinion. Escape From New York was intense with some sympathetic characters; Escape From L.A. was simply re-hashed nonsense that was neither as intense or as exciting as in the original. John Carpenter has done so much better, and he's very talented, but this one missed the boat. BTW, I must add a religious commentary on this. The U.S. president played by Cliff Robertson is a Christian and thus a right-wing fanatic (all Christians ARE right-wing fanatics, aren't we? At least Hollywood seems to think so). Anyway, early in the movie Snake meets a prisoner, and she confesses to him that her crime was being a Muslim--hence she was banished because the fanatical right-wing Christian government was intolerant of Muslims and other non-believers. Christian rulers can be so intolerant and mean-spirited. Golly, it's a good thing that right-wing Christians weren't running the Taliban in Afghanistan instead of fanatical Muslims. The Christians are so hateful & intolerant of non-believers that they might've tried to kill us all and start a war since Americans are so secular and tolerant of others! I guess we can rest easy knowing that Al-Qaeda is so tolerant of everybody else in the world and that they're looking out for us--God (or whatever spiritual deity one may wish to invoke) help us if anyone with Christian beliefs gets into power. It would be the end of society as we know it! (Although I do recall the founding fathers mentioning something about religion in the Declaration of Independence). BTW--to the liberal elite--I have nothing against Muslims and have several friends of the Islamic and other faiths throughout the world. I DO have something against hypocrisy (no matter where it comes from)--and since Hollywood generally leans to the left, then that makes it so much easier to charge Hollywood liberals with being the blatant hypocrites they often expose themselves as. "},{"Title":"Can making a basketball shot save Russell's career?","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Wow.  I've seen it all now.  Kurt Russell as Snake Plissken saves his life by making a full-court basketball shot in this futuristic action movie. By making this shot, not only does he save his life, but he sways the interest of several hundred underground rebels who previously wanted him to be slaughtered and killed.  I can imagine one of them thinking Hey, I wanted this jerk to be maimed and destroyed, but hey! He's great at making a 100 foot basketball shot!  Let's chant his name!  Of course, 10 minutes after the basketball scene, Snake goes surfing in the middle of Los Angeles with Peter Fonda.  I gave this movie a 2 based on the fact that it wasn't Soldier, and solely on that.  Kurt Russell seriously needs to stay away from futuristic action thrillers, or else he may have to take a shot to save his flailing career. "},{"Title":"Sweet fancy moses!","Date":"16 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  And people still let John Carpenter make movies?? There can't be more than five people in the world that this movie appealed to. From the moment the movie started, I thought I had seen the stupidest scene in the history of film. Unfortunately, each additional scene topped the previous one in terms of stupidity. While I and many other people see a bad review and go, god, this thing sounds terrible, I have to see it!!... I really mean it this time, avooooooid it. It's in that terrible mid-stage between alright and so bad it's amusing. Unfortunately, this mid-stage is kill me. "},{"Title":"Predictable and Boring?","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film was predictable and didn't really hold my attention. It contained little humour and made me ask why are all films set in the near future so mournful. Will life really be so depressing? It contained action which annoyed rather than had me on the edge of my seat. Whilst I scored it 4 I'd give it a miss! "},{"Title":"Bored me to death","Date":"19 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The United States is a non-smoking nation! No smoking, no drugs, no alcohol, no women - unless you're married - no foul language, no red meat! This political statement makes for an interesting topic on where the country may be heading in the age of political correctness, but it really didn't do anything in a movie that just didn't go anywhere.Kurt Russell just seemed to be a cartoon character in his quest for a black box. There was no rhyme or reason on how he managed to find it. It was as if he had radar in his head.And, that ridiculous basketball game was just too far out. It stood for all the other ridiculous things that happened in this movie.I don't know how I managed to get through it. "},{"Title":"Godawful sequel that was slated when it first came out and looks even worse now","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" STAR RATING ***** Saturday Night **** Friday Night *** Friday Morning ** Sunday Night * Monday Morning In 1998, a giant earth-quake separates Los Angeles from mainland America and the fascist president uses it as an opportunity to round up all those guilty of 'thought crimes' and deport them there. One of those guilty would be Snake Plisskin (Kurt Russell), our friend from the first film, who is once again offered a stab at freedom if he ventures there and retrieves a doomsday device held by the president's daughter who got caught up in the crusade to topple her father's deportation plans. Needless to say, there's plenty of people who want to stop him and he's not going to have an easy ride.There's plenty of old franchises that get resurrected nowadays (Indiana Jones, Rambo, Die Hard) so much that it's almost become a trend, but twelve years ago in 1996 John Carpenter decided to make this belated sequel to his classic early eighties action hit Escape from New York. If he was hoping to renew any popularity he couldn't have failed more miserably.The film looks remarkably cheap and tatty for a big studio production. Carpenter appears to be trying to copy the original film's style, without taking into account that a whopping fifteen years had passed since the first film had come out and modern audiences wanted a more modern, fresh looking film. With a plot that is exactly the same as it's predecessor, this film totally fails to capture the tense, edgy sense of claustrophobia and tension that film had, with drab action scenes that looked better in the original film fifteen years before.On the cast front, Russell still makes the role of Plisskin his, as the surly, growling eye patched bad ass, but the material just isn't there for him. Meanwhile, an array of supporting actors just fill in the blanks. Steve Buscemi pops up in a comedic role, doing his quirky, wise quipping thing but failing to make anything better, Valeria Golino, of Hot Shots! fame, has a terribly written role as a possible love interest, while Pam Grier practically cameos in her role.Russell, and Metallica's Devil's Son (which plays over the end credits) are the only high points of this otherwise dreadful sequel. * "},{"Title":"Worse than the first","Date":"7 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I wasn't especially fond of Escape from New York, and this one was even worse. Worse acting - save for Kurt Russell - worse script, and, amazingly, worse visuals. The submarine ride and the surfing bit are really quite terribly animated. Not even an attempt to look realistic. The story itself is such a blatant ripoff of the first that they don't even try to hide it. It's kinda enjoyable, but it's of such low-quality that it's really quite cringe-worthy at times. About the only redeeming aspects are Russell, Bruce Campbell's cameo, the production design, and the end. I thought the final showdown was quite well down. Other than that, this is a terrible movie. "},{"Title":"Descent but not as good as the original","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I admit that bringing back Snake Plissken was a big risk for Carpenter especially being over 20 years apart. I thought Kurt Russell did great but the script is almost like the original Escape from New York; it begins like the first one,same kind of storyline, same kind of situation, same ending, but I know that Carpenter is losing his touch on being able to tell a story through cinema because of his lack of checking through the script and being able to check if the movie would make sense to everybody else. I know that because after he did this movie he lost touch with being able to make a descent scifi movie that makes sense to everybody. Well I only semi-like this movie because of one thing; Kurt Russell being to reprise his role perfectly. "},{"Title":"ESCAPE FROM LA (DIDIER BECU)","Date":"12 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After Snake Plissken (KurT Russell) escaped from New York he may do it again, but this time from L.A. Okay we saw millions of sequels so why not this one, after all was Escape from New York watchable but then you have forgotten about John Carpenter. What the hell is wrong with him? He should know better being the veteran he is but not only is this is a complete copy of the original (only the decors seem different plus some stupid inventions that even wouldn't make it in James Bondscripts) plus if you don't have the budget to do special effects please don't make them at all... Just watch the scene in where Snake is surfing on the waves (such poor effects aren't even made in cheap musicvideos) or a helicopter that seems to be made of  painted plastic...come on, you aren't making movies for Teletubbies!!! Totally unnecessary sequel, even an episode from The A-Team is better! "},{"Title":"Escape From New York was much better/L.A. is cheesy","Date":"23 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I watching both movies, comparing the two is like comparing the real cities in life. Escape from NY is gritty, grainy, dark movie for it's time, the cast was perfect, and NY was at the time the most dangerous place to be in the late 70's early 80's. Escape from L.A. appears to once again redo a new york movie in order to appeal to Cali people,(death wish movies/out-of-towners etc/ crocodile Dundee in L.A.... and the L.A. remakes are always done poorly at that.Escape from L.A. seems cheesy, basically same plot, except like the Hollywood type of criminals in L.A. do not appear scary. Cuervo??? please??? the criminals in the movie were comical compared to the sense you got from the original. If you want a cult classic gotta love NY "}{"Title":"Same Ol' same Ol'!","Date":"17 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bad effects and unconvincing performances all round = dire! Bad effects and unconvincing performances all round = dire!I really don't see the need for this film or the point behind it. I thought that Snake would be given a new reason to exist on the screen - not a relocation. If you've seen Escape from N.Y. then there's no point in seeing this - just a cash in on the first film reveals the bad side of the film industry - a serious need for good scripts. Same events occur in this as in Escape from N.Y. and... oh, I can't be bothered; judge for yourself! Bad effects and unconvincing performances all round = dire! Bad effects and unconvincing performances all round = dire! Bad effects and unconvincing performances all round = dire! Bad effects and unconvincing performances all round = dire! "},{"Title":"Worst movie I've ever seen","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I really thought this movie was horrid.  I went and saw it in the theater (it was the only movie playing at the time we got there) and if it hadn't been for the fact that I was with other people I would have gotten up and left well before the end.  The cheesy scenes and pitiful acting made me wince and I felt like I had somehow come out of the experience dumber than when I went in. "},{"Title":"Worst Carpenter film of all time!","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Wow, this movie sucked. It is basically the exact same thing as Escape From N.Y., but a real crappy, cheap version. The plot is a re-hash and the film contains some of the worst excuses of computer animated sequences that I have ever seen. Avoid and rent the superior Escape From N.Y. "},{"Title":"Maybe it's already like that.","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This time, Snake Plissken (Kurt Russell) has to venture into Los Angeles - which got separated from the rest of the country after an earthquake and turned into a maximum security prison - to find the president's daughter. Maybe the movie is just a rehash of Escape from New York, but it's not bad. Steve Buscemi turns in a really cool performance as Map to the Stars Eddie, and Peter Fonda plays a surfer waiting for a tsunami (maybe that seems a little inappropriate nowadays, after the tsunami that swept South Asia, and Hurricane Katrina, but it was still a neat scene). You might say that the movie is looking at urban decay, or at how our prison population keeps burgeoning. Not a masterpiece, but pretty neat. "},{"Title":"I have a new worst movie I have ever seen","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  About the writing of the plot of this movie, my only question would be this.....If these ideas actually MADE the movie, I would give a million dollars to know what writers ideas were balled up and thrown in the trashcan.   As snake SURFS to safety, he just so happens to meet up with the bad guy, who turns out to be the good guy, then the bad guy, then the good guy again and on and on........  Only redeeming quality of this movie happens in the first two minutes when we meet the religious dicator/president who has moved the capitol from DC to LYNCHBURG VIRGINIA. (who could it be????_ "},{"Title":"One of Carpenter's worst...","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What is it with directors?  There earliest work is usually their best.  Carpenter has made many films that rank as my favorites in a particular genre (Halloween, The Thing, Big Trouble in Little China)as well as solid enjoyable genre flicks (The Fog, Escape From New York).  But he has also made stinkers, such as Prince of Darkness, Vampires and, of course, Escape from L.A.  This sequel rehashes, poorly, scenes from New York, and wastes considerable talent, (Bushemi, Grier, Campbell).  My advice watch the original (with Issac Hayes, Lee van Cleef, Donald Pleasance, Karen Black, Harry Dean Stanton, Ernest Borgnine, its hard to cram any more character actors in one movie) which is slightly more serious in tone and twice as enjoyable.  You won't find lines like A #1, Duke of New York in this one. "},{"Title":"If you liked Escape From New York, you're gonna hate Escape From LA.","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Everything that made the first movie great is missing from this movie. Kurt Russel gives a performance of an actor trying to copy his first performance and doing a REAL bad job at it. The story is so silly that it is obvious that Carpenter was making a parody of EFNY (escape from NY). This is a great disservice to his fans as they saw him having an opportunity to expand upon the world of the first movie and only making fun of it in the end. It is obvious that Carpenter either had little time to contribute to the script or he just didn't care about the quality of the film so he just wrote a script that paralleled the original movie, and did a horrible job. Don't get me wrong - I am a huge carpenter fan which makes this even more disappointing to me. So if you are also a big fan of Carpenter's early works stay away from this one... and I guess you could say that for most of his later works too. I'd say the turning point was Mouth of Madness. He almost pulled it up when he did Vampires. The first half of the movie was great, but then the movie falls apart after that. "},{"Title":"A Bad Case of the Flu","Date":"9 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spoilers herein.This is absolute garbage. But you knew that. We are way past the point where you can deliberately make a bad movie in every way and count on us to laugh along with you. Two interesting things though.One is the clear satire of the `Omega Man.' Then this film became the basis for the similarly bad `Omega Code' (and a couple equally excrescent fundamentalist products since then) except in Code the righteous christians are the good guys.The other is the interesting is how Carpenter does his own scores. Figgis does this too, but he's actually talented and somewhat original. Carpenter's music tells us a lot about what he thinks of his film. He copies the instrumentation, the tenor and even some themes from Ennio Morricone's music for Sergio Leone's `spaghetti' westerns. Those films did make a kind of fun at the western genre and entertained both because we got swept up in the story and were participants in goofing on ourselves for doing so. The music has a sort of lighthearted questioning to it, and ever since, anything resembling it has come to evoke intelligent self-reference within a chintzy macho context. That Carpenter uses it here means he feels he is being similarly intelligent. No chance John. "},{"Title":"Escape from Lalaland.","Date":"24 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Incredible stupid B-action movie with some Playstation like special effects but still entertaining.What surprised me about Escape From L.A. was how incredible B-movie like this movie was. Everything about it was extremely medi-core and some things were simply extremely horrible. I kept waiting for Jean-Claude van Damme to show up! It was that horrible at times...A.J. Langer was painful to watch and Georges Corraface was a stupid standard villain. Further more there are needless characters and the movie is filled with stupid 5 seconds cameo's from famous people who are billed first in the opening credits. Yes, only exception was Bruce Campbell who is always great to see in a cameo. Snake Plissken is still one cool guy but a bit silly and over the top cool at times.Far from a good movie but also not that painful to watch. Still worth seeing for the fans of the genre.4/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"When will Kurt Russel stop acting?","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I would have to say that Escape from L.A. is one of the worst moviesI have ever seen. Why did they have that fruit Kurt Russel in it? He isnearly as bad an actor as Shaquille O'neal. And Really,the plot has nothing to do with the title. He is more like going in than escaping. Oh,and i can not remember a script as horrible as this. On the first movie,he goes in to save the president after he crash landed his airplane in New York, A city that is entirely a prison. Then, on the sequel,he goes in to L.A. (which is also a prison)to save the president's daughter. I could have wrote one myself better than this. Instead of the tagline beingsnake is back,it should have beenSnake is back,and a lot of people look p***ed. Or,Snake is back,and nobody cares.Thats all folks! "}{"Title":"Bad copy of original","Date":"27 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you like Escape from New York and haven't seen Escape from L.A., don't bother. My memories of Escape from New York (a rating of 8) have been polluted. The plot is exactly the same, even bringing back, 'You're poisoned and have 36 hours to live,' crap. None of the supporting characters are memorable, except for an interesting appearance by Pam Grier. Snake is still cool and he does pull an occasional comedy bit (When this can drops, draw!) and is a decent action hero, but I felt like I wasted two hours of my life after watching this.  "},{"Title":"One Of The Most Bigoted Movies Ever Made","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"16 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" John Carpenter's Escape From New York wasn't bad, and was a hit movie, but this sequel - some 15 years later - is pathetic....and one of the most offensive anti-morality films I have ever watched. The hero is typical Kurt Russell (until the last few years when he seems to have mellowed in his roles) an anti-hero, anti-social and super macho man. The storyline of this movie is so anti-God, anti-Christian, anti-family, etc., that is is past ridiculous and downright laughable it's so absurdly left wing. This film should be put in vault as Exhibit A of exactly how much hatred the film industry has against God and Believers. You don't have to wait for them many are in the first 10-15 minutes, and some more good ones at the end.Examples? Well, the story is that the absolute worst thing has happened in the USA those narrow-minded religious people, led by a President who prays but orders his own daughter executed, have taken over the country! They have exiled sinful people to Los Angeles, which is now an island. The President's daughter, portrayed as some fanatic with a machine gun a la Patty Hearst, has stolen some dangerous object and Russell is assigned to go retrieve it. The daughter, by the way, wears a Christian True Love Waits button on her blouse. They make sure we see that. The President has moved his headquarters from Washington to Lynchburg, Va. (home of the hated Rev. Jerry Falwell). Meanwhile, Muslims, atheists and even sweet-looking innocent kids have all been exiled to L.A. by this hate-spewing Bible-touting President! I'm telling you it's unbelievable. Picture something like this coming out against any other group and getting away with it. This absurd bigoted screenplay was co-written by Russell, Carpenter and someone named Debra Hill.The only positive parts of this film are the special effects, a few funny jabs at L.A. and surfers and Steve Buscemi, who always seems to play someone interesting. "},{"Title":"Escape from L.A.","Date":"15 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" From director John Carpenter (Halloween, The Thing, Starman), this sequel to the director's original Escape from New York is rated lower, and as I found the first film a good watch I was interested to see how the follow up would fare. Basically it is the year 2013, and a series of earthquakes have caused the city of Los Angeles to separate from the country, and just like New York it is a giant prison for criminals to live in. It is there that terrorist Cuervo Jones (Georges Corraface) has kidnapped Utopia (A.J. Langer), the daughter of the President (Spider-Man's Cliff Robertson), and brainwashed her to steal a device that controls an EMP weapon system orbiting the Earth. The only person who can stop the bad guys and retrieve the doomsday device is former soldier, and the man who survived New York, one-eyed rebel Snake Plissken (Kurt Russell), who only agrees a deal to help the good guys in exchange for his freedom and his life. To make sure that he does the job he has been injected with Plutoxin 7 virus, which will kill him in ten hours, he only be cured when he has retrieved the weapon device, and possibly even killed the President's daughter. The President is unconvinced the war hero turned criminal will do it, but Cmdr. Malloy (Stacy Keach) knows that he will do anything to get his own way, and of course save his skin, all they can do is wait for him to contact them. Plissken is helped along the way by rebel fighter Taslima (Valeria Golino), crosses paths with dodgy swindler Map to the Stars Eddie (Steve Buscemi), and meets up with old friend Hershe Las Palmas (Jackie Brown's Pam Grier) the transsexual gang leader. By the end, Snake successfully recovers the doomsday device, defeats the bad guys, and all along he wasn't actually infected at all, it was a trick to make him do the job, but with a hologram and the real device handy, Snake gets his own back and activates the device, to bring all power and electricity to the world to an end. Also starring Peter Fonda as Pipeline, Bruce Campbell as Surgeon General of Beverly Hills and Michelle Forbes as Brazen. The cast is all fine, and the story is relatively interesting, the only problems are that some of the special effects could be much better, and you feel like it is something you have seen before, which is true, but there are some likable enough explosive sequences, so it is not a completely terrible futuristic action thriller sequel. Okay! "},{"Title":"Very Poor Sequel","Date":"9 November 2003","Score":"12 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Despite being one of the worst sequels a major Hollywood studio has produced ESCAPE FROM LA gets off to a fairly good start as we see an earthquake hitting California , but unfortunately the film plays out almost exactly like ESCAPE FROM NEW YORK , and I do mean exactly . For example Snake is given a mission in LA which has been turned into a prison just like in the original , he`s injected with something that will kill him if he tries to abscond just like in the original , he faces conflict in an arena just like... In fact it`s absolutely ridiculous how much this film mirrors the original , lazy scripting of the lowest order which means there`s no surprises .There are one or two aspects that might market it as being original like satirical touches ( The plastic surgery sequence is the only clever bit of the movie ) and scathing attacks on the fundamental christian right and political correctness but these two attacks are locked together and when have you seen a politically correct fundamental christian right winger ? I should also point out that the special effects are nothing short of pathetic, I`ve seen cartoons with more realistic effects    "}]