[{"Title":"Read my comment.","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"106 out of 136 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Shaquille O'Neal delivers an Oscar worthy performance in what might be the most powerful performance of the 90's. All around, it is brilliant. This is a gripping and amazing tale about a genie and his friendship with a lonely child. Acting is purely amazing and the story is beautifully played out like poetry in motion. Honestly, this film goes down as one of the all time greats. Top to bottom, this film is perfectly mastered. Every actor in this film comes through and nails the role perfectly. 11/10Now, imagine the exact opposite of that. Got it? Okay, the truth is...the movie isn't even *that* good. Shaq, what were you thinking? "},{"Title":"WTF, man?","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"35 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Dude. This movie was AWESOME. I loved when he dunked it. Alright, i'm drinking, but so what? So, apparently I have to fill 10 lines of text. That's terrible. Good thing I got half a bottle of wine left. So, yeah, Kazaam was amazing. Shaq was a genie. Who better to play the part? No one, that's who. Yizzeah. So, anyway, Max lives in Compton and is sick of getting shot at so he hires this basketball player to be his genie. Said basketball player is terrible at free-throws. Anyway, this guy is always..like..turning crap into something else and making some other crap fall from the sky. Then he (and the Miami Heat) beat the Washington Wizards 105-86 in the opening game of their Eastern-Conference-semifinals playoff series, but then he lost to Steve Nash in the MVP voting. So, the moral is, genies are better than wizards. "},{"Title":"I feel enlightened after watching this movie (in the good way, not the naked after a party way).","Date":"5 September 2006","Score":"60 out of 98 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I remember watching this film as a semi-retarded adolescent and not enjoying it due to the vague underlying themes that flew over my head at such a young age. However, last week, passing this movie in the Blockbuster Mega-Discount bin, I decided to re-watch it and see if my opinion has changed.(I tried to keep this review as spoiler free as possible, without losing some of the movie's flair. I feel I have succeeded) I must say, spending that 2.50$ plus tax was the greatest decision of my pitiful and shameful life. In the 5 days I have had the VHS, I have watched this film at least 15 times, I unfortunately lost track after blacking out naked on my carpet on the 2nd day. This movie goes down in history as one of the 5 greatest drama sequels of all time, and If I had to put a rating on it's comedy factor, I would give it 4 thumbs way up. I found myself laughing throughout the entire film, calling my friends and family to repeat jokes I had heard. The casting in this film is absolutely excellent, with Shaq leading the performance like a Frenchman in a yogurt factory. The story revolves around a genie named Shaq, and a small Italian boy named Max. Upon finding a magic stereo player, Max discovers a small black genie living inside, and offers to give him a place to sleep and eat for a week. Ironically, this is where the theme of pedophilia comes into play, with multiple scenes of Max and Shaq showering together and close up shots of them smiling. I hate to repeat myself, but as a child, I understood nothing about this subject. However, as a fleshy man, I see it in a new and blinding light.There are several moments throughout the play where the development of the characters and storyline drag, but the rest of the film certainly make up for it. The end is griping, and keeps me on the edge of my seat every time I watch it. At the same time, I cry when the credits roll and long to see Shaq's black face one more time (of course, I will rewind the movie at this point and watch it over again).On a final note, this movie is almost perfect in every aspect. This is the epitome of what a Hollywood blockbuster should be. The casting is amazing, the special effects are mind-blowingly realistic and stunning, the fully orchestrated soundtrack fits the mood perfectly and amplifies the experience. If I were to put a grade on this, I would have to give it a 9/10, losing a point because of the slight nudity (i'm not the biggest fan, but I won't say no!). But, this is not a movie to be rated, it is a movie to be bought, watched, and enjoyed. Do yourself a big favor and buy this movie, your taste buds will thank you. "},{"Title":"This movie changed my life.","Date":"3 November 2006","Score":"24 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This movie really helped me find myself. Before I saw this movie, I wandered this streets crying often knowing my life had no purpose. Until one faithful day, I found myself in Chuckey Cheese on my usual drinking binge. When to my surprise, the robotic Chucky Cheese and gang started singing Happy Birthday which sounds exactly like You're the Best (a song from Karate Kid) after an eleven day drink binge. I saw a bright light, which many witnesses argue was a fire cause from the bad wiring in the Chucky Cheese band, pointing at the prize shelf. I took the remaining money I found on a passed out man outside the Chucky Cheese and went to play the Wack-A-Mole game that changed my life. I furiously pounded the moles while I was in the middle of the Chucky Cheese. The children screamed and cried as I fulfilled my destiny; if I could see those children again, I would hug them, for I would not have been able to win those two magical tickets. I went over to thank Chucky which soon after I blacked out, passing out on stage I woke up a few days later in my one room apartment with the tape super-glued to my face. In my excitement I quickly tore it from my skin and shoved it into my VCR. The next hour and thirty-six minutes (I got the special edition) of my life would be the happiest any man could ask for. I was so blown away by the amazing special effects that I was overcame and called an ambulance to pick me up after the movie ended. Shaq play a stunning and realistic role as a rapping Genie. I often found myself dancing in room to his tunes while my neighbor was yelling hurtful words and threats through the wall. After awhile though, I passed out on my floor. Awaking from another blackout, I caught glimpses of Shaq giving candy to all the children. I laughed, I cried. Could this movie be as brilliant as I realized. The ambulance pulled up and I told the paramedics to grab my belly; I was immediately tared. After a few weeks in intensive care, I returned to my house how I left it. Kazaam has given me a new out look on life and hopefully it will help shape your views. "},{"Title":"Please make it stop.","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"36 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This is the worst film I have ever seen.I was watching this film with some friends and after 40 minutes we had enough. The plot was bad and there wasn't a single likeable character.I could get more entertainment watching static. I gave this movie a 1 only because the scale didn't go into negative numbers. Avoid this movie at all costs.  "},{"Title":"Shaq should stay OUT of music and acting!!!","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"38 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  What a pathetic movie.I won't waste much time commenting about it.  I'm still trying to get back the couple hours I wasted on it.Let me leave it simply with - Shaq has NO BUSINESS being an actor or singer.  He is utterly without talent at both discplines.  It's a crying shame that substantially more talented people waste away in community theatres and karaoke bars while Shaq uses his name as a basketball player to undeservedly get cast in movies and cut CDs.Much of the failure of this movie was the pathetic no-talent that is Shaq.  "},{"Title":"(Sigh.)","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"28 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  There's only one thing I need to say about this movie - the scene where Shaq is in a musical number with Francis Capra's character about wanting to be a genie; never see this movie.  The story is horrible, the acting is terrible (c'mon, it's Shaq!) and I'd rather see Capra in Free Willy (equally horrible) twice before ever seeing this movie. "},{"Title":"what the hell?","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"28 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of the most god-awful movies ever.  Shaq better just stick to basketball.  This movie took away apart of my life I will never have back. I will make fun of this movie until I die, and then some. It is so horrible it is not even funny.  MST3000 would have a blast with this one. "},{"Title":"Shaq stars as a rapping genie.","Date":"18 July 2004","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This is, by far, without a doubt, the best movie that has ever been produced on film. Shaq's awesomely realistic portrayal of a rapping genie is the best thing to be displayed on screen in decades, rivaling performances of Al Pacino, Kerry Grant, Jack Nicholson, Marlon Brando, and all of the other great actors of our time. Now Shaquille O'Neal shall be added to that list. This uniquely told tale of a boy who finds a whimsical boom box wherein lies a magical genie is one hundred percent genius. This film came at a time when good writing and good casting was scarce in Hollywood; but this film renews hope in a new generation of audiences, and renews hope in a culture. >From the musical score to the costume design, this film is purely golden; the 'Citizen Kane' of a new generation.  "},{"Title":"Once upon a time...","Date":"21 March 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" For the life me, now that I'm 19 (almost 20) I have no idea why I watched it as much as I did. My dad actually laughed when I asked to get it. For one, it stars Shaquille O'Neal, which should have been a clue. At the time, I thought that was neat, and made me watch it more. I loved this movie while I was young. I use to pray for the genie, so I could make it rain candy. The most hilarious part, was it was an illegal copy, and at the bottom of the screen, it would scroll This is an illegal copy. If you have bought this from a store, you have broken the law. Anyway, as I got older, I saw how stupid the story line is, and how bad the acting is. However, it was part of my childhood, and you can't ignore your childhood. Make fun of me all you want for once liking it, but remember, I was seven at the time. "}{"Title":"If you see this film..... You're as stupid as me","Date":"24 December 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" So I'm aware that this film was released a fair while ago, but I've only just seen it; and not out of free will. I can some up this film in 1 word.... Shaq, the only actor who is more robotic than the Terminator. And really thats all that needs to be said, it's a stupid stupid movie that barely makes any sense, it's so uninteresting that I could feel myself getting stupider as I watched. If you see a copy of this film DESTROY IT, and then maybe one day the world will be ridden of this raping of cinema known as Kazaam1/10 (and the only reason it scored that high is that i'm not allowed to give it a zero) "},{"Title":"At least Shaq has rapping to fall back on...","Date":"23 December 2006","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" i was given the book version of Kazaam for my 8th birthday, and people always say the book versions are always better than the movie, but this time they were wrong. At least with the movie it's over soon.The acting in this is terrible, which i expected from a film with Shaq who plays a magical rapping genie that comes out of an old ghetto blaster (which there was probably a good reason he was trapped in there). The kid in the film that plays Max is whiny and a terrible actor. He's bullied by neighborhood kids, which i don't blame them because he's a little douche bag.The story is just plain stupid and extremely cliché. About a boy who's father is always working and never around who finds a new friend who makes his life better and eventually helps him reconnect with his father.Even at 8 years old i thought this was a stupid idea. It's a surprise any of the people whom worked on this film had careers after wards because it's an embarrassment and should have never been made. i could ramble on even more about how this movie sucks, but you should already know just by reading the plot. "},{"Title":"A perfect example of a movie that I loved as a child, hate as an adult...","Date":"1 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Well, adolescent really(19). Like Howard the Duck, Kazaam was a movie I loved as a child but looking back on it I was shocked at how low my taste buds were as a kid. Granted, there are some funny moments specifically the ones with the flying toasts and the bicycle race. And it is not the worst movie of 1996, Ed and especially Bio Dome are worse. However, the special effects are really quite substandard, and the rest of the production values are of direct to video quality and shoddy ones at that. The story is predictable with only a few worthwhile scenes to favour, the sight gags suffer from poor comic timing and the script is childish and simplistic. The characters I really dislike here, the kid is annoying, the villain is one of the lamest I have seen in a long time while Shaquille O'Neal's Genie with his awful rapping(then again I dislike rap intensely, and that is the least problematic of his performance) grated on me fast. The acting doesn't fare much better either, while the direction is literally non-existent and the soundtrack is only tolerable if on mute. This is of course my opinion, disagree all you want, I guess I just didn't like it. 2/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"People who hate on this must just hate life D","Date":"14 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Quite simply I want to say that this shouldn't be in the bottom 100 movies as voted by the users of IMDb. It is a great heart warming movie, perfect for the whole family. There are many many many other movies out there so much worse than this movie. It made me laugh and that's exactly what a good comedy should do.This movie was hilarious! A rapping genie who knows kung fu and lives in a boom box played by none other than Shaquille O'Neal, what more could you want in a comedy?! I mean sure some of it was cringe worthy and it's not exactly Oscar material, but overall it was a great laugh. Anyone who wants to dis this movie needs to lighten up a little. Shaq has the greatest sense of humor! "},{"Title":"Very Enjoyable","Date":"15 May 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" OK, i'll admit that this movie is defiantly not going to be the idealistic fun, thrilling, and adventurous movie that adults these days like to see, but it is absolutely wonderful for children. It is a great family movie to watch. I loved this movie when i was young and i would still watch it today if i saw it on T.V. I love the plot, the humors and the actors in this movie. It is very entertaining for young kids and will keep them interested in the t.v. screen. I recommend watching this movie with your kids for a great family bonding time. It is cute and meaningful and might teach your children a thing or two. If your children are 10 or younger, they will definitely like it. "},{"Title":"This movie is crunchy. That's a good thing.","Date":"12 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is classic. You need to see it. Max makes all the wishes you would make if you didn't believe that shack could be a genie. Anyway it has great one liners and shack is great in it. Max also grows up to be Warehouse Hood Leader in crank. Max also asks for like 15 wishes that shack cannot grant. He can give him junk food to the ceiling though. I'm not allowed to spell shack the traditional way it is spelled. wait I'm not allowed to put spiteful remarks? remember when shack did that caramel crunch commercial? it is pretty much an hour and a half of that. that still means that I really like it. well all and all it was a great movie that I saw right when it went straight to video. shaq is really tall and i look foreword to still owning this DVD. Hey I can say Shaq! I'm i mean h'm going to tell everyone! "},{"Title":"Eh...","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Now everybody knows Shaq should stick to basketball. This movie wasn't as horrific as pointed out but I've seen better. A 5,000 year old, rapping, seven-foot genie trapped in a boom box is suddenly awakened by a 12 year old New York boy with nothing better to do. He grants the kid three wishes (all which are not that great) and through it all, a friendship develops. Shaq--or Kazaam-- is discovered at a nightclub, becomes a temporary success, while somehow Max is unhappy with his life. His father is involved in selling bootleg tapes and is involved in some kind of scheme with Malik, the Middle Eastern owner of the club. Max's final wish is for his daddy to have a second-chance. The wish is granted, Shaq is released from that stupid boom box, becomes free, and runs off with Asia-Moon (some woman in the club). "},{"Title":"wowwwwwwww","Date":"12 June 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" this has got to be the greatest film of all time. Shaq should have won an Oscar for his great acting. The musical score is the best i ever heard in modern cinema. I will be trying to find the DVD movie of this next weekend..i would gladly pay 99.00 bucks to own it on DVD. what i like even most about the film is the attention to detail..even the boombox..awesome..i want to own it. I only wish this movie was five hours long...or at least make at least five sequels..with shaq singing and rapping in all films..what an awesome movie. The wishes he makes in the film were the correct ones. It had a very emotional ending. I think about this movie every day. I believe half the audience in the theatre cried with emotion also. I have been meaning to comment on this film a long time ago..but was filled with too much emotion even to this day to come to grips in writing a review for such a gripping wonderful masterpiece in American cinema. "},{"Title":"best movie","Date":"3 February 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I need to so some research in order to find out what film topped this on the Oscar list, but regardless a tragedy has occurred. Most likely the best performance of Shaq's career, this film changed the way I looked at life. You cannot give up on your dreams. Especially if you have a giant African-American wizard at your side. If I had to describe this movie in one word it would be revolutionary. The character that portrayed Max will surely go on to bigger and better things unless he decides directing is a better career move. I think the greatest compliment this movie could be given is that it is the Aladdin of live action movies without as good of script.thanks, George "},{"Title":"Once again, I was misled by others' negative revues...","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Based on the opinions of some (not all) of the other reviewers, I expected this movie to be horrible.  I was quite pleasantly surprised that -- while Shaq will probably never win a Golden Globe award -- it was a very entertaining and heart-warming story.  Unlike some others, I had no trouble watching it to the end, and I was not sorry that I had allocated that portion of my lifespan to viewing it. In short, the movie was about a 5,000-year-old genie stuck in a boom box who befriends the lonely 12-year-old boy who finds him and whose only (real) wish is for his parents to get back together.If you take it for the light-hearted comedy for which it was intended and not expect classic cinema, then IMO, it is well worth a look.I give it 6 out of 10. "}{"Title":"KAZAAM *1/2 OF ****","Date":"23 April 2004","Score":"18 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Shaquille O' Neal plays a rapping genie helping a kid(his name....who cares) to re-unite with his work~a~holic father. OK, this movie is deeply flawed, mild in entertainment, but with all of these rappers and basketball stars (Omarion in You Got Served, Darius Miles in The Perfect Score) in movies playing rappers and basketball stars, at least Shaq attempts to be a genie,and TRIES to stretch his acting ability by being something he's not. Besides that, the kid's wishes are implausible, seeing as candy bars and burgers rain (through a roof somehow) and come down perfect in order and unsmushed. I can't see which audience this is targeting. Kids won't be awed and 12+ will be laughing for all of the wrong reasons.VERDICT *1/2 of **** Not Recommended "},{"Title":"Wish it Away","Date":"22 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Unbelievably, this movie was made after Robin Williams showed the world how awesome a genie could be. Maybe they didn't see Aladdin. Or any movie.Kazaam could possibly be one of the worst movies ever made. Terrible and mixed messages, bad dialogue, cinematography and editing from a blind person, horrible and uncharismatic characters &#x96; so no one to root for, inconsistences in an incoherent script, sickening special effects and probably the most horrifying raps any human spoke/sang are just some of the problems. But, I'm sure with the many more issues I didn't list, this film could be taught in college on how not to make a movie. This all-over-the-place mess didn't even try. Sometimes I just feel sorry for bad filmmakers who had a vision and at least tried. There was no attempt here but some to cash a check that probably bounced anyways.Not much of a plot, but a bullied and unlikable kid releases a boom-box genie in an abandoned building that was in the process of being demolished, but the filmmakers forgot to finish that idea. Kazaam, a bland genie, just wants to grant three wishes to the delinquent so he could be imprisoned again, I guess. All that is followed by no less than six other subplots, none of worth repeating, remembering or writing about.Again, there's so many things wrong with this family-friendly kid movie, but probably the most despicable is how creepy the adult Kazaam acts around his master, the 12-year-old boy. He stalks him, ends up in bed with him and even kisses him&#x85;on the mouth, no less. I don't care that this came out 20 years ago, none of this should've ever been seen as anything but a recruiting video for pedophiles. It's not so bad it's good, it's so bad&#x85;it's unforgivable. ***Final thoughts Granted, I just watched a ton of artsy Oscar-bait movies to catch up on the 2015 nominated movies, so I wanted a little dumb movie action. Additionally, I needed to see this this for the fantastic How Did This Get Made? podcast that covered it. Maybe I did get my wish I really got something INCREDIBLY dumb. You outdid yourself this time, Kazaam! "},{"Title":"Pimp my Genie.....","Date":"12 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Kazaam has been sealed up for thousands of years, until one day he is accidentally freed by Max, who is on the run from a local gang. Kazaam explains that he belongs to Max until he grants him three wishes, but what Max really wants is to get to know his estranged father. When the genie, who considers trying his hand at a music career, forgets about his young master, Max is attacked by villainous club owner Malik..........Shaq had a couple of years in the nineties where the marketing bods saw something I the brand that was Shaq. First there was his silly game, Shaq-Fu, which was a Mortal Kombat rip off, then there was his illustrious music career, which in turn gave him the chance not only to star, but to executive produce his two 'big' movies.Steel came after this, and is decidedly better than this, but there is something really weird about Kazaam, it's bad, sometimes hilariously bad, but the studio must have had a little faith in the film, being released in the summer, just a couple of weeks after Independence Day.So Max finds Shaq, hates his mother and step dad to be, finds his real dad, who hates him, and in turn, influences Shaq to hate everybody via the power of rap, and his magical boom box.The first wish Max should have asked for was to repair that distracting crooked tooth to be corrected, and to get some manners, because Max has to be one of the most unbearable child characters I've seen in a while. He's abhorrent to his mother, who appears to be in a totally different film, and he looks up to a man who wouldn't give him the time of day.Shaq cannot act for a toffee, here it seems that he was just trying to showcase his rappin' talents and hope that the two combined would catapult him to the big time.It didn't,And the fact that Max falls the equivalent of the Chrysler building through the film begs the question, is all this happening in his subconscious? Die he really see a man take a shower in his own room?Clearly not as horrid as most say, but it's still pretty terrible. "},{"Title":"Rapping Genie Shaq?? Try free throws","Date":"27 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" *may contain spoilers* OK, this isn't the worst movie I've ever seen, however, it's not a good movie. the child actor wasn't great here and was kinda mean and rude to Kazaam. Shaq (playing Kazaam) was as good as he possibly could be, which of course isn't good. Shaq's just not an actor, he's a physical specimen, he's a monster basketball player who you don't want to play against, but acting isn't his thing and if that was his real rapping, then that also is really bad. He actually said, Let's Green Egg and Ham it. Anyways, the plot is that Shaq's a rapping genie who gets let out of his radio type lamp and gives Max three wishes and Shaq raps (or as i call it, doing bad poetry) almost everything he says. If you like Shaq and just want to see his presence or are curious to see his very short rap career, then, watch the movie. i, however, didn't love it, but again, it wasn't the worst I've seen. "},{"Title":"It's about as good as 'Shaq Fu'","Date":"15 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Bad movies are easy to fault, 'Kazaam' is a total mystery, a movie that goes wrong from the very basic concept. I could not figure out how anyone thought that casting basketball great Shaquille O'Neal as a genie was a good idea. How in the world do you convince anyone to spend millions of dollars on this concept? I could argue that it's an ad for Shaq as a product but the movie showcases none of the charm and talent that have made him a star athlete. So what's the point? The pathetic stab at a story involves a lonely kid who finds a boom box in the wreckage of an old building. Suddenly out pops a 5,000-year-old genie that grants him three wishes. Therein lies the first question &#x96; How could a 5,000 year old genie live in an object that has probably been around only about 10 years? Kazaam gives the kid a mountain of candy that falls from the sky and therein lies the second question &#x96; How does he know what candy is and how does he know how to materialize them in wrappers that he has never seen? I also put this question to the mountain bike that he presents to the kid. Kazaam's boom box was found the wreckage of a building. Somehow I feel like I've given more thought to this script then they did.As for the kid, he's played by Francis Capra, a young actor the I liked in Robert De Niro's 'A Bronx Tale' a few years back. In that film he was likable, bright and always seemed to be listening when the other actors were speaking to him, not just waiting for his cue. Here that's all gone, he's bored and never seems to be trying. It's kind of like watching Maculay Culkin in his worst films.'Kazaam' is tired. I'm not just talking about the script or idiotic idea of casting Shaquille O'Neal as a genie but I mean this movie is paced so lethargically that it made me tired just watching it do nothing. This is what I call a 'door movie', because the filmmakers don't care what you see on screen because after you've paid the admission and gone through the door, their job is basically done. "},{"Title":"An example of why Shag should go back to basketball","Date":"29 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Never heard of this film before, but after looking at the Nostalgia Critic review of this abomination, I did see this movie and I permanently despise it, but it's not the worst movie ever made. There are two enjoyable scenes in this movie which includes the bike race sequence and the flying french toasts. However, those two scenes didn't exactly make this film worth watching. The special effects are quite substandard, the script is too childish and very simple, and the story is pretty predictable. The acting is the worst aspect of this film, especially Shag's acting (even his rapping is much worse) and the child actor is so annoying it would make you want to slap him in the face.Overall, not the worst compared to Batman and Robin, Garbage Pail Kids, and Battlefield Earth, but still a horrible movie that needs to be avoided.Rating 2/10 "},{"Title":"The 90's were not funny, they were stupid.","Date":"9 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I've just started watching my way through IMBDs bottom 100 and this definitely belongs there, I'm pretty sure it deserves to be higher up than number 99 too. I've seen a video review of this so I kind of knew what to expect but it turned out to be so much worse. The other two films from the list that I've seen so far were immensely boring because nothing ever happened in them. This one at least had some action in it but every single thing that happened was just stupid. Now, I can enjoy stupid movies; films that are so bad they become funny, this one though was painfully unfunny. On top of that, the film is in the mid 90's and the film makers make that abundantly clear with the way people dress and above all the horrible hip hop music playing throughout the film. It reminds me of all the bad things about the 90's and none of the good ones. By far the worst thing though is Kazaam himself who, despite being thousands of years old is hip, but not in a good way, and goes around rhyming every sentence he utters like some kind of idiotic hip hop artist. That Shaq can't rap doesn't exactly make it any better.This whole thing feels like a bad 90's music video - starring an untalented rapper - drawn out to a full length feature. "},{"Title":"Some Lamps Should Be Permanently Sealed","Date":"14 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This isn't as much of a film as it is a giant promotional campaign by Touchstone Pictures to market the NBA's worst free thrower with his extraordinary height. Not only is this obviously forever trapped in a time capsule set to 1996, but everything in this film is done so bad that it's completely laughable.If I had a handful of cardboard cutouts, they would be far more dimensional than any of the people that acted in this film. It's obvious that Shaq not only fails at free throws, rapping and being a video game character, but his acting is absolutely dreadful. He's a rapping (actually a RHYMING) genie that moved into a boombox and is summoned when a boy named Max (played by a young Francis Capra) stumbles upon him after being chased by bullies. Throughout the movie, Shaq becomes a subject of slavery as Max owns him until his three wishes are granted. That's pretty much the whole plot, unless you're actually going to include a meaningless subplot about finding the true father.It doesn't get any better from there. Shaq demonstrates his mad rapping skills by appearing at a night club where he becomes a selected guest. Guess how fast Theodor Geisel was spinning in his grave when he brought forth the detestable line of Let's green egg and ham it! Probably around the same speed that would also be brought forth by those two live action adaptations that shall not be named.Then there's some phenomenal acting. I'm talking about the magical french toast. That performance was far more convincing than anything you could expect Shaq to give us. Too bad this film killed its career.Speaking of career killers, ever noticed what happened to Paul Michael Glaser after he directed this film? It's a long story.Granted, it's not one of THE worst things I have ever seen, but it's very close. Kazaam is proof that pitching a non actor as a main character usually does not give satisfactory results. With all this time wasted in the production of this film, I bet Shaq could have gotten some more practice at free throws. The most shocking thing about this? Shaq actually got ANOTHER lead role a year later, but that's a whole different story subject. "},{"Title":"Why would someone make a film with Shaq as a Genie?","Date":"19 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Boy, this is one of the worst films I've seen. No wonder it's on IMDb's Bottom 100 list.I'll start off with the good parts It did have some funny moments like the scene with the flying french toasts and the scene where Max and Kazaam are having a bicycle race.The bad parts Everything else in this movie was boring and bad.Shaq as a genie is just plain awful. Beside's he can't even rap. In one scene, he's singing, Let's Green Eggs and Ham it. Seriously? That's kinda like a 5-year old doing a rap song.The other character's weren't even that good. Max is annoying. The villain is not even that evil. Literally.Also, wasn't this suppose to be a family film? In one scene, Max say's, So after my 2 last wishes, I own you?, then Kazaam say's, Technically. Is it me, or is this film about slavery?Overall, Kazaam, is an awful movie that's not even worth watching. But compare it to, Batman and Robin, Son of the Mask, or Battlefield Earth, it's not that bad. So if you're looking for a good movie with a Genie in it, watch the Disney movie, Aladdin. That film has a Genie that can sing and make you laugh. He is also voiced by Robin Williams. A GOOD actor. "},{"Title":"All hail Shaq.","Date":"7 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" The movie Kazaam featuring the multi-talented Shaquille O'Neal should be the standard which all movies are held to. Since originally viewing this wonderful work of cinema 15 years ago, I can say it has definitely held up to the test of time. I've yet to see a movie that even comes close to achieving the depth of character, raw emotion, and beauty that Kazaam portrays. Shaq is definitely a triple threat -- basketball, acting, and singing, what's next!? I can't wait to see more from this truly awe-inspiring man. This film has definitely slid under the radar of Hollywood critics, which I see as a blessing. I'd hate for this movie to get wildly popular and lose its innocence. Once I have children of my own, this will be one of the few movies I allow them to watch since it preaches such good morals & values. If you're debating whether to watch this film or not -- DO IT! Your life will never be the same in the best way possible. "}{"Title":"Am I the only one who thought this was actually a good movie?","Date":"9 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" First off, I will not sit here and say that the movie was perfect.However, I feel like everybody did great in their roles for their character portrayals. Personally, giving the overall movie a rating of 2.6 is a little harsh,don't ya think?It wasn't that bad,but then again I enjoy ALL movies and I only know of a few that was a waste of film!It all depends on the viewer and their perspective of things.Im an artist so naturally Im a little more open minded than some,but honestly,what did you TRULY expect from this movie?What would YOU have done differently?This is a general question.For me,once you can answer that, then you'll see how ridiculous panning this movie is.lol ^_^ "},{"Title":"Extraordinary acting, fantastic musical score and superb direction. This movie is a classic.","Date":"25 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This movie has gotten a bad wrap over the years, but in reality, it maybe one of the best of our generation. I remember watching this movie over and over and over and over again as a child and enjoying it more than any of those cookie cutter Disney movies.We have become so jaded and left our youth behind if we say this movie is terrible. Think about it; the acting was definitely above par for such a film, the direction was great, and the musical score was beautiful. It was subtle enough that I could hardly notice it but left me tapping my feet noticeably from the for the entire film. I love this film, always have and most certainly always will. It might not be The Godfather and it might not be Titanic but it is definitely not one of the 100 worst movies of all time. To place this piece of work there is dishonest and over all wrong! Enjoy this fantastic family movie. "},{"Title":"it wasn't that bad","Date":"16 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Kazaam is an alright movie and isn't that bad. It doesn't deserve to be rated so low and in the bottom 100. It was decent. The movie starts out a little shaky but it gets better. The acting in the movie is kinda bad and the plots are very predictable but it was still okay. I'll admit that Shaq's acting is bad and he should stick to rapping and the NBA, the other characters acting weren't that awful.The movie has a nice fell to it while watching, the scenes and designs are cool. One of my favorite parts in the movie is when Max is talking to Kazaam and Kazaam tells him that he has 3 wishes, so Max wishes that it would rain burgers and fries. That part was funny and cool. I also liked the ending in the movie.Id recommend this movie "},{"Title":"number two all time greatest movie","Date":"25 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Yeah thats number two behind none other than shaq's other masterpeice Steel Who other bashes this movie is obviously deaf and mute because there is no way that his briliant acting and great costumes can steer any movie wrong. Loved it, youll love it, theyll love it and by they i mean you so really i guess its just you'll love it. 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Great family movie, deserved of criticle acclaim!","Date":"25 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" **** y'all haters, i put a lot into this performance and i was massively pleased with the outcome. I wish they had Max as a black kid just to make it seem more true to life but otherwise this was a great movie! Filming it was fun and when i showed it to my cousins they thought it was great, considering how much effort went into the production of this film and having you film 'connoisseurs' hating on it. You can all suck my fat one. For all of you out there who appreciated this film and voted 7 or above out of 10 for i want to thank you. Shaq out! "},{"Title":"Boom Shaka Laka, Kazaam Scores!","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Kazaam is a winning combination of a coming-of-age story, and a slapstick comedy, with pulse-pounding basketball scenes.  Never before has the ghetto been portrayed with such realism, and shaquille O'neal's fearless performance is worthy of the recent oscar buzz.  I make one suggestion to all of you, WISH that you can get tickets to see this masterpiece of the cinema.   "},{"Title":"Come on, folks, it wasn't THAT bad...","Date":"29 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Okay, Shaq can't act. But he doesn't need to; he's mostly there to be big and imposing. It's hardly a good movie, but it's an entertaining kidflick...  "},{"Title":"Movies is GREAT!!!!!","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This movie had one of the best plots by FAR! the way the movie starts with the young boy getting the crap beatin out of him then finding this magic genie BOOMBOOK!, WAS GREAT!!! i do not know who has come up with this but its remarkable! almost as good as Fear and Loathing In Las Vegas but it close up there on my list!! Also the acting and rapping my Shaq was Awesome i've never seen something so great i practically cried my eyes out when they busted in to that sweet hot lil funky number!! well, thats about all i can remember of this great movie! hope u go out and rent to you can enjoy this very well done movie KAZAAM! P.S. The ending really got me i almost cried but i held back, god bless and enjoy the film! "},{"Title":"A rapping genie... played by Shaq... what could be better??","Date":"18 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" A rapping genie... played by Shaq... what could be better?? I honestly love this movie and watch it every time it graces the TV screen! It may not be the best movie ever made (it isn't by far), but it is very enjoyable to watch. Shaq did have a few rap records that many enjoyed. This movie is a lot about his rapping and the catchy rhymes make it all worth-while. I recommend it to any Shaq fan who is up for a laugh. It is also a great movie for little kids as it actually does teach a lesson. I thought Shaq did alright acting. He had another role in an even better film by the name of Blue Chips starring Nick Nolte. His role was rather limited but all in all some decent acting from an athlete. "},{"Title":"yo gangsta kid meets gangsta genie, with gangsta results!!!","Date":"21 December 2006","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Possibly the best movie ever made this is the gangsta version of Aladdin. No blue genie trash! This is gangsta all the way!!! I watched it and I was like yo this is seriously gangsta. Yo ya gotta catch this move, Shaq is the best actor/actress ever or at least the most gangsta!!! The boom box scene freaked me out and is not suitable for younger audiences. Yo but this man, this was g...g...a...ngsta. I Love You Shaq!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! U my main bro see ya in the hood. Whoever disses this movie is an un-gangster weirdo who I assume smells funky. Yo me and my sizzles were like yo this movie gansta. I was like I gotta write to Shaq make a sequel bro!!! I call it Kabaam, or Jumanji I haven't decided either one is gansta. I also came up with a really gansta rap Yo Yo Yo im a gangster, My name Kazaam, Shazaam, Babaam yo yo yo gansta. "}{"Title":"Make This Crap Disappear.","Date":"5 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Kazaam (1996) Dir Paul M. Glaser / Cast Shaquille O'Neal, Francis Capra, Ally Walker, James Acheson, Marshall Manesh Ridiculous and violent film aimed at younger viewers. Francis Capra plays a boy angry about the split between his parents. He lives with his mother since his father pirates music. Upon escaping from bullies in an abandon building he unleashes Kazaam the genie from a boom box. Like all genies he can grant three wishes but unfortunately none of them involve the ending of this film arrive sooner. Very lame and extremely violent towards the end. Director Paul M. Glaser manages to turn the film into a mess without the assistance of three wishes. Shaquille O'Neal looks pitiful in that stupid clown outfit, and Capra does exactly as expected and arrives right where viewers will likely predict he will be by the film's end. Ally Walker is wasted as Capra's mother who is discouraged with regards to his father but loves her son, etc. His father is one of these guys who just doesn't know any better. Marshall Manesh plays a nightclub owner who shows interest in Kazaam as oppose to a superior script. The only area of compliment are perhaps the special effects, otherwise the film serves only as a showcase for O'Neal in a bunch of stupid action sequences and looking foolish in the process. This film should be kazammed into a campfire to see if it burns into something magical. Score 1 / 10 "},{"Title":"If you watch this, expect a strong feeling of loss and regret","Date":"11 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This movie deserves no rating, and it's not for the reasons you'd think. It is a complete failure, but mostly because it got past common sense, Hollywood budgets, and directing standards.All because I believe Shaq threw enormous piles of money at it, and no one wanted to tell him this was the worst possible movie idea.Also take note that Shaq raises his eyebrows every other word he speaks.Some moments are only mildly painful, while others are clench your teeth, eye-squinting travesties. Most notably, the rap battle between the boy and Shaq, where they repeat We ain't men, we genie.* Scowling at a piece of toast. * A boom box that shoots a shower of sparks * A grown man showering in front of a child * A rapping genie, that despite boasting his lyrical skills, always starts every rhyme with I am Kazaam * More than an hour of your life wastedThese are what you have to look forward to in watching this.I'm troubled that anyone thought this would make money, or legitimize Shaq's rapping career in the minds of children.If you have a choice between sitting in gridlock traffic for 9 hours, 10 straight hours of oral surgery or watching Kazaam, Kazaam wins by a slight margin. There's no more positive endorsement I can give. "},{"Title":"This is One Genie You Don't Want Three Wishes From","Date":"3 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" We're all familiar with genies in Middle Eastern mythologies. They could be in lamps like Aladdin or in bottles like I Dream of Jeannie. But never, and I repeat never, have I heard of genies coming out of boom boxes! Shaq O'Neil maybe a famous basketball player, but he's such a crappy actor! There are a lot of issues that should have been easily fixed in the first place.First, the acting. Is it me or did everybody woke up in the middle of the afternoon and decided to say Huh, whatever. Not my movie, I'm not going to act today. Second, the songs. And yes, Shaq O'Neil raps his brains out. But his rapping and the songs are so bland, I keep thinking that the songs were written by the same people who created Bebe's Kids and Tom and Jerry the Movie. Third, the humor. What is the intended age to make stupid jokes like that, ages Born-11 months?! This is probably the same age range intended for Babygeniuses and Titanic The Legend Goes On! And now, here's my rap for this movie This piece of crap is oh so bad, it makes me positively mad! It makes me shout and swear and scream, I'd throw this movie down a stream. It's Stupid and Crappy, Tacky and Sappy, Horrendous and Hideous Despicable and Tedious!Don't watch this movie, it'll get you rabies and the humor is intended for babies! Kazaam's a sham and Shaq O'Neil is full of ham! Kazaam is bad and this movie makes me really mad! And it stinks a lot like doggy poo, I might as well be playing Shaq Fu! (PS, that video game sucks too) Enough Said. "},{"Title":"* out of 4","Date":"5 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Being a lone young boy in the 'hood is dangerous and unpleasant. This is what Max experiences when he fools a gang of local toughs who cornered him at school. The gang finds out that the key he gave them is of no value in committing a robbery, and they chase him through the streets of his neighborhood, bent on revenge. He tries to escape by slipping into the open door of an old warehouse, but they follow him there, too. While running from them through aisles filled with all kinds of stuff, he bumps into an old boom box. By doing that, he manages to release Kazaam, a genie who has been held captive for thousands of years. In order to stay free, Kazaam must give Max three wishes.Kazaam. That title and movie makes you want to crap your pants. It's kind of a guilty pleasure. But, you can't help, but watch this film because it's terrible. I mean, it's just like Troll 2! It gives you that I need to watch this when you see the box. The film is bad. "},{"Title":"A 7 foot tall man is following a kid around the city offering him treats and wishes... see? We're already at problem #1 with this  movie","Date":"6 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" The other day my girlfriends and I were having our pizza night and looking for movies to watch. Kazaam was on demand and I asked if any the girls had seen it, only one of my friends did and I asked if it really was as bad as everyone says it is. She said she didn't remember since she saw it as a kid so we all decided to go for the bait and see if Kazaam really does deserve one of the worst movies in cinema titles. Oh, yeah, it really does. I could not believe how bad this movie was. Shaq has the acting quality of a wooden shelf, the kid who is supposed to be a hero is actually a brat, the villain of the story looks like a chewed up version of Mario from Super Mario Brothers and the story does not make sense for the child audience it was aimed for. How in the heck is a child supposed to relate to this story of trying to get his pirate music stealing father back with his mother while being stalked by a 7 foot tall grown man offering him free treats and all the presents in the world and OH MY GOD does that not sound so bad?! There are so many things wrong with this movie it drives me insane.A schoolboy named Max is confronted and chased down by a group of bullies through the city of New Bronslin. Max is chased into the abandoned building, where he discovers a magical boom-box and accidentally unleashes the genie inside. The genie, who introduces himself as Kazaam, tells Max that he is now Max's genie. Max returns home to find that his mother is marrying a fireman. It is revealed that his mother lied to him about his real father's whereabouts, and that he is actually located in the city. Max set out to search for his father in the hopes of rekindling some sort of bond between them. He suddenly encounters Kazaam during his travels, who pesters Max into making a wish. Max eventually finds his father, only to learn that he is a musical talent agent who specializes in pirated music. A employee of the nightclub shows interest in Kazaam upon the realization that he is a genie, and hopes to control Kazaam through Max's father.Between the awful acting, the terrible script and the lousy effects, this movie is just plain bad. This is how bad this is, Shaq literally slam dunks the villain to defeat him! If that's not a plug in for his career, I don't know what is. The kid Max has no likable qualities, he has a very loving mother and a possible step father who cares for him, yet he acts like a total jerk because he's not getting his way with not having his dad around who is a criminal no less! Even when his criminal father kicks him out of his life, Max still does everything to save him, sick isn't it? Shaq, I don't know the writers were thinking. Maybe that it's so funny that a giant basketball super star should be a genie and it's a great way to make a quick buck for those sucker parents who's kids are begging to see the film. I don't know how to say this other than just say it, it really is as bad as everyone says it is if not worse. Trust me, don't waste your sanity on this horrible movie, Shaq's acting is enough to make you wish this movie never existed in the first place.1/10 "},{"Title":"Wow this is simply the best movie ever.......................umm OK no for real it sucks","Date":"18 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" OK so after watching this invigorating movie and wasting an hour and so many minutes off my life here is the basic summary Genie comes out of ghetto boom box, gives this kid with shaggy hair 3 wishes, the kid wastes his wishes on i forget what, shaq sucks at rapping, and i guess thats it.So mainly I laughed, I cried......but mainly I laughed at the shear comedy that came from the wonderful acting skills of an nba player/rapper and boy with shaggy hair.I highly recommend this movie for college kids sitting around drinking some beers with their close friends and are in serious need of a good laugh.I'm going to give it a 3 out of 10 only b/c the movie is based off of 3 magical wishes.If I had 3 wishes one would be to erase this horrible movie and for everyone to pretend like Hollywood didn't waste money on making this. "},{"Title":"this movie was so funny though!","Date":"9 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This movie was terrible, it's obvious but it was so funny! Come on, Shaq rapping! It's obvious that the acting was so bad but it is funny to watch. What's the point of picking on the movie with bad directing and bad editing. For this case two bads do equal a right. In fact, for this movie, 80 bads equal a right! I hope Shaq does more stupid movies thinking its not stupid. I hope he does a movie with Kobe Bryant where they are like warriors going to war with each other. Now that would be funny.So all of you picking this movie apart, it doesn't take a genius to know that movie really sucked. It sucked so bad that it was funny and that is worth a look. Really it deserves a 1 but it made me laugh by how horrifying it was.Just for the record Directing a 2, editing a 3, acting a 1, plot a 2, message a 4. "},{"Title":"This is what happens when bad meets worse.","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Can a movie be any worse when it has both the qualities of the cheesiest plot ever written and the most annoying, unlikable characters in acting history? no. this is what happens when bad meet worse. The idea of Shaq having the starting role in a movie is beyond experssion, this proffesional basketball player/actor hybrid is almost as laughable as a NYrapper/general practinioner. Lets face when your not broke don't fix it. Shaq better stick to basketball or we might just get a few more laughs out of him. If you like this movie, i strongly recommend MANOS HANDS OF FAIT. "},{"Title":"Watching Shaquille O'Neill act is as bad as having every hair on my body pulled out one by one.","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Shaquille O'Neill, while he is quite a large guy, is one terrible actor. It seems as if he is constantly reading his lines off a cue card (and he obviously can not do this very well either).  Aside from this shameful acting, this movie has no redeeming values whatsoever.  The kid is a criminal and he is never reprimanded for his evil doings.  Oh yeah, he gets a genie as a result of his dispicable activities.  Okay, that's a good message for the kiddies. "},{"Title":"The Worst Movie Ever.","Date":"17 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is so, so, so horrible, that it makes angels lose their wings. Shaq had tried to make other crossover efforts, like his work in Shaq-Fu for the NES and his plethora of unbearable rap albums, and later, the epic serving of horrible film-making that is Steel.There's not a single good thing to be said about this movie. I saw it a bunch of times when I was very young, but I must've been an idiot then, because this movie takes all that is enjoyable about films and tears it apart. It's fun to mock. I saw it on the Disney Channel a while back and spent a few minutes doing that. Although, once the thrill of mocking it is done, you still become overwhelmed by its terribleness.If you see it on TV, try this consider, as your watching the film, removing from it all the scenes in which Shaq uses his magical genie powers. If you do that, it becomes like a film about a pedophile chasing a kid and rapping to seduce him. That's kinda funny, and disturbing.A horrible example of film. Do not, unless looking to mock it, see this movie. "}{"Title":"Shaq's egomania OOZES off of this movie; a notorious bad kids movie, and not as campy as one would wish","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Yes, Kazaam is one of those horribly bad movies that almost reminds one of everything that is wrong with not just kids movies, but with humanity. Here we have Shaq as a rapping genie- yes, a RAPPING genie- where he does everything from making bad puns to dressing in ridiculous outfits, all ending in him in a Christ-like pose with lots of light surrounding him. So, yeah, expect really cheesy bits, including the first wish being a lot of junk food falling down from the sky (and, regrettably, not knocking out the two main characters, particularly the kid). What might not be expected is that a film with a kid and Shaquille O'Neill would be so incredibly schmaltzy! The main plot of the film involves this kid, played in that all-too-typical and annoying-kid fashion by the great-grandson of Frank Capra (where in which the kid is yelling out his dialog angrily), who comes upon a genie who's been trapped in a boom-box. Then hiarity ensues as the kid makes the Shaq-genie his quasi-slave as he waits on his last two wishes as he tries to make amends with his shady-gang-type absentee father.This really sappy, contrived son and father story would be bad enough, as there are certain lines that have been uttered in a million other movies (i.e. the two chances in life speech from father to son). But it's Shaquille O'Neill who is both the reason to watch the film (ironically), and the obvious sinking crux of it all. His plot line involves him, when not getting the over-talky treatment from Capra, to rap within the dialog and also start off his blossoming recording career. On top of this, he also kicks ass and takes names with the main bad guys who want him back in the boom-box. So is there a camp factor to the movie? Up to a point, but this is even squashed by all of the mushy scenes and 'heart-felt' moments that have really no business with the rest of the material. One might ask if the people making the movie, who were obviously doing it at the behest of the popularity of a BASKETBALL player who wanted to go on the Michael Jordan acting bandwagon, if it would be anywhere near decently entertaining or convincing. I'd hope that they too knew they were just getting paid. But I'd hope even more that they felt at least a little guilty afterwords for feeding the Shaq-machine.So, if you want to have a fun night of Shaq as genie-turned-rapper-turned-wisecracker, all the more fun to you. Hell, it might even be interesting to have a Shaq movie night with this and his other critically acclaimed effort Steel. But if you're hoping to keep a few brain cells, stay away from what is very likely the worst flick of 1996, and a candidate among many others for worst of the 90's. "},{"Title":"Wham bam thank you Kazaam","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" There was a genie played by Shaq His name was Kazaam, and he was whack His rhymes were corny, this lines were bad some stupid kid cryin over his stupid dad bad actin, bad casting, bad special effects whats next? this movie sucks Prolly didn't make 20 bucks he lives in a boombox not a lamp hurts like a cramp like a wet food stamp...Yeah, you get it, a stupid rhyming genie who can't act, in a stupid movie with horrible special effects. Oh, and its confusing as hell. I'm not even gonna go on. Let's just say, it belongs in the its so bad, its funny category. Watch it once with your buddies and get a good laugh. But don't expect anything spectacular. "},{"Title":"Shaq, please for the love of God, just stick to missing free-throws","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This movie has successfully proved what we all already know, that professional basket-ball players suck at everything besides playing basket-ball. Especially rapping and acting. I can not even begin to describe how bad this movie truly is. First of all, is it just me, or is that the ugliest kid you have ever seen? I mean, his teeth could be used as a can-opener. Secondly, why would a genie want to pursue a career in the music industry when, even though he has magical powers, he sucks horribly at making music? Third, I have read the Bible. In no way shape or form did it say that Jesus made genies. Fourth, what was the deal with all the crappy special effects? I assure you that any acne-addled nerdy teenager with a computer could make better effects than that. Fifth, why did the ending suck so badly? And what the hell is a djin? And finally, whoever created the nightmare known as Kazaam needs to be thrown off of a plane and onto the Eiffel Tower, because this movie take the word suck to an entirely new level. "},{"Title":"Holy Raining M&Ms and Candy Bars! It's Kazaam!","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Yeah, I remember seeing this in the theaters when I was nine years old. A bunch of other kids and their parents and families were there to see the movie, also; lots of us like Shaq, because he's been in other movies, too; Space Jam is one of them, and I thought that was a great movie also (Shaq gets sucked down into the golf hole! Genius!) There is one scene that I love so much. It's the scene (in a warehouse, I believe) where Max's first wish to Kazaam was that he wished that he could have junk food from here to the sky! Well, he got his wish - an icky burger had fallen to the ground! Max said to Kazaam, That's it? And suddenly, the whole place was raining candy bars, PowerBars (at least that's what they look like in fast mode), M&Ms (you can see the bags after it stops raining), the works! That got me laughing! You all must see Kazaam for yourselves and suddenly, y'all will indulge in junk food the next time y'all are bored! "},{"Title":"What could we expect?","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Ok, the best thing to do going into this film is to not expect anything from it.  I just found it channel surfing a few months back (late May 2003).  I remember hearing about it years ago when they first came up with the movie.  But I found it incredibly corny.  But in a good way.  Shaq plays himself pretty much, a big joker.  And who would expect much acting prowess from a man who calls himself Shaqdiesel.Anywhoo, as long as you acknowledge that this is going to be a horrible movie, bereft of anything worthy of even seeing a movie, t'is a good way to let your brain turn to jello, like, say, after studing for finals or writing a 10 page paper in 3 hours ;-).---P.R. "},{"Title":"This moved me.. to the next theater","Date":"9 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  i def. would NOT consider this a movie.. in fact i'd like to forget that this thing was ever created, but it's hard to. This movie was more of a torture device, kind of like the chinese water torture and such. there are 2 good things about this movie though.. the kid's snaggletooth was hilarious and whenever it's on disney, i turn it on and fall asleep to it.. works better than nyquil.. overall my wish would be that this disgrace was never ever ever made.  "},{"Title":"If i was doped up this, movie would still be the worst movie ever.","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  If you are a fan of really bad movies, and you think there funny, you will the great acting of Shaq.  First off putting pro players in movies hardly ever works.  Shaq had to of been the worst actor i have ever seen next to Dennis Rodman who also made a few bad movies. Well any way this movie is also bad due to the hideous kid. I would give this a zero but that is impossible. "},{"Title":"Shaq - an actor? - AHAHAHAHAHAH","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Shaq is an actor in movie with no plotOMG, this is so sad, its not even funny; that is why there is a saying that to each is own I guess he know joins the list of other talented actor-athletes like Dennis Rodman, Hulk Hogan and Randy Savage - man, I am not even going to attack the movie, because its unfair to tackle crippled opponentsworst waste of time and space in universe since Poly Shore0/10 "},{"Title":"Well, at least it's not as bad as contracting Ebola.","Date":"23 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Reviewing KAZAAM and saying it's a bad movie isn't hard at all--after all, critics at the time it came out fell all over themselves excoriating this film--saying it was among the worst films of the decade! So the fact that I say it's bad or anyone else says it's bad is certainly no surprise. It's like someone talking about WWII--practically no one says that was a GOOD thing, right?! The question I have and no place on IMDb can answer it is why did they make this in the first place?!. After all, it's obvious to anyone who isn't severely brain injured that the film would be horrible. But, movies like ED (a baseball playing chimp), COOL AS ICE (starring the ever-popular Vanilla Ice), TROLL 2 (which doesn't even have any trolls in it), BABY GENIUSES (Einstain-like superhero babies) and PINOCCHIO IN OUTER SPACE (huh!?!) prove that any idea, no matter how dumb, can make it to the big screen! So, the idea of the best basketball player of the time starring as a genie to an obnoxious little brat seems downright 'normal'! The film starts with a kid who is pretty jerky keying the lockers in the hallway of the school. Like the punk from FREE WILLY, this kid is somehow 'misunderstood' (in other words, a total brat) and you know that no matter how selfish and horrible he is, by the end of the film he'll have learned something and grown. Just once, I want to see a punk kid like this end up in prison or or dead by the end of the film! Eventually, while the neighborhood bullies are in the middle of pummeling him, the genie Kazaam (Shaquille O'Neal)is accidentally released and insists on giving the brat three wishes. But, the kid doesn't believe him AND the genie's magic seems a tad rusty.Eventually the brat does realize that Kazaam is for real. However, unlike most kids, he withholds making his wishes so, in the meantime, Kazaam is forced to follow him around everywhere--like his own personal servant. And, according to the cliché, you know that by the end of the film, Max and Kazaam will have become lifelong buddies and a bunch of tears will be shed. Oh, and Max will have come to terms with his absent father and mom's fiancé (I'm gonna gag). Apparently this genie is a bit of a social worker in addition to being a granter of wishes.As for Kazaam, Shaquille speaks in rhyme through much of the movie and even takes a break to rap...very poorly. I'm a middle-aged white guy and I think I could probably rap at least as well! He's an amazing basketball player and I've heard he's a nice guy--but a rapper...no way! As far as his acting goes, he wasn't great but had such a nice personality in the film that it's hard to hate him--even if they made him do a lot of very stupid things.So is the movie as excruciatingly awful as you've probably heard? through the first two-thirds of the movie, I would have said no. Shaquille seemed to try his best with an unlikable kid and a bad script. However, later in the film, the bad becomes horrid--as Kazaam seems too concerned with himself to help the kid when he's really needed. And, out of nowhere, the plot gets really, really weird--as the guy who wants to make Kazaam a rap star(?!?!) turns out to be an evil mobster! And, oddly, this guy seems to accept that Kazaam is a genie with no hesitation! In addition, the last portion of the film consists of people trying to kill Max and his dad. I know that the kid was annoying, but this is supposed to be a kids' film!! What part of 'trying to kill the kid' didn't the writers not understand?!? Then, in an ending that makes this perhaps the worst kids film ending in history, Kazaam becomes god or something and it all was like a drug-induced hallucination! This ending was even dumber and weirder than the one in THE BLACK HOLE...and boy, did it make my brain hurt!! Uggghh--the horrible dialog was just too much to bear!!!Overall, it's a terrible film that is due mostly to writers who were certifiably insane. Yes, folks, with a messed up message, bizarre non-kid friendly material and horrible characters, this is one wretched film. Sadly, given the idea and actors, it's hard to imagine the final product turning out much worse!!By the way, if you want to see a Genie in a modern world film that is GOOD, try the British made for TV film Bernard and the Genie--a charming and exceptionally well-written film from start to finish. "},{"Title":"Look at what the  movie is!","Date":"17 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This was really a charming average movie designed more for kids than adults, but you can enjoy it if your with your 10 year old and enjoy a fantasy. The basic premise is as obvious as the title with Shaquille O'Neal playing the title role and you didn't need to really be an Oscar winner for the role. Besides, anything with Francis Capra can't be all bad, just look at his work on Veronica Mars! Capra was a really cute kid and I found my own son could relate to him as he came across warm and accessible. As For O'Neal, this is a similar role as he played in Steel. If you saw one movie, you saw his style in the other. There is a reason Basketball pay him so much and he'll follow yo that career with one in Law Enforcement, but if you need a big friendly guy for a fantasy movie, he will be your ticket! "}{"Title":"Retarded","Date":"24 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" What was the point of this movie? What was the plot? I do not know. Shaq can't act, people don't know how to direct, and I am Kazaam! A genie who raps? Come on. Maybe Eminem or Linkin Park will be in a movie like this. I remember I watched this just to kill time. It didn't really interest me. I just remember thinking, Who put Shaq in this movie??? The whole story seemed stupid too. It made no sense whatsoever. I guess an unrealized moral of this movie is that you can find anything in the ghetto and anything can happen. I can't comment much more because this movie is so terrible there's nothing worth commenting about. I wish this movie would go away. "},{"Title":"Whee hee, what fun!","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Probably one of the worst films I have ever seen. Unbeatably  cheesy, with the a plot line leaking stupidity everywhere. I mean, really, a rapping genie who comes out of a boom box? Whut? Still, this doesn't diminish my enthusiasum, which I didn't spell right, for the movie. It's extrordinarily goofy, and fun to just laugh at. I wouldn't rent it more than once, but I would rent it at least one time. I wasn't expecting this movie to be at all good, and I was right, but pointing at Shaq in every scene and yelling out, SHAQ! was worth my time. *wink wink* "},{"Title":"my fav movie","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  this movie is the best film that i have watched shaq gave a performance that truely deserves an oscar nomination the move is must see.not just for all you basketball lovers out there like me but for those who enjoy superb acting "},{"Title":"Awful......!","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  One of THE worst movies ever, folks. Inept in every way. Shaq should stick to basketball.  Max is one of the brattiest, most obnoxious child characters ever. The only saving grace in this movie is the hope that Max meets his untimely demise before movie's end, but no such luck. Stay away at all costs.  "},{"Title":"Just plain trash","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I hated every moment of this movie.Now, when I see any family movie, I always walk in with an open mind.This movie was such garbage though.Would someone poke Shaq with a with a five inch fingernail and remind him to stay in basketball? Not that any other acting in this movie was any better.The rap song added absolutely nothing to this movie.The movie also gives you a good old ridiculously sappy ending that tries to change your mood after watching this type of trash.Just skip this movie and rent Babe for the kids again.* out of ***** "},{"Title":"If you sat through this pointless piece of garbage, you can sit through anything!!!","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Arguably the worst film ever made!!!  I rented this movie with my 5 year old nephew and we ended up turning it off after 45 minutes.   Even he thought this movie was god awful.  It's hard to believe people actually went to the movie theater to see this.  That's a wasted $5 plus a hour and a half of your life that you'll never get back.  The acting in this film is just plain pathetic.  Shaq should just get out of films completely and just concentrate on basketball and free throws.  I thought Michael Jordan in Space Jam was pretty bad.  However, Shaq makes him look like Robert Deniro in Taxi Driver.  "},{"Title":"Stinks like a bag of burning doggie stuff...","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Another failed attempt of trying to turn an athlete  into an actor. Can casting directors not see that this never works?Okay, wait, this film was horrible to start with.The plot is just cheesy, and is covered up with a sappy ending, one of those melodramatic ones they throw in at the end of a few family films to try and cover up how horrible the movie was to the adult audiences.The rap song sung by Max and the genie adds nothing to this bloody horrible movie. It just makes matters worse.Take my advice. Just skip this one. It even punishes the little ones.Thank Goddess I only paid $2 to see this...* out of *****, for nothing lives up to the terror Baby Geniuses will lead you off with....  "},{"Title":"WARNING Parents don't subject your kids to this kind of CRAP","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  When I saw this in the theater I was so embarrassed, I can't believe I spent my money on such crap. It was so bad please, keep your kid away from this movie. Shaq and the Capra's song will definitely scare them off. Please I beg of you don't subject them to this. Zero is too high of a rating for this, I can't rate it. "},{"Title":"A forgotten classic.","Date":"25 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Now, most people who vote this movie as being bad probably had the powerful symbolism go over their heads, not that that would be to hard to accomplish. I would suggest everyone rewatch this movie closer and you will see what I mean.This movie may be one of the most powerful commentary on the horror of gang violence and illegal sex trades in America I have ever seen.Watch the movie with that in mind and Shaqs performance will blow you away.10/10I would suggest that this American classic be in every moviegoers collection. "},{"Title":"I just couldn't look away","Date":"5 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" The only reason I DVRd this movie was because 1. I live in Cleveland and Shaq plays basketball for us now and 2. I've always heard how awful it was. The movie did not disappoint. The best parts were Shaq's outfits. The worst parts were, well, just about everything else. My 12 year old son and I just squirmed and couldn't look at the screen when Shaq started rapping and we kept wondering why Max didn't wish for Kazzam to fix that front tooth of his! But for all it's terribleness we just couldn't stop watching it, the story sucked you in, like a black hole or quicksand or a tar pit, it was hypnotic. But it was worth it for the laughs and just to say that we actually watched Kazzam. "}{"Title":"Kazaam! Kapow! Kawham! Kazaam steals hearts of Americans","Date":"10 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I can't believe that Shaq was actually good in this movie.  This is his crowning achievement of his life, and I have followed Shaq ever since his days at Louisiana State University.  I have to admit, that as soon as I saw him in that Pepsi commercial, that I began to question his credibility in acting, but this movie totally restored my faith in the great Shaq Diesel. This movie blew me (and the critics) away.  It had everything...something for the family, for those that like comedies, musicals, basketball, genies, and tots; as well as for all those lovers out there... We all know that Shaq gave us burning sensations while we watched him in basketball, but Kazaam raises that sensation to 212 degrees. Wazoo! -John Hurst  "},{"Title":"tell shaq to stick to his day job","Date":"21 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Would someone tell shaq to stick to what he is good at basketball.  This movie was not even entertaining on a stupid level.  In this movie shaq plays a genie who lives in a boom box is that not orginal a genie in a boom box instead of a lamp.  He is supposed to help a little boy played by the equally annoying francais cappra.  This movie had the most flimsy storyline since water world, the acting was awful and I think that anyone who likes this flim would be afraid to admit it. "},{"Title":"Garbage","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This is quite possibly the worst movie of all time.  It stars Shaquille O'Neil and is about a rapping genie.  Apparently someone out there thought that this was a good idea and got suckered into dishing out cash to produce this wonderful masterpiece.  The movie gets 1 out of 10. "},{"Title":"counter-vote countered","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm only giving this movie a 1 because I think that this one deserves such a low rating not based only on Shaq's bad performance (either on the set or on the court or on the album). Just taking a look at the camera work, sfx and other performances and letting yourself be entertained is not a just cause to give this movie a 10 let alone a 7. If it weren't for the 10 being a counter-vote I would've given it a 0.  "},{"Title":"Ugh...","Date":"17 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Unfortunately my nephews wanted to watch this and I got stuck watching it with them. It is horrible...scratch that, horrible doesn't do it justice; even my nephews (age 5&7) got quickly bored with it (fortunately they let me stop it 3/4 through and put in Babe.) Shaq has officially found something he does worse than shoot free-throws (act AND choose scripts.) "},{"Title":"To make Kazaam you need...","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  1. Paper-thin plot that has been done before  2. A rapping genie cum-basketball player  3. A very, and I mean very infuriating bratty kid.  4. 3 stupid wishes  5.Product placement (then again, what movie doesn't have this) 6.crummy script.  7. Shaquille O Neal rapping.  Stir together and you have Kazaam.......  What a poor movie! "},{"Title":"shaq rules","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I believe this movie may be the best movie I've ever seen, it kicks the crap out of other movies like American beauty!!!!!!!!!!!!!! I love Shaq and this movie 2. Shaq is the best actor ever and the little punk didn't suck that bad. God I hate that kid. Too bad he wasn't a miscarriage. I can't believe the little retard got paid for this. Furthermore I believe that this movie has exemplary acting and I believe the plot was well ahead of it's time and it took my breath away. I would recommend that anyone who dislikes this movie should slap themselves for being such an ignorant dilettante. For all of you who gave this movie bad reviews fore shame. "},{"Title":"Horrible..","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"12 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Once again - musicians and sports stars should stay in their own field. Shaq cannot act. At all. His horrible portrayal of a genie in this poorly-written film is pathetic. My grandmother could act better than him, and she's half deaf and 80 years old.Where has the quality of movies gone? "},{"Title":"Hated this movie before anyone told me that I was supposed to","Date":"12 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Let me give a quick summery of the film A rotten, rude kid named Max stumbles upon a radio that contains Kazaam a rapping genie. Like all genies, he grants 3 wishes but, being good natured, also helps Max with his personal life, as he has to deal with bullies and a father mixed up in organized crime. During all this, Kazaam raps from time to time, (also showcasing Shaq's dismal rap skills).This movie proves what we all know Athletes need to stick to sports. I admit that it never looked like an Oscar-worthy movie, but EVERYTHING about this waste of film is horrible. The characters are either unlikable or stupid, the plot is not even worth mentioning, the dialog is a joke, and Shaq is only a quarter of the problem. Hell, even if Denzel Washington played Kazaam this movie would still be a joke. I know that the movie only drew ANYBODY was because Shaq was so big (no pun intended) at the time. I honestly cannot think of a single positive thing to say about this waste of time. Shaq should have put the time had used to make this movie toward practicing free throws. "},{"Title":"Shaq is God!","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Just kidding!  I think someone with downsyndrome could act better than shaq. The movie is horrid.  Shaq is a genie who grants this little boy some wishes.  Sounds like oscar material.  I sure hope anyone who watches this poor excuse for a movie has a vomit bag nearby cause your gonna need it. "}{"Title":"Another Slam Dud for Shaq!","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  We would really like to give this movie a full, detailed review, but unfortunately we periodically left the room for no reason at all just to get away from this brutal disgrace of a movie.  First of all, this movie appeared to have a large budget, yet the director clearly forgot to address Max's snaggle tooth.  With all the special effects in this movie, they could've at least made this kid look like he kept a dentist appointment. Now, let's move on to the major flaw of this movie--Shaq.  It appears that this guy can do it all--play basketball, rap, and act.  However, these last two things are severely lacking.  His raps consist of such memorable lines as, I'll be the cream for your coffee, I'll green eggs and ham it, and fresh out the box like a premature burial.  This rap song was awful....it was right up there with his breakthrough flops I'm Outstanding and Biological Didn't Bother.  Possibly the worst scene of the movie was the recycled after-school special speech by the soon-to-be step-father, Travis. We cringed when we heard Travis reassure Max that he would not take the place of his father.  There were a lot of unnecessary scenes with Max's father that we left the room for.  However, when we returned we caught the tail-end of some poorly acted bad-guy scenes.  This movie was plagued with weak walk-on parts, such as 'Da Brat and Spinderella. We found it very preposterous how Shaq became a pop music icon after rapping one stinkin' song in a dingy club.  We also found the recycled school is cool message to be extremely played.  In particular where Shaq plays Max's tutor (a job that seemed extremely far-fetched for Shaq).  In this movie, Shaq claims that he is more intelligent than a Harvard grad.  Once again, this is just stupid.  In reality, Shaq has the equivalent of a 5th grade education, as evidenced by his stammering as he struggles through the cue cards. Overall, this movie is unbearable and painful to watch.  Shaq should really look into other hobbies in the off-season, and Francis Capra should receive dental assistance before even thinking about going to another audition.  "},{"Title":"Yes, it is that bad","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This film was utterly crap. I had to do a school project on it (for art), only because ONE kid in our class wasn't allowed to see M rated movies. I regrettably chose a scene from the movie to focus on - one of the totally not-fight-scenes. Poor acting all round, as usual the kid outshines Shaq......only just. And Shaq is VERY poor indeed. I really can't understand what was going through my (usually really good) teacher's head when he got out that video.... "},{"Title":"good film-bad film","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Let's play a game of good film-bad film. Mad Max was a good film, water world was a bad film. Goldeneye was a good film, view to a kill was a bad film. Kazaam is the bad film version of 'Bernard and the Genie' (1992). Look at the plot  Loser finds genie.  Genie helps loser.  Genie  likes 20th century life. Lenny Henry makes a much better genie than Shaq, though.  I can't believe the casting for this film.  Shaq should learn that sportsmen don't make actors. Just look at Frank Bruno. And what is it with Francis Capra?  I had to kick the telly over every time he came on, he is that annoying.  Who else thinks it's ironic that 'Capra' is latin for goat. Well, Francis and Shaq can be proud of this one.  Like Frank Bruno can be proud of his acting. As far as films go, this one smells 'like a hippopotamus butt'.  And we're talking one smelly hippo. Guys, take it from me, you don't want to put this one at the top of the old curriculum vitae. Well that's all I've got time for.  I have to be back at the lab by six... "},{"Title":"Shaq is  Hack","Date":"19 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Shaq is pound for pound one of the worst basketball players ever. His so called music videos show the mental outlook of a complete adolescent. He speaks like he has a mouthful of marbles. His father is one of those foul-mouthed army idiots who think the whole world should be run like the military.The movie is an absolute racist take on every cliché of Persians. But why should he care, or any of his audience? Anybody stupid enough to think Shaq is 'cool' is clearly stupid enough think he has acting chops.Do us all a favor Shaq and get yourself into a high-speed deadly accident with a empty bus full of burning fuel drums dripping with flesh-eating acid that vaporizes every last remnant of your sorry self.Of course you can turn into a Mercedes slash Porsche creature in your afterlife!! I promise you will get forty virgins and two biker mamas to keep you company in Genie Heaven "},{"Title":"If i was doped up this, movie would still be the worst movie ever.","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  If you are a fan of really bad movies, and you think there funny, you will the great acting of Shaq.  First off putting pro players in movies hardly ever works.  Shaq had to of been the worst actor i have ever seen next to Dennis Rodman who also made a few bad movies. Well any way this movie is also bad due to the hideous kid.  "},{"Title":"Yawn...","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  It has been a few years since I saw this movie, but awful movies tend to stay in my mind.This is proof of the fact that athletes should stick with what they are good at sports. Athletes were not intended to act. Shaq's hideous performance in this movie is proof. "},{"Title":"Should be kept in it's lamp (Or boom box, whatever)","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was a laugh riot! It is now becoming notorious as one one of the worst movies ever made, and it deserves that status. Usually genie movies suck, and this one was no exception. Anything with a basketball player who tries to start an acting career as a genie in a boom bow has to be bad; and it is. It's even got the most corny sentimentality you'll ever see in a movie, and it's message about second chances in life it absolutely awful. If you can stomach it, give this movie a chance. 1/10. "},{"Title":"Awful...Pathetic... Well, At Least It Wasn't Disappointing!","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"   Shaq. Francis Capra. What's the worst that can happen when you join together a horrible basketball player and actor, and one of the worst child actors of the 90's? Before you can say kazaam, you get Kazaam, a film that goes to show why such crucial elements as, say, actors and dialogue are important to a story. The screenplay is just plain bad, and the acting is even worse. The directing style is...well, I don't know, but it was really, really bad. And then, the film has the mandatory emotionally-controlling segments that have nothing whatsoever to do with the already pointless plot, like the whole divorced father piece. Priceless. Priceless as in so awful it has no price. Cut to the chase, and my sypnosis is this DO NOT SEE THIS MOVIE!1/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Why didn't I give this a rating of 1?!?  Answer","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" It didn't cause physical pain. If I take prescription medication after a movie, it gets a '1'. A good example is the outer space sequences in '2001a space Odyssey'. The repetitive forced breathing made me pass out.'Kazaam' is nothing short of annoying. A rapping genie in a boom box discovered by a spoiled little kid. You know the kind of kid you see in the grocery store giving their parent hell because they want a candy bar. Imagine a movie jam packed with that. If I had gotten a boom box when I was a kid I would be appreciative, much less a genie inside.I fell asleep during 2 attempts to watch this movie. Honestly I didn't make a third attempt, so I have no idea how it ends, but then again I don't CARE. "},{"Title":"Thank you, Conan!","Date":"3 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I will have to admit that I would NEVER have seen this movie if it weren't for Conan O'Brien.  I think he is secretly in love with this movie, and not in a good way.  If there's anything to take a stab at Shaq in *any* way, he just shows a clip or 2 from this movie on his show.  So, I went out and rented this movie (with about 10 others to disguise it) to make fun of it, and I had a laugh-a-minute riot!  How many times did you just want Kazaam to die a horrible death when he started rapping?  And the writing was atrocious -- do **NOT** show this movie to little kids!  You will put them at risk for brain damage with lines like Francais?  I love it 'beaucoup, beaucoup, beaucoup'! and You smell like a hippopotamus butt.  Many others follow, as well.  And the ending was horribly melodramatic --  I will not spoil it so you can see it for yourself.  Overall, I would like to thank Conan O'Brien for discovering this horrible movie that every family can enjoy...making fun of.  P.S. I think Touchstone Pictures is so embarrassed for putting out a piece of trash like this, I don't even think that Conan needed to have these clips furnished by the studio for his show.  0.5/10 "}{"Title":"This movie EARNED its place on the worst 100 list.","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie proves that Shaq is better at making free-throws(ha!) than acting.  Combine that with a poor story and cheesy visuals and you have a definite bottom dweller.  Zero stars. "},{"Title":"2.2??????????????","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I am so surprised this movie is rated at a 2.2. It was one thing not to give it an oscar, which it deserved for amazingness, but to give it a 2.2. This movie is at least a 9.9. Shaq is a brilliant actor. I am surprised, I must say, but I think he is one of the best actors of all time along with Mandy Moore, Dan Akryod, Alfred Hitchcock, Sidney Lumet and Ronald Wolfson.  "},{"Title":"Counter-vote!","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm only giving this one a 10 because I don't think that this one deserves such a low rating based only on Shaq's bad performance.(either on the set or on the court) Just take a look at the great camera work, superb sfx and other performances and let yourself be entertained. If it weren't for the 10 being a counter-vote I would've given it a 7.  "}]