[{"Title":"A nice introduction to Jackie Chan","Date":"14 October 2005","Score":"22 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" If you've never seen a Jackie Chan film before, this is a good place to start. I speak from experience, for it is the first film of his that I saw. I must warn you, though his films are not for everyone. The plots are often pedestrian and sometimes incoherent. They also are usually dubbed, making them seem cheesy. Sometimes I describe him to people as a guilty pleasure, but that may give the wrong impression. What Chan does well is sheer genius. Plot is besides the point. It's not what his films are about.What, then, are they about? It's hard to put into words. You may have heard him described as a martial artist, a stuntman, and a slapstick comedian. None of those descriptions do him justice. I could add that he's something of an acrobat and gymnast, but even that doesn't sum it up. There is no actor he can be compared to, for his style is unique; it's like he's developed his own art form. These are not fighting films in a traditional sense. They're more like the types of acts you might see at a circus, involving props used in astonishing ways and depending on careful choreography and exquisite timing. For example, at one point in this film Chan flips and twirls a heavy stepladder like it was a baton, then sets it down and weaves his own body through the rungs, while fending off attacks from a group of men.Typically in his films, the acts he performs get increasingly formidable as the film progresses, culminating in some large-scale stunt such as him leaping off a building. But even the little things he does are eye-popping. In this film he's constantly climbing walls with an agility reminiscent of Donald O'Connor. You never know what to expect, for he does different things in each film.Well, at least that once was the case. Since Rush Hour, his 1998 American blockbuster, his stunts have become less intricate, and he's begun repeating ideas. It may be that he's getting older, but it also may be that he's moved from Hong Kong to Hollywood. Undoubtedly the recent films have more polish and better production values, which has helped make them accessible to a wider audience. But his earlier work is so full of invention that I'm able to overlook formula plots, bad acting, and cheesy humor. I do have my limits. A few of his films--The Protector comes to mind--are so badly done that it doesn't matter that they have cool fight sequences. His films need some measure of competence to work. They are more than a series of routines strung together.Part of what makes them charming is Chan himself. He is a pretty solid actor compared to some of the leading American action stars, capable of conveying a full range of emotions convincingly. He is particularly good at expressing panic. The character he plays is not your standard tough-guy. He is frequently an inferior fighter to those he confronts. When hit, he grimaces in pain. When faced with the opportunity, he runs. He survives by a mixture of quick wits and luck. He is far more a throwback to Keaton and Chaplin than a martial arts master.Of course, I won't call this film or any other by Chan a masterpiece. Perhaps I'm too conventional. If the purpose of films is to entertain, his succeed brilliantly. Whether they appeal to you depends on your taste, but one thing you cannot do is claim he's untalented. It may not be a talent you're used to, but it's one that's likely to remain unparalleled. "},{"Title":"Who cares about the plot?!  The point is to have fun!","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In Jing cha gu shi IV Jian dan ren wu (called Jackie Chan's First Strike in the US), Jackie Chan has to find a missing nuclear warhead. Of course, if you pay too much attention to the plot, you'll miss the rest of the movie. Like any of Chan's movies, the point is to have him kick ass in various and sundry ways. The snowboarding sequence in my opinion should get registered alongside Gene Kelly singing in the rain as one of the great cinematic moments. And the ladder? I DON'T KNOW HOW HE DOES IT, BUT HE DOES IT!!!!!!!! So just have fun watching this (and I guarantee that you will). You could be deaf and still get a kick out of it. "},{"Title":"Why the hate?","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In this apparent 'Police Story IV', Jackie plays, of all people, Jackie, a cop from Hong Kong working on a case with the CIA. Pretty soon he is off to Ukraine, and then to Australia for some reason. In Australia, he shares a hotel room with a Koala, and generally beats up very big Russian mobsters. Wow.OK, I'll admit it isn't as awesome as it sounds, nor is it as bad as it may sound to others. The plot is standard spy-stuff, and accompanied by some very poor dialog. The bad guys are the stereotypical bad guys who know they can kill the hero straight away, but opt for something else, in this case, its lets have fun with him or lets beat him. Ah, classic. Those very big Russian mobsters don't look or sound very intelligent anyway.Sure, the plot might be trying to be too much like James Bond, the dialog bad, and some of the actors poor - but Jackie beats people up using a ladder. A LADDER! Some of the other action scenes are pretty cool too - ranging from Jackie snowboarding, to Jackie fighting on stilts, to Jackie jumping cars. Awesome.7/10 - Only for fans of action or Jackie Chan "},{"Title":"Jackie Chan does James Bond","Date":"13 October 2003","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The fourth installment in Jackie Chan's terrific Police Story films although the western release obscured the connection,but more on that lateris basically Chan's take on James Bond. And it is tremendous fun,in many respects one of his best all-round movies. While having some incredible action,it also has a reasonably good plot and acting,two things which even the most die-hard Chan fan will probably admit his films don't often contain.The film has been unfairly criticised for having little martial arts,but it has more than,say,Crime Story or The Tuxedo. This film aims at more diversity in it's action,and ranges from a ski-chase ending with Chan jumping on to a helicopter than falling into ice-filled water with VERY little protectionto a running battle with a giant this scene actually has Chan running on water!to a warehouse fight where Chan uses a ladder with amazing skill. The film moves a little slower than you might expect but the story holds the attention and the last half-hour is incredible non-stop action,climaxing with a terrific car stunt. The centrepiece is an underwater fight with martial arts moves. It somewhat degenerates into clowning but is never less than terrific to watch. A shame that Chan injured himself and therefore as with Rumble In The Bronxcould not have a final battle,but never mind.Hugely enjoyable then,with Chan obviously aware of the Bondisms and having fun doing them his way he even complains that he is missing the gorgeous girls at one point. Sadly the Western cinema release is cut by around 20 minutes. The plot is harder to follow and ,worst of all,some of the action is cut,including some great moments from the underwater battle. The original Hong Kong version is superior in every way and it remains a great shame that New Line and Miramax see fit to chop up all the non-American Chan films they release. Seek out the full version. "},{"Title":"Bad Bond, Great Jackie.","Date":"13 November 2003","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  First Strike is at its worst when it tries to be a James Bond spoof and comes off as a cut-rate Bond imitation. It's at its best when it lets Jackie Chan do what he does best performing awesome physical stunts and engaging in lightning-paced fight scenes. The plot is utterly disjointed, and I would go so far as to say that there are only two or three really good scenes here, but these are SO good they make the movie worth watching anyway. The ladder scene, in particular, simply defies belief; Jackie Chan seems to be pushing the boundaries of what we consider humanly possible. (**1/2) "},{"Title":"Amusing and colorful  fourth entry with Jackie Chan taking on uranium dealers","Date":"18 October 2010","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" FIRST STRIKE packs a violent confrontation between Jackie and double agents from CIA and KGB . This exciting story about the cop named Chang Wing of the Hong Kong precinct is well played by Jackie Chan. Chang participates in a sting operation against an international spy-ring that is smuggling nuclear weapons from Ukraine. But when one of them (Tsui) escapes , Jackie is ordered to capture him . This leads Jackie all over the globe beginning with Tsui's sister (Annie Wu) at Australia . The story follows him as he attempts to stay alive and chase the villain. When his police buddies are deceived by a wicked criminal band , Wing turns into an unfortunate spy when he is also double-crossed . A young woman helps him to track down and apprehend the gang commanded by a double agent. Then Chan looks for vengeance against the ominous villains at a cat and mouse game.This exciting movie is crammed of action-packed, overwhelming stunt-work and lots of violence but with humor. Jackie Chan is top notch as one army man fighting a group of heinous criminals and as always he makes his own stunts like is showed on the final fake-shots . Awesome ,incredible stunts and brief comic touches , as usual ; the picture is better constructed than its predecessor . The lighting-paced storyline slows down at times , but frantic action sequences make up for it . Spotlights movie include a stirring pursuit on the snow and underwater fights surrounded by sharks in James Bond style , among others . This is a phenomenal action movie distinguished by nicely cinematography of the spectacular sequences , and contains agreeable sense of humor such as previous entries . However while the former outings Jackie teamed up to prestigious actresses and fine action stars in their own right , like Maggie Cheung and Michelle Khan , at this film his parternaire is unknown . Thrilling and moving musical score fitting to action by J. Peter Robinson . The picture is lavishly produced by the great Asian producers Raymond Chow and Golden Harvest production and efficiently directed by Stanley Tong . The first version titled ¨Police story(1985)¨ directed by the same Jackie Chan was a perfect action film for enthusiastic of the genre ; the following was ¨Police story 2(1988)¨ also pretty violent and with abundant humor touches . It's followed by ¨Police story V  Crime story¨ and finally ¨New Police story¨ by Benny Chan . Rating  Accepatable and passable, the picture has its sensational moments here and there , mostly provided by its agile star, the super Jackie Chan . "},{"Title":"9 out of 10","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is my favorite of all the movies released theatrically in America with Jackie Chan. Police Story 4 is my favorite out of the Police Story series, and is very fun to watch. Jackie plays Jackie, and he plays this character very well. The ladder battle is one of the best fights I have seen in a long while. Obviously, you dont have to see the Police Story movies in order, because they released them all out of order, going something like 3, 4, 1, 2. I recommend seeing them 4, 1, 3, 2. This one is the best and you should check it out right away! "},{"Title":"Unbelievable","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Jackie Chan plays a cop who chases a criminal from Russia to Australia.I don't bother telling more about the plot because it's really not important in this kind of movie.This is like a James Bond movie.But there's Chan, Jackie Chan in this one.The fighting sequences are unbelievable in this movie and there is a lot of action in it.Jackie hangs from a helicopter, skis with one ski, uses ladder for fighting and then there's under water action in the movie.It is also very funny.Jing cha gu shi IV Jian dan ren wu which is also known as Jackie Chan's First Strike from 1996 was Jackie's first movie for American people to see.Jackie Chan is unbelievable in his moves.He is like new Bruce Lee but with his own style of course.He does his own stunts like Buster Keaton did.It is nice to watch the bloopers during credits.If you like martial arts or Jackie Chan this is a movie for you to enjoy. "},{"Title":"Jackie Chan is licensed to thrill.","Date":"29 May 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Part 4 of the Police Story series sees Jackie Chan's agile Hong Kong police inspector Chan Ka Kui become embroiled in James Bond-style international espionage after he is given the seemingly simple task of following beautiful suspect Natasha to Ukraine. When Natasha is abducted at the airport, Chan sets off in hot pursuit only to discover that she is involved with international arms dealers and the sale of a nuclear warhead.First Strike was made in the mid 90s, a transitional period for Jackie Chan, who was priming himself for his big move to the US. In order to broaden the star's appeal with the Western market, this one has a much more international flavour than many of his earlier films, with the action skipping round the globe, from Hong Kong to Ukraine to Russia and, finally, to Australia. The film is also less focused on pure martial arts mayhem, with more in the way of straight forward Hollywood style stunt-filled action, but when the kung fu does happen it is extremely well handled, with Jackie displaying his usual athleticism, impeccable timing, and flair for physical comedy.The rather messy plot and occasionally slow pacing prevents First Strike from being a bona fide Chan classic, but there is still plenty of inventive stuff to make this one a whole lot of fun, best bits being a wonderful fight scene in which Chan uses a stepladder as a weapon, an exhilarating ski chase down a mountain, some underwater shenanigans with sharks, and a scrap with two Russian man-mountains that involves Chan making a vertiginous leap onto a narrow ledge of a high-rise building. "},{"Title":"Good - but shouldn't be part of the Police Story series","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The second 1990s Jackie Chan film made for a worldwide market. It seems the team has learned its lessons with Rumble in the Bronx, as First Strike is more on pace. Filmed in Hong Kong, Ukraine, Russia and Australia, spy intrigue is combined with kung-fu comedy as Chan gets involved in the illegal sale of weapons by the Russian Mafia (yes, another film with this premise). Thanks largely to the presence of Chan, the storyline is pulled off relatively successfully. The ski stunts are impressive and also humorous - but poor Jackie - he really is wearing a couple of layers' clothing! The Australian action sequences are well choreographed and have a sense of occasion. The action is better paced it is not kung-fu for kung-fu's sake, although if you want realism in your stories, look elsewhere. As an individual Chan film, it works - but it does not deserve being part of the Police Story series, which it was in Hong Kong. The Chinese style is watered down in pursuit of the western markets - and the producers would have been better off creating a new character for Chan this time. Compared to the first and third instalments, it is lacking. This aside, it is entertaining and enjoyable, whether you see the original or dubbed version. "}{"Title":"Jackie Chan returns in a fun action comedy","Date":"14 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This, the fourth of the Police Story films, sees Hong Kong police officer Insp. Chan Ka Kui travelling from Hong Kong to The Ukraine to Russia and finally to Australia in pursuit of stolen nuclear material. In the English dubbed version of the film that I saw this character has been renamed Jackie. During the course of the film he will have to fight with heavily armed men in the frozen mountains of The Ukraine, clamber around on the outside of a tall hotel while evading two Russian thugs, fight off a huge gang using a step ladder as a weapon and fight more Russians in an aquarium which also contains a deadly shark! He must also work out who he can trust as not everybody is quite what they seem.This film doesn't have quite as much action as the other films in the series that I've seen but what there was, was pretty good and it was clear that the budget was much higher as the action was far more explosive; involving the sort of skiing stunts and exploding helicopters one would expect in a Hollywood movie&#x85; in fact if it wasn't for the rather obvious dubbing I might have thought it was a Hollywood movie. Jackie Chan does a great job in the lead role; providing the fantastic mix of action and comedy that fans have come to expect. The supporting cast were very much secondary to Jackie Chan but seemed to do a reasonably job; not hearing the actors actual voices does of course make it hard to judge them fairly. The plot may seem like something out of a Bond film but this is no rip off; you'd never see Bond shivering in the cold or wearing 'koala undies'! If you like comedy action this is well worth seeing and as there is little to offend it is probably suitable for younger viewers too. "},{"Title":"The US version is practically just a preview !","Date":"19 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Originally called Police Story 4First Strike, Jackie Chan made this in 1996 and is the last of the original Police Story films in which he plays his Police Story character, Chan-Kai Ku. Chan's next Police Story film, New Police Story, would be a new generation film to the series and released in 2004. As we all know Jackie Chan is probably the best martial arts actor on screen next to Bruce Lee. Chan took fighting sequences as we know it and made them so much more entertaining. Including prop fights and fights in so many cool places. An example of cool creative Chan fight scene would be in this one where Jackie battles Russian Maufia henchmen UNDER WATER ! With sharks !! Later in the review I will clarify on the US cuts of Jackie's films.Chan-Kai Ku returns again, and this time he's not battling gangs in Hong Kong or its surrounding areas, he's now an international agent trying to stop the illegal selling of uranium bombs. This could lead to the end of the world as we know it. At first Chan is supposed to just keep track of a girl on a plane, but then he ends up getting caught up with the Russian Maufia who later betrays him. As the plot unravels more and more, impressive action sequences do surface such as a snow mobile and helicopter chase (cut from the US version), a prop fight with ladders,brooms, and sticks, and to a climatic under water fight ! Wow !I have to admit, this film is more of a drama than martial arts film, therefore is quite different from the previous Police Story films. The US version is by no means worth getting after seeing the uncut version. Even though New Line Cinema's DVD of this is only $5, after viewing the uncut (which only surfaced on the Japanese laser disc,VCD disc,DVD, and the Taiwanese DVD as well.) you will realize you've never been swindled out of $5 so bad in your entire life time.The US cuts Jackie Chan first gained stardom with his first big film in Asia, The Drunken Master (1978). Chan then went onto gain even more international stardom with Police Story (1985). Chan had made a bunch of films in the US, but never made it famous here until his 1995 film, Rumble in The Bronx. I hate it when this happens, America acts like they've discovered something big and great and they're the first ones who knew about it. Joke's on them ! Jackie had already been famous for over 20 years before his big LATE US debut. This is also when the popular rumor of Chan doing every single one of his stunts began. Its a lie people, not a fact. Jackie DOES MOST OF HIS OWN STUNTS.....not all. Anyways, New Line Cinema in the mid-90s seemed to be the US film company that bought most of Jackie's films (Dimension owned and released a few, but nowhere near as much as New Line), such as Police Story 1 & 2, and was the distributor to the US for Chan's most recent films. It seems as if New Line Cinema's editors are very underpaid, so they practically chopped up and edited so much up of Jackie's movies its unbearable. One common practice is adding a main title sequence. In most Hong Kong films there really is no opening credits, but just the film's title and the main star along with the director etc. But here a whole title sequence is made, as well as changing the film's score. These are New Line's attempts at Americanizing Chan's movies. But, isn't that the whole point of foreign films ? To watch them as they are ?! Plus, watching New Line's disgraceful edits is an insult to the film makers since they've worked so hard on this project and then stuff gets changed and torn out, so you're not watching it the way it was intended. Some of New Line's biggest edits are on First Strike, Mr. Nice Guy, and Rumble in The Bronx ! Mr. Nice Guy for example was released here in US theatres in its original uncut 113 minute length, but when New Line released the DVD they CHOPPED IT DOWN TO ONLY 84 MINUTES ! Woah !!! These companies have so much control, that they actually have had the US edits have world wide distribution ! So now the uncut dvds are virtually impossible to find !!!! Even in Asia the cut US dvds are the most popular to find ! ASS !!! Another thing is the dubbing. New Line's dubbing is done way better than Dimension's dubbing. In First Strike its very interesting. The film was originally shot with a bunch of languages since, Chan is an international agent in this one. I mean that, Jackie Chan speaks English, Cantonese and Mandarin throughout the movie, while the Russians of course speak Russian as well as English. But in the US version everyone speaks English. So in the part where the Russian agent and the Chinese agent talking through their computers makes more sense, since the Chinese guy can't speak Russian, and the Russians can't speak Chinese. The US version you'll find yourself confused. 'well, if they both speak English why can't they just talk to each other ?' Another strange dubbing detail I noticed was that some of the characters who speak English in the movie are re-dubbed anyways to maybe hide their accents. In some cases very bad Russian stereotype voices. Hey, New Line ! I have an idea, for Jackie's next movie why not just make it run only an hour and make Jackie look like a white guy so he appeals more to stupid Americans!! ! Maybe that's better ! "},{"Title":"Step by Step","Date":"31 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Watching Jackie movies is sometimes a real challenge, especially the English language  ones. This barely qualifies as English, but is the best one, certainly better than any of the  Hollywood attempts.What he does with ordinary objects is absolutely amazing, and the fact that they are  ordinary is part of the humor.There's a classic ladder bit here that is I think his very best. Ignore the plot, it is standard  filler. Ted's evaluation 3 of 3 -- Worth watching "},{"Title":"One of Chan's best","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie has some of the best action sequences in movies.  I just love the scene with the ladder.  Other great ones are the fight in the shark tank, the chase scene on the snowboard, and the fight at the funeral.  "},{"Title":"This sequel was almost a strike.","Date":"13 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The third sequel to the Police Story trilogy is another high-energy, fast-paced and action-packed movie returning Jackie Chan to the role as the quick-witted and martial arts-skilled Hong Kong Insp. Chan Ka Kui. This time he is sent undercover to Australia where he participates in a sting operation on an international spy-ring.Chan continues to display some of his best martial arts action in this film, with incredible stunt work, daredevil jumps and butt-kicking action. It's good old-fashion fighting skills with no wires and CGI. While the previous Police Story movies are full of suspense and dramatic sequences, this one seemed to focus more the slapstick humor and goofy moments, like the part where Tsui (Jackson Liu) forces Chan to strip naked and where a penguin suit. The story is also riddled with some plot holes and the ending was rather rushed. The acting was OK, and the movie is notable for being the final film appearance of actor Bill Tung.There's not a dull moment in the movie, but I thought the plot could have used more character development and intriguing moments.Grade C+ "},{"Title":"Excellent action and comedy as Jackie Chan does Bond","Date":"17 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I loved the first two installments of Jackie Chan's 'Police Story' series, and wish I had seen the intervening adventures of Chan's character, Inspector Chan Ka Kui, ('Police Story 3 Supercop' and 'Project S'--though this is labeled Police Story 4, it's actually his very popular character's 5th appearance). Still, the story (basically a James Bond-type role, as he is forced by his boss to help the CIA prevent a Russian nuclear device from getting into the wrong hands) stands on its own, and is thrilling from start to finish, though something tends to be different and missing from his earlier Hong Kong exploits (though this was made there and dubbed--albeit horrendously--to help make him a star Stateside). If I had to put a finger on it, I think I prefer films that Chan directed himself. It's still extremely enjoyable, with set-pieces--especially when he defends himself with a stepladder--that approach awe-inspiring choreographed action perfection... "},{"Title":"Neither Better nor Worse than the Previous Movies in the Series","Date":"3 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In order to foster good international cooperation, Inspector Chan Ka Kui (Jackie Chan) is temporarily loaned out to the C.I.A. to monitor a suspect on a flight to Ukraine. When the flight lands, he touches base with his point-of-contact and is supposedly finished with his assignment. However, he just happens to notice something peculiar and out of instinct follows the same suspect to an isolated location. When he calls in he is asked to continue surveillance. Things then take an immediate turn for the worse after this. Now rather than reveal anything else, I will just say that this particular film was neither better nor worse than the other three Police Story movies. If anything I suppose that the humor was probably more noticeable but the action wasn't quite as intense. Still, Jackie Chan was as sensational as ever and he once again demonstrates that he is in a class of his own. In any case, while I didn't think this movie was the best in the series I certainly think it's worth a watch for those who might enjoy an action-comedy of this type. Slightly above average. "},{"Title":"A must-have for any Chan fan. It's silly awesomeness!!!","Date":"22 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" As a kid, I watched a lot of Jackie Chan films. A month or so ago, I watched and reviewed his film, Mister Nice Guy. Today, I'll be judging First Strike, a film starring Chan that I got from a flea market a little while back.As usual, the film is a martial arts film that doesn't take itself very seriously, resulting in some ridiculously entertaining moments. It's funny and offers plenty of kickass fight scenes.Dialogue is very well written and executed. The plot isn't very great; merely serviceable. My biggest problem is that the movie is a bit short. Most movies are at least 90 minutes long, which is a good run time. This one's barely over 70 minutes; not counting bloopers. However, it's well paced and exciting enough that this still is a minor gripe to me. The acting isn't very great outside of Chan. Same thing for the characters. Besides Jackie Chan's (he plays himself btw), I either didn't care about any of them or I hated them. Some characters have little point and just feel ignored.It feels disjointed at times, but it's still incredibly fun and I enjoyed every minute of it. Jackie Chan's First Strike gets an 8.5/10. It's what I want from a Jackie Chan film. But the short run time, acting, characters, and plot keep it from a higher score.﻿ "},{"Title":"Who cares about the plot? Just enjoy the action!","Date":"5 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" (Credit IMDb) Jackie, a cop, participates in a sting operation on an international spy-ring, but when one of them (Tsui) gets away, Jackie is ordered to apprehend him. This leads Jackie all over the globe starting with Tsui's sister in Australia. The story follows him as he tries to stay alive and capture the villain. This is an unrelated sequel to Police Story. It's the weakest of the lot, but as far as action goes, it delivers in a big way. Let me tell you something right from the outset. Forget about a solid storyline, its not gonna happen. It's very thin, plot-wise, and relies on big action sequences. The dubbing is atrocious, and the villains are so poor, that they are hardly even noticeable, despite a few twists and turns during this movie. Between the opening action sequence, involving some snowboarding, or some incredible stunt sequences by Jackie on a high building, and the amazing sequence, involving Jackie and a ladder, this movie is quite a thrill ride when the action sequences commence. Jackie Chan is reliable as ever. He doesn't have a whole lot to act with, but he has charisma in spades. His character shows some decent emotion at times as well. This was one of Jackie's breakout his in the USA. The rest of the actors are poorly dubbed, so it's hard to really say how they did. I also liked the well timed comedic sequences. Jackie knows how to combine action & comedy with the best of them. This is far from Jackie's best, hell. It's not even the best in the Police Story series, in fact, it's the worst. But that doesn't mean it's not enjoyable, because it is. Watch it for the action, and just have fun6.4/10 "},{"Title":"Great action. Lots of fun. Tricky story.","Date":"13 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" OK first, Jackie Chan stumbling around a Russian ski resort in a fluffy sea lion hat is priceless! An awful heck of a lot happens in the first 30 min alone.There were a lot of things I found a riot that were subtle and the slapstick variety. Like when Jackie is on a snowmobile at the ski resort and comes to a restricted area with a warning sign of one guy shooting another guy if you cross - he calls his superiors and asks what to do an the guy says, Oh that's just for kids. So Jackie forges on. LMAO It's done do deadpan I'm not sure if it's intended to be funny, but I was roaring.The action keeps moving and there are some amazing moments like the famous ladder fight scene. The humor is great and well-placed and there's even a credible reason for Jackie to get naked at one point. His attempts to hide himself had me laughing out loud.This is one of those movies that you'll enjoy if you just let yourself enjoy it and not try to make sense of it. I found the story went in way too many directions to follow. But everything that goes on on screen is so much fun I kinda didn't care. "}{"Title":"Action Man Chan","Date":"3 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is the one in which Jackie Chan performs miracles with a tall stepladder, and it's a sequence that quite frankly boggles the mind. Chan makes it look easy, but when you see the out-takes at the end of the film you'll see just how painful those stunts could be. He's a Bond-style super agent in this one - the fourth in a series apparently, although you won't need to have seen any of the previous films to follow this one. He's after a rogue agent in possession of a nuclear warhead or something, but the plot is secondary to the action so it doesn't really matter. The first twenty minutes or so provide an almost constant serving of action, and later on, as the pace slows a little, the humour kicks in, particularly as Chan and his foe suck their bleeding thumbs as they do battle in a tank occupied by a hungry shark&#x85; "},{"Title":"Super movie","Date":"22 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is the fourth installment of Jackie Chan's Police story series.The movie is separated into two parts. The first part is in Russia and the second part is in Australia. Jackie is after an ex-CIA agent Tsui who've stolen a nuclear bomb. Another group of terrorists are after the bomb too. Jackie gets between the terrorists and Tsui, and the terrorists tries to kill him too. Tsui's sister Annie and Jackie gets together, and tries to recover the case hidden in the aquarium.This movie was made during the period Jackie Chan was making movies in international locations. The story and the comedy is especially well done, perhaps it's because the screen play was written by four people. The fight sequences at the high rise hotel and the aquarium are one of Jackie's best.Good movie that will give you lots of laughs and action. "},{"Title":"Jackie Chan's First Strike","Date":"2 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I recognised the title and had seen the poster a few times, naturally starring one of the world's most famous martial artists I was interested to see it, no matter what rating the critics give it. Basically Insp. Jackie Chan Ka Kui (Jackie Chan) is the cop participating in some kind of sting operation on an international spy ring, he seems to be working for both the FBI and the Russians. One of the key spies, Jackson Tsui (Jackson Liu), manages to get away, and Jackie is the one ordered to catch and arrest him. What this leads to a is a journey across parts of the world, meeting up with the spy's sister Annie Tsui (Annie Chen Chun Wu) in Australia. Obviously along the way there are one or two fights where Jackie tries his best to fight back and stay alive, and in the end of course the case is solves after he has saved the day. Also starring Bill Tung as 'Uncle' Bill Wong, Yuri Petrov as Col. Gregor Yegorov, Nonna Grishaeva as Natasha, John Eaves as Mark and Terry Woo as Uncle Seven. Chan is obviously a good character, it is odd that he has to dub himself in a few scenes, many of the other actors are out of sync, the story is not the most engaging ever, in fact I lost track of what was going on, but there are some inventive fight sequences with Chan's cool stunt work, but apart from that I wouldn't really bother with this action thriller. Adequate! "},{"Title":"jackie chan's first strike is a great ride","Date":"24 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" jackie chan's first strike is your typical jackie chan fare featuring all the brilliant fight scenes and breathetaking stunts one expects from the chanster. a big improvement over supercop while not as good as jackie chan's who am i, never the less this is perfect entertainment from start to finish as jackie chan is hired by the c.i.a and gets tangled in some dangereous stuff and people are not to be trusted, but hey jackie chan movies are rarely there for story lines, the storyline is just the excuse to have some great fight scenes and stunts and here first strike delivers. i am one of the biggest jackie chan fans in the uk i think anyway and have seen all his films, and even though first strike isn't one of his best it's a solid effort none the less. "},{"Title":"Probably my overall favourite Chan","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I'm pretty sure this was one of the first Jackie Chan movies I saw, and the point where I became a fan. After watching it again last night, I can see why I started to like Jackie so much after this film.The film isn't perfect, far from it. As very common in these films, it takes ages to settle into any proper action or story, carries the trademark terrible dialogue in all talking scenes and has a whole host of continuity errors and goofs. But what this film does have, in my opinion, is possibly Chans best overall performance of his career so far.This film shows how much of an athletic talent Jackie really is, from the fight scenes to all the ways Jackie climbs over obstacles and into windows during the movie. This movie really showed me what a leading man was capable in the way of stunts when I first saw it, and still shows what the human body can do in any situation.I don't think it really needs any more praise on here, but the mid movie ladder fight (and all build up to it) really needs to be seen to be believed. The gag real at the end of the movie show how dangerous this really was as well.I just love Jackie's acrobatic style in this film. I am so glad I still find movies like this entertaining after I was so disappointed by the much hyped drunken master and original police story. I still need to see a few more of Chan's early work, but for now, this is my fav. "},{"Title":"One of the great Chan movies!","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was the one that got me interested in Jackie Chan. Ever since then I have seen almost all of his movies! This is one of the better Jackie Chan movies I have seen. I think it is wonderful because it is Jackie going lots of places he has not before. For instance, the ski slopes! And in a shark tank! I could not stop laughing! And that fight scene when he goes to tell that he didn't kill the girl's father was one of the best I've seen! It was awesome! I couldn't stop giggling!  "},{"Title":"Not a Letdown","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I found this entry to be just as exciting and funny as any of Chan's films. The action was intense, the story was secondary, and you know you have seen much worse before.  I give this a 7.(PG13)- Physical violence, gun violence, some male nudity "},{"Title":"A Jackie Chan Globtrotting Spyflick","Date":"17 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Jackie Chan is a stunt genius.  In this movie he fights on stilts, skis, underwater, in high-rises, and more.  As usual, he gets the bejeebers beat out of him, but still triumphs.  In this movie, he is involved in a James-Bondish plot of stolen nuclear weapons (and, of course, he even *says* he's like James Bond, just in case you didn't get it.)   But who cares?  The stunts are fantastic as always,  at the same time funny and breathtaking. There is nobody like Jackie Chan. "},{"Title":"A great treat for jackie chan's fans.","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  okay, so it may not be the best of jackie chan's movies but sure it is a lot of fun to watch jackie hopping continents(Australia, Russia)great stunts as usual,a very funny climax scene underwater with a sharks.i for sure,can say that i was not dissapointed with this movie. "},{"Title":"I like it! It's got a nice ring to it!","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This moniker wasn't a joke. This movie really proved it's point. Compared to Rumble in the Bronx and Supercop, Jackie Chan's First Strike packed a major punch! All the sabotage, the espionage, Jackie Chan was really ready to rumble. Survive the biting cold seemed rough for Jackie, but he managed very well. Sometimes he character seemed to wonder who were the good guys and who were the bad caused some wonder. In the scene where he was heavily bugged, he didn't do bad on the old 60's song I Will Follow You, and it was embarrassing when everyone saw his posterior, I would rather hide in a thorny bush, than to be seen nude myself, unless the women are driven wild by male nudity. Then there's the fight scene in the aquarium, where the sharks and sea urchins have their way with the victims. And most of all the ladders fight which is the most memorable of all scenes. I liked it all, the turnout, the plot and the choreography, this Jackie Chan movie is the tops. Rating 4 out of 5 stars. "}{"Title":"One of Jackie's Finest","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" First Strike is one of my favorite Jackie movies because it manages to combine classic Jackie with slightly darker elements. Though the film does not always have a very clean look to it there's enough variety to keep you through and never does the movie turn incomprehensible like Jackie's less impressive Mr. Nice Guy (which came as a part of the same package with this film when I bought it). Also the slight nod in the direction of James Bond films was nice but not as central to the plot as some would like you to think.The only minuses come from the underwater craziness which always felt to me a little too silly (plus the shark looks fake) and also the ending which was a little unenthusiastic (luckily the bloopers before the credits make up for it).Definitely one of the better Jackie films but not the best.Also a plus, though lacking the original theme song (Zenmo Hui) the American theme was still very appropriate. "},{"Title":"Greatest","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Wow, amazing, elegant, startling, marvelous, astonishing what else I should use.It's not enough to use these words for Jackie Chan's movie. You shouldn't only depend on my words but see twice, thrice and you will be able to generate a notion that you must buy the DVD or something else to watch this movie eternal time. Unfortunately, I didn't have money that time when the movie was available in the shop. Now the movie in our country is out of market. But I am still searching the movie. That's not the point but the main thing is the movie is again brilliant.I am saying this several times. But it deserves that. When you rate the American movies that actually not really rated. So are Hong Kong or Asian movies. When American or Hollywood movies are copying from Asian movies those are not highlighted but the reverse things are happened in case of Asian movies. However, I think that Jackie never copies from anything because he is unique in his style.Now, I will how is First Strike. The story is really good. The fighting scenes are gorgeous. The ladder fight scene is incredible. The action when funeral was going is also superb. And I think that the most superb and brilliant action was under the shark aquarium. I have nothing more to say because it is what it shows in the pictorial view.I rate it 10/10. "},{"Title":"Jackie at his best","Date":"11 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This got to be one of Jackie Chan's best stunt kung-fu movies ever. Like when he swam underwater which most of it was frozen. He fought a bunch of adversaries with a ladder. Overall Jackie is a great actor,and the ability he has to climb walls,jump from one building to another with great distance,and could take a gun apart with his bare hands. It's amazing! Jackie's attitude is beautiful and it will be very difficult to cast him as a bad guy in a movie. "},{"Title":"Now is the time to strike back!","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Jackie Chan's First Strike is entertaining, the movie has very good James Bond 007-like action scenes like snowboard chases and fights underwater! Of course Jackie adds his sense of humor to it. I really enjoyed watching this movie, i recommend it. "},{"Title":"One of Jackie's best!","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Really cool action movie where super-Jackie dresses the role of James Bond, adding his usual spectacular kicking and acrobatics. This one, contrarily to the average, actually HAS a plot, and the acting is not as bad as in other movies. But going to the full-show style, few excellent scenes including some wonderful underwater on the style of Thunderbolt. Very funny, super butt-kicking and super-Jackie!  "},{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the best cop stories I have ever seen. Not only does Jackie perform his martial arts well, he does a good job on his acting. The plot of the story and the action in this movie is excellent. Jackie is a cop who is trying to stop a missing nuclear warhead. But controversies come and go in the movie about the people involved in the warhead. It's very exciting and also funny. I recommend this as a worth seeing movie "},{"Title":"Rock on Jackie!!!","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  As you know every Police Story movie has its special action scenes. In Police Story has the slide down the electrical pole and the mall fight. In Police Story 2 there is a fight in a kids playground. In Police Story 3Supercop theres the helicopter stunt performed by Jackie and a fight on a train. Well in Police Story 4Jackie Chan's First Strike there's the amazing fight where you see Jackie use a leader. Otherwise the movie has couple good stunts and some fight scenes but its not as good as the following movies in the series. So go rent it "},{"Title":"One of Jackie's best.","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie(Jackie Chan's First Strike/Police Story 4) is one of the best movies by Jackie Chan.  Excellent stunts/action scenes.  The best music featured in one of Jackie's movies.  One of the best stunts is when he snowboards down a mountain then jumps onto a helicopters landing skis then he lets go and drops into freezing cold water. A must-see if you like action movies. "},{"Title":"HA! Go Jackie!","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  How does he do it?! Jackie is a martial arts/action king! Forget about the other Police Story's and just focus on how good this movie really is. It is filled with spectacular action, and fantastic fighting scenes. Jackie is too good in this one! The fighting scenes were phenomenal! It was great. I loved it! "},{"Title":"Stupid edits","Date":"3 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm assuming the uncut, non-American release version of this film is better than the one I saw, but it's still pretty good.  Dumb plot, and even dumber action sequences, but boy, are they fun to watch.  Worth watching for the ladder fight alone! "}{"Title":"My favorite Jackie Chan film","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  *** and 1/2 stars out of 4There's really no use explaining the plot to Jackie Chan's First Strike. It's a bit hard to comprehend at times.  Basically, it's about a Hong Kong cop named Jackie Chan who has to retrieve a stolen nuclear warhead and fight a lot of people throughout the film.  That sounds like an appealing enough backdrop for some martial arts fights and stunts.And boy does First Strike have a lot of action.  There was not one minute where I was bored and I watched this late at night.  First Strike features some truly unbelievable stunts which include Jackie Chan skiing down a mountain with one board, hanging off the edge of a helicopter, and getting into some dangerous fights.  This film features one of the best martial arts sequences I have ever seen on film.  It's the scene in which Chan encounters several men who believe he killed an old man (he's naturally been framed) and must fight in self-defense, using anything in the building to his advantage, which include tables, chairs, sticks, brooms, and even a huge ladder.  I don't believe I've seen an action sequence that has made me smile so much in the amount of fun I was having while watching it.  It even beats out the final fight scenes to Who am I? and Drunken Master 2.Along with the great fights come the requisite Jackie Chan humor and there's no lack of it in this film.  As a matter of fact, I might even say this is Chan's funniest film, even more hilarious than the joke-packed Police Story.As for acting, Jackie Chan is his usual solid self.  He has yet to deliver anything below a good performance in all his films I have seen.  Everybody else doesn't really get adequate screen time but are at least fair enough actors to get the job done.Watch First Strike, it's an extremely entertaining and fun blast you won't want to miss. "},{"Title":"This movie has it all!","Date":"29 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Jackie Chan blends in a wonderful mix of comedy and action in this movie!! Look out for an EXTENDED LENGTH version of this movie that contains scenes not shown on the VHS or DVD tape. I saw the scenes on TNT and they just added to this wonderful film, unlike most cut scenes that do nothing for the film except for adding fluff!!! "},{"Title":"This a very good piece of entertainment.","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  i don't understand how so many people could think that this is a terrible movie. Okay, maybe it shouldn't have been part of the police Story series, but I have no problem with that. I just have a problem with people trashing a movie like this . This has some good fight scenes, good slapstick humor and, surprisingly for Jackie Chan, some good drama scenes. yes, you heard me right, I HAVE A PROBLEM WITH WHAT YOU PEOPLE THINK!! Thank you for you time. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Stunts and Martial Arts from Jackie (again)","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Some Martial Arts sticklers and dedicated Jackie fans complain that First Strike may not have Chan's best fight scenes (with the exception of the now famous ladder scene), but this is one amazing film for stunts, and a good introduction to Jackie for those who have never seen him.  The plot is not the strongest in the Police Story series, but this film rates high for the He can't be doing that! factor.  "},{"Title":"Chan&#133;Jackie Chan.","Date":"10 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It has been so many years since I have seen a Jackie Chan film, but after finally watching First Strike for the first time since something like 1998 I am completely hooked again. Te fight scenes are astonishing and even though the sets are bad and some of the fight situations (underwater with sharks) are cartoonish it is still a non-stop thrill ride. Plenty of comic relief, as always, and one unbelievable stunt after another make this one of Jackie's best films ever, I think. I think that since Jackie Chan became an international star in the middle of the series, they were made available in America out of order, but this is the kind of series that you can start watching with any of the installments. Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Big on Action.....Small on Kung Fu","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" First Strike is not a bad movie, its just not Jackie Chan's best. The plot of this film is sometimes hard to follow because it really doesn't make much sense. However, what this film lacks in plot it more than makes up for in action.When it comes to action Chan does it better than anyone else in the world. Jackie Chan made classic pure martial arts films in his youth and moved on to action films as he got older. First Strike, like Super Cop or Operation Condor is more of an action movie than a pure martial arts movie. First Strike is heavy on stunts and shootouts and explosions and light on martial arts. There are only a few scenes with real Jackie Chan fight sequences, which are outstanding. In First Strike you see Jackie ski, swim with sharks, climb walls, walk on stilts, ramp cars... It is all well done and fun to watch and puts American action stars to shame. There are plenty of comical moments in the movie which Jackie always does well.If you're looking for a great Jackie Chan pure martial arts film, this is not one of them, though it does serve as a good introduction to the world of Chan. If you are a big fan of action and adventure films or you are a die hard Jackie fan, you will enjoy First Strike. If your looking for a classic Chan film, check out Drunken Master, The Legend of Drunken Master, Project A, Police Story or Snake in the Eagle's Shadow. First Strike is a fun and entertaining action film but is light on the ground breaking fight scenes that made Chan a superstar. Action Rating 9/10Martial Arts Rating 5/10Over All Movie Rating 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  Action buffs only, safe if you don't normally like martial arts","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" First Strike is not perhaps the best of Jackie Chan's films, but it is quite modern and has plenty of special effects. The plot is pretty stupid, so the film is for action film buffs only. Lots and lots of stuff blows up.Don't normally like martial arts films? Me neither. Too much anger and foreign strangeness about ungrateful sons and fathers. But Jackie Chan is quite different and if you're new to the genre I suggest you give it a shot. Jackie Chan films have lots of comedy and they're quite accessible. But try SuperCop or Rush Hour first.Who should see this film-- Action film buffs only, even if like me you prefer anintelligent plot. The comedy and action makes up for it.I'll give First Strike an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"interesting","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A little slower than a lot of Jackie Chan films, this one's got a (convoluted) plot He needs to stop a rogue CIA from acquiring some uranium. In the process he ends up framed for murder, leading to the film's only real fight scene.  It's a pretty good one, too, watch what he does with the ladder.  It may not have the usual action quotient, but it's fun to watch, as most Jackie movies are, and I think Stanley Tong is a great director. Let's hope he gets past Mr. Magoo, though, shall we? I like the Australian locations, and the acting's pretty good all around.  Action buffs may prefer the faster paced American version, but I like the uncut... "},{"Title":"Funny and action for laughs","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If you want to spend a very good time watching a comedy and some action flicks, this is the movie. Jackie Chan was so good performing what he does and he was even better as a comedian. Too funny, too fast paced to believe it. Very good for watching it with friends. It was better than I expected. "},{"Title":"Jackie Chan kicks as&!","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Jackie Chan plays a cop, who has to work for the Russians on a special mission. Speaking about the plot is not necessary.  This movie is high class. Jackie Chan does many neckbreaking stunts and the bad guys are more stupid than ever(the bad guys in J.Chan`s movies are always STUPID) Great actioncomedy!!9/10 "}{"Title":"Horrible dialogue, pathetic dubbing, nonexistant plot.  I loved it!","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If you're looking for a good example of cinematic technique, this is not for you.  If, on the other hand, you're looking for a pure action/martial arts movie with some of the best fighting scenes in the history of the world, you'll be hard-pressed to find a better movie that this.I've yet to see a Jackie Chan movie I don't like, but I have also never seen one I like more than this.  He takes on groups of ten guys in hand to hand combat, and it actually looks real.  That scene with the ladder is about the most incredible thing I've ever seen.  If you have any appreciation at all for martial arts movies, this is something you have to see. "},{"Title":"A much better Hollywood Jackie movie","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  After being a little disappointed with Rumble in the Bronx, First Strike was a great comeback from everyone's favourite martial artist/wannabe comic.As ever, it was the action and the jokes which moved the show along, and it delivered plenty - the huge fight scene in the aquarium and the ladder fight highlighting Jackie's infinite brilliance (and infinite pain tolerance, in the latter case - see the outtakes). And as for those koala underpants...well, some things you just need to see. A much better installment in the Jackie Chan legacy - not to mention that it was filmed Down Under, which as we all know is the greatest place on Earth  ) "},{"Title":"A funny beat'em up","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I ain't a great fan of martial arts movies, but I have to agree that Jackie Chan's movies aren't usual. Not only he has one of the greatest fighting skills (he never uses a stunt, even in the scenes he rides a snowboard, or in the scenes he falls from great heights...), but he is really funny as well. He is an unusual fighter because he gets striked as well!!! (that's so rare in martial arts movies!). The only bad thing about the movie that it's dubbed to English, so sometimes you first listen to the voice than only later his mouth starts moving...   "},{"Title":"Chan Strikes Out!","Date":"6 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" First Strike (1996) Dir Stanley Tong / Cast Jackie Chan, Jackson Lou, Jouri Petrow, Bill Tung, Wu Chen-chun This film eventually strikes out big time with its horrible dubbing, but its first strike is its numerous martial arts sequences that seem to be chain linked. Jackie Chan stars as an agent sent to follow a woman. He discovers that the villains wish to steal a missile off of a warhead. This all occurs during a visit to the Ukraine, which isn't exactly his best bet for a vacation site since he nearly loses his life more times than a cat. Director Stanley Tong knows how to present the action and he is backed with fine winter location sites, but finding a script worth the time is his problem. Chan is subdued to bad dubbing and at one point held at gun point where his clothes are demanded leaving him in his underwear with only a car door to shield himself. Unfortunately he had nothing to shield himself from the lame writing. He is skilled and creative with these stunts, adding an innocent sense of humour, but it is all show and little substance. His co-stars are not exactly hand picked by the Academy Award voters either. Among them are Jackson Lou, Jouri Petrow, Wu Chen-chun, and Bill Tung and none of them are going out of their way to give a convincing performance. Conclusion includes bloopers and outtakes but the entire film pretty much sums that up. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"Great action with a mediocre storyline! 4/10","Date":"21 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Review This is the 4th instalment from the Police Story franchise, which see Jackie Chan return as Detective Chan. At the beginning of the movie he heads to Ukraine to take down the ruthless baddies whose stolen a nuclear warhead and then he's sent to sunny Australia to finish the task. He uses the baddies sister to try and get clues to were he is and when they finally come face to face with each other, he realises that all is not what it seems. He also gets framed for a murder so he's constantly proving his innocence whilst trying to find the baddie who can clear his name. With clever action scenes and some amazing stunts, including fighting underwater, this movie is a action packed ride from beginning to end, with a decent script and many twists and turns. I quite enjoyed this film because of the detailed action scenes and the straight forward storyline but the scenes with the sharks, really went a bit too far. Apart from that, it's basically Chan playing a one man army role, taking out the bad men with style, which we have seen a few times before but it's well put together with some amazing stunts. Watchable!Round-Up This film sees Chan teamed up with director Stanley Tong again, who seems to bring the best stunts to the big screen when they join forces. I'm a bit gutted that I didn't get to see the 3rd Police Story because I would have liked to have seen Jackie Chan kicking butt with Michelle Yeoh. Anyway, the beginning of this movie is a complete rip off from a Bond movie, For Your Eyes Only I think, and I don't know how the hell little Chan was able to take on those massive Ukraines, who looked like they could eat him for breakfast. That is what makes Chan the ultimate hero in his movies and I'm yet to see him play a mean baddie. Budget N/A Worldwide Gross $22millionI recommend this movie to people who are into their action/adventure/martial arts/comedies starring Jackie Chan, Jackson Liu and Annie Wu. 4/10 "},{"Title":"fun Jackie Chan","Date":"14 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Hong Kong inspector Chan Ka Kui (Jackie Chan) is working with the CIA to follow Natasha to Ukraine on a nuclear smuggling case. Soon he's following the bad guys to a hideout where scientist Jackson Tsui is doing a deal. He falls into the icy waters and rescued by the Russians. He starts working with the Russian FSB to find Tsui who was recruited by the CIA. He goes to Australia to get close to Tsui's younger sister Annie and their dying father.Jackie Chan is a fun charming guy. All he has to do is show up with a silly baby seal hat and it's a fun time for everyone. The plot is a mess. A few more rewrites and it could pass for a bad Bond movie. This would be a bad movie without Jackie. With him, this has a few good chuckles and some great stunts. Walking on the ledge of the building is vertigo inducing. "},{"Title":"Breakthrough film for Jackie Chan","Date":"29 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is probably the breakthrough movie for Jackie Chan into the western Hollywood scene. It has just about all the crazy Jackie Chan stunt works in this, with those trademark silly and goofy moments. I can see why this movie was a hit when it first came out, it just has almost all the right Jackie Chan elements. It's short, but fun and exciting most of the way through. The plot is typical with no appearance by Maggie Cheung. Which doesn't really matter since, this movie is on target and knows which direction to head to for the most part. This movie just might have the biggest budget and the most crazy stunt work by Jackie Chan in this franchise as well. Maybe it's because the premise and setting of the movie doesn't only take place in China. Which might be one of the reason why this movie was able to reach wider audiences at the time. This one might not be the end of the Police Story saga but it's the end of this series story. Until the reboot that is. Overall this isn't just a good Jackie Chan movie but it's also a important film for Jackie Chan. It's worth checking out for sure, especially for the fans of Jackie Chan and his work.8.4/10 "},{"Title":"Not great but enjoyable enough","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Super-cop Jackie is assigned to follow a woman to trace her connection to an international spy ring.  He links her to the mysterious Tsui and the disappearance of a missing nuclear warhead.  Jackie goes after Tsui's sister Annie in Australia and uncovers that his secret service colleagues have not been 100% open with him about their relationship with Tsui.Part 4 in the Super cop series sees the film become a little more of a Bond spoof than the earlier films with Jackie jet setting around the world with sharks, guns and helicopters.  As one of the series it is not the best but it is still good enough.  The plot is pretty much a side issue but it is par for the course for this sort of stuff.  The important stuff is the action and the film has just enough to carry it.  The opening snowbound stuff, the fight in a warehouse and the climax are all pretty good sequences and the rest is filler which is also OK.  I must say that I was only occasionally enthralled by the action, which is what I want from Jackie Chan but it is solid enough.The cast are pretty average &#150; many hampered by the curse of a bad dubbing job.  Chan does well and is both athletic and funny in the whole film.  Annie Wu is the usual `girl' in these films and just does her job while the Eastern European looking goons all blend into one big stereotype after 15 minutes.  Happily Chan is the one big reason to keep watching &#150; whether stripping to his bare ass or bouncing round a room.Overall this is enjoyable enough and fans of Chan won't be too disappointed despite the fact that it is far from his best work.  However, as most of us accept, at this point Chan was still looking for a strong vehicle to really get into the US. "},{"Title":"Disappointing, but still good.","Date":"1 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  After the success of Rumble in the Bronx, New line Cinema were deseperate to put out a big budget action film starring Jackie and hopefully brake into the American Concious.  Unfortuently this film suffers from its terrible editing, slow pace and horrible dubbing which sounds really out of place, but fortuently it doesn't disrupt from the action.This is the forth part of the famous Police Story saga, and although not related to the other films it does have several traits.  Unfortuently Jackie Chan's character (Kevin Chan) has been renamed into simply Jackie, and now the character is more of a bumbling fool rather than the burnt out, stressed out, moody character that he was in say Police Story II.  But I guess this is all forgivable when you understand this was an attempt to brake Jackie into America...and prove that Rumble wasn't just a fluke.Whether that premise was proven is a matter of opinion, and to be honest is secondary to what this film is a good time.  Jackie still does the action that only he can.  The plot, although confusing and stupidily out of place in a Police Story film seems to take up more of the film than the action does.This film, directed by Stanley Tong, doesn't feel as fast paced, nor have the sense of real enjoyment as say SuperCop (also directed and produced by Tong), it lacks the energy, the true sense of wow that only Jackie can give.  That's not to say the film isn't good, its just to say that this film comes off as pretty average.  The bond-like ski chase is nothing, and I expected a lot more, espically on the action side, whereas the scenes with the sharks seemed out of place and tried to inject terror and fear where there was none.The real highlights of this film are when Jackie uses a ladder as a fighting weapon, as a fan I'm left in awe, thinking how did he do that?  That thing must have weighed a ton, yet Jackie managed to swing it around like a feather and use it like a fighting stick.  Other memorable sequences is the really tall guy, although we aren't given a good long hard fight sequence with him facing Jackie - and this is a crying shame.Anyway, its passable as a Jackie Chan film, its enjoyable - but doesn't deserve the same credit as say SuperCop, which is a much more enjoyable film.Overall 5/10 "},{"Title":"Chan...Jackie Chan shouldn't have made it a sequel to Police Story","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is supposed to be a sequel to Chan's popular Police Story movies, but has none of the characteristics of the previous movies.  This movie really has a feel of a James Bond movie.  Definitely watch the Hong Kong Version which has about 20 minutes of footage cut from U.S. release.  It's a good movie in itself, but a poor sequel to Police Story 3 Supercop.  "}{"Title":"My Name Is Bond.. Jackie Bond !","Date":"3 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is the adventures of Bond's cousin from Hong Kong. Forget the name or the job (Insp. Chan Ka Kui), because this is the Bond formula without the sexual appetizers, the Sci-Fi toys, the huge sets, and the elegant suits. Unfortunately it got the same Bondy plot which's always too thin to be visible. Most likely they wrote and designed the Action firstly, then they looked to trivial matters like putting a story, any story, to fit that, or not ! Obviously Jackie was so desperate to achieve a First Strike in America. After the failure of (The Big Brawl - 1980), he had been forced to be a spoof of himself (The Cannonball Run - 1981), or Dirty Harry (The Protector - 1985), then they let him to be himself (Rumble in the Bronx - 1995), and all of these movies went wrong. Therefore why not to give the western audience what they used to have and mostly love. So here it is a Bond flick done by Chan, yet somehow inside his kind of worlds.But here, badly I think, you'll witness the abstract case of (Chan). Nothing here to watch but (Chan)'s action &#x96; very detached - sequences, and nothing disrupts (Chan) to perform his stuff and perfectly, however that's not satisfyingly perfect as a whole. I don't mean a lack of dramatic depth or something, (Shanghai Noon - 2000) is just pure fun and works fine, but here there is nothing else Chan in Action after Action, which wasn't that solidly made as cliffhanger after another ! The absence of some real thrill or comedy makes you want to sleep. No good music, acting, one-liners, or even one-liner ! Nothing is done as good as the certain sequences. You can watch it as 'The Boldest Action Scenes' show &#x96; Jackie Chan special episode, and never feel any difference !Despite how this cousin is nicer, how this Bond doing all the madly dangerous stunts by himself, or how it contains historical fearless stunts, I must admit the final result was so ridiculous. Compared to Bond movies it's less entertaining, and to Chan's worlds it's not funny. This non-movie kind of stacking action was at its best nothing but another round into Chan's own circus.. Which was quite tasteless this time. "},{"Title":"Confusing as a thriller, with a lack of action","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  First of all, i should point out that I saw a dubbed version of this movie - which made it very hard to follow.  the plot is something to do with stolen nuclear warheads, and double crosses between various bad guys, which Jackie Chan gets caught up in.  This Bond-wannabe action movie jumps from glamorous location to glamorous location (Hong Kong, Ukraine, Australia), without really explaining why.  The action scene's for which Jackie is famous are limited, with a dramatic fight in building being renovated at the top of the pile, and some well choreographed underwater action second.Overall, the story isn't strong enough to fill in the gaps between the occasionally badly-shot action. "},{"Title":"biggest piece of crap!","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I just cannot help being unobjective about this film, it really is the biggest piece of crap to have J.C involved in. I understand the man's need to break into (at the time) the U.S market, but to release something that is even 2nd rate to Hong Kong standards to the world is just not on! All I can say is that when you are sitting in a cinema full of people who expect a J.C film to contain lots of action, humour and crazy stunts and it isn't delivered, then we get bored and that's exactly what we got from this film! "}]