[{"Title":"Another Pretty Solid Modern 'Noir'","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"24 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I guess you could call this a neo-noir, which is a modern-day film noir. It has that atmosphere, especially in New Orleans which seems to always been pictured on the seamy side in films. After the devastation that took place there last year, perhaps filmmakers will kinder to the city in future movies. Anyway, a seedy New Orleans, some good blues music and five varied-and-all interesting lead characters make this a very watchable movie. Alec Baldwin, Kelly Lynch, Teri Hatcher, Mary Stuart Masterston and Eric Roberts all contribute with good performances All but Roberts are the good guys in this one.The movie keeps your attention and has you involved for most of the two hours. The action is well-dispersed. My only complaint is a small one Baldwin with the southern accent doesn't sound natural. Otherwise, a good modern-day crime story. "},{"Title":"I beg to differ","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"21 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I thought the opening scene was one of the best movie openings I've ever watched - beautifully written and sensitively played.Drawn in from the outset, I was happy to watch the plot unfold. Yes, it could be argued that the main protagonist brings his troubles upon himself but that is hardly a plot fault - some people do.Problems with the film? I don't know why an actress of Mary Stuart Masterson's caliber should take on such a nothing role. And the plane crash looked cheap and unconvincing. Otherwise, I have no complaints. I love the books and I thoroughly enjoyed the film.I have read the previous reviews which seem to be critical for the most part and I am left wondering why they are so. I've watched a lot of rotten films and this certainly isn't one of them. I give it an eight out of ten. I enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"Kind of complicated, atmospheric crime thriller.","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Nice shots of the bayou under the opening credits. Unspoiled rivers, pristine swamps, oaks draped with Spanish moss. It all looks rather promising. I guess you can still find such subtle but majestic littorals, maybe along route 90 around Houma, but from most highways in southern Louisiana all you see is oily swamp water with derricks planted in it. Beer cans and garbage and, quien sabe?, corpses floating in the murk.The movie's kind of like that too. The location shooting is just fine. Everyone sweats up a storm in the heat and humidity and it's no wonder that they head for the gin rickeys with all that ice. New Orleans is exposed in all its funkiness. The French Quarter is more or less avoided, but we get to see the lesser neighborhoods, now drowned and empty of human life in the wake of Katrina. There are the shotgun houses of the poor, the stripper bars playing bluesy music. The streetcars travel not through the Garden District but through ordinary residential streets. Beautiful in its own rotting way, almost phosphorescent with corruption. Outside the city there are bait shops that rent boats and sell tackle. One of these is run by Alec Baldwin, ex cop, recovering alcoholic.The story isn't very much, when you come right down to it. Hard to follow at times, not really captivating but not absolutely mainstream generic either. Baldwin has a marvelously normal family, including a stolen adopted girl, but is accidentally involved in some shenanigans I couldn't quite follow, something about smuggling, which draws the attention of the mob. Baldwin doesn't seem to actually DO anything that threatens their presence but they surround his house one lightning-filled night and do his loving and courageous wife (Kelly Lynch). The rest of the plot is a revenge story, with Baldwin tracking down the killers one by one. There are some good action scenes, a chase across the rooftops, a battle on a streetcar. All the action is done in slow motion so you get a chance to savor it -- the crashing crashing cars, the catapulting bodies, the muzzle flashes brilliantly lighting up the interiors of dark houses. PS Mister Director, can we have a moratorium on slow-motion deaths? It's more than a cliché; it's positively decadent by now. Let's get together and blame Sam Pekinpah, okay? I thought the conclusion was pretty well done. After his wife is blasted to shreds by shotguns, an attractive young blond -- and old friend -- moves into his house in the woods and provides him with some emotional comfort. They once were quite close. Now -- see -- Baldwin's wife is gone, and he's got this little Latina girl that he's adopted, but there's a big hole in the nuclear family. (In other words, the guy needs a wife.) A conventional script calls for him to overcome his grief and fall in love with the reassuring and loving blond babe. But no. When he makes clear that he holds his wife's memory sacred, the blond leaves him a note and takes off, realizing he's not ready to get on with his life, as they say. The last scene has Baldwin in his house, gazing affectionately at his sleeping little girl, then falling on his back beside her. Sensing his presence she twists over and puts her arm around his chest, and he places his hand over hers and stares at the ceiling. It is not a cheap shot. It's a brief but genuinely tender scene, encompassing both love and the loss of it. "},{"Title":"Great work by the cast..","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Great work by the cast - not so great when it comes to the writing. Heaven's Prisoners lacked a couple of key elements in writing and the film suffered as a result. Once again Kelly Lynch did a fantastic job and made tremendous use of limited screen time. Baldwin wasn't too bad either. This probably ranks as one of his best performances along with The Hunt for Red October. Teri Hatcher was HOT.  Overall - Heaven's Prisoners is worth renting - if only to check out the great work by a talented, if not successful, cast.  "},{"Title":"Good Movie; entertaining","Date":"9 November 1999","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Excellent flick.  Caught me by surprise on TV, never heard of it.  Very well done; all actors superb.  Violent and good action yet slow enough to go deep.  Interesting story and atmosphere down in Louisiana. Knowing that Alec Baldwin is from Long Island I thought the accent was done well enough to be convincing. I agree on someone's comment on the DEA agent/ friend.  His character could have been more established but no real harm done.  I really got into this movie.  "},{"Title":"Against most reviews of this film, for the genre it is it is one of the best.","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I put this film up there with Two Days in the Valley, as one of the most entertaining of its genre of cops-excops-drugs-mob type movies. I think the main criticism of it has to do with the ruthless violence along with the revenge theme of Baldwin's part. But violence is as violence does in film. Although it ends abruptly, Baldwin's acting was still superb, and so was everyone else's acting. All the female actors did superb job, not just Teri Hatcher. The writers could have put more meaningful time and script into the DEA agent's role as he also had added some positive good guy vibe to it, although good-guy vibe was not 100% present in his role. It was unclear as to why he kept showing up the way he did in the movie. Writing further revelation of that into the movie could have been done and helped round out the movie more. They had a good actor in the role of the DEA agent, as well. Good acting in the role of Baldwin's Bayou employee. "},{"Title":"Solid noir - a bit long but Baldwin makes it work","Date":"21 March 2004","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Ex-cop and ex-drunk Dave Robicheaux has got his life back and makes a living selling bait outside New Orleans with his wife Annie.  When they witness a plane crash into the river, Dave saves a little girl and they decide to keep her since she has been orphaned.  However, when they then get a visit from the DEA and some local heavies it is apparent that the plane was doing more than just carrying a few illegals and soon Dave finds his new life rapidly crumbling around him.Opening with a stylish and atmospheric semi to-camera confession, this film immediately caught my interest and managed to hold throughout despite not actually being that good.  The film is set in the Deep South and is full or rather annoying mannerisms and clichés from that area that put me off a bit. Despite this, I still quite enjoyed it; the plot meanders out of control a bit and involves too many characters to really keep a tight emotional grip on the audience but it still have enough grit and tension to it to keep you watching.  Some elements are better than others though - when the film focuses on Dave and his tough investigation it is great; but when it tries to expand (eg with Robin) it just comes across as baggy.The film hasn't got massive action scenes but it does have some good chases and moments of thrills - most notably a roof top chase across New Orleans. These are fine but the film does too much talking in slow southern drawls for my liking - also making the film feel a lot longer than it probably was! The talking is fine, but it does more than enough to set the tone and action - and then it keeps talking!  Combine this with the characters and you have a film that can't help but feel baggy and slightly disjointed.The one thread that holds it all together though is Baldwin.  He gives a great performance across the whole film; dealing well with the various emotions that it throws at him.  Roberts is OK, certainly better than some other rubbish I've seen him in.  Lynch is given little to do but look good in a bikini; Masterson is not cast well and doesn't fit into the trashy stripper role; Hatcher gets naked and looks good but her character is not dealt with that well by the script.  The support cast includes Hall and Guilfoyle but this is Baldwin's film and, for it's other faults, he carries it with him.  The direction is also good; using some very good shots to up the tension and the pace of the film at key moments - if only the editor had been a bit more persistent though.Overall this is a tough noir-ish thriller that works well for the majority despite feeling bogged down by dialogue and characters at times.  If you can put up with the heavy Southern drawls and the iced-tea clichés then it is worth a look. "},{"Title":"Robicheaux is a character well known to award winning writer James Burke","Date":"25 July 2007","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" while this movie does not really capture the flavor of Burkes prose it's nice to see recognition of one of fictions better characters. Noticeably missing is the character Clete Purcell who was Dave R's former NOPD homicide partner. I see that Tommy Lee Jones will tackle A TV version of another Robicheaux mystery of which 16 Robicheaux novels have been written. Moe action by Baldwin and an interplay between he and the missing Clete Purcell might have brought this movie along further into another feature. New Orleans is always the great mixture of characters and places for mystery, murder and mayhem.Alex Baldwin does a great job given some of the missing flavor of James Lee Burkes writing. Baldwin made a great looking Shadow as well with an unfortunate script. "},{"Title":"New Orleans","Date":"20 November 2005","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Excellent movie. Takes place in steamy sultry New Orleans. I love movies that really explore the city, and this is no exception. New Orleans is wonderful city, even though it will never be the same as it once was. Just like Tightrope and No Mercy New Orlens is one of the main characters of this film. Eric Roberts as a rich bad guy and Alec Baldwin as he ex-cop are excellent in this film. Mary Stuart Masterson did a great job too as a lovable stripper with a heart of gold. Did I mention that Teri Hatcher is naked in this film? Oh, yes she is. What I might say to her in this movie No, I don't like your butterfly, but I like everything else around it. He he. "},{"Title":"Fantastic stuff!","Date":"6 April 2000","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Not exactly faithful to the book but the film certainly delivers as an enjoyable thriller.Alec Baldwin is superb as Robicheaux, Lynch, Masterson and Hatcher are rather pretty and give the film what is needs but are mainly forgotten about as the film progresses. Roberts shows that he does have a great deal of talent to offer when it comes to a juicy part like this.The film isn't brimming with action thankfully but it has a number of lengthy and exciting action sequences. It seems to me that Baldwin is becoming something of the thinking mans action hero. Whilst Willis is off doing the brainless actioners Baldwin manages to get the intelligent movie. This is a fine example as is The Edge.Baldwin makes this movie stunningly enjoyable and the supporting actors help a little but Baldwin manages to carry the whole thing single handedly. "}{"Title":"Baldwin Could've Been Hard-Boiled But Ends Up Soggy","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I remember going to great lengths to fit a matinée showing of HEAVEN'S PRISONERS into a busy Saturday afternoon during its 1996 theatrical release. Considering the source material and the talent behind and in front of the camera, our little filmgoing party of detective-film fans and Alec Baldwin groupies (a.k.a. my mom, my stepfather, and me) found this contemporary film noir to be a big disappointment. Baldwin, who also served as co-producer, brought James Lee Burke's New Orleans ex-cop/recovering alcoholic hero Dave Robichoux from the printed page to the big screen. While Baldwin and the rest of the cast did well in fleshing out Burke's characters and have some tangy tough-guy/gal dialogue, they're hampered by two things 1.) The film's slo-o-o-ow pacing. Maybe the Louisiana heat got to everyone, not just Baldwin. Of all the actors, Long Island native Baldwin sweats the most, so much that it began to remind me of the sweating-bullets gags with Albert Brooks in BROADCAST NEWS and Robert Hays in AIRPLANE! 2.) A plot that, as rendered in the film (whether it's the fault of the screenwriter or the editor, I can't be sure), never quite follows through on any of its elements. It's too bad, because these elements could've made for an exciting movie drug dealing, illegal alien smuggling, rival crime bosses (one is played colorfully by Eric Roberts before he became a parody of himself, essentially playing a Southern-fried version of his character from director Phil Joanou's 1992 thriller FINAL ANALYSIS), an adorable little Salvadoran orphan girl (named Alafair by the Robichouxs, after Dave's mom. Late in my pregnancy at the time, I liked the name Alafair so much, I nearly changed my mind about naming my then-unborn daughter Siobhan!), and a bevy of beautiful, beguiling women, including earth mother Kelly Lynch, vampy Teri Hatcher in a full-frontal nude scene that was much ballyhooed at the time, and Mary Stuart Masterson, looking like a young Jessica Lange in what was then a change-of-pace role for her a troubled stripper who loves Robichoux. Despite the sexy promises in the movie's ads, none of the ladies share anything with Baldwin but dialogue and some kisses and/or embraces. Maybe the climate was already so hot, the filmmakers didn't want to add any further steaminess for fear of poor Baldwin collapsing from heat prostration! As my mom put it at the time I thought the height of my day would be seeing sexy, dashing Alec Baldwin, but he came up sweaty, rumpled, tired, depressed, and moving as if he was in slow motion. If he'd made love as many times as he got beaten up, it would've been the sexiest picture of '96! To be fair, there *are* a number of strong characterization and action scenes, but there's just too darn much talky, molasses-paced lag time between them -- and yet, oddly, some of the scenes end abruptly just as they're about to become intriguing! Perhaps Joanou, Baldwin & Co. could've dredged a tighter, more involving thriller out of this if they'd whittled the 140-minute running time down to 105 minutes or so. As HEAVEN'S PRISONERS is now...well, read James Lee Burke's books instead. "},{"Title":"So, right about now I'm thinking' your head would make a real nice toilet brush.","Date":"8 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I love reading James Lee Burke's novels about Dave Robicheaux. I also love movies set in New Orleans or anywhere in Louisiana. They always have good music and interesting characters. This film is no exception.Now, I will not compare the movie to the book. Each has to stand on it's own as an art form. I just like seeing some favorite characters brought to life on screen.Don Stark (Bob from That '70s Show), Hawthorne James (Se7en, Amistad), and Oscar nominee Eric Roberts (Runaway Train, The Dark Knight, A Guide to Recognizing Your Saints) played bad guys and they had a New Orleans flavor about them. Oscar-nominee Alec Baldwin (The Cooler) seemed a little forced in his attempt to be Cajun.Teri Hatcher (Desperate Housewives) was hot as usual, especially when she was standing starkers on the balcony.Joe Viterelli (Analyze This, Analyze That) was perfect as a mob boss.Kelly Lynch, Vondie Curtis-Hall (Chicago Hope) and Mary Stuart Masterson (Benny & Joon) rounded out a great cast in a good movie. "},{"Title":"Dave Robicheaux, New Orleans detective","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Nearly remake of 'The Big Easy' with very similar plot. Former police detective, supposedly kicked off force, for excessive violence, becomes involved in criminal underworld machinations involving his old childhood friend. Some New Orleans ambiance but not enough for dyed-in-the-wool fans. Essentially slightly above-average action film with lots of graphic violence and not too many surprises in the plot. "},{"Title":"Baldwin's Best Performance","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this film, despite the awkward plane crash scene.  I never doubted Baldwin was an ex-cop and I think this may be his best film yet.  Joanou's direction was top-notch, it was nice to see a film take place in the south where the actors are sweating and you can almost feel the humidity coming off the screen.  Hatcher was okay, I think people like this more for her nude scene than anything else. I give this an 8. "},{"Title":"A Very Good Thriller Down on the Bayou","Date":"20 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Dave Robicheaux (played by Alec Baldwin) is an ex cop who decides after one too many shootings on the force to open up a fishing tackle and bait shop on the Bayou with his wife Annie, played by Kelly Lynch. While they are out on their boat they witness a single engine plane spiralling down from the sky barely missing their boat before it crashes in to the water. Robicheaux dives in to the water down to the planes cockpit where he sees a small child trying to survive in an air pocket amongst a few dead people. With his air supply quickly diminishing in his scuba gear he rescues the child from a near death experience and with his wife Annie in agreement they agree to raise the young girl as their own even though she does not speak a word of English.A Detective Minos Dautrieve, played by Vondie Curtis-Hall drops by the bait shop inquiring in to how many passengers Robicheaux witnessed on the sunken plane when it initially submerged in the water and he tells Robicheaux to forget about the big guy with the whale tattoo who floated to the waters surface. This gets Robichaux's curiosity up and he starts making inquiries that a few local criminals want him to stop inquiring about. One of these criminals is a guy named Bubba Rocque played very well by Eric Roberts who answers to some bosses higher up the criminal food chain. Bubba's wife Claudette, played by Teri Hatcher is a bit of a tramp who likes to sip cocktails most of the day and chase men.Eventually threats don't stop Robicheaux's inquiries and since he won't let up with his investigation, the mobsters decide to lay a beating on him to firmly tell him to stop his inquiries. Further threats are made and fulfilled as Robicheaux continues with his investigation with the quasi assistance of mobster Bubba's wife.The movie does run a bit long at around 132 minutes but I did not find the movies length composed with any filler time. There were twists and turns throughout, the bayou scenes were quite expansive and the acting was above par. Mary Stuart Masterson plays a stripper named Robin Gaddis who has a unique relationship with Alec Baldwin's character Dave Robicheaux which strengthens throughout the film. This is a good film for couples to watch together as it contains romance, heroism, action and suspense. Well worth the watch, and 132 minutes well spent! "},{"Title":"In which a brave,honourable man finds redemption","Date":"21 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" James Lee Burke is the poet of Blue Collar America.Waitresses,oil - rig workers,bartenders,dirt - farmers,cowboys,cops,people who live by their wits and the strength of their arms,the disenfranchised and the lost,he is their literary champion. Detective Dave Robicheaux is his best - known creation,an imperfect man certainly,but a principled one. Mrf Burke's novels are not for readers looking for a quick fix,an easy resolution,thus Heaven's Prisoners,the movie,is atypical for a 90s cop flick. In his somewhat chequered career,Det.Robicheaux has moved around from New Orleans to LaFayette,from Sheriff's Office to Police Dept,frequently under suspension,but always feared by the criminals and grudgingly respected by his superiors.At the time the movie is set he has quit law enforcement and is working his bait - shop/cafe on the Bayou.He witnesses a light aircraft crash and rescues a little girl from the wreckage.It is an act that changes the lives of many people. The movie is atmospheric and character - led with much depending on Alec Baldwin's portrayal of Det.Robicheaux.Mr Baldwin responds to this challenge with a complex and subtle performance.His interaction with the rescued girl - named Alafair,incidentally,the name of Burke's real - life daughter - is finely done,and the development of their relationship is the core point of the movie. In some ways Det.Robicheaux's former profession is purely incidental. Heaven's Prisoners is the story of a brave,honourable man who faces the consequences of his actions and finds redemption through the innocence of a child.It's a fine movie. "},{"Title":"There should have been sequels","Date":"16 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The character of Dave Robicheaux would have been a fascinating one to follow in follow-up features, which is what Alex Baldwin at one time had in mind. But to date, Heaven's Prisoners is the only one made. Having read the James Lee Burke novels, there were a tremendous opportunity to have seen the New Orleans underworld in a way that had both an eerie attraction and a noir aspect that could have translated into a very powerful set of features. There is still something there that could be tapped, because a setting in the Crescent City is a natural for this type of movie. Heaven's Prisoners just scratched the surface. It certainly helped having one of my favorite nasty guys playing Bubba Rocque, in Eric Roberts, and Teri Hatcher showing off her butterfly, pre-Desperate Housewives. But then, Burke's novels have some of the weirdest evil-doers twisting Robicheaus every which way and Prisoners had its share. Makes for a great show. "},{"Title":"The butterfly","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Having missed the opening credits, I had no idea this film was based on a James Lee Burke book. As it enfolded, I remembered the book and stayed with it, just to refresh my mind. Director Phil Joanou could have used some trimming, as this is a film that desperately needed it.James Lee Burke's books center around former New Orleans cop, Dave Robicheaux, here played by Alec Baldwin. The movie goes all over the place with plots and sub-plots and it gets a bit tedious.The best performances, in my humble opinion were Teri Hatcher's as Claudette, a girl who doesn't mind baring it all, and Mary Stuart Masterson, who plays Robin, the exotic dancer from the Quarter with a heart of gold.The story is set in the bayous of Louisianna. We watch as our hero Alec Baldwin practically dehydrates in front of our eyes due to the high humidity in some scenes and immediately look as cool as a cucumber wearing the same shirt that has dried automatically.The action is all right, but everything is predictable. Watch it on a cold winter night so you can get into a sweating mood. "},{"Title":"This desperate Housewive steals the show","Date":"20 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" After rescuing an orphaned young girl in an air-plain crash and a visit from a DEA agent, Dave Robicheaux (Alec Baldwin) gets drawn into a rather unfortunate series of events.This film has about as much of a running time as State of Grace, but at the same time feels a bit longer, as this movie doesn't flow quite as well as the aforementioned one. It could've definitely stood to have been trimmed up a tad. Yet the acting is adequate enough, there's a great chase sequence and Terri Hatcher has one of the more memorable entrances to say the least.Where I Saw it Starz Mystery My Grade B+ Eye Candy Terri Hatcher pulls off The full Monty on a balcony "},{"Title":"Waiting for DVD","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Hey, Terri Hatcher is definitely the main attraction. Granted, no academy award winner for sure but, I loved it. I wish they would hurry up and put it on DVD. There is so much worse material out there on DVD. I just don't know how all that works. "}{"Title":"To anyone who didn't like the movie...read the book(s).","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  To iknow, the Australian who suggested the only good thing in Heaven's Prisoners is Teri Hatcher, I would respectfully suggest that he/she read the book...along with the rest of the Robicheaux series of detective novels by award winning author James Lee Burke.  Being from New Orleans and also married to a Cajun from South Louisiana, as well as an avid fan of Burke's, I watched this movie with utmost scrutiny--3 times. I was at first dubious about Alec Baldwin playing the part of a Southerner, much less my beloved Cajun detective, Dave Robicheaux, aka streak.  After 2 viewings, I concluded he had done a fine job,indeed.  The movie did well in doing the impossible, which is to capture on film the lush tapestry that is South Louisiana  the bayous and New Orleans as captured in language by the unequaled master of description, James Lee Burke. To have made an action movie out of it would have been to bastardized it and ruined it.  I feel for viewers who find a movie unsuitable because the body count hasn't mounted to 10 in the first 15 minutes or there isn't a burning car or an explosion every other frame.  Heaven's Prisoners was the first, or one of the first, in the Robicheaux series by Burke and provides expose' for future tales. Again, the film captured the feel of Burke's seductive Louisiana Wetlands along with his character's  troubled alcoholic mind as he constantly is forced to come to terms with life's underbelly and, ultimately, himself.As an aside and correction to the member providing the plot outline, Dave resides in New Iberia, Louisiana, a real town close to Lafayette, not on the outskirts of New Orleans. "},{"Title":"Alec's few really good movies","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Among The Getaway, this is Alec Baldwin's few great movies.The rest is mediocre! Anyway, Alec hits his stride as Dave, atough ex-cop from New Orleans who tries to solve a murder and aplane crash in the bayous. Along the way, Dave meets aconspiracy head-on when he encounters several sultry women,especially Claudette (the hot Teri Hatcher) and his old buddyBubba, who is up to no good. Alec manages to shine in thisfilm-noir flick, and his costars do great as well. But, sadly, Idon't know if Alec would do a good job like this ever again! Hisacting is so bland most of the time! Among the Baldwin Bros. Ithink the best are Stephen and Billy, and not Alec or Daniel (Ithink he's l "},{"Title":"Prisoners of Confusion","Date":"4 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" ****SPOILERS**** Highly overdone thriller that could have cut about a half hour and have three or four sub-plots taken out of it to make it really interesting and effective instead of putting you to sleep and leaving you numb by the time that it ended. It's complicated Film-Noir plot has a recovering former alcoholic New Orleans policeman Dave Rebocheaux, Alec Baldwin, and his wife Annie, Kelly Lynch, adopting a little girl Alafair, Samantha Laqpacan. Alafair survived a plane crash that was the result of a bomb hidden on it by the Bubba Rocque, Eric Roberts, mob who got wind that a DEA informant was on the plane smuggling illegal aliens into the US. The ex-cop Dave gets involved with the Bubba Rocque mobs operations as well as with Bubba's hot and sexy wife Claudette, Teri Hatcher, even though Dave had no reason to since he was no longer in the New Orleans Police department. By him foolishly doing that Dave put his wife adopted daughter and himself in a whole lot of danger which in the end cost his wife's, Annie's, life. It also turns out that both Dave & Bubba are good friends going back to when they were both in high school.Dave to leave his quiet and peaceful little business selling fish-bait in the Southern Louisiana Bayou country for the pressures and dangers of the big city wasn't that bright of an idea in the first place. The pressures of the city can easily drive him to drink which Dave has done his best to avoid.The local mob tries to knock off Dave but ends up killing his wife, Annie, which makes Dave even madder and more determined to get revenge. Dave tracks down and kills two of his wife's killers Toot & Romero, Carl A. McGee & Milligan Hawthorne. The third killer is found electrocuted in his bathtub when someone from the Rocque mob, I guess, threw in a turned on radio to keep him from talking. Dave and the audience finds out in the end of the movie who's really behind, together with the Mafia, all this carnage. The ending leaves you cold and jaded because the movie was so long and confusing with so many blind alleys that you just lost interest in it by the time the big surprise was thrown on you. In fact the movie reviled the culprit long before it ended making the whole ending anticlimactic. Alec Baldwin as Dave Rebocheaux does his best to put some believability in his role as well as in the movie but he falls flat on his face since he had no reason at all to be so involved in what was happening on the screen. Dave was no longer a part of the police department and it was theirs and the DEA's job to solve the crimes in the film not his.Dave's actions put people that he loved and were close to him in jeopardy for no reason at all. The movie Heavens Prisoners would have been more effective if it stuck to one story like keeping the Mafia and Rocque mob from getting their hands on little Alafair who was the only survivor of the plane crash. Alafair may have known something about who was behind blasting the plane out of the sky as well as it smuggling drugs and illegal aliens into the US. That danger would have Dave and Annie protecting her and keeping the gangsters from killing or kidnapping her to keep her quite. Instead the film went off in some half dozen different directions and by doing that getting everybody in the audience lost following it.The one good thing that Alec Baldwin did in the film besides taking care of the bad guys and doing, or having done, in the person who was responsible for all the chaos, including his wife's brutal murder, was that he did his best not to take a drink in the movie; even though there were one or two exceptions. "},{"Title":"good performances in this neo-noir","Date":"14 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Heaven's Prisoners is a modern noir from 1996 starring Alec Baldwin, Mary Stuart Masterson, Eric Roberts, Teri Hatcher, and Vondie Curtis-Hall. Set in New Orleans, it's the story of an ex-cop, Dave Robicheaux, who is now out of the force and runs a bait shop just outside the city.One day, while on a boat, they see a plane fall from the sky. Dave is able to save a child who was on board. They take her home with them, but when a DEA agent, Dautrieve, shows up, Dave becomes suspicious about who else was on the plane. He starts to investigate, which leads to trouble. He asks for help from a boyhood friend turned drug lord, Bubba Rocque (Roberts). Unfortunately, Dave doesn't foresee the hell that's coming.Alec Baldwin, young and handsome, does a terrific job as Dave; in his day, he was a fine leading man. Though he's now proved that he's adept at comedy, his dramatic work is excellent as well, as seen here. He portrays an angry, shattered alcoholic.The beginning of the film is especially good, showing the quiet beauty of Louisiana and showing Dave in profile at an AA meeting talking about being sober for three years and still wanting a drink. Mary Stuart Masterson is a wonderful actress; here, she's a blond stripper and creates a complete character. Someone on this board asked why she would take a nothing part. I suppose for her it was an opportunity to play something a little different (at least from what I've seen her do). During Lois & Clark, Teri Hatcher was given good parts in several films, but never developed a big film career. She's good here, though we really don't learn a lot about her character.Heaven's Prisoners is derivative and on the slow side, but it's atmospheric with good acting. At times, the plot is a little hard to follow; I also had a hard time understanding why Dave didn't take the danger seriously enough to either send his family away or keep a closer watch on his home.Good cast, nice production values. "},{"Title":"Retired detective Alec Baldwin can't stop being a detective","Date":"22 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Heaven's Prisoners is a movie I can't help liking, despite its faults. I've seen it now twice. It's completely a neo-noir. On the surface, the ordering of the scenes is not linear. But they are in fact logical from the view of what Baldwin is after. He's the movie's center and we move with him.The New Orleans and bayou atmosphere is excellent as the world he moves in. The side characters are all interesting, with some noir grotesques. There is tragedy in this story, owing in part to the mistakes made by Baldwin's character. There is a lot of toughness in this movie, and tenderness does not always come out ahead. But toughness, love and going on are ways to overcome regrets; the very last shot is memorable in this respect. There are a few good action scenes, with one rooftop chase done very well. Eric Roberts scores in a supporting role with Mary Stuart Masterson a runner-up, but there are other smaller parts that also register. These supporting roles are important, including Batist (Badja Djola) who is Baldwin's assistant in his bayou fishing business, and Joe Viterelli as a Mafia boss who's pressuring Roberts.Alec Baldwin doesn't exude toughness, but he still holds his part and the movie together, and for that he deserves a lot of credit. There is one scene where's he's running, and in that one he really looks athletic. This helps as do some other such visual details.Heaven's Prisoners is a must for those who are building a noir collection or who like noir crime stories with some thriller and psychological elements. "},{"Title":"Ignorance can be bliss","Date":"11 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I'm not literary snob. So, please excuse my ignorance regarding how true the screenplay was to the author's original characters, story line and so forth... I just like a good movie.My wife and I found this film on IFC late one night while laying in bed. Neither one of us was often impressed at the excrement cranked out by Hollywood these days. But, this little indy film was just weird enough to suck us in. That was over 10 years ago.After seeing it (now) about 30 times, it is (obviously) part of my library... a household favorite. ... as is the main character, played fairly convincingly by Alec Baldwin. He portrays Dave Robicheaux, a thoroughly fallible, gritty and likable character. In this film all the characters get your attention. The story was good. The swamp was muggy as hell. That psycho POS Victor Romero was completely wack. Badja Djola was awesome as Batist... You wanna be a duck, you?Too many colorful characters to mention here. But they are many and very real. The overwhelming heat and humidity of the bayou was so palpable that you wanted to jump in the shower from time to time throughout the movie. The abundance of memorable lines testify to the skill of the writers and it's beautifully shot. BTW..... If you don't like the F word..... try Bambi on the next aisle.There's nothing at all wrong with this film.Hey Dave..! I got'cher Dreamsicle...hangin' down low. Eric Roberts was great as Bubba Rock. Terry Hatcher gets naked, if that's of any interest.But, Dave falling off the wagon is (alone) worth the price of admission.Minas Dautrieve- D.E.A...... the door was open.tadp "},{"Title":"Famous bomb fails to entertain on pretty much any level.","Date":"24 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The tens of millions lost by this box office bust set back the careers of stars Alec Baldwin, Eric Roberts and Teri Hatcher a few years, but also proved that if you are going to make a crime thriller, it helps to put in a few actual thrills, or maybe come up with a plot that makes some sense. The story probably worked in its first draft, but the meandering, almost random string of events in the movie give the impression of a script that underwent too many re-writes. Plus, it's filled with unsavory types who all seem to be running some twisted game, but instead of combining these threads together the script just lets them hang. The viewer spends too much time trying to recall who is up to what and then when nothing comes of it all, gives up interest. The movie also tries early on for a hothouse Southern Gothic atmosphere, but fails to generate it, thanks to too much time wasted on Eric Roberts' character's boxing obsession, and the fact that Hatcher's femme fatale act is played out too sparingly and seems unrelated to anything until it's too late for the audience to care. Baldwin's central performance is not very interesting and it is never clear whether we should sympathize with him or just hang around waiting to see if he gets whacked. Kelly Lynch is apparently in the movie too, but her character seems superfluous and sketchy, as if her part was at some point cut way down. The result is an incomplete performance that again fails to generate much interest. This pretty much sums up the movie. An attractive cast of good actors hang around expensive southern plantation sets posturing with one another and it all just fails to go anywhere. No wonder it flopped. It's not awful, but nothing here really works at all. "},{"Title":"Choppy but still above average .................","Date":"3 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Fans of Alec Baldwin and Eric Roberts would most likely get the most enjoyment out of this long and uneven film. There are problems for sure. One certainly would be the little girl who is saved from the crashed plane, appears to have zero bearing on the outcome, yet lots of time is devoted to scenes involving her. Second, the Southern accents seem to come and go, and are nothing but an annoyance. Characters appear and disappear sort of at random, and several are never really developed. This is not a bad film, just not a very well executed one. It is overlong, and lacks enough momentum to sustain interest for over two hours. - MERK "},{"Title":"Gumbo anyone?","Date":"19 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Phil Joanou directs Heaven's Prisoners, a neo-noir which finds actor Alec Baldwin playing detective Dave Robicheaux, a Louisianan gumshoe thrown knee deep into a noir plot packed with the genre's usual assortment of femme fatales, hookers, henchmen, murders and double crosses. Midway in the film, though, Heaven's Prisoners becomes a revenge movie in the vein of Fritz Lang's The Big Heat. Like Lang's film, our hero's wife is accidentally assassinated, provoking our now enraged hero into going after a local mob boss.The film covers well worn territory, and contains only two stand out scenes, the first a stormy assassination sequence, the other the climactic revelation that a character played by Terri Hatcher is a heartless, evil witch. In The Electric Mist, a sequel starring Tommy Lee Jones as detective Robicheaux, was released in 2009. It's a much better film.7.5/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"OK","Date":"9 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Slow-moving crime drama about an ex-cop and his wife starting a new life, only to have the wife murdered and the ex-cop on the hunt for her killers.Based on the bestselling novel by James Lee Burke, this sluggishly paced film goes on way too long and doesn't begin to do justice to its Louisiana setting.  Alex Baldwin is OK but not the best choice for the lead.But he co-exec-produced it, so there you have it.  Eric Roberts is terrific and almost unrecognizable as a crime lord, and Teri Lois Lane Hatcher generates a decent amount of heat as Roberts' very seductive and dangerous wife. Mary Masterson is convincing as a woman of ill repute who is redeemed in the end. "}{"Title":"Some good action but overlong and rather depressing","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Discovered this one recently on DVD. The film left me with an overall impression of being too long in relation to what the story was about. Also, I get sick of scenes shot continually under grey skies and in the pouring rain ! Is the climate of Louisiana really as bad as that ???? The only time we see a bit of sun is right at the beginning when they are out on the boat.I would have preferred a script which which was a little more devoted to what became of the little girl and Robicheaux's romances. Instead we are subjected to a great amount of killing and violence with all these narcotics dealers. This conjointly with Robicheaux's own drink problem and little time for Romance, and the humid overcast Louisiana climate all go to paint a pretty dreary picture with little satisfaction at the outcome save that of knowing most of the bad guys are dead.All these seemed to go on for far too long and I feel the story could easily have been locked into under 90 minutes without under-satisfying the spectator. "},{"Title":"As close to modern day Greek Tragedy as it could get","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was as close to a modern day Greek Tragedy as it could get the characters' own flaws were the cause of their downfall. I felt the plot moved along quickly, the characters were well written as well as acted, and the music was very good in creating changing moods (in fact, I bought the soundtrack!). I especially loved Terri Hatcher's character. This movie did not get the good press it deserved. "},{"Title":"For Teri Hatcher fans only","Date":"22 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The movie is in my opinion not worth seeing if you're not a fan of the beautiful actress Teri Hatcher. The highlight of the movie is undoubtedly the scene where she stands completely nude on a balcony and shows us viewers a good view of her very lovely breasts. If you look very closely you can also see her pubic hair and a very pretty ass through the railing as she turns and walks away. Thanks for that very special moment,Teri! She has of course other scenes in the movie but none of them leave a very lasting impression. Without the nude scene I would probably rate this movie a 5 but because of Teri's body I'll give it a 9. "},{"Title":"Well cast","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  All parts in this movie are well cast, and excellently played. The story is fictionally well written and carried through. If the events were real(unlikely) we would believe all actions carried through were realistic. Great emotions, and passions brought to life in this smooth flowing film. "},{"Title":"Disappointingly routine.","Date":"25 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Despite its New Orleans flavor, an honest performance by Alec Baldwin and nice turns by Eric Roberts and Teri Hatcher (whose role as a seductive femme fatale fits her like a glove; she should try it more often), this morose action/crime flick is generic and unremarkable. If you run across this movie at the video store, don't be fooled by the name cast and pass it up. Highlight the chase scene midway through.  (**) "},{"Title":"Goes nowhere, and takes FOREVER to get there!","Date":"29 December 2004","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie goes absolutely NOWHERE, and it takes its sweet time getting there. All of the characters talk like they just left a Humphrey Bogart/Dashiell Hammett/Raymond Chandler film noir picture from the '40's, only highlighted with Cajun accents, instead. Lotsa' veiled threats; I mean EVERY cliché in the book, and then some. Star, Alec Baldwin, is horribly miscast, and runs the acting gamut from A to B. Dennis Quaid, who starred in the earlier, and FAR superior, The Big Easy, would've made a much better choice for leading man. Alas, we're STUCK with one of the acting-challenged Baldwin Brothers. Poor us! Some of the other posters on this thread made mention of bloopers. Well, I didn't see them, woe is me. If I had known about them, earlier, I'm sure they would've provided me with some impetus to stay with this yawner without dozing-off, from time-to-time. As it is, if you miss Teri Hatcher's (Desperate Housewives) EXQUISITE nude scene near the beginning of the film, you really have nothing to stick around for. If I had a choice to make, either watch THIS movie, OR the aforementioned The Big Easy, I'd go with the latter film, EVERY day of the week, and TWICE on Sunday! Again, to be seen ONLY for Teri Hatcher's full-frontal (the collar matches the cuff!) nude scene. "},{"Title":"Alec Baldwin does nicely creating an onscreen Robicheaux.","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If you see this movie, remember that it is based on the series of Dave Robicheaux detective novels by James Lee Burke.  If you're expecting some Harrison Ford cartoonish blockbuster, you're in the wrong place.  However, if strong characters and relationships mixed with suspense are what you enjoy, then you should like Heaven's Prisoners.  Baldwin does a nice job of creating an onscreen version of Burke's hero, Dave Robicheaux, and one wishes that more adaptations of those novels followed this film.  Another nice surprise is Mary Stuart Masterson as Robin, and Vondie Curtis-Hall and Eric Roberts add just the right balance to Baldwin.  Despite what one reviewer said, it seems like Teri Hatcher is in over her head here--her Southern accent is intermittently overdone then not there at all, and she hardly seems believeable as a vamp in control of everyone.  It's probably no coincidence that she went on to do Radio Shack commercials after this. "},{"Title":"Nice Try","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A creditable effort by director Philip Joanu to capture the heart and soul of Cajun detective Dave Robicheaux in his atmospheric stamping grounds around the bayou country of Lousiana, but one which falls short of James Lee Burke's terrific character portraiture of a flawed but decent man. I agree with bayou52's praise for Alec Baldwin and the film, but once you've read the novels this filmic endeavour pales by comparison. Burke's writing is rich and ironic, and Robicheaux is a complex man of many contradictions. I don't think Baldwin connected with the true essence of Robicheaux' personality as I understand the character. If another Robicheaux movie is attempted, I'd like to see George Clooney have a stab at interpreting the part of Dave Robicheaux.  "},{"Title":"Excellent detective film with some odd casting","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have read each of the Dave Robicheaux detective novels and was not overly happy that this particular novel was chosen as the movie.  However, I enjoyed the movie quite a bit.  Alec Baldwin did a credible job as Dave Robicheaux, the Cajun detective.  Teri Hatcher is good as the wife of the villain.  Mary Stuart Masterson is totally miscast as a prostitute.  Since the Masterson role is pivotal to the book and movie, it was a shame to pick someone like Masterson for the role.  Barring these small complaints, it is an excellent film.   "},{"Title":"Reasonable Revenge Drama--but very glum and draggy at times","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I've read the other reviews and its amazing how some can say an actor was great and others terrible in the same role.  Here's my view  Teri Hatcher has never shown any talent before, but she puts out a reasonable effort here and she was HOT.  The rest of the acting was competent, especially that of Eric Roberts and Vondie Curtis-Hall who display their considerable talents admirably. I've been waiting to see something else with V.C-H but it hasn't happened. Unfortunately, we have to accept Alec Baldwin's tough-guy stolidity and overall blandness as presumably competent acting -- sorry, it doesn't cut it.  His pitiful crying scene demonstrated that he's a handsome tough-guy but a mediocre actor at best.  The other woman were competent in there roles, nothing more or less. Despite many action scenes, this movie has a lot of dull and morose periods.  On a scale of 1-10 I'd give it a 5 1/2. "}{"Title":"Interesting tale and nice film","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  My Age 13Ex-detective Dave Robicheaux, played by Alec Baldwin, and his wife, Annie, played by Kelly Lynch, are out in their boat one day, when a plane comes crashing into the water.  Dave goes in to try and save the passenger's lives.  Everyone is dead except for a little girl, who they take into their home and raise as their own.  But when they receive a visit from a DEA agent, Dave uses his detective skills and asks questions about the plane.  His inquiries lead him to Bubba Rocque, played by Eric Roberts, a childhood friend.This plot is nice and interesting and is turned into a fairly good film.  Alec Baldwin feels right for his role and puts in a good acting performance, though I found Mary Stuart Masterson and Kelly Lynch quite annoying.  There is a good chase scene in the film but the end is a little disappointing.Australian Classification MA 15+ Medium Level Violence, Medium Level Coarse LanguageRating 68 out of 100 "},{"Title":"OK B movie","Date":"29 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I caught this one on tv and would definitely classify it as an ok B movie. I guess that Baldwin was satisfactory in the role, but the actual plotline was not very interesting.  Masterson was believable as a trashy stripper, but the rest of the performances were definitely not spectacular.  The sterotypical southern accents were ok but definitely NOT cajun.  It would be nice to see a movie that had a decent Cajun accent (actually Romey Clifford in The Client had the most believable Cajun accent).  Depending on the season, there is a tendency for a lot of rain and humidity in southern Louisiana, so that part was believable I guess.  But for the most part, the movie was not that great in my opinion.   "},{"Title":"Worth watching, but not anyone's best performance.","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Alec Baldwin's powerful presence as a tortured man obsessed with squaring everything with everyone dominates the movie, far out shining all but Mary Stuart Masterson.  While you may not believe he's a native to the bayou you will believe he's a recovering alcoholic filled with rage.Film suffers from some plot holes while Teri Hatcher struggles badly to try to shed her Lois Lane image by attempting to be seductive at all times. She really earned her nomination for the Worst Supporting Actress award. Unfortunately the film is unable to carry suspense the whole way and will be a let down for those expecting a nail biting thriller.Plenty of drama to go around though. "},{"Title":"I disagree","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I disagree with everyone. In my opinion, Teri Hatcher should have been left out of the movie completely. I simply hated her in the movie!! She should have gotten a better part, or not one at all. Anyway, I happened to think this movie was very captivating, despite some of the questions I had about it, like Why were the drug dealers so interested in going after a five-year-old? It's not like she would report them or anything because she was too young to comprehend what was happpening. Oh well, they probably explained that somewhere, I just wasn't listening. I recommend this movie if you like action. I warn you it is full of violence, and there is a sad part (there always is).  "},{"Title":"Good Night!","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A Film-Noir wannabe, about an ex-cop and his wife, who rescue a little girl from a plane crash, and stumble into a bloody war with drug lords. This films try so hard to creat an Ambiance that it forgets the movie itself. everything is soooooo slow....... even the actors looked bored silly.  "},{"Title":"Is This A Drinks Commercial ?","Date":"26 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Dave who is a former cop and former drunk takes his wife on a fishing trip and sees a plane crash and rescues a young girl from a watery grave which sets up the plot Did I mention Dave is a a former cop and former drunk ? Good because this might be important apart from Dave being a former drunk . In fact the director and the screenwriter thinks it's so important that Dave used to have a drink problem they drown the audience with a subtext involving alcohol . Umpteen scenes take place in bars even when it's not all that necessary to the plot while nearly every scene not featuring a bar involves characters drinking or referring to alcohol and all the scenes look like they're shot ala booze commercial . Bar scenes look like beer commercials , office scenes look like bourbon commercials and scenes shot on boats off the coast look like rum commercials . I don't know if I'm reading too much into this but since the message that Dave is a former alcoholic is hammered home it drew this reviewer's attention to the number of scenes featuring drink The problem with HEAVEN'S PRISONERS is not only the amount of scenes that seemingly promote drink it's the number of scenes in general . This is a screenplay that needed streamlined in the first draft since nothing much really happens in the first place and when they do they don't really progress the plot very much . Of course it's a character driven story but it's also film noir in nature and the film noir genre isn't known for it's character development so when a character is introduced we know who they are and there's no need to go over the same ground to explain who they are . This is a movie that last for well over two hours when in fact chopping off a good 45 minutes would have been a very good thing . No doubt Baldwin , Roberts and Hatcher had high hopes with this movie improving their careers but it's a damp squib for all involved "},{"Title":"Not good at all","Date":"19 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The characters are not believable. The story itself is not good enough in my opinion. There is no tension in the story to speak of. The direction is unimaginative. There is stuff in this movie that is totally irrelevant to the plot. I guess all of it was introduced in the name of character development. I would have preferred if some 30 irrelevant minutes were cut out. Acting is ordinary if not terrible. Baldwin is OK but the rest of the cast is very hard to watch. All in all a waste of time. The one, perhaps the only redeeming feature, is the location at which this film was shot. It is gorgeous. I think I'm being generous in giving it a 4 out of 10.We may not know what makes a movie good . It does help however, to see movies like these once in a while, so at least we'll know what makes it bad )(It helps to be sure of something). "},{"Title":"Cinematic wallpaper (Review contains spoilers)","Date":"26 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I just reviewed the R2 DVD of this for another website. Having never heard of the books it was based upon, and not really being bothered about seeing Teri Hatcher get her kit off, I thought the film was a waste of my time watching it.The acting is stilted, the characters stereotypes and the situations cliched. In particular the only reason anything bad happens to the main character, is because he goes out and pisses people off. There is no big conspiricy to get him untill he generates it. So how are we supposed to identify with him? He comes across as an idiot who got what he asked for.The motivations for most of the characters was vague and events happen for no reason than to justify more running about. For example the whole plane crash rescue thing is only there as a prod to get the lead moving and doesnt really have any relevence after that. Even his wife being blown away is just emotional prod to keep the plate spinning, three scenes later another female turns up to provide the same character role and on we go.Several people have made positive comments about this in light of having read the book. But coming into the film cold I thought it was ultimately pointless.  "},{"Title":"Decent","Date":"13 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Heaven's Prisoners (1996) ** 1/2 (out of 4) Former New Orleans detective Dave Robicheaux is forced into retirement after accidentally killing three people. While all of this was going on Dave was also suffering from an alcohol problem, which nearly cost him his life. Two years after retirement he and his wife Annie (Kelly Lynch) move to the Bayou where they open up a bait shop and seem to be living the perfect life. One day while the couple are out on the Bayou a plane crashes nearby their boat. Dave grabs the scuba gear and goes to the sunken plane where he saves a young Mexican girl.Dave and Annie take the young girl to the hospital where they tell the officials that the child is there's and she was in a simple boating accident. The couple takes the young girl back to their place where they plan on raising her but one day Dave gets a visit from DEA officer. The officer informs Dave that the plane crash wasn't an accident but a murder plot, which Dave has messed up. For some unknown reason he goes to visit a former friend turned stripper (Mary Stuart Masterson) who in return leads him to another former friend turned gangster Bubba Rocque (Eric Roberts). Dave is also introduced to Bubba's former prostitute wife (Teri Hatcher) who seems to have plans outside of her husband's affairs. Not only this but we get another mob boss and three hit men all involved in this mystery, which must be solves by Dave so he can keep the child he rescued.Heaven's Prisoners is based on the novel by James Lee Burke and while I haven't read this I've heard it's a lot better than the actual movie. The film is an interesting mis-fire, which is so incredibly stupid that one will want to stick through the whole thing just to see how much dumber things can get. The plot is full of so many wholes it's really hard to know what the director or screenwriters were going for. At first it appears to be a political thriller and then we get a Charles Bronson wannabe side plot, which just adds to all the confusion. I mentioned a few of the characters involved in all of this but there are actually more that pop in and out of the movie.I knew the film was in a lot of trouble within the first ten minutes. After the plane crashes the couple leaves the accident with the child. Within minutes they are at the hospital where they tell everyone that this child is their daughter, although the kid doesn't speak a bit of English. The people in charge are stupid enough to buy all these excuses thrown at them but what I don't understand is why this couple would just take this girl. Perhaps had the screenplay shown them talking about it they could have convinced me but this doesn't happen. We go from a plane crash to them taking the child for no reason, which just leads to more mindless subplots.Alec Baldwin is an actor I've always enjoyed watching but this here has got to be the worst job in his career. This wannabe character drama is so badly acted by Baldwin that you can't help but laugh when the film is trying to make you feel sorry for him. We get a lot of scenes of him crying but It's so badly done we can't help but laugh. The tough guy cop attitude that Baldwin brings is also very laughable. Worst of all is that incredibly bad Southern accent, which goes in and out throughout the film. Eric Roberts gives a wonderful performance however and he's one of the few reasons to actually sit through this film. Teri Hatcher got a Razzie nomination for Worst Actress and I'm rather shocked she didn't win. Bad acting aside, her infamous full frontal nude scene is worth the price of a rental.Heaven's Prisoners is a very bad movie yet it thankfully gets laughable, which makes it easier to watch. Running over two hours the film certainly could have used some editing or a longer running time. There's just so many plot holes that I can't help but think the screenplay lost a few pages and the director simply forgot to film the scenes. Imagine reading a book yet only reading every other chapter. By the time you read the end of the book you'll have many unanswered questions and that's how the movie made me feel. "},{"Title":"Heaven's Prisoners *1/2 -Don't Take Any Hostages Here","Date":"17 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Disappointing film where an ex-alcoholic police officer leaves the force and begins life anew with his wife.Unfortunately, they witness a plane crash and rescue a small Spanish girl, the lone survivor. Go know that the pilot, along with flying in illegals, is also in the drug business.We don't know really why the drug people go after our hero. (Alec Baldwin) In the process, his wife is killed and the film becomes one of revenge and to determine who is behind all this mayhem.Eric Roberts plays Baldwin's friend, a gangster, who claims that he is innocent. Roberts has some wife who it is later revealed is behind much of what is going on.In the beginning of the film, Baldwin goes to confession to confess to the priest that he needs to start drinking again. That's before the story unfolds.Needless to say, the movie making this weak film may have needed a few drinks as well. "}{"Title":"Awful, awful, awful","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Not only is the plotline hackneyed; Alec Baldwin gives one of the most concrete acting performances ever seen. His I'm an alcoholic confessional that begins the movie is so bad, it's funny.  "},{"Title":"Teri Hatcher is the films only chance for people liking it.","Date":"21 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film lacked pace and the only thing that will draw viewers is the numerous scenes in which Teri Hatcher appears. "},{"Title":"Too unrealistic to be enjoyable","Date":"22 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I found this movie so full of holes I am actually motivated to come and write a review. In the very first scene, Dave and his wife witness the plane crash and call it in, rescue a girl and take her home to raise as their own. 1. Why would you leave the scene when you have clearly stated your boats name and location and are a known witness to the accident. 2. Even if the girls mother has clearly died in the accident, do you not think she may have relatives, maybe even in your area? How dare this couple think she will be theirs? 3. They name her after Dave's mother. The girl is about 7 years old and clearly speaks Spanish in the hospital. A verbal girl should be called by her given name, not some name that I don't even recognize in English! This was in the first 10 minutes of the movie, but for me, the movie continued with as many loopholes that just made this painful to watch. I can't comment on the ending because I didn't stick with it. "},{"Title":"Not Heaven sent","Date":"13 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" If you want a movie that goes on and on but never really ends up going anywhere at all this is the one for you. Heaven's Prisoners goes off in a bunch of directions, none of them particularly interesting. Much of the acting, most notably from stars Alec Baldwin and Teri Hatcher leaves a lot to be desired. Of course the actors are not helped by dialogue that is stilted, forced, and at times, downright ludicrous. The whole mess is capped by one of the most ridiculous, implausible, laughable chase scenes in history with a couple of overweight men leaping from rooftop to rooftop as if they were Spider-Man. When this endless scene finally draws to a close at least you think you can breathe a sigh of relief, watch the end credits roll and give thanks this awful film is finally over. But no, the movie still keeps going and going and going and we are made to suffer as it drags on towards a finish which seems as if it will never come. If you look at the plot it seems there might be a good story in here somewhere. Former cop rescues orphaned girl after a plane crash, takes her in, finds out the girl has connections to drug smuggling which threatens his family...you'd think you could take that story somewhere. Apparently you can't. "},{"Title":"Boo-boo Bayou","Date":"3 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Stereotypical man-with-a-vengeance story set in the Mississippi delta. Ex-cop and ex-alcoholic Dave Robicheaux is witness to a plane crash, saves a kid from drowning and before he can say Gin Ricky, gets involved in a largely obscure drug ring scheme. Heaven's Prisoners is a priceless example of pretty much everything that's annoying you (well, at least me) in mainstream US cinema. Like so many Hollywood action films, it celebrates core American values; that is, family values, abstinence, and doing yourself justice by shooting other people's encephalon out. It is clearly one of those intrinsically fraudulous stories where the whole plot is geared towards a vengeful killing spree, with the inciting incident being the murder, for no apparent reason, of the man's wife somewhere in mid-film (snore). The rest is accordingly shallow. Bubba Rocque, the film's bad boy character, is a pedantic and faggy Latino type straight from the gym. This ridiculous characterisation is only worsened by the fact that Eric Roberts's antics are at best a subliminal impersonation of Karl Lagerfeld gone gumbo. And the big boss man Didi Giancano is, how else could it be, a fat Italian mafioso who speaka no nonsense. The dialogues are as predictable as this year's flood, the pace lamer than a saltwater croc, and the intrigue just muddy waters. Fitting in with that picture, Heaven's Prisoners has inconsistencies and continuity goofs galore. A plane with drug smugglers goes down yet no-one, least something called the police, seems to care except a (soloist and big-mouthed) FBI agent. After his wife gets murdered, Robicheaux drowns his sorrow in the bar owned by one of the killers (who, as we find out, were actually after him). Protagonists walk into other people's homes as if they were theirs, guys pull their guns in bars without so much as a glimpse by the patrons, men sweat their pants wet but the ladies are invariably spotless, all the joints in the area (a grand total of 2) run the same blues record etc etc. New Orleans could have made for a great atmospheric flick (as, for instance, Parker's depiction of Louisiana in Angel Heart) but it all remains sketchy here. Like the title, come to think of it. Bye-bye, blue Bayou. "}]