[{"Title":"A Great End To A Great Disney Sports Series","Date":"10 June 2000","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This Disney film made me much happier than D2 did. I really enjoyed the way it was much more true to the first film than D2 was. This movie used examples from the first film (He's been the captain since they played in District 5, the announcer utters during the first game.) This time, the team is shy one member (Jesse) but it really seems no different. I do still wonder what happened to all those people who played in the first movie and were never heard from again. Oh well.In this film, it's almost a rehash of the first film. A team who cannot get it together, get a washed up hockey player who they hate to coach them and they love him...your basic family fun, Disney flick.All in all this was a great movie, but hopefully Disney realizes that we've had enough.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"LOUSY! Two were plenty!","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  WHAT?! Stupid, dumb, poor scripted, sad, awful... Those aren't enough words to describe it! The first movie was good, the second was outstanding, so why couldn't they have made this one the best, which would have been a perfect conclusion? If you haven't seen this and would like to, I'd recommend stopping at the second! HERE COMES SPOILERS SPOILERS First, the great guy Gordon Bombay can't even coach them anymore. Second, they are placed in a good academy, but are treated like dirt, and are badly bullied by bigger kids on the varsity team. There is very little hockey played, and like he should be--Charlie is furious with the new coach (a jerk at first) and the awful time he's having. Things improve, but what I hated was that their good friend Hans died. BAD ENOUGH THAT WE HAVE TO DEAL WITH THAT IN REALITY, so why did they make them lose such a close friend?! FINALLY, things start improving, when coach O'Rion gets his head out of his butt and starts being nice. UNFORTUNATELY, Bombay never comes back! They win the Hockey game and get their two MVPs back, but don't have what they started with! Not only that, but it was just a TERRIBLE ending to the great first two movies! Poorly written, and definitely not as much effort and hard work as the second! Why was the second so wonderful, and the third GARBAGE?!!!!I strongly suggest stopping at the second. This was terrible, and I give it a grade of D, and a LOW 3! "},{"Title":"Uplifting","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm not sure exactly why so many people think of the Mighty Ducks movies as silly and pointless. I was never good at sports, but I have always believed that, with proper coaching, any sport could teach children and teenagers about life. The third installment of this series, directed more toward teenagers than anyone else, really shows how teamwork and positive thinking can overcome obstacles and help them grow. I have seen D3 many times and yet as I recently bought the DVD and watched it again, I couldn't help but cheer for the Ducks. "},{"Title":"Average movie","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Over all, this is an average movie. Here are the negative parts of the film. What was the point in putting Emilio Estevez's name on the front cover of the movie box if he is only in about three scenes of the movie? In the first place he should of been their coach through the series. This movie also had a lack of hockey. How realistic is it to come back from 9-0 in one period of hockey? Disney you need to give me a break. Here is also something unrealistic. Don't you think the ducks would be the varsity team? In D2 they went to the junior good will games and played on team USA. They should be able to easily beat the real varsity team. Like Adam Banks said in D2 they were good enough to play against the world. Coach Orion was annoying too. Bad mistake for Bombay to leave. Like I was saying before the movie had a lack of hockey. Throughout the movie you only see them play three games. Here are the positive things to say. The pranks were funny. I especially liked the one with horse turd. Over all I give this movie ** of ****.  "},{"Title":"Quack!","Date":"13 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I've got a real soft spot for these movies; I adored the first movie when it was first released and although it's not that great now, all three films have a good deal of charm and the cast has genuine chemistry. 'D3' is just really enjoyable stuff. Emilio Estevez isn't around much (still billed first in the credits, though) and he is missed despite the original film's central relationship between him and the kids being repeated here with a new coach. But there's enough here that's new to the series (if not to cinema in general) to make this worthwhile once the weak opening is out of the way.David Newman's score is genuinely good, making the hockey games rousing - as in 'D2', easily the highlight of the movie - and giving the movie real momentum. It's no classic, but it's likable and engaging. "},{"Title":"What were they thinking?!","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" ****SPOILER ALERT****This movie doesn't even do justice to D2. Just a disgrace. I think what Disney was trying to do was change things up a bit by adding some new characters, but in doing so they took away probably some of the best.THE BAD 1. A new coach-I don't even remember the new coach's name, he doesn't deserve to be remembered. This movie was bad five minutes into it when they announced Bombay was out. *Bad*2. Loss of players- Where's Jesse Hall? and Dean Portman? and everyone else they had that was so likable? Why'd they put Banks on Varsity? Why was Disney so dumb?3. Bad humor- These players are now and high school and the humor is less mature than either of the first two movies. These kids were more rebellious when they were thirteen. That makes no sense.4. Acting- Oh My God. Enough said5. Hans- Why? Why Hans? Why kill Hans? He was like, a roll model. I loved Hans in the first one. I hated this movie so much.THE GOOD 1. What They Realised- Disney realised that they needed to stop being big dumb dumbs and bring the old characters back. So Portman came back, that was good. And Bombay came back. I really hope this is the last Mighty Ducks movie, because the only thing that brightened my day was the ending, when Bombay walked out the door to the theme song, and then the flashback of the ending of the first movie came on. That left me feeling better. And I thought, wow, good way to end itThe ending gets a ten out of ten but doesn't make the movie good enough so overall a 2/10...only gets a 2 because of the end. "},{"Title":"God-awful BAD","Date":"8 May 2005","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's difficult to express just how atrociously bad this Duck shoot is. The Ducks have, en bloc, won scholarships to the snobbish private school Banks (Vincent LaRusso) attends. This offends the sensibilities of the varsity hockey team. WHY it offends them is never made entirely clear, since the Ducks will probably assure continuing championships for their school, establishing a dynasty tradition of which the current varsity players will be the spearhead. Much mayhem ensues as the two rival cliques play vicious trick after vicious trick upon one another. (I don't consider covering someone with fire ants or dining and dashing on an $853 restaurant bill to be jokes -- they are just plain sadistic.) A very thinly veiled sadism is apparent throughout D3. The final victory of the Ducks is *not* achieved through skill, expertise, or courage -- it is achieved by physically brutalizing the varsity team. (Is it a spoiler to reveal what any eight year old knows even before watching a Mighty Ducks movie? They *never* lose The Big Game. Watching these things is about as suspenseful as watching moss grow.) In the most egregious act of brutality in the movie, one of the varsity players is hurled off the rink, through the glass enclosure, and into the stands, which is physically impossible, which may be why the crowd grows wild cheering for it -- ignoring the very real possibility that the varsity player has broken one or both legs, possibly his spine, and has undoubtedly received a concussion. This is a *good* thing because the now permanently crippled high school student doesn't like Pacey ... er ... Charlie.One of the stupidest moments is the saving of the scholarships of the Ducks (yeah, the same old stuff Disney has been spewing out since Tommy Kirk and Kurt Russel were doing teen comedies for them). Their attorney (of course the Ducks have an attorney!) argues that the scholarships offered to and accepted by the Ducks is a contract binding the school to allow the Ducks to play hockey. Hunh? What fool writes a scholarship grant which gives the recipient power over the grantor and the school? What kind of Mickey Mouse lawyer did the school have writing those things? (Maybe that was the problem -- they needed one of the Mouse's attorneys.) Even more idiotic is the moment when the Ducks are allowed to keep their own team name and colors instead of being Eden Hall Warriors. What? The baseball, basketball, and football teams are going to change *their* team names and colors because of a freaking *hockey* team?!?! In Canada, maybe, but this ain't set in Canada.Yeah, the kids are cute, but ... well, that is the *only* thing this piece of duck dreck has going for it. Watch it with the sound off and look at their perfect, pretty punims. Nothing anyone says in this thing is worth listening to. It is certainly nothing that children should be allowed to watch -- this thing is so viciously, sadisticly violent that I think the MPAA should have given it an R rating -- no one under 17 admitted without a parent or guardian. "},{"Title":"This movie didn't deserve the IMDb vote it got.","Date":"10 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The score that everyone gave this movie does not give this movie justice. Sure, it's not a ten but it isn't a 5.1! Everyone is saying how the Mighty Duck movies were great for the first and second, but honestly I liked this one just as much! I don't care about budget! It had a great story line and a good lesson learned. It's all the same character actors and it's more relatable since it is high school. You literally got to see the ducks grow up, and I think that's why I thought the movie wasn't as bad as everyone says. Like I said, it had a good plot and a little bit of everything. Drama, humor, action, romance. It was great. Covers all the fields that any person can appreciate! All I'm saying is that you shouldn't judge a movie based on it's prequels. Give this movie a try, believe me. It's pretty great. "},{"Title":"Emilio Estevez's duck...err...swan song.","Date":"23 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" In D3 The Mighty Ducks, the same old cast of characters returns for some more good old times on the ice. The scrappy, wise-cracking kids that formed The Mighty Ducks hockey team are now full-blown teenagers, voice-changes and all. This time around, they are awarded scholarships to the prestigious Eden Hall Academy, a school who take their hockey just a bit too seriously. Emilio Estevez's character is written out of most of the movie, making way for the hard-headed Coach Orion (Jeff Nordling), who leads The Ducks under their new moniker, The Warriors. As they fight for dominance with the varsity team, they also have to fight for their right to stay in school, lest the school board revoke their scholarships and cast them out simply for not fitting in. Along the way they learn more valuable life lessons and grow with one another, yada yada yada, so on and so forth.If it feels like the formula is wearing thin, that's because it is. Don't be mistaken, D3 is of the same caliber as D2 The Mighty Ducks. It's an entertaining enough, simple and nostalgic sports flick that appeals to the whole family, but is nowhere near as inspiring and as spirited as the original. When compared to the original The Mighty Ducks, this is just a ho-hum sequel that offers nothing new and is obviously made with intentions of milking a franchise name, which is made abundantly clear by its low budget look. But when it comes to Disney and its track-record for sequels, would you expect anything less? It's not all bad though. The acting from the kids is spot on and their chemistry is great as usual. Hans (Joss Ackland) makes his return to the series and even though Emilio Estevez looks tired in the twenty minutes or so he spends in the film, it's better than not having him at all. His turn as the Ducks' lawyer is a stand-out, a nice call-back to the original film. Overall, D3 The Mighty Ducks is a contradiction, a mediocre display of nostalgia. It's entertaining enough, but too bland to really have a lasting effect. See it if only to complete the trilogy (although I get the feeling that if Disney felt they could, they would have forced more movies out of it) and to reminisce in the good old days, before Emilio Estevez faded away completely, before Joshua Jackson became irritating and before Kenan Thompson went SNL. "},{"Title":"This Duck drowns","Date":"18 June 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  D3THE MIGHTY DUCKS is the follow-up to the original MIGHTY DUCKS, and its sequel, D2 THE MIGHTY DUCKS. Although it is not as good as the others, it is enjoyable at times, and has a very good storyline. It has all of Ducks attending college at Eden Hall University, where they are considered worthless scrubs. In order to prove themselves, they need to beat the Eden Hall varsity squad. The reason this movie is lacking is because Emilio Estevez, the standout star of the previous 2 movies, disappears 5 minutes into the movie, and does not even make another appearance until the end. Another reason is because some fan-favorites from the first two did not make it to the third, including the Hall brothers, Jesse and Terry, Peter, and Karp. Although the movie recieves a huge lift when Dean Portman returns to the squad and helps them win the game against the varsity team, it does not have the same feeling of a camaraderie as the first two. This could have been a great movie, if certain changes were made. It is still an enjoyable family movie.     "}{"Title":"The best of the trilogy","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is probably the best of the series.  Things that I liked about the movie The kids grow up and if there's something enjoyable, it's that they kept most of the members from the first two.  So watching their lives just make us warm and fuzzy.  It's funny watching the hijinks of the team as the college seniors make life hell for the Ducks and vice-versa.  Plus, we see the team try to adjust training under a new coach.  The hockey games in this movies are always fun to watch.  What I didn't like We don't see enough about the new coach to make us care about him and the way he commands the team. I give this 4 of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"A second sequel with no hockey action.","Date":"24 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" ***************** SPOILERS !!!!!!!!! *********************Where's the hockey ? The hardly is any, it's just a series of gags and pranks, Charlie sulking, dating a girl and getting a grip from Bombay, Orian on the hot seat and then one final game vs the seniors. Why ? What for ? They're part of the same school, why should this game be a big deal anyway ? Then the Warriors become the Ducks ? Usually those games are set in pre- season but the biggest disappointment is that there is no structured story. The fact that there is little to no hockey makes this very disappointing because at their age, the game is much more serious and yet they look like cartoons. You can't play that cartoon card every time and it shows and that's the biggest mistake.Plus, the hockey sequences are poorly filmed, you don't know what's going on on the ice, who's doing at what spot, it's a headache. Bombay shouldn't have been in the movie, Jackson's puberty voice makes him sound cheesy and he hardly puts much effort in his acting, Goldberg is the funniest of all, Averman who used to be the funny-haha character isn't much fun, and basically what bothers me in this movie is there is no more team fraternity. Where's the chemistry, the bonding ? The focus was the team and Bombay of course, but in Ducks 3, Charlie is the focus and it doesn't work. Any kid will hop on the bandwagon but looking back I'm sure they'll find D3 the least interesting of the bunch. "},{"Title":"they dropped the puck on this one","Date":"15 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" After the first two movies, I figured this wouldn't be as good and I was right. Our heroes from the second movie all get scholarships to some private school and yet are not wanted by just about everyone which begs the question, if no one wanted them why give them a free pass in the first place? Second, the thing that bugs me was Coach Orion's preach defense gig. 1-0 games are boring as it is, and the Ducks used to win games by high scoring margins. The defense may win hockey games but its boring to watch, especially in movies. Another thing was what was up with the 9-0 comeback? You mean to tell me a high school hockey team scored 9 goals in 15 minutes? The Ducks goalie was supposed to be good....that's absolutely terrible. I can see why the balance shifted from Gordon to Charlie because Gordon wasn't really apart of it, but to give him top billing wasn't a good idea. The subplots and the hijynx were fine but wouldn't the Dean notice a thousand fire ants loose in the dorm rooms? Lastly, where was their emotional fireball Jesse Hall? He just disappear from the script? Was Brandon Adams not available for the movie? Although I must say I can see why the ducks aren't the varsity team seeing as they were supposed to be freshman (character wise) and the varsity appeared to be juniors and seniors. All in all this movie has major holes in it but its not a total waste of time.4 out of 10 "},{"Title":"The worst one, but still great fun (spoilers)","Date":"14 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A FEW SPOILERS AHEAD!This film brings and end (for now, at least, as D4 is rumoured) to the Mighty Ducks saga and although the least spectacular of the three, anyone who tells you this film is garbage is wrong - it is a worthy end to things.Scenes like Goldberg losing control while skating are a bit stupid, but the good scenes outnumber these. Emilio Estevez, although not having a large part, steals the show whenever he is in a scene, just as he did in the first two - his portrayal of Gordon Bombay is outstanding, and particularly the scholarship reinstation scene.Jeffrey Nordling does a great job as Coach Orion, and the Ducks all play their characters well for a third time, although the character of Charlie has changed perhaps a little more than it should have.The last few frames of the film are outstanding, and really give a sense of 'ending' to the proceedings.If you enjoyed D1 and D2 it is not up for question that you see the third installment - not as good as the first two, but nevertheless highly recommended.  "},{"Title":"The story just got worse","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What happened here? The first two were really good. Sure the story line was o.k but that's all.  "},{"Title":"Duck Film Good, But In No Way better then first and second!!!","Date":"11 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" People say this movie is bad, it hasn't got the meat that the two other sequels had, and that is somewhat also true, but in some way also a little untrue, let me emphasize.This is the ending to the trilogy, and with being the ending it has got to have something that we all can relate to if we have seen the others,the movie could almost be a complete failure but isn't really, the reasons it isn't are here.1. Cast members all return or at least most of the cast members, and even Hans revisited which was one of my favorite in the first movie. 2. It still is about the game, this movie was made to represent a decade of hockey and it does. 3. there aren't other reasons but his one is the biggest, the ending shot where Emilio walks out of the screen is perfect, it is how to end a decade, and he does it so well, that is the biggest reason without that shot it would've lost all magic, or and of course the last shot from the first movie.Other then that i haven't much more to say, the money shot was the ending with Emilio and that was how I truly got pulled together and how the ending fitted perfect to a decade of hockey, goo all Ducks fly away now, and thrive to find another place, cool edition because of ending...!!! "},{"Title":"Low budget??","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Why did they do this movie??? The first and the second was great. They didn't have to do this one. In D2 it looked that the spent a lot of money because it's well done. In D3 the budget seems to be down to zero and the story sucks! And the edit?? It's so bad that it makes me sick. But if you are a Duck fan like me, you have to deal with it.... One more thing Why didn't they keep Jessie?/Angry Ducksfan "},{"Title":"This Film Doesn't Score.","Date":"1 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" D3 The Mighty Ducks (1996) Dir Robert Lieberman / Cast Joshua Jackson, Emilio Estivez, Jeffrey Nording, Joss Ackland, David Selby Unnecessary third film sees the young hockey team going to Eden Hall Academy to receive scholarships. Emilio Estivez announces his leave and strict but fair Jeffrey Nording replaces him. Two teams scheme revenge on each other at first possibility. Predictable elements occur including the winning of scholarships, etc, who cares? Fine directing by Robert Lieberman with a few fine visual moments such as a prank involving the jerseys that isn't taken well. Joshua Jackson returns but it is totally by the numbers. He is disappointed that his beloved coach is leaving, and he spars off and eventually accepts the replacement coach. Nothing surprising there and Jackson sleepwalks through it all. Estivez gives a brief appearance in what is best described as a straight forward role. He is more or less here to uphold his star power of the first two worthless quack outings. Jeffrey Nording is likable as the replacement coach but the role is too obvious and predictable. One can easily foresee the strict coach really having a heartfelt moment where he is seen differently. Nobody really cares either. This garbage is doing nothing more than playing on the success of the first two films. It is just another pathetic outing in the family film genre. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"kiddie franchise unable to grow up","Date":"12 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The members of the Ducks get scholarships to prep school Eden Hall Academy. Coach Gordon Bombay (Emilio Estevez) is not coming with them. The kids struggle against the Varsity team bullies and strict new coach Ted Orion (Jeffrey Nordling) as they try to grow up.The franchise has nothing left. The cute kids are older now. Emilio Estevez is simply doing a cameo. The movie is torn between its kiddie franchise DNA and high school drama. It's nice to see many of the kids return. It seems like an easy play to have some of the kids have some romance with each other. Charlie Conway (Joshua Jackson) is chasing new girl Linda but they have no chemistry. He's bitter and has no rooting interest. The franchise is unable to transform into something more. As a kiddie movie, it has run out of steam. "},{"Title":"good movie no matter what they say","Date":"24 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Another thing was what was up with the 9-0 comeback? that is possible i played some bantam hockey games where the periods are 12 minutes each and we score 10 goals or so in a period a few times. it is possible. we beat one team 24 to 6.this was a good movie though. i missed Portman and Bombay. i actually want to get a replica of the jerseys. if you can help me find one let me know.the varsity is played by the same guys as the hawks in the first movie. they have such different personalities.this is a very good movie. i recommend it. "}{"Title":"A Good Watch","Date":"9 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have to say that I believe all three of the Mighty Ducks movies are fantastic, and the third one is especially great. Although I am no critic, I can honestly say as an average person who grew up in the 90's that this movie is a lot of fun.It starts out with the same team from the second movie (excluding Jesse Hall) receiving scholarships to a hockey-championship-winning high school. The school's varsity team immediately shows their disdain for the Ducks, and the varsity and the ducks continue their rivalry throughout the movie with outrageous pranks that finally ends with the big showdown hockey game. The rivalry between the two teams is what makes the movie most memorable, with pranks that make you laugh (although they seem incredibly unbelievable and over-the-top).The return of the actors from the second movie is wonderful, it is the exact same team, except for Hall which was mentioned above. Also, Emilio Estevez returns as Gordon Bombay although in a much smaller and less-involved role. Still, less of Bombay is better than no Bombay. The new coach, Orien, is an interesting character who clashes with Charlie Conway, again played by Joshua Jackson. Another great factor in the third movie is the return of Hans from the first movie, and his death leads to possibly the most touching moment in all three Ducks movies. And of course, it wouldn't be a great Ducks movie without the return of characters like the Bash Brothers. Portman returning at the end made the entire movie for me, personally.While many people may think that this movie was a poor sequel that had none of the charm of the first two movies, I have to strongly disagree. I first saw the movie as a kid when it came out and I loved it for its goofiness and memorable characters. Now, as a young adult, I own all three of the movies and still enjoy watching them with my friends. I'd recommend them to anyone and everyone. "},{"Title":"Joshua and the movie","Date":"8 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" OMG Joshua Jackson did awesome in the first one and he was so hot in the first and second one!!O I wish i could b with him but o well the movie is so good i love the cast and its so funny!Especially Goldberg ahh was hilarious! I love how they always stick up for themselves and put red fire ants in the other hockey players beds the whole plot was awesome i wish the writer of the movie could have written more cause i really want to see what else could happen even if the actors are too old now but just make a little after story and what they did with their lives and what they all do and stuff that would be nice!o well we can only hope!I just wish they could it would make me so much happier i don't know why some people don't like this movie! "},{"Title":"This Duck sinks and drowns","Date":"18 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  D3THE MIGHTY DUCKS is the follow-up to the original MIGHTY DUCKS, and its sequel, D2 THE MIGHTY DUCKS. Although it is not as good as the others, it is enjoyable at times, and has a very good storyline. It has all of Ducks attending college at Eden Hall University, where they are considered worthless scrubs. In order to prove themselves, they need to beat the Eden Hall varsity squad. The reason this movie is lacking is because Emilio Estevez, the standout star of the previous 2 movies, disappears 5 minutes into the movie, and does not even make another appearance until the end. Another reason is because some fan-favorites from the first two did not make it to the third, including the Hall brothers, Jesse and Terry, Peter, and Karp. Although the movie recieves a huge lift when Dean Portman returns to the squad and helps them win the game against the varsity team, it does not have the same feeling of a camaraderie as the first two. This could have been a great movie, if certain changes were made. It is still an enjoyable family movie.     "},{"Title":"It was Great!!","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have seen some pretty harsh things said about the third movie. I mean for the love of God It was the last movie everyone grew up they weren't kids so they weren't going to act like 10 year old. The coach was only teaching them the truth some may find it hard to deal well TOUGH he was teaching them the truth. He was a good guy Charlie was the brat. Coach Bombay can't really coach them his whole life, he just moved on.I find this movie great it was enjoyable. If you love hockey and just wanna watch something quick and cool, this is it. It's not one of those movies you notice like ever but if you come across it i wouldn't say run and hide because it's no where near awful. It's FUN!! "},{"Title":"Well, I liked it","Date":"6 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I don't know why everyone hated this movie.  I mean, okay, there are plenty of movies that other people love and I hate, so I can cope.  But I really love all the Ducks movies.  I don't think this one was as good as the second, and sure there were a lot of things that you go Yeah, okay but it was still a good movie.  I liked the pranks they played, I personally thought the fire ant thing was so bad.  Like, bad for the varsity I mean. And plenty of people are probably reading this and going What a dork! Someone who likes the Mighty Ducks?  But yeah, I do.  They're fun movies with good plots and cute guys.  Cute guys are always a plus...especially when it's Mike Vitar and Aaron Lohr and they're playing sports.  Even without all the cute guys, this movie would still be good.  I give it probably 9/10 stars. "},{"Title":"no more sequels","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  D3 was pretty average for a third installment, same old story as D2 beat the opponent and earn respect and live happily ever after, but I forget it is Disney after all. I didn't understand a few things after this third movie, where is Jesse Hall? Goldberg after a few movies suddenly forgets how to skate? some of these items are shady grady. D3 has some funny pranks, but in the end is for the Mighty Duck diehards out there and yes Julie the cat is another reason to watch this movie she is my perfect woman. "},{"Title":"Not the best to a series but better then most sequels","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A lot of sequels to movies never stick to the original plot. D3 wasn't bad i think they tried to bring some truth into the movie showing what some kids go through at school and how freshman are treated at the some High Schools. It seemed great and funny at the beginning with Fulton hit crap while shooting and Goldberg going crazy on skates towards the center of the movie a little bit of over acting on Charlies parts. Toward the end it seemed to improve, the lack of hockey didn't bother me at all. It showed a lot more violence during the second and third game in this movie then the First and Second Mighty ducks movies. The only thing that really p***ed me off about this sequel is that a lot of the original characters weren't and is it just me but the girl that played Connie i don't think she looked any different then when she was in the first one she didn't get any taller her voice was a bit deeper. "},{"Title":"alright of a movie","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  i loved the first mighty ducks and the second but this one wasnt nearly as great as them too. It was low budget, i agree with that, and the acting was way worse then the other 2, it looks like they just bunched 7 people together made them skate and said it was a movie. It wasnt really my type of movie to watch but who knows, people think different then me "},{"Title":"The weakest of the franchise, but not absolutely awful","Date":"27 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Starting with the good things, it is nicely filmed with crisp cinematography and nice scenery. The soundtrack is great, and Jeffrey Nordling steps into the coach's shoes with enthusiasm with Emilio Estevez making a brief appearance. The Mighty Ducks themselves are performed with real spirit also and the few ice hockey scenes are well choreographed. However, where the film is lacking is in the plot, the plot weren't the greatest in the first two films but here it was really predictable and uninspired coupled with uneven pacing. And while I liked the scripting in the first two, it is fairly weak here. Joss Ackland's role is rather cartoonish, more to do with how the character was written rather than acted, and the direction is nothing special. Overall, merely average and worth seeing, but there are a few components here that make it the weakest of the franchise. 5/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"The ducks have flown the coop!","Date":"13 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Now I hate this saying, because frankly, there are so many actors who have been horribly typecast as kids because of this saying, but The Might Ducks movie doesn't work as well with the grown up ducks! Now I didn't have too many problems with this film, I just wasn't that impressed or moved by it. I think many would agree, it's like seeing Rocky in Rocky 5, he's so old and you're afraid that he's going to break a hip boxing. Well, that's D3, the kids are more grown up and less interesting because we know when they become teens, they're less interested in what kept them happy as children.The kids have scholarships to one of the best high schools, and now have a new coach, Coach Orion. Orion is completely different from Gordon, he's a little tougher and has more rules, but you learn why he is that way later on. The kids also have to worry about the Varsity team of the high school, because this is the team that has the big time seniors on it that want to pick on little freshman. And they do so through silly 5 year old pranks.While it's not a terrible movie, I liked the second Mighty Ducks a little better and it worked more than D3. But I can see this movie working for pre-teens, I'm serious, because I think they could relate to the film a little bit of being the new kids in school. But for adults alone, I'm not sure, to each his own. "}{"Title":"Quacks.","Date":"4 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The gang gets scholarships to a high-class prep school in Minnesota due to their hockey skills. Naturally though the annoying titled characters have not outgrown their childish ways as the new freshmen have constant run-ins with new coach Jeffrey Nordling and the varsity snobs of the institution. Emilio Estevez is barely present and when he is around he does his best Jiminy Crickett in Disney's A Christmas Carol to show spoiled brat Joshua Jackson that he truly does have a wonderful life. Laughably sorry mess that is still a bit better than the first sequel, but that is not saying much. Estevez' absence is not that big a deal as Nordling does just as well as the primary adult in a childish duck pond of annoying adolescents who whine and bitch their way through every situation. A fitting end to a pointless series of pictures. 2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Poorly thought-out, Anti-comedic film","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Well, looks as if the gang is off into a new-adventure into a highly uptight high-school on an athletic scholarship. That was about my biggest turn-off right now. The fact that it was a bunch of preps just dealing it out on the ice, giving out some hard-knock schooling on the ice.The fact is, most of the original characters apparently no longer exist, and that is probably a major downfall. The plot wasn't the greatest plot of all-although it does show actual realistic details, such as the treatment of new freshman on the campus. The pranks that these the varsity and junior varsity teams pull are completely ridiculous, and most likely, wouldn't be found in such a highly scholar school.The coach was a complete loser, and that is completely impossible that one man can change or mature within a small time of frame.Another turning point is that there is no-mention of Han's companion (who went back to the Old Country in D2) but, Han's dies. This is a very upsetting time, and does take the comedy effect off of the Mighty Ducks series which appeared to be the main reason for the creation of the series to begin with.As Theodore Taylor once told Gary Paulson, Never create a prequel or following up to an excellent work, they usually end up with a foul feeling in the audience, and it can really ruin ones career. This same advice goes for the director (Robert Lieberman).  "},{"Title":"What a pathetic film","Date":"28 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Where to start. I've watched this a few times and it is just terrible. The hockey isn't even realistic. You would think owning an NHL team would have made Disney a little more aware of how the game works. The games aren't even remotely realistic. The varsity team is a joke. They can skate around and make a lot of plays that should be penalties, but they get away with them. One of the worst actors in this movie is the varsity head coach. He really overacts and his lines sound As always the ducks are underdogs and for some reason can't beat the big bad varsity who isn't really impressive. I found one of the most annoying characters besides the varsity coach is the announcer for the games. That kid has no acting talent and he must be a relative of someone at Disney which got him the role. Let's not forget Charlie crying all the time about losing his C. A real leader doesn't need a C on his jersey to lead. It looks like Eden Hall is supposed to resemble Shattuck St Mary's in Minnesota which is a well known hockey high school. I could go on and on forever. This movie isn't as bad as the 2nd one, but it sure gives it a run for its money. "},{"Title":"D3 The Mighty Ducks","Date":"29 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Okay, I have one problem with this movie when you win the world championship in the Olympics then go to college, guess what? You get to skip JV and advance straight to varsity. Especially if nearly the whole Olympic squad goes to the same school. Seriously, they have something to prove to the college coach? Um, watch some game tape of them winning the WORLD FREAKIN' CHAMPIONSHIP! Also, you're fired. Obviously this is a completely ridiculous movie franchise - shenanigans and tomfoolery are the very bedrock of the franchise - but I still can't get past that hang-up. It's even worse than the knuckle-puck from D2 (every hockey fan hates the knuckle-puck). "},{"Title":"A touching coming of age movie","Date":"14 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Unlike many other people I really enjoyed this movie. I thought the lesson that there comes a time when you must let things go was well conveyed. Charlie learns that, even though the ducks were the best thing that has ever happened in his life, great things can end and began again in a different way. D3 had quite a few coming of age lessons that is tried to teach from misjudging people to contemplating your future. (spoiler) When Hans died I cried and cried. Over all it was my favorite Mighty Ducks movie. Yea Emilio Esteves was not in most of it but that was just another part of a lesson they were trying to teach "},{"Title":"Best of the 3 Just!","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" All three movie are very close to each other in quality but D3 is probably the best by 1/2 a star or 0.1%.The thing that makes this movie stand out from the rest is how Gordon Bombay (Emilio Estevez) became the true mentor Charlie because he has finally become wise after the end of D2 and now that Hans has passed away. Charlie is now the loose canon Gordon was at his age and along with his poor attitude towards his new coach Charlie starts to go downhill fast. Emilio is a gun in this movie and he is my favorite character and Coach Orion (Jeffrey Nordling) is my second favorite and they both put in stellar performances. The great speech about Defence by Coach Orion is a classic quote and is very true even in my sport Soccer and life. It's one of my favorite quotes of all time from any movie. The Minnesota Miracle Man scene is a highlight and Emilio is just class. The music choreography in D3 is excellent. It was so well done and example is when the Varsity team starts picking up the hitting and the music behind the scene starts saying Beat em in a opera like voice. The music complements the situation well throughout the whole movie and is one of its major pluses.D3 definitely has it's dull parts and some poor acting at times but at other times the acting is pretty good. However, the Hans in this movie doesn't rate well against the previous actors who played Hans.The plot follows the usual pattern of, pranks against the bad or rival team and the initial, I hate the coach attitude and then the coming together and uniting as a team and as friends once more to for fill the aim of defeating the rival team. Will team spirit get them over the line this time? Watch and see. "},{"Title":"Be Fair","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" It amazes me how members of this site bash movies but then they seem to make reasons for not bashing it in their critique. Once again if you are watching a movie, such as Team America World Police for instance, that is intentionally created to offend people and you write a comment saying it's the most offense movie you've ever seen (giving it an awful 1 out of 10 because of it) you've essentially given the movie a bad rating while giving the exact comments the movie should get if it's a 10 out of 10. Just like in this 3rd installment of The Mighty Ducks series. The movies were mad to have low brow stupid kiddie humor because they were created mostly for children.I can tell you that as far as ice hockey is concerned it is the best movie when it comes to real ice hockey. It still has it's ridiculous scenes but is much more realistic than the first two as far as quantity of plays that actually seemed real. I would imagine that it was a direct result of the actors needing stunt doubles less as they began to become better and better skaters.Oh well. "},{"Title":"What this movie lacks in substance, it *almost* makes up for in humor","Date":"9 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Okay, I have to start by being completely honest&#133;there really is no point to this movie, but I must also add that I still enjoyed it. Being a Ducks fan in my formative years, I still thoroughly enjoy all three films, though the 3rd installment is in point of fact my least favorite. It's more about rivalry, childish antics, and snobbery than hockey. And whose bright idea *was* it to bring in a new, cardboard cut-out coach and put Emilio Estevez on the sidelines anyway?? This was a grave mistake, as he is the soul of the films (with the Ducks being the heart). Coach Orion is sketchily written, as if he's filling some bad guy quotient in the first 2/3 of the film, then suddenly having a change of heart when Charlie comes back and all of a sudden is all for the Ducks' traditions. Is a little believability too much to ask?VERDICT A solid try&#133;you have to commend them for at least trying to make this one different, but I can see how this movie wouldn't be appealing to anyone not 16 or under or that didn't grow up loving the Mighty Duck trilogy, so to that end, stay away unless you fall into one of the aforementioned categories&#151;even Emilio Estevez fans will be disappointed (as I was), as he gets first billing in the credits as if he still plays a central role, but he only makes an appearance for all of two scenes and a brief nodding cameo in the end. Very misleading and cheap on the studio's part.4.5 out of 10.0 "},{"Title":"Why oh Why?","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Who was it that thought that audiences would want to see a 3rd installment of an originally good movie that lost some of its luster after the second sugar coated installment. This movie was pure fluff and by all accounts should not have been released.  It is good only if you enjoy those films which are as predictable as an instant replay.  If you wanna see a mighty duck film rent the first it is so much better than the 3rd straining film.  "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies ever","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The first Mighty Ducks was great.  Why make the next two?  There are too many things in this one to comment on, but I'd like to go through a couple.  First of all, weren't they the Junior National Team in the second one?  And didn't they win the Junior Olympics?  They weren't even one of those regional JO teams people play on, they were supposedly the entire U.S.  So how come only one of them plays varsity?  It's like, you may have been in the olympics, but this is high school hockey, and we're varsity, we're better than olympics.  If the varsity guys are so good, why weren't they olympics?  Secondly, are they really freshmen?  If I remember correctly, at the end one of them is kissing an upperclassman cheerleader.  And there's no one some of them are freshmen.  Third, high schools don't recruit entire teams, and close tryouts to no other freshmen than those on that team.  It's against the rules.  The only people that tried out were the Ducks and varsity.  Another thing, where's the Junior Varsity team?  Schools don't do just Freshman and Varsity.  Fourth, so many people are missing from the first movie.  Danny Tamberelli's character and his sister were only in one movie.  The brothers are gone, Jesse in the first two and Terry only in the first.  The chunky kid and his dark-haired friend who always wore a hat were only in the first.  You know what, I'm wasting my time talking about this movie, because it sucks.  1/10, only because I can't give a 0. "}{"Title":"Fowl movie....","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I liked the first Mighty Ducks movie.  It was cute.  I saw most of the first sequel.  It was...okay.  Then I saw D3 The Mighty Ducks.  Suffice it to say that this one is about forty miles south of sufferable.The kids here, now admitted to college, are to play on their hockey team on a sports scholarship.  However, it's a whole new ball game (so to speak), and they must all (with the exception of one of the kids, now AWOL) face personal loss, a mean-spirited new coach (Nordling), a nasty all-star college hockey team they must face off against on and off the rink and, first and foremost, the lack of involvement of their old coach (Estevez).Now, what is wrong with this film, you may ask?  You sitting down?  Okay - this is a pretty downbeat story for a Disney flick, especially when it deals with change, new environments and challenges.  It was NOT a good idea to have the new coach to be such a one-dimensional, unbending jerk and then do a sudden 180 degree turn to be a good guy!  What the...?!  The pranks the Ducks pull on the varsity team are so lame that the Delta House would turn their collective nose up at it.  And all the kids are even more cookie cutter, flat-as-the-sidewalk caricatures of teens as you'd find on NBC Saturday morning TV.  What a shame.Even the hockey games fall flat.  I mean, how many times can you watch Rocky re-generated into every possible sports movie situation ever made?  Well, there's always curling....Long story short, it's not even good as disposable kiddie fare!  What can you say about a film when it doesn't even hold up to Herbie Goes to Monte Carlo?!!!And in what would be the last smart career move on his part for a while, Estevez took a smaller role in this movie.  If he wanted to make a BRILLIANT career move, he would have backed out altogether.Oh well.One star for D3, for the knowledge that this was the LAST Ducks movie.  And I think we can all breathe a sigh of relief for that one.  I know I will.  "},{"Title":"maybe the thrill is gone","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  because this movie just couldn't click for me. maybe a little too much over acting. the movie is not paced as good as the first two either. the hockey players don't seem as likeable as they once was,and estevez should've been in the movie longer. all in all an ok movie only because of cool hockey games,but the thrill is mostly gone. i give D3 the mighty ducks ** out of **** "},{"Title":"A complete waste of time","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" For some reason, a few years ago I decided to watch the Mighty Ducks movies. To this day I am regretting the decision. Typical American crap with underdog sports teams (how can you be underdog three movies in a row?), with much flag waving and guts WIN IT ALL! What a hokey clichd story, and it has been done better in better films than this. I can't think of any part of the movie I enjoyed and only gave it 3 out of 10 because 1) Ice hockey is cool, 2)I'm killing time and 3)Emilio Estevez used to bone Paula Abdul. As you can see I'm struggling for excuses here. The only reason I am writing this comment is to kill some time at work, it happens to be really, really cruisy right now. "},{"Title":"One of those movies they show around the clock in hell","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of those films which is on my  disavowed list. I have no knowledge of ever  knowing about this film or witnessing a  filming. It just turned into one of those things  no person should ever or witness. It's like  Battlefield Earth or The Stuff, a film solely  bent on torturing its viewer. Stay away, stay  far away!  "},{"Title":"Super-predictable, super-painful.  Avoid at all costs.","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Okay, so I've only seen bits and pieces of the original.  It's basically Bad News Bears on Ice, correct?  Bunch of losers (underdogs, of course) get better steadily and win the big game, with hijinks to boot?  Why would I complain about predictability from such a movie?  Shouldn't I predict its predictability?  Maybe I'm getting too metaphysical here...okay, I'll calm down.  Maybe it's just that this movie very nearly made me physically ill...I've had about enough of these things.  Okay, they don't say how much they spent on it, but it was probably quite a lot.  It did make about 23 million USA, so it seems, so it probably did make money.  Who saw this?  Parents, shame on your kids for letting them see this.  No, it's not harmless!  It's sap-filled poison, melodrama heaped upon melodrama, 0-dimensional characters in totally unnatural situations.  Sigh.  I don't know why I'm so angry-it's not going to change anything.  I don't even want these people to get the dollar I spent on this rental now.  Ah well-make your own choices.  I just hate these movies that think they can play people like pianos, just pushing the right buttons.  Fight the man.  Don't watch this.  The man won't notice, but I guess you'd make me happier. "},{"Title":"Dreadful. The worst movie...ever","Date":"17 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I fully understand that D3 Mighty Ducks is a kids movie, but still, this could be the worst film I have ever seen. The premise is absolutely ridiculous and downright bizarre. I am confused as to how a screenplay can be approved that calls for such a plot line. I'm not going to get too far into it, but the SOLD OUT exhibition contest between the freshman team (the Ducks) and the varsity will go down in cinematic history as one of the most dubious acts ever put on film. You'll have to see it to believe it. The school, which is supposed to foster fair play and excellence, encourages the varsity to resent the freshman to the point that only a hateful exhibition between the two teams can settle the matter. And oh yeah, the freshman (our heroes) somehow raise enough money in time to purchase brand new uniforms for the meaningless game. And after they win, the school instantly changes its official mascot to...you guessed it...the Ducks!!!Here is an overview of some of the aspects that irritate me about this film-The meaningless scrimmage between the varsity and freshman is 100 percent sold out and broadcasted on the radio with an NHL superstar as a between period guest. -There are too many blatant hockey infractions during the scrimmage to count. -One of the varsity players is flipped over the boards and falls into the crowd as the glass shatters, which is completely impossible. -The varsity hates the freshman even though they are all part of the same hockey program. Why would you resent a team that will someday carry on the rich hockey tradition that you helped establish? -The new uniforms! Again, what is the logic in raising THOUSANDS of dollars to purchase uniforms for a game that doesn't even count. OK, maybe they are from a previous season. Still, why not show a little school pride and wear the uniforms assigned to you? For a group desperately trying to fit in, refusing to wear the institution's uniforms is a slap in the face. -The school apparently was planning on the freshman winning because after the game (scrimmage), a large Mighty Ducks banner is unveiled displaying the academy's new mascot...the Ducks. Wow! I don't think I need to elaborate on that one. -Why are the scholarships being pulled? The only hint we are given is because the kids don't quite fit in. Are you serious? -The over-the-top cheesiness of the ending. There is way too much making out and kissing. Not to mention the dumb scene where coach slaps the captain's C on one of the two players that had previously abandoned the team. "},{"Title":"Mighty Duck fans get The Works!","Date":"26 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" D3 was the bomb!It was better than the first.After spending time in the off season Coach Bombay (Emilio Estevez) rounds the kids up to get back on the ice and start from there. Also a new posse joins the squad and together they become team USA and compete against teams all over the world including the seemingly unstoppable Team Iceland.Oh yeah and before I forget another member joins the Team U.S.A/Ducks also-Russ Tyler(played by Kenan Thompson from Kenan & Kel)who was the player with the famous knuckle puck hit that usually did some serious damge.Buena Vista (the company that releases Disney films on DVD) chose to NOT release anamorphic DVDs when they first came to DVD, so none of these films are anamorphically enhanced. This means, if you have a widescreen television, you will have black bars on top and bottom of the picture. Also, these discs are absolutely barebones, only featuring a Dolby 2.0 soundtrack and a 1.851 widescreen presentation. Where are the extras?! I don't know about you guys, but I am a Mighty Duck fan who is disappointed by the DVD release of this film.Trust me on this one, this is one movie that will have you quacking all over the place with laughs. "},{"Title":"A terrible film","Date":"17 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" D3 The Mighty Ducks boasts Emilio Estevez's name all over the ads and credits - and I still remember when it came out how they even featured his name on TV commercials. But he's only in the film for perhaps five minutes. He agreed to make a cameo if Disney would fund his post-Vietnam film, The War At Home, and they did. But they really milked the $3 million for all its worth.The troop of Mighty Ducks return yet again and yet again they are the underdog. This time the kids are all a bit older and dealing with more mature subjects - including romance. Estevez provides counseling at a crucial moment in the film, but it just comes across as spontaneous and totally random.This is a terrible film - the first two were bad to begin with but this reeks of sequelitis. It's just there to make money, and the lousy cast, bad director and atrocious dialogue doesn't help any.Please, no D4. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first one, better than the second one.","Date":"21 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" 'The Ducks' are given sports scholarships to a snobby private school. Unfortunately, Gordon isn't around anymore, with his fun, laid-back coaching techniques, which doesn't seem to please some of the team, especially Charlie, who finds his role as the teams Captain under threat. What with the team having difficulties with their new coach and team members threatening to quite, it's no wonder 'The Ducks' find their scholarships under threat! And if they win back their right to attend the school, will they become the victors in the Junior-Varsity show down?? I really can't see why this film got so many bad reviews. Okay, so it wasn't as good as the first one, but, for me, it was defiantly better than the second. It didn't bother me that characters such as Jesse didn't return because all of my favourite characters made a return appearance such as Charlie, played by Joshua Jackson. By the way, Josh is fantastic in this film. Although, I have to admit, he's grown up quite quickly.Funny, heart felt and shows the true meaning of friendship AND of course, winning isn't always everything. Defiantly a classic.I would give this film a 9/10. "},{"Title":"Best of the three!","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  D3 The Mighty Ducks, is the best of the three Mighty Duck movies.  It is more for the older kids than the earlier movies.  It has a little bit more drama, making it more serious than the others.  It has a good script (for a Disney flick), good storyline, good hockey action.The film seems a little better than the other two.  Maybe it's due to the absence of Emilio EstevezOverall an enjoyable, though formulaic film for folks of all ages.Rating 8/10 (rated against other Disney's) 7/10 against Non-Disney's "}]