[{"Title":"This was a fabulous war/ biography movie!","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  For those of you who have read Hemingway, you will be surprised and captivated by the boyishness of the pre-war Hemingway that O'Donnell gives us so beautifully.  The episodes in the life of the author that are covered by In Love and War are for the most part, not pretty.  However, they give an insight into the writing of America's greatest author that no other movie of his work has ever done.  Those who expected a movie version of A Farewell to Arms did not receive it, because the autobiographical In Love and War does not tell the same story that the semi-autobiographical book, A Farewell to Arms did.  In Love and War is far closer to the truth, as other Hemingway scholars will attest.  In that way, this movie is a valuable historical and biographical resource for people interested in Hemingway and his experiences in WWII Italy.If you are watching this movie just for fun, however, and not to gain insight into a book or an author's life, there is much here for you as well. Bullock and O'Donnell have a wonderful chemistry, and the lighthearted moments are weighed against a tale of great agony and suffering without being preachy or too painful.  There are serious moments, when the reality of life and war come home to Ernest, and there are beautiful moments, when Catherine explores Italy.  It's a wonderful mix of the dramatic and the light, without being overdone or showy.  The realism is striking.  I hope that everyone who watches this movie enjoys it as much as I did. "},{"Title":"A very absorbing story of the young Ernest Hemmingway in Italy during WW-I, I rate it 8 of 10.","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There's something screwy in the Imdb ratings for this movie. Almost 25% of the votes are 10, yet its rating is 5.8!!  No way. This is a genuine 7 or 8 or 9 or 10 film, depending on your personal likes and dislikes. I give it 8.In Love and War is based on the real experience of 18-yr-old Ernest Hemmingway who could not get into the regular Army because of a problem in one eye. However, he made it to Italy as a journalist, and actually was wounded near the front lines. He fell in love with his nurse and they vowed to marry after the war.Hemmingway is played by Chris O'Donnel, which is my only 'beef' with the casting. Although he does a fine job, we all know that Hemmingway was a more gruff person and it never seemed realistic.  Sandra Bullock plays the nurse and I liked her very much in this role.Anyway, when he gets sent back to the USA, she stays in Italy. She thinks she is in love with an Italian doctor and breaks off her pledge to Hemmingway.  He doesn't take it well, he smashes up things, goes into a drinking depression and is never the same. Even after the nurse returns to say she is sorry and still loves him. His pride kept him from forgiveness, and presumably was responsible for his suicide in his early 60s. Overall a fine film about young men and women and their roles in the war, and its aftermath. The photography is beautiful and the dialog unifirmly well-structured. "},{"Title":"Very Good Love Story","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a true account of one phase of American author Ernest Hemingway's life. It is set during World War 1 and Hemingway is a soldier on the Western Front. He falls in love with a nurse and a woman who is older than him. This would be a normal love story but when you know that it was a real life episode it is better. However, things don't work out well in the end. Life does not have happy endings always. Good movie if you want to feel sentimental "},{"Title":"The Reality of Love      Spoiler","Date":"9 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" In Love and War is an exquisite film that, as any major work, tends to bring both praise and criticism. It is not a grand a film like Schindler's List or The English Patient, nevertheless it remains as one of the greatest love films ever made, particularly because it tends to show the disappointment of this wonderful feeling in real life. After all it is based on a true story, the story of Hemingway's first (and arguably only) love.The film starts by showing a cocky and self-absorbed, 18 years-old, Ernest (Chris O'Donnell) who is more enthusiastic about being in the war as a soldier and not as a Red Cross volunteer, than actually realising the reality of the trenches. As a result he gets wounded the first time he approaches the front line, and the whole dream of fighting for the common good collapses for the protagonist. His misfortune, however, turns to his advantage. In the hospital he meets a stunning, 26 years old nurse, Agnes von Kurowsky (Sandra Bullock), an American Red Cross volunteer, who manages to save his wounded leg from amputation. The passion between the two seems inexistent at the beginning, and Ernie's declaration of love at first site sounds rather childish. Soon however, Ernie becomes The Kid, and Agnie the woman that loved him, though the script refuses to show the existence of too much chemistry between the two.After Ernie is sent home, Agnes decided that it was the Time to think with the head! and accepted a marriage proposal from Dr. Caracciolo (Emilio Bonucci). But, There was always someone else, and after an eight-month period Agnes returns to America.Broken-hearted, matured, and evasive, Ernie lets the time pass slowly beside him, lets the words of his beloved woman vanish into the stillness of the forest.The ending is a memorable one, incredibly moving, and real. Love, pure or manufactured, it is not always made to bring happiness to those who are trapped by it. "},{"Title":"Excellent film, but just one thing..","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is an amazing film with an ending that is so true to life... It deserves a 9/10 for portraying a side of reality which Hollywood rarely dares to show.One piece of criticism I have is that there is an implication at the end of the film that Hemingway suicided because of his failed relationship with Agnes. However, it is unlikely that this is the case. After writing brilliant pieces of literature, especially in the late 1920s, Hemingway's writing took a downward turn and he could no longer meet the high standards in the literature world that he, himself, had set. Depressed, he was often writing under the influence of alcohol in an attempt to 'enhance' his work. Nonetheless, these pieces were still unable to please his critics, and it was during this stage in his life that he committed suicide.For interest Ernest and Agnes occasionally wrote to each other afterwards, but one of Agnes' boyfriends burnt the letters that Ernest wrote to her, including the his reply to her letter breaking up their love relationship.  "},{"Title":"It is worth watching.","Date":"21 April 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Love in WarThis is a movie about war and some challenges that people face there. The events unfold in Intaly during World War I. Ernerst Hemingway, the main character, is a young man who serves as a reporter. War is always connected with risk, so one day Ernie appeared in the hospital. Here he mets his love, Agnes von Kurowsky. She is a beautiful and talented nurse who can't stay indifferent for this handsome and charming youth. I can not say that this movie became my favorite one, but I like it. This is a romantic story. However, «In Love and War» touches many issues that are actual even now days.There are a number of positive moments for me. As it was already mentioned, the problems appeared in the movie can be interested for many people. Such topics as friendship, love, bravery, betrayal and pride are reflected in the movie. And now a few words about the way the film was shot. I like the director's work. The movie contains many interesting foreshortening. There are a lot of scenes with nature and we can enjoy different landscapes. The choice of actors is good. The main character, Agnes von Kurowsky, is created by a brilliant actress, Sandra Bullock. She is so aristocratic and realistic in the film that I believe her for 100%. Besides, the ending of the movie is unexpected.Nevertheless, there are some negative moments either. The beginning of the movie is overextended and some scenes seem unnecessary. My strongest disappointment is in the fact that this movie does not cause any strong emotions. Of course, it makes you sympathize with the main characters but you are not immersed in the atmosphere entirely. As a result, the movie won't stay in memory for a long time.Despite of the boring beginning, the film is worth watching. It is a thought-provoking and touching love-story. Moreover, it is based on the real events. So we can get some details about Hemingway's life. If you want to create your own clear impression of this story, I would recommend you to read a book ''A Farewell to Arms'' at first. "},{"Title":"Tear Jerker","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have always thought of myself as a Sandra Bullock fan...How I missed this one I have NO IDEA! I finally saw this for the first time (yeah - I know the movies 8 years old) but I went through a whole box of Kleenex.Bottom line...I loved this movie... it spoke to the romantic in me...I haven't had a really good cry from a movie in a long time...I'm glad that I was able to see this and I can't wait to see if I can buy it.  "},{"Title":"An all-around great film!","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In Love and War is one of the greatest romance films ever. O'Donnell and Bullock shine in this sentimental melodrama about war and what it can do to love. O'Donnell is great as Hemingway and Bullock rocks as the nurse that falls for him. This movie is perfect for women and if you can get your hubbie to watch with you, well, that's good, too.  "},{"Title":"Unusual, but enjoyable","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Chris and Sandra are both wonderful even though the film moves rather slowly. An excellent glimpse of WWI and insight into Hemingway.  A good film for a rainy day.  "},{"Title":"To doubt love can make life so different","Date":"23 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When Agnes played by Sandra Bullock finally gives in to meet young Hemmingway before he is sent home at a run down brothel, Hemmingway says I wanted this to be the most beautiful place on earth She says, 'Just close your eyes. This is such an important thing that people overlook. When you have a love like that, you can be happy & in heaven in a run down room, and be in hell or just not happy in a Venitian mansion (the good Dr's house) or some other place that you think money will make you happy. The story gave me a good insight to Hemmingway. I once saw a play that took place at the end of his life drinking and miserable & maybe still trying to forget and wishing, when she returned to him, his pride had not stood in the way of their love.Sure the movie had some flaws but well worth watching.  "}{"Title":"This is one of the best movies made by Sandra Bullock.","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am a fan of Sandra Bullock, thinking she is one of the best actresses but receiving few parts to equal her potential. The story itself is based on the story behind Hemingway's, A Farewell to Arms.  This work would be of interest to anyone that has read the book and would like a little story behind the story. If for no other reason than to see Ms Bullock at her best, to appreciate the depth she can reach at her art, and to just enjoy a well written and acted movie I would recommend this for your collection. It's worth buying, you will want to see it again, later. I rated it a nine, I think the average is below six. I first saw it on the big screen and the VHS/DVD format does take away from the film. But, I have enjoyed watching it a few times and others that are familiar with A Farewell to Arms found the film to very moving. Also, it's a pleasure to see a film that is made for adults without being trashy. I never felt that I made a date uncomfortable showing it, and a lady always feels like a nice hug after a good tear jerker. "},{"Title":"So honestly true.","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've seen a few movies only that moved me like In Love And War. Probably due to my own life, I enjoyed this film as a moment of understanding - the young Ernest Hemingway who has hopelessly fallen in love with his nurse, Agnes von Kurowsky. Both actors (O' Donnell and Bullock) have proved their ability to do a great emotional show. Everything seems so true, so honest, so real. Anyone who has ever been desperately in love, doing things he/she shouldn't have done and takings risks that are obviously not worth taking them - those people do understand the meaning of love. And this movie shows love in war. And everything gets even more difficult for these two lovers who do not know how much surprises life will offer them... "},{"Title":"Not In Love With This.","Date":"23 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" In Love and War (1996) Dir Richard Attenborough / Cast Chris O'Donnell, Sandra Bullock, MacKenzie Astin, Ingrid Lacey, Alan Bennett Here is one of the stupider more manipulative war films that is more about somebody attempting to get into someone else's pants. Technically well made yet cheats viewers with its pathetic tearjerker ending. Chris O'Donnell stars as a soldier torn between the love of the nurse and the hate of the war around him. He is shot in the leg during World War 1 and spends the remainder of the film within a boring romance with a nurse until arriving at an ending that should grant every viewer their money back. Directed by Richard Attenborough with realistic yet graphic images of war. He previously made Gandhi and Chaplin so this is a major step down. O'Donnell and Sandra Bullock are hardly convicting because they are used to jerk viewers around with their romantic bullshit as oppose to address real issues regarding the war. In bland supporting roles are MacKenzie Astin and Ingrid Lacey who can only hope that this garbage isn't the end for them in terms of their careers. Had the film concentrated on conditions of victims, hospitals and effects of the war then it might have been convicting but it sidetracks that by turning the concept into romantic drivel in its peep show depravity. As it is it is more war than love. Score 3 / 10 "},{"Title":"A very moving, understated love story","Date":"13 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Based on the 1989 book Hemingway in Love and War by Henry S. Villard and James Nagel, this is an extremely effective and often very moving depiction of the teenage Ernest Hemingway's relationship with the 26-year-old nurse Agnes von Kurowsky in Italy during the latter stages of the First World War. They fell in love and were planning on getting married after the war ended but Agnes broke up with him as she thought that he was too young. The experience left an indelible mark on Hemingway and it directly inspired several of his works, most notably A Farewell to Arms. The film has a very strong script and it is extremely well and sensitively directed by Richard Attenborough, who was the obvious choice to handle this material. It bears some superficial similarities to his previous film Shadowlands in that it likewise concerns a famous author who has his first real experience of romantic love but then has to deal with the loss of that love, albeit in an extremely different way. It is not on the same level as that film, one of Attenborough's absolute best, but it nevertheless a very good film.Chris O'Donnell is very good as the 18/19-year-old Hemingway. He is depicted as a brash, arrogant, headstrong young man who joined the Red Cross in search of adventure. Considering that it was the War to End All Wars, he did not believe that he would get another chance to fight. However, the reality of the situation hits home when he receives a severe leg wound in the process of saving a young Italian soldier named Roberto, who dies shortly thereafter. He is taken to an American Red Cross-run hospital where he meets Agnes, who is played very well by Sandra Bullock, for the first time. Hemingway is immediately smitten but she maintains a polite disinterest for him for some time until she realises that she has fallen for him as well. The two of them have a very sweet, understated romance. Seven years is not much of an age difference in most adult relationships but it's a very big one when it is between 19 and 26. Hemingway is very brave and certainly very intelligent but he is still a teenager and occasionally does stupid things, most notably when he lies to his friend and rival Harry Villard and says, in her presence, that he and Agnes slept together. She slaps in the face - I'd have probably done the same thing in her position - but eventually forgives him.The main problem is that Agnes is a mature woman while Hemingway is very immature in many respects. He rushes headlong into their relationship and proposes marriage with only a vague and fairly unrealistic plan for their post-war life. Given that she accepts his proposal, she is initially swept away by the romance of the situation but she soon develops doubts about it. When Villard tells Agnes that she will be good for him as she can take care of him, she points out that this is what his mother is for. While Agnes is not quite as strong a character as I would have liked, O'Donnell and Bullock have great chemistry and many of their scenes together, particularly the last one, are very affecting. The supporting cast is very good, particularly Emilio Bonucci as Hemingway's more serious romantic rival Dr. Domenico Caracciolo, Mackenzie Astin as Villard and Ingrid Lacey as Elsie MacDonald.The film was aptly titled as it also explores the horror of war, something which Attenborough previously did, albeit more extensively and effectively, in Oh! What a Lovely War and his masterpiece A Bridge Too Far. This is best handled in the case of Hemingway's friend Jimmy McBride, who suffers horrific injuries to most of his body. He eventually loses the will to live and commits suicide as the pain is just too great. The discovery of his body is the most moving scene in the entire film. As far as I can tell, McBride is an entirely fictional character so it is possible that his fate was intended as a reference to Hemingway's own suicide in 1961. Hemingway shows a softer side as well as his writing ability when he dictates the perfect letter to McBride's parents, supposedly from their son. It was a very kind thing to do.I've read several of Hemingway's novels but I am certainly not an expert on either his body of work or his life. However, I learned from a New York Times article published to mark the film's release that it took some liberties. In reality, according to her Dear John letter, she came to realise that she was very fond of him as a son rather than a sweetheart whereas she truly loved him in the romantic sense in the film. Their relationship is consummated in the film but they probably never did so in real life and the article argues that they were probably both virgins when they returned to the United States. I'm of two minds as to whether it was a good decision to have them sleep together in the film. Finally, they never saw each other after Agnes sent him the Dear John letter but they have one final meeting in the film. While the two of them never seeing each other again would have been a more poignant ending, their last brief encounter is necessary given the way that the film is structured. At the end of the film, Hemingway is as most people would picture him bearded, brooding and drinking.Overall, this is an extremely strong film on the subject of first love, doomed love and the problems associated with notable age gaps in relationships. That said, it is more of a February-March relationship than a May-December one! The film's biggest problem is that it loses a little bit of its momentum in the last 20 to 25 minutes. "},{"Title":"Love in war and War in love","Date":"17 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Touching and sentimental movie about Love in war and War in love. It tells us the story about the relations of a young ambulance-driver, that, in fact, is considered to be one of the most prominent figures of the XXth century -Ernest Hemingway with a little-bit-older nurse, Agnes von Kurowsky, portrayed by a wonderful actress Sandra Bullock. The events take place during the First World War in Italy. Hemingway, being wounded, is sent to a military hospital. This is the place where they meet. She is his nurse who is devoted to her work and all the patients, as well as to the 'kid' as she calls Ernest. Though the characters didn't have a significant difference in age, this is a good example that tо love all ages yield surrender. It's a common thing when a man is older, however, when it's a woman The attention of the society arises and it can be difficult for a couple to become free from public opinion. But not in this case. What attracts you more is another thing. 'Is it true love?'- that question arose to my mind after watching this film. There is a saying that Forgiveness is the final form of love. So if we love we should learn how to forgive. It's not that easy. That's a real trial for people, kind of examination of feelings. So after watching this, if you are one of the thinkers, your mind will be probably filled with questions about love. What is love? What is true love? What's the difference between them? I don't think the answer for them will explain the situation occurred here. Because whatever the answer is, it is not universal. Life is not mathematics and you can't rationalize feelings. It's not for judging, it's for thinking.10 out of 10, would watch again. "},{"Title":"Is there any place for love during a war?","Date":"28 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" In spite of the fact that I don't like romances, once I had to watch the In love and war. However, after watching it I was pleasantly surprised. The movie not just answers the question in the title of my review, but shows us in detail how it really happens. From the very beginning you start to believe actors, emotions and feelings they express and of course the setting. The story starts when young reporter Ernest Hemingway (Chris O'Donnell) comes to an Italy town as a volunteer in period of World War I. Soon he is injured and transported to the hospital, where he meets Agnes (Sandra Bullock ), he instantly falls in love with her, but he is not her only admirer. Surrounded by a number of lovers and all atrocities of war, will Agnes respond Ernest in kind?The thing I like most is the way how the war is shown. Notwithstanding that there are little battle scenes and action always takes place in hospital, we can see all terrors of war from the backyard. You always sympathize with very young soldiers, who are in the hospital, especially those who are deadly injured.Even if you are not a fan of war films or romances, I advise you to watch the movie, just to broaden your horizons and not to forget what the war is. The love storyline is quite simple, the same thing can be said about characters, but there is something catching in this movie something that makes me think that one day I will watch it once again. 8/10 "},{"Title":"The incredible love story","Date":"27 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" The film In Love and War is full of emotions of its main characters. I really like such kind of films because of feelings during watching. As everyone knows all the events of that times are so hard and tense because of the World War I, but love has a great power. Despite on War this ate gave people the opportunity to make a very happy couple. The romance between Agness and Ernest erupts unexpectedly. And even such an independent person as Agnes that doesn't believe in love at first sight fall in love with the 18- year old boy. Actually, in the move they felt such a pure feelings to each other that makes us thinking about our habitual life. The plot of the story is deep and characterized by touching and sentimental features. Sandra Bullok in the role of Agness is so reserved, representative and unruly nurse that at first we may say that she doesn't interested in anything except her job, but when everything happens we can see that her heart is not so cold as it seems. Another main character Chris O'Donnel plays in the role of Enrest. In the movie, we can see that this 18- year old boy is an independent reporter that is also handsome, nice and confident in life. I should say that it's very impressive that such opposite people fall in love with each other. I think it help us to trust in something incredible. But even here everything can't be good. Dr. Caracciolo fell in love with a young Agness. To my mind, the only one disadvantage of this move is the absence of happy end. Such a beautiful love story does not have any good result and it made me disappointed. This film is worthy of viewing and I think it won't leave anyone indifferent. "},{"Title":"Prejudice spoils everything","Date":"26 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" The film In Love and War is based on true story of Earnest Hemmingway, who wanted to fight in World War I, but didn't manage to get into regular army because of poor eyesight. However he became a journalist and was lucky enough to be near the front lines. But there once, saving a wounded Italian soldier, he was wounded too. In the hospital he met 26 year old nurse Agnes von Kurowsky. She helped him to save his leg from amputation, and he fell in love with her.On the whole I liked the film. At first it seemed too slow and boring, but then I noticed that I watch it with interest. The final scene was very intense and moving, I could not help sympathizing with the main characters. Also seeing the work of nurses, doctors in the hospital, I could not but admire their courage, endurance, devotion to their job. It says a lot about a person.Although the film is not bad, there are some things I didn't like. The description of the battle, when Ernest was hurt seemed to me quite unrealistic. I have seen worse in the movies. Also the behavior of the main characters was sometimes stupid. For example, Agnes was worried too much about the age difference between Earnest and herself. It is ridiculous. People fall in love despite this and live happily. Also in my opinion Earnie is too stubborn and cocky, it causes them both a lot of trouble.I can say that acting of Sandra Bullok (Agnes) and Chris O'Donnell (Ernie) is absolutely amazing. They played their parts very convincingly, I believed them completely and it is one of the reasons why I liked the movie.If you are a fan of love stories and historical movies, this film is for you. But if you are not it is still worth watching. However don't expect a very happy ending, the events took place at the war time after all. I rate it 7/10. "},{"Title":"Almost 10 out of 10 when people crave naivety and innocence","Date":"22 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" The film gives us a colorful description of the war events mixed with the biography of a famous write Ernest Hemingway. Being young and brave, Ernest, an American reporter sent to Italy, wants to participate in battles and become a hero of his time, but he is not allowed to change his assignment. Suddenly he becomes a victim of a bomb attack and is taken to hospital. There, in hospital, he meets charming Agnes who is several years older, but this insignificant age gap cannon prevent them from falling in love with each other. The war is not the best time for a love affair, but the lovers do not lose their hope for their calm and bright future. So, thanks to the director and the cast for creating this feeling of hope for the better.When I watch any film, the first thing that draws my attention is the atmosphere created by many details that may seem meaningless separately, but, combined together, they give a clear picture of the narration and make you involved and sympathetic to the characters and people of that time on the whole. At the same time, it cannot be denied that everything in the film is depicted so idealistic and so gorgeous that the whole picture becomes a little bit unrealistic and some scenes &#x96; naive.Another thing is the state you are in when you are watching a film. Sometimes you need and crave such films to experience the same trials with the main characters, sympathize with them and simply cry being overflowed with emotions. As I was not in the mood to criticize the film, I just enjoyed it without going deep into the details.As for the cast, the director chose the best actors fitting the main roles &#x96; Chris O'Donnell and Sandra Bullock. They are beautiful and act well. I do not have much to say here.While watching the film, I had a strong desire to find a book the film based on just because I am more interested in reading books than in watching their screen versions. An interesting fact is that the film is based on the book Hemingway In Love and War (1989) by Henry S. Villard and James Nagel, but there is one more book - which was written by Hemingway himself &#x96; A Farewell to Arm (1929) depicting the exact story of love in another way. In the latter book you will find fictitious names and the events so developed and so changed that almost nothing of the plot seem to be the part of Hemingway's biography. Probably, as in many fictional books that have been written due to the influence of some circumstances of authors' lives, Hemingway turned the story another way round on purpose. Thus, if you are really interested in Hemingway and his literary career, it is necessary to pay attention to three sources to charge about the objectivity of the film the books mentioned above and Hemingway's biography.To sum it up, I really liked the film because I did not have an aim to search for imperfections, but I do not want to re-watch it again as I will start doing it subconsciously. Probably, it does not fit the structure, logic and filling of a review, but, at least, these are my honest opinion and thoughts I wanted to share.My rating is 9 out 10 (minus one for the idealistic representation). "},{"Title":"Modern Fairy-tale of a High Quality","Date":"22 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" The film is based on the book Hemingway in Love and War by Henry S. Villard and James Nagel. In the movie Hemingway's real-life experience in WWI is reflected, what gives zest to the film. The story opens up with the appearance of a young energetic and craving for adventures war correspondent Ernest Hemingway. During one of the battles he gets wounded and then is sent to the hospital, where he falls in love with Agnes, an American Red Cross nurse, who saved his leg from amputation. So, their relationship is becoming to develop.This romantic movie is rather of high quality. Good cast, very harmonious music, exceedingly picturesque setting (especially Venice), perfect cameraman's job. All this immerse you into another world and makes you believe that even hardships of war can't be an obstacle for true love.Despite of the fact that my general impression was positive after watching this movie, I wouldn't like to watch it one more time, as I usually do, when a film impressed me very much. This film reminds me of a good fairy-tale, which is far from reality. The heroes are so beautiful, the war is so clean, the setting is so romantic, everything is so, so, so&#x85; exaggerated. During watching the movie you just enjoy a good romantic story, you sympathize with the heroes, but you don't believe them.So, the movie is quite impressive and touching. I think, those, who like emotional romantic stories, would enjoy watching it but I don't advice it to those people, who expect to see a war movie. This film is more about love, not war. I would give this film 7 out of 10 points. "}{"Title":"Good war movie about love. An opinion from a war/love stories hater.","Date":"22 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" In love and War is a movie based on the book Hemingway in Love and War by Henry S. Villard and James Nagel that describes the events of young Hemingway's life during the war-time. Ernest Hemingway goes to war in Italy where he is accidentally shot and sent to a local hospital. There he falls in love with an American nurse. The movie depicts the first serious challenge for Hemingway &#x96; War and the first Love of a young boy who is known as one of the most prominent writers of all time. This will be captivating for anyone who loves war/love stories and those who don't know this part of Hemingway's life.First, this movie is worth watching because of the cast. Chris O'Donnell plays young Hemingway. Though this actor is not very famous, his acting is pretty impressive if consider, for example, the difference in the character in the beginning of the movie, when Ernest is a naive fearless 18-year old boy who is willing to make a contribution to this war by any cost and at the end of the movie, when Ernest is disappointed in love and life man. I think this work of a young actor is worthy of respect especially when your partner is an incredibly talented actress Sandra Bullock. She plays Agnes Von Kurowsky, an American nurse who falls in love with Ernest. Sandra Bullock is known mostly by her famous comedies as Miss Congeniality, Proposal, etc. But in this movie she is introduced as a brilliant drama actress who portrays Agnes as delicate and tender. Second, the director's work is first-rate. There is no moment when you get distracted from the plot because of bad director's cut. Also the music score is quite professional, because soundtracks do not distract from the movie events, but at the same time I can't say that some soundtrack stuck in my mind, so they're not outstanding.If compare this movie with other war movies, it stands out from the list because there is only one scene showing military actions, but the other part of the movie shows the life of wounded soldiers in the hospital. On the one hand that's a good thing because when Love is the main plot line, you don't expect to see firefights and dead soldiers, so it's certainly a plus. But on the other hand the life in the hospital is so merry so you actually forget that it's wartime.All in all it'a good melodrama for all-ages, even for children. They can learn new things about Love, War and young Hemingway. Except perhaps one scene&#x85;But parents may close their children's eyes. I can't say I'm delighted after watching this movie, but it's simply because I hate both melodramas and war movies. And all the negative things I noticed are the disadvantages of the book the movie is based on, so let's say the movie is the best it could be and I advise to watch it to everyone. It's 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Just OK","Date":"21 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" The events took place during the First World War period. By the way, this story is biographical and tells us a bit of a life of the famous literary figure of the 20th century - Ernest Hemingway. In 1918, 18-year-old Hemingway had volunteered to fight in the war and during an attack in Italy, his leg was wounded a lot and he was taken to the hospital where he was lucky or not to meet 26-year-old nurse, Agnes and to fall in love with her. But did she feel the same? Good and even more bad things can be said about this film. And the plot with the costumes are one of the strongest points of the picture. Although there are many similar works, this looks different. Probably the fact that this very story is based on real events makes me worrying about the main characters, and all depicted atrocities of the war also make their contribution into perception. Some episodes will settle in my mind, for example, when a little girl called a nurse Angel or the man committed suicide, or those first signs of the love. I think any person will definitely find something to think about after watching the film.Though, the plot is fine, the majority of the film you would feel bored. The cause of it is a long beginning along with the actors' play. Sandra Bullock played Agnes von Kurowsky and I really like her and have seen so many movies with her The Proposal, The Lake House, Miss Congeniality and the others. And in every film she was brilliant and bright and the one who made a great impression on me every time I saw her in the movies. But here she was plain and uninteresting. It seems that she tried to reserve her emotions and maybe she does not fit to this role. She looked sleepy and factitious. What about Chris O'Donnell as Ernest 'Ernie' Hemingway, he was not bad there, but not impressive and charismatic as I anticipated his character should have been. He was not energetic and sassy enough as he was trying to be and his playing just spoiled my impression on this film.To conclude all mentioned above I want to say that this was OK good because it was about the war and love and everything, but it was not impressive at all. "},{"Title":"One more love story...","Date":"21 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" The film by Richard Attenborough tells us the story of young reporter Ernerst Hemingway. As you could probably guess the film is based on a true story. Ernest Hemingway is an ambulance driver in Italy during World War I. Risking his life while saving one of the soldiers he is injured and ends up in the hospital, where he falls in love with his nurse, Agnes von Kurowsky. The film doesn't give rise to emotions. It is just a love story, one among many. However, there are some positive things. The most positive aspect of the film is acting. Chris O'Donnel and Sandra Bullock performed perfect. It is really exciting to watch how their relations develop from the point of view of their acting. They succeeded to materialize passion, emotions, feelings and love in particular. Mackenzie Astin who plays Henry Villard did his job very well. His character has a great charisma and it is always a pleasure to see him in shot. The only character who disappoints is the surgeon. He could be a nice antagonist but he happen to be just a plane supporting character. Music and sound are not memorable but still good. Now, we're smoothly moving to the negative things. The first problem of the film is story-line. The story-line in general is nice. But it could be more creative. There are little untypical for such a film things. The main character is rather irritating in his behavior. The problem is not in the actor but in the script. I liked the setting but scenery ruined it. They looked unnatural. I would mark three main characters Ernest Hemingway, Agnes von Kurowsky, Henry Villard. The characters are not memorable. There is nothing special about them. What about Hemingway's character, he is rather irritating. He is an arrogant, impudent, insolent kid who thinks that he is special or even chosen one. Agnes von Kurowsky, a nurse who can't make head or tail of her feelings. Henry Villard a person who behaves like brave soldier and young boy at the same time (especially beside Agnes). Just to sum up already mentioned I would say that it is not the worst film ever, but also it is not the best one as well. Just something average. If you are interested in love stories or in Hemingway you may give it a try. If not, don't waste your time and read the original book. "},{"Title":"The Boy Papa","Date":"24 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Leonard Maltin rates this a bomb in his review, but I didn't think it was so bad. It's definitely got a Mills & Boon feel to it, but then what would you expect from a wartime love story called In Love and War? And you know straight off that any film directed by Richard Attenborough is going to have an old-fashioned feel about it. I even quite liked Chris O'Donnell as the young Ernest Hemingway &#x96; young, dumb and full of something unmentionable, who falls for the nurse who fights to save his leg when the Italian doctor &#x96; who will become Hemingway's love rival &#x96; is intent on chopping it off. For me, O'Donnell has just the right mix of youthful macho posturing and roguish charm that the film calls for. Sandra Bullock looks perhaps a little too lovely as the nurse for whom Hemingway falls, even when she's covered in blood and dirt, but still gives a decent performance &#x96; and any star up for collecting their Razzie award in person always shoots way up in my estimation. The film also looks good. I liked it. "},{"Title":"In Love And War Agnes & Hemingway","Date":"14 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have always liked Sandra Bullock as an actress; I think she can play any part, any role and make you believe she is that person being portrayed. I believe she is one of the top 3 actresses in the USA, maybe even first. I also have always been intrigued by Ernest Hemingway and his tragic suicide. I've read a few of his books over the years. So when I saw this movie coming on Cable, I thought it might be interesting.Calling this a love story does not give it justice; to call it a war story also does not give justice; It is a Romantic Tragedy, one that, I'm sure, everyone who saw the film was hoping for Ernest to turn around and call out to Agnes at the end!!! I would have, in a split second, but Ernest's ego would not allow. How different his remaining life may have been had he just overcome his stubbornness.The old expression, Tis better to have loved and lost, than never to have loved at all. hardly seems to fit here; I believe both Agnes and Ernest suffered painfully all the remainder of their lives because of his decision to not turn around! How sorrowful for Agnes! "},{"Title":"Beautiful movie","Date":"25 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Excellently cast, poignant movie. Sandra Bullock as always shines and is given a part that lives up to her quality. Attenbrough directs with unfailing dignity and control.I know nothing of Hemingway except what this movie tells us. I've never read his work. This tender story of late-teen Hemingway in WW1 and the somewhat older nurse he falls in love with is wonderful viewing. You may wonder why she decides in the end not to marry him, but I suggest it is because he is still so very young and she's afraid he will grow bored with her after a few years. After a war, so many men have died, and there are so many surplus women vying for the attention of the men who are left. I would assume the Agnes was uncertain that she could hold him, or uncertain that he could hold her. In any case, she's rightly tempted by the doctor's offer to help run his new hospital, though I can't say I'd have thought that would make a good personal marriage as well so thank goodness it didn't really happen. Apparently, the real Ernest and Agnes did not meet again after the war although there was a little correspondence, but the movie shows Agnes visiting Ernest and finally telling him to his face that she loves him and clearly hoping the relationship will recommence. Unfortunately there has to be a reason why in the movie it can't since in real life it didn't, so Ernest is shown in a childish rage and she has to walk away, humiliated and despairing, never to see him again but saying, I love you. I will love you for the rest of my life... whilst he's left weeping - out of her sight. Now just suppose if she'd turned back..... I can't say I thought it would be wise for this relationship to continue - Ernest's rage is too intense, it wouldn't bode well for a marriage. He was either too immature or in some other way unsuitable to become her husband and she had been mistaken to be tempted to go back to him, so I would suggest, in the context of the movie, she had a very lucky escape. What she will think, after a while, is Well, I've seen him. I was right the first time. It wouldn't work. This gives me closure. And she'll move on.This scene is so beautifully handled by the actors that it saddens me to have to object strongly to it being included and that's why I drop my rating from 10 to 9. In all other ways but this one unfortunate scene, this movie is a 10-star.Of course, it suits a movie maker to leave the ending bitter and hurtful to both of them, a ghastly final meeting when they are both despairing even though it's clear a reunion would have been more likely, or at least a relationship for a while, seeing they both actually seemed to want it. How frustrating this kind of scene is once you've got over the tear-jerking reaction, typical irritating aspect of movie making trying to extract every last emotion, not all that realistic sometimes.So then I looked on the internet for information re the real people. I see Agnes wrote to him explaining she had firmly decided he was too young for her and the marriage would be a mistake. That's how this movie should have ended - Bullock writing this letter and Ernest perhaps slinging it into the lake, but then rescuing it and putting it somewhere safe. And then an indication that they corresponded a little more for a while. A gentle, realistic ending that didn't humiliate either real person. But please, still go and see the movie as it's otherwise completely wonderful and if you can forget the real people you may love the finale as well. "},{"Title":"Hemingway's First Love All Wrong","Date":"4 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Chris O'Donnell and Sandra Bullock star in Richard Attenborough's story of Hemingway's first love with Agnes Kurowsky, the red cross nurse. It's near the end of World War I and the young Hemingway finds love with an older red cross nurse behind the trenches after he's injured helping an infantryman to safety. This must be the Hallmark greeting card version of the story because the scenery is great, the period authentic, the dialog sentimental and proper, and the chemistry between the leads completely absent. O'Donnell has absolutely no zest to foreshadow the larger than life figure the famous Hemingway was.Maybe that was part of the point Attenborough was making with the film the romance was more of a young man's fancy than reality. This was a film made in retrospect after the discovery of Kurowsky's love letters with the young Hemingway, and it stands to reason the truth was softened somewhat to make for a romanticized story. Some viewers will question the notion implied by the epilogue of how this episode influenced the elder Hemingway. He later wrote A Farewell To Arms, which of course he based on this same episode of his life. That film, at least the older version from the thirties, is far more satisfying than what viewers will see here. This appears to have been made strictly for the Lifetime network crowd. ** of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"A epic about the love that stays with us forever.","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I started to watch this movie one lonely sunday night. It happened to be the same night of the golden globes. For the first bit i was not really into it but suddenly it really caught my attention. Chris O Donnnell was amazing and he could not of been amazing if it wasn't for Sandra Bullock. I cried so hard at the end when  they parted forever. I was so sure that he was going to take her in his arms forever because when she said i will love you to the day you die you knew she meant it. I would like everyone to see this movie and find their  hearts again. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched the movie about 2 weeks ago, and I loved it. It was very touching and it reached the bottom of my heart. I could almost feel the pain of the soldiers and their family. I think that both Sandra Bullock and Chris O'Donell are excellent actors and I hope there are more movies like this in the future. "},{"Title":"In love and war is great!","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't know why very few people like In love and war, because I think it's a great movie! I've got the movie, the poster and the CD, and I love it.The reviews on this movie are bad and I hate that! I've given this movie a ten and I think its worth it! The story is real and very sad, the players play fantastic etc. Excuse my English, I'm Dutch! "}{"Title":"Pace?","Date":"11 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I am a Hemmingway fan. I like Sandra Bullock, was very impressed with the cinematography. Production values are very high. Attenborough is a load of Emperor's clothes. I was interested to watch this film but it was --so--very--slow. Like many films and television programmes it seems to be made on the economic film principle, where, having got the cast and crew to a location/set the l-o-n-g-e-r the screen time that can be dragged out there, the cheaper the 'per minute' cost of the whole film. Whereas a single shot used to average about 3 seconds we now get 3 seconds establishing the characters in a place, a slow two shot sequence of slow moody conversation with pregnant pauses (nine months!?) and eventually one character leaves while the other pulls faces to the music, sometimes for as long as another 11 seconds.Having established the hospital we do not need to keep seeing it or people walking about it without advancing the plot.The ironic thing with this film is that Hemmingway wrote like John Ford directed. Ford started the camera and the actor on the mark and put his fist over the lens as he shouted 'cut'. One take and no way for the studio to drag out the editing. Casablanca takes place 90% in a café'e, slow? No. Curtiz did not need 600 horses to get pace. "},{"Title":"The Real Hemingway","Date":"14 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Agnes Von Kurowsky denied up to her dying day that she and Ernie had a sexual relationship. Considering his reputation for exaggeration and out and out lying I'll take her word. In his earlier years he was a brilliant writer before alcohol abuse and depression did him in. He was also a liar, braggart, bully, racist, anti-Semite,misogynist and an easy rider who lived off the trust funds of his first two wives, Hadley and Pauline. If he was so Macho and eager for Combat then I guess he would have joined the American Army and volunteered for infantry duty in France instead of driving an ambulance in Italy and being wounded accidentally taking cigarettes and candy to real soldiers on the front lines. "},{"Title":"I enjoyed watching it.","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead *Avoid At All CostsSince it came out to rent on video in August '97,I've always been trying to find an opportunity to watch In Love And War,a Richard Attenborough film starring the beautiful Sandra Bullock and the rather fading Chris O' Donnell.I've heard the movie be rather bad mouthed by most people who have seen it.One things for sure,the battle scene at the beginning was pathetic.I've seen more frightening brutality in a My Little Pony video.I think perhaps having seen the no holds barred horror/gore of Saving Private Ryan,anything I saw was going to have trouble matching up to the expectations of that.But this was exceptionally unspectacular and laughable.As I've said before,Sandra Bullock looked like a Godess in her nurses uniform and with her hair down.Her appearance and her performance were two of the main saving graces of this rather shabby picture.The story was quite involvingly told,though,and,although quite flawed,I enjoyed watching thispic as a break from the norm.See.*** "},{"Title":"When love turns to war","Date":"11 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Richard Attenborough's In love and War is beautifully made, with an intriguing story, believable characters, and authentic locations.It's also a fascinating movie for anyone interested in the real story behind Ernest Hemingway's novel A Farewell to Arms, and the films made from it, as well as the Nick Adams stories, which were filmed as Hemingway's Adventures of a Young Man. It depicts a pivotal experience that helped shape Hemingway into the writer now hailed as the greatest of his generation.Ernest Hemingway, played by Chris O'Donnell, is a volunteer ambulance driver with the Italian Army facing the Austrians in Northern Italy during WW1. When he is badly wounded, he is sent to an American hospital in Milan. It is here that he meets Agnes von Kurowsky &#x96; an American nurse with a Teutonic name. Before long, he is hopelessly in love with her. He is ardent but she is less so, although he slowly wears her down. They have an affair and Hemingway expects to marry her when they return to America.Although Hemingway goes home, Agnes stays, eventually informing Ernest that they are finished romantically. Hemingway is crushed and embittered, so much so, that when Agnes comes to see him back in America, he drives her away although she professes her love for him.The last scene in the movie is a powerful one, although, as a number of reviewers have noted, it didn't happen; Ernest never saw Agnes again after he left Italy, but he certainly was crushed and embittered.Some researchers claim their affair was never consummated. Agnes said as much in a letter to one of the co-authors of the book upon which In Love and War is based when she stated, I wasn't that kind of girl. However, other witnesses claim that it was an affair in every sense of the word. Whatever the depth of the affair, I can't help feeling that the filmmakers should have found a way to end it the way it really happened &#x96; but I guess the thought of that final meeting was just too tempting.In reality, Agnes sent a letter citing the age difference as the main factor; she was 7 years older and often referred to Hemingway as 'Kid'; he carried the pain of this rejection throughout his life. One astute observer felt that it explained why Hemingway was always the first to break off his marriages, relationships and friendships &#x96; on the principal of get them before they get you.Sandra Bullock's restrained performance is perfect &#x96; casting a beautiful Hollywood star in the role does not exaggerate Agnes von Kurowsky's charms &#x96; judging from photographs of her online, she was indeed beautiful. Chris O'Donnell is also fine as the brash, over-confident Hemingway whose inexperience with women shows.The film also brings to life an obscure piece of history. Before America's entry into WW1, many American men and women volunteered to be nurses or ambulance drivers in France and Italy. They saw the carnage of war first-hand. In a scene in Hemingway's Adventures of a Young Man, inspired by Hemingway's experiences depicted in In Love and War, Nick Adam's physician father says to his son after he has naively volunteered to be an ambulance driver, Do you know what war is Nick? In a surgeon's tent, that's where you find out about war. In Love and War honours the altruistic and adventurous spirit of those men and women, and the price many of them paid &#x96; including a shattered leg and a broken heart from Hemingway himself. "},{"Title":"Pleasant and interesting true story","Date":"9 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I thought the acting was perfect and the story very true. As I watched this film I googled Ernest Hemingway and read what I was actually seeing on the screen. To capsule this mans life in a little under two hours is almost impossible-but I liked the way we were able to see the early life of this great writer. Sandra Bullock always in top form as an actress gives a sweet performance as Agnes and Chris O'Donnell was a good catch for the young Hemingway-if you look at his early photos you will see that he was not as gruff as in his older years. A bit more sensitive and caring than his older years. Might be a bit slow for some but the war moments were very real and the scenery of Italy was stunning! "},{"Title":"an amazing film","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i'm personally getting tired of all these rotten reviews for this movie. this film really touched me and it made me develop an interest in ernest hemingway's life.'in love and war' was such a spectacular film...not because of its great writing or directing, but because of the fact that it is a true story. i think that because it was a real-life occurrence, it affected the audience more than just a scripted, fiction film. the audience can't help but get emotional over what happens in the film...you can't help but wonder what would've happened if ernie had just forgiven agnes. because deep down, you know he loved her, but he had to live with that pain for the rest of his life...before he took his own life.the acting on both the parts of Chris O'Donnell and Sandra Bullock were incredible and they truly made this movie so spectacular. "},{"Title":"Somewhat effective war-time romance...","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  1st watched 2/13/2002 - 6 out of 10(Dir-Richard Attenborough) ** SOME SPOILERS ** Somewhat effective war-time romance based on the true story of young Ernest Hemingway seeking affection from a young nurse played by Sandra Bullock. This movie is played out well by the two stars(Bullock and Chris O'Donnell) despite some very abrupt story changes late in the movie.  It's hard to fault the Director(Richard Attenborough)  in holding onto the truth of this story by giving us(the moviegoing public) a less than perfect ending although were hoping that these likeable stars will make it out in the end(by the way - they don't).  In real life, Hemingway doesn't make it very far in his life after this event(not getting the girl).  This true life story was the inspiration for his pulitzer prize winning novel 'A Farewell to Arms.'   He killed himself shortly after the success of this novel.  The moviemakers tried to show Hemingway's depression that lead to this but it was not done very convincingly.  All in all, the movie itself, was a fairly well-done Attenborough-like tale which actually probably was too short and too quick to end. "},{"Title":"In War they found each other... In each other they found love.","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I rented this a few days ago because it has Sandra Bullock in it. I thought it was going to be a nice happy romance. But I guess I was wrong, I didn't read the back. I still liked it, don't get me wrong. I thought Sandra Bullock said she wouldn't do movies where she had to be naked. She wasn't really naked in this, but her backside was shown bare. I liked it anyway, and I cried hard at the end. I rate it 7/10. "},{"Title":"The Master of Biopics.","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Nobody does movie biopics as well as Richard Attenborough, as this is further proof of that fact.Sandra Bullock is superb, and though Chris O'Donnell's performance early on is quite bland, the later scenes back in the States show an depth to the character, and a maturity to his acting.The film chooses to avoid the debates on the horrors of war, and mostly any scenes of the kind, instead prefering to focus on the romance between Hemingway and Agnes von Kurowsky, which is deals with touchingly without being over sentimental, while always keeping the threat of the war in the back of your mind.Attenborough has certainly done better biopics, anyone who has seen Chaplin or Ghandi will agree with that, but as an average biopic from Attenborough is a good biopic to anyone else, this is still an excellent and touching movie. "},{"Title":"Fantastic movie!","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I rented this yesterday, as I desperately perused the local movie store, not knowing what to rent and not having a clue as to which movies were worth watching. Well, after getting sick of the slapstick humor front-covers of the comedy section, I went to the drama section. I saw Hope Floats, starring Sandra Bullock and Harry Connick, Jr., and thought Yeah, Sandra Bullock is great. Maybe I'll get this. I did a 180, then saw In Love and War, with an even-prettier Sandra Bullock and way-hot Chris O'Donnell. I had heard of Chris O'Donnell's fame, and was interested. I saw it and surprisingly, I loved it! No, not just loved it...LOVED it. I didn't even expect to love it that much. Chris O'Donnell, with his boyish good looks, flashy charm, and cocky humor, is perfect for this role. In the beginning, he looks like a kid, but as the film progresses, you can see that he has become who he is, and has matured into a wonderful, passionate man. Sandra Bullock sparkles in this role. She plays the reluctant nurse/passionate lover roles very well. She has a stunning, natural beauty that reflects her characters, and displays emotion beautifully.The movie itself is wonderful. In my opinion, though, the beginning battle scene was just pathetic. It lacked intensity, emotion, and just about everything you'd expect from a war scene. But the rest of the movie really makes up for the caricature-of-a-battle-sequence. The movie is, as you come to find out, about love and fate. The setting, in Italy and Venice, is gorgeous. The lines eschew the cheesy, corny sentiments of teen movies and old age dramas, and is refreshing, touching, and emotional without adding cliches. The movie starts out slow, but seductively sucks you in. You root for Ernest and Agnes throughout the movie.This movie is so worth watching. I recommend it to everyone. )  "}{"Title":"Offensively superficial","Date":"7 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" If it hadn't been about Ernest Hemingway the move would have been a mediocre, quickly digested and forgotten romance. If you know anything about Hemingway the movie is basically unwatchable. Chris O'Donnel's Hemingway is nothing but your stereotypical, one dimensional kid goes off to war type and seems to bear no relation to Hemingway himself. Sandra Bullock manages to bring a little depth to her character which I am guessing was dead on the page. She earned a little respect from me in that regard.If you want to watch this movie because you are interested in the subject matter, for the love of God skip it. If you just want to watch a mindless romance and you've chosen this one because it's the most available to you at the moment, go ahead I guess, just don't feel like you've learned something from it. "},{"Title":"Ernest Hemingway meets a nurse during WW1","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film was based on the love affair between Ernest Hemingway and the nurse he met after being wounded in action during WW1. I doubt that it was very factual, but still remained entertaining. Their relationship was doomed from the start because of Hemingway's rotten attitude. If the man was like this in his real life, I would imagine all his relationships with women failed. He was a boozing, spoiled little rich boy.   "},{"Title":"This film is the cure for insomnia","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw In Love and War a couple of years ago in my senior year of high school in English class. We had just finished reading All Quiet on the Western Front and our teacher decided to show us this movie. This movie is probably the most boring film I've ever had to sit through. Chris O'Donnell and Sandra Bullock both look great, as does the scenery, but even they couldn't stop me from falling asleep on my desk top in class. There is no spark between the two and for an Attenborough film, the direction seemed awfully stiff and plodding. The film seems like it goes on forever. I feel bad because I really like Sandra Bullock, who was absolutely wonderful in While You Were Sleeping. I don't think she's made a good movie since then!Avoid this one at all costs, unless you want a sure fire cure for insomnia! "},{"Title":"NOT GOOD","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was a disgrace to Hemingway's life. It dragged on and on. The war, which was a huge part of Hemingway's life and a major aspect of his writings, was addressed very little in this movie. The love aspect of it was the most horrific of all. Their love was shallow and wasn't developed at all. I think after the first day he told her that he loved her. All they were to each other was a booty call. It was really depressing. And his reasons for not forgiving her didn't even make sense. I hated this movie and I suggest anyone who is about to watch to throw the tape into a blazing fire and never speak of it again. "},{"Title":"Nonsense in the Trivia","Date":"12 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Trivia. Attenborough had wanted Julia Roberts to play the female lead at one time but by the time the film was made she had become too old for the part.Sandra Bullock (*1964) who is the actual female lead is older that Julia Roberst (*1967). Sandra Bullock (*1964) who is the actual female lead is older that Julia Roberst (*1967). Sandra Bullock (*1964) who is the actual female lead is older that Julia Roberst (*1967). Sandra Bullock (*1964) who is the actual female lead is older that Julia Roberst (*1967). Sandra Bullock (*1964) who is the actual female lead is older that Julia Roberst (*1967). Sandra Bullock (*1964) who is the actual female lead is older that Julia Roberst (*1967). "},{"Title":"In Love and War","Date":"20 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" From Lord Sir Richard Attenborough directing, I thought Cry Freedom was better, but this is okay in some ways. It tells the story of Ernest 'Ernie' Hemingway (Chris O'Donnell), the young soldier who volunteered to fight in the front line during World War I. Unfortunately, while rescuing another soldier, and escaping, he was shot in the leg, and his friend who see later was covered in injury. Agnes 'Aggie/Ag' Von Kurowsky (Sandra Bullock) is the nurse who tries to help him without having his leg cutoff, because of gangrene. During treatment and time in the hospital Ernie forms a close friendship with Aggie, and soon it becomes a question as to whether they are in love. They get the chance to get together before Ernie leaves for a mission, but after, she dumps him for another man. Later, she realises it was a mistake, but Ernie can't forgive her, and they never see each other again after a final chat. Okay! "},{"Title":"Acceptable coupling makes a barely acceptable viewing","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Bearing in mind that `In Love and War' is just not in the same league as that gigantic masterpiece `Gandhi' (1982) (qv), we can accept that his directing of this film is adequate. The film is not overly romantic and does not dwell too heavily on secondary matters.Evidently here Chris O'Donnell enjoys a better coupling with Sandra Bullock than he does with Drew Barrymore in the recently seen `Mad Love' (1995) (qv). The chemistry between O'Donnell and Bullock seems to work here better, and thus makes this film just about acceptable viewing.Based on Ernest Hemingway's experiences in Italy in World War I (see also `A Farewell to Arms') but here adapted with contributions by Henry Villard to whom the film is dedicated `in memoriam', one cannot help thinking that even an eighteen-year-old Hemingway was somewhat different in character to how he is portrayed here. Hemingway was an insufferable egoist, very macho, and largely unable to come to terms with himself, and so his honesty and sincerity simply vanished into a cloud of drink-laden macho expostulations. He never became a great writer. The only time we get close to anything authentic is in his short novel `The Snows of Kilimanjaro', where, using his experience of having had gangrene, he was able to tell a story which shed the veneer of bravura which Hemingway generally carried around with him as part of his well-travelled suitcase luggage. If you are into bullfighting, obviously his book `Death in the Afternoon' is obligatory reference, however dated it may be by now.Oh, by the way, parts of this film were shot in Veneto, and thus in a few places where that great TV series of 1982 `Verdi' was also made.  "},{"Title":"boring","Date":"29 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is the worst piece of garbage put on film.Everyone involved should be emabarrased.A total disaster from start to finish.Chris O'Donnell is a horrible actor.Sandra Bullock, who can be good, is totally miscast here.At last the truth has been revealed that Richard Attenborough is a hack, who made one decent film, Ghandi.All of his other films have been mediocre at best.What a mess.Horrible. "}]