[{"Title":"Story of my life!","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  As the child of a single parent who is deaf, Beyond Silence is, in most aspects, a very true portrait of how I grew up. Scenes such as going to the bank and talking to the teacher were my actual experiences and difficulties I have faced all the time. It was just so real I couldn't help getting emotional as the story went on. For those who live or work with deaf or hard-of-hearing people, this is a must see; for those who don't, you should definitely see it as well and cherish your good sense of hearing -- being able to communicate easily is not a gift for everyone as most people take for granted. "},{"Title":"One reason,why the german film is still alive!","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  German films are like a tombola.You pull a lottery ticket and mostly its waste money. But sometimes you have luck and your ticket is the jackpot. Caroline Link,the director,from Bad Nauheim,my home town,is with Tom Tykwer and Hans-Christian Schmid the only hope for the german film. It was her first film for the cinema and then it was nominated for the golden globe. Its a wonderful film. You can love,hate,dream,cry and laugh. The protagonists are all very believeable. Mrs.Link doesn t need any special effects or optical drumbaborium to tell her story. One newspaper wrote,as good as candle-light,and thats the perfect description of the film. And I want to add,as soft as snow-flakes. "},{"Title":"Jenseits der Stille.","Date":"2 June 2007","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" I was lucky enough to get to see this movie in a German lesson in school. Basically right from the start I was caught up in it and knew, that this would be something different. The mood of the movie simply progressed with ease and gentleness, and at the same time hurled you into a world many never would have thought of. The world of a normal young girl, who has to go through an unusual dilemma, because both of her parents are deaf, and at the same time face the difficulties of life, experiencing her own true self. Finding herself turns out to be one of the real challenges in her life, because she has to separate herself from her parents and walk down her own path, without turning her back on them. She wants to be a musician, an idea which her father does not understand or support. Becoming a musician, despite the fact that her parents are deaf, gives a very clear and pure image, of how children tend to disobey their parents and create their own identity. The movie ends without really wrapping up every lose end, but it does not spoil it. Nonetheless it gives the movie the perfect ending, in which everything that really matters, works out. The idea of the movie and the very story has, as I have mentioned, a very deep and original plot, but this movies has more to it than this. Great acting (especially from the father), great music and is overall greatly directed and written. Good movie with many details. 7/10 "},{"Title":"a beautiful, thoughtful movie","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  when you totally give in to a movie, let down your guards, and are completely absorbed in the life of the characters, this is a good movie. i do not have deaf parents, i have a daughter (and the father daughter relationship was very touching for me, personally)but i just surrendered and thoroughly enjoyed the experience. i'd like to take this opportunity to thank my video store for having a foreign film library. i couldn't help but think of two things while watching this movie; 1.(and apparently many of you were thinking the same)is sign language the same in all countries? and don't laugh, 2.  how this film compared to flashdance(bear with me)...and how it is obvious how flashdance was such a good idea on paper, but the translation to film was a complete failure.  well..not complete, i liked it for one sit down. i will watch jenseits der stille again, as i do most subtitled films and enjoy it again. thank you ms. link, the cast and especially tatjana trieb and sylvie testud. you touched me. "},{"Title":"Unusual subject, beautiful movie","Date":"16 December 1999","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  One person asked whether German Sign Language is the same as American Sign Language, and, knowing just a bit of ASL, I can tell you that it appears to be the same. (French SL is almost identical, and I presume it's similar throughout the western countries.)As for the movie, it's one of the best I've seen. Two things I especially liked about it 1. The story is totally individual, and it isn't part of any genre -- it's just a real-people story. (I remember thinking this about Fearless as well.) 2. The story is so well written around the main character, Lara -- she herself has many facets to her personality, but no other character sees all of them. Each person understands and evokes only one side of her. This creates conflicts within the character, which the actresses do a great job of expressing.What a terrific movie. "},{"Title":"the continuing saga of Germany's interesting movies","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Young Lara is in a most unusual situation her parents are both deaf-mute, so she has to communicate for both of them. It's sort of a constraining situation, and when a relative gives Lara the chance to become a musician, her parents try to keep her at home. She will have to choose.The idea of the daughter having to speak for her parents is not something that I ever would have thought about, but Jenseits der Stille (called Beyond Silence in English) made me think about it. It's always good to be able to see such intellectual stories, especially when Hollywood makes so many pointless blow-'em-up movies. "},{"Title":"Great Piece of Art","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I think this is a GREAT film, and a wonderful piece of artwork. A very touching story between Lara and her parents. By the end I was weeping I was so touched ( and I don't cry easily at movies ). The Deaf culture is one very few of us take time to understand, but I think through films we can at least try. I HIGHLY recommend this film to anyone who is interested in Deaf culture, or just a great foreign film. "},{"Title":"Sign languages around the world","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Contrary to previous comments, sign language is NOT the same around the world. It is true that American Sign Language and French Sign Language are quite similar; this is because one of the first teachers of the deaf in the United States was a Frenchman, Laurent Clerc. However, at the the present time, French and American Sign Languages only have about 50% lexical similarity. Additionally, although German Sign Language is somewhat similar to other European sign languages, it is not related to ASL at all.The sign language used by the little girl in this movie is German Sign Language. Her father is played by an American deaf man and her mother is played by a French deaf woman; their signing in German Sign Language is understandably accented.For the record, I am a certified interpreter in American Sign Language. "},{"Title":"A warm, sincere look at a musical prodigy's struggle with her parent's handicap","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Beyond Silence is a tender look at the rift which develops between a young girl and her deaf parents as she and her interest in the clarinet grow. The film delivers it's story with a soft touch, avoiding extremes while maintaining an earnest sense of legitimacy. Excepting a few minor glitches, the film is technically and artistically well done, the acting good, the directing superb, and the story warm and thoughtful. A worthwhile watch. "},{"Title":"Captivating and Special!","Date":"28 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" I am a high school German teacher and my kids absolutely love watching this movie! They always ask to watch it over and over when I can't be there and they have to have a sub.I have learned some A.S.L. and can say that there are similarities but A.S.L. and German Sign Language are definitely different! I can appreciate the struggles Lara goes through and she does a good job, for her, at trying to balance in all 3 worlds. Deaf, Hearing and Music. It's only when outside factors cause tension that spill over into one or more of her worlds that she has trouble coping! There is that one sad moment in the film that gets me every time, something I can relate to but, overall, the entire film is captivating and leaves you wanting to know what happens with Lara, her career and her relationship with her family and Tom afterward! I'll never tire of this film! "}{"Title":"a heart-warming piece","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I think this is a very neatly made movie. Although the focus of the movie itself is on Lara, the audience is also able to get to know each character's personality (e.g. Lara's parents, and her aunt and uncle). I personally found the reconciliation scene of Lara's Father and his sister very touching (though a bit too quick).This movie encourages people to go and search for their own ideals and ambitions, and at the same time let them know that despite every kind of fame and riches in the world, nothing can be more important and precious than the love from your own family. Very touching indeed.The music used in this movie is breath-taking as well. Alas that it doesn't have a soundtrack (or does it?). "},{"Title":"a wonderful movie!","Date":"23 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  i first saw this movie over 5 years ago when i was working at walt Disney world. after i first saw it i walked out of the theater in wonder... and the comments that i heard from others that saw it - they thought that it was just as good as i did!coming from a background in Deaf education i can tell you that German sign language and asl are not the same. they are similar however... enough for me to know most of what was being said after watching the movie for a while.i lived at a deaf school for a year and so to see the relationships between lara and her parents... well, let me tell you that was done quite nicely. and i just love the scene with tom and lara and the song 'i will survive'!! it made me laugh so hard!!!for a while after i saw the movie i looked to buy it. i could not find it anywhere for quite some time. i finally found it available online and bought it on VHS. yes, there is a soundtrack, as i have that as well.  "},{"Title":"An excellent film.","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Jenseits der Stille (Beyond Silence) is an excellent film.  I wish I had seen (or heard about) this film years ago!  I am a big fan of German cinema and have worked closely with the Deaf community in Canada.  The performances were outstanding and the story realistic.  I hope to see more works by these actors, the writer and director.Chad "},{"Title":"Realistic look at life with deaf parents...","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I recently rented the movie, Beyond the Silence, and I thoroughly enjoyed it.As a sign language interpreter, I have read many books about CODA's (Children of Deaf Adults).  I think that Beyond the Silence does a pretty good job of showing the difficulty and extra responsibilities that a child with deaf parents experiences.If you enjoyed this movie, I would suggest reading the book At a Loss for Words.  It's a very touching story about a girl growing up with deaf parents and coming to terms with her feeling of guilt and anger and also love for them.I'm not trying to be preachy, but PLEASE don't call deaf people mute.  That term is negative and out-of-date.  "},{"Title":"compelling portrait of a handicap family","Date":"12 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Lara grew up with two deaf parents. She translates for her parents and also shows her rebellious side against her father. Her clarinet playing aunt interests her in the clarinet with which she becomes successful. It's a success that her parents cannot share. The separation between child and parents grows which is exacerbated by the conflict between the aunt and the father. The aunt is also hiding a secret from the family.It's a complex movie about a family dealing with handicap. The compelling part is that the father is no saint. The parents' handicap has real consequences. The misunderstandings are real. The girl is not simply a brat. There are several sides to the same story. It's all handled with care. The girl's deliberate mistranslations are hilarious. She's cute and quite charismatic. The girl becomes a young woman midway in the movie. The aunt adds another layer to the story. It's a family that feels real. "},{"Title":"Good to watch and to listen to","Date":"13 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Jenseits der Stille is an almost 20-year-old German movie by Caroline Link. This film here scored an Academy Award nomination, but lost to the Dutch entry. However, 5 years later Link triumphed (Nirgendwo in Afrika) and she was pretty young back then as in 2015 she is 50 years old. The story here is simply. A girl has deaf parents and helps them with coping in everyday life as good as she can, but her ability to hear makes her long for a more meaningful life. She becomes a musician and longs for the support of her family, especially her dad's, but he cannot really accept and appreciate what his daughter does as he cannot hear it. He says in one scene that he would actually have preferred her to be deaf as well.During these roughly 105 minutes, we also meet some other family members and watch how the protagonist has to deal with the loss of a beloved person. The first 40 minutes or so are about the central character's life as a child and how she gets into playing the clarinet. The transformation from girl to woman (if you can say that) happens during a concert as there is a time jump of roughly 10 years. Sylvie Testud takes over at this point. She won a German Film Award for her performance here. If you have seen Marion Cotillard's Oscar winning turn in La môme, you will have come across Testud there as well. That is possibly her most famous movie.Anyway, I have to say I enjoyed this film and there is really not much wrong with it. I especially enjoyed the first 45 minutes because the child actress Tatjana Trieb is very good and the writing is excellent there as well when we get to watch how she constantly interprets between her parents and everybody else or helps her mother in watching old romance movies. I did like the ending from an emotional perspective, but the reunion between her and her dad could have been even more effective if they had taken a more subtle approach. Even I was thinking that she finally needs to play during the audition instead of constantly talking to her father and ignoring the professors. There is a very successful French movie named La famille Bélier out right now and there are really quite a few parallels between these two films. If you saw this new film, give the old one Jenseits der Stille a chance as well. You will most likely not be disappointed. Also it has excellent music. Recommended. "},{"Title":"A wonderful chance to look into a world you seldom see mentioned in film or on TV","Date":"4 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Beyond Silence is a film co-written and directed by Caroline Link--the same lady responsible for Nowhere Out of Africa--a film that won the Best Foreign Language Oscar a few years ago. The story is about a teen who loves music and wishes to go to a music college. Yet, oddly, her parents are deaf and cannot really enjoy her music--nor do they really understand why this is important to her. The main themes then are understanding and acceptance.I have a rather unique perspective on Beyond Silence and so how I judge it maybe very different from the average viewer. My daughter is deaf and my wife and I are hard of hearing (mine is minor and began much more recently). So, a film that talks about issues pertaining to a family with deaf and non-deaf family members is naturally something that would appeal to us--and it would have many aspects to it that would be more important to us than the average viewer.Here are some things an American deaf audience would probably like to know about the film. First, the sign language in this film is sometimes pretty easy to understand--German sign language is a but more like American sign language than is the British system. Sure, a few words here and there were different (that's to be expected), but some was identical or very similar and you should be able to follow what they are saying if you know American Sign Language. Plus, the same issues facing the deaf and hearing family members are the same throughout the world, so it won't matter that it takes place in Germany. Second, if you watch the film, select caption option #2--NOT #1. That's because although the German being spoken is translated (as is MOST of the sign language), when in a few tiny cases people speak English, this is NOT captioned if you choose option #1.The film is about a dilemma I know about but have never seen on TV or in film. It's the story of a hearing child who has deaf parents--and there are many complications as a result of this. First, the hearing girl is the window to the world for the parents. This tiny kid ends up translating and even doing very adult conversations for the parents because the parents are not skilled at communicating any way other than sign language. And, at times, the child strongly manipulates her parents--translating thins in a manner that is best for her but not, at times, very accurate (this is a VERY common problem*). It's also a negative for the child, however, as their needs often become secondary and they are forced to give up much of themselves. It's not surprising, then, that Clarissa decides to take up music--something she can have that uniquely hers and separate from her parents. I thought it was fascinating that she chose the clarinet--an instrument deaf parents would have difficulty enjoying (had she chosen the bass or drums, the parents could have readily enjoyed along with her).The film also brings up a lot of practical information that the typical person would not know. The fact that the parents (in their 30s to about 50 in the film) would only use sign language and have VERY limited vocal skills might surprise some. What might be more surprising is that the father's own family never really learned to communicate with him!! Sadly, only about 10% of the families with deaf kids learn sign language--the vast majority simply point or leave them out of what is happening. And so when this happens in the movie, I wasn't at all surprised but know it would be shocking to many to see family get togethers where NO ONE spoke with the deaf folks except their own child! That's really sad but the norm. And when the father becomes enraged because he is left out, you certainly can understand this--though his family just thinks he's an angry person or make excuses to baby him instead of addressing the problem.As a result of these aspects of the film, it's obvious the folks who wrote the film grew up in such a home or know people who struggled with some of these same issues. That's rare, as some times I have seen deaf characters, it's as if they were written by people who have no idea of the problems they face...or their kids (the vast majority of whom are hearing). Sadly, however, there are no special features to tell you about this, the making or the film or why they chose to make it! By the way, aside from a brief nude scene (you really don't see anything) this is good viewing for the family. I would hope non-deaf and deaf audiences alike would enjoy the film--I know I did. It was exceptionally well made and I loved the music. A quality production throughout.*As you can see in the film, a teachers' conference with the parents where the child translates is a very BAD idea! In the US this often occurs and should call for a school-provided interpreter! The same can be said for when the parents were dealing with the bank and their daughter simply interpreted what she wanted to interpret and nothing more! "},{"Title":"the medium is the message in Beyond Silence","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Jenseits de Stille can be understood to belong to the genre of films known as social milieu films, or, in Germany, 'problem films'.  These films function as explorations of certain specific cultures or classes and the intricacies and contradictions therein.  For example, a social milieu film might examine working class life as such, and in tandem with other films of the sort, could create an overall filmic representation of the strife of working class existence.  In the case of Jenseits der Stille, the milieu that is examined is the Deaf world, specifically in Germany.  By following the coming of age of Lara, a hearing child of Deaf parents, we are led through one woman's experiences with and in the Deaf world.  That the film is also a touching story of family relations and can be seen as a drama, a family movie, etc. does not exclude it from also functioning in this realm of 'problem film.'  Rather, it can be seen to convey information and insight into a broader concept or community through the experiences and insights of one individual. 	Lara is constructed as a conflicted character even before she receives the fateful clarinet.  As the hearing daughter of Deaf parents, she is often placed in interpreting situations, and expected to relay messages that surpass her scope as child.  Instances such as her father's colleague's implication that she tell him of the non-existent Christmas bonus or her role as interpreter at the bank quickly convey the ways in which she is forced to grow old before her time.  She must live in an adult's world and negotiate that world despite her age.  Her parents are characterized as somewhat aloof of the demands that they make on her, and her own isolation is foregrounded.  It is only when her aunt fosters her musical interest that Lara begins to find a sense of herself.  These feelings of isolation, difficult communication and difference are expressed mainly through Lara, although her parents and extended family exhibit them as well. This film presents a great deal of verifiable information about the Deaf community through Lara and her family.  Many Deaf couples give birth to hearing children, and conversely, the majority of Deaf people are born to hearing parents.  The Christmas dinner and Martin's painful memories emphasize this occurrence.  In this way, without the film being didactic or expository in its conveyance of Deafness, hearing viewers are still educated as viewers about the very real situations that many Deaf families must negotiate.   	Obviously the lexical difference of spoken and signed languages plays a large role in the film as well.  This difference becomes important within the film as hearing viewers are attuned to different ways of seeing.  Within the medium of film this is often the goal of filmmakers, to create new ways of viewing, of reading images.  When this already visual medium is then used to explore yet another visual medium, the Deaf world, many doors are opened.  An example of this is the intimacy between Kai and Martin, evident when they lie in bed together and Martin uses Kai's chest for his signing.  A similar scene occurs in Children of a Lesser God as well, and both work to convey the shared space.  A different level of intimacy is expressed, because the viewer then considers the act of communication through the body rather than just the mouth.  Once this is understood, all movement on the screen has the potential to create atmosphere and convey information that far surpasses what a hearing viewer might normally require of a film. 	Ultimately this film engages with the social milieu of Deaf communities through both presentation and representation.  That is, Deafness is represented and explored diegetically, while the medium of the film itself also serves to further explore that realm.  Thus, Jenseits der Stille also functions to instrumentalize Deafness for the means of understanding image.  This is perhaps a pairing of subject and medium that simply cannot be overlooked.  "},{"Title":"A solid, enjoyable, film.","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Lara, A hearing girl with deaf parents,  is struggling to be an adult before her time.  She is often called upon to do many tasks for her parents that require her to interact with adults.  The very nature of this tends to upset the parent-child balance and we see scenes where the petulant child takes a very liberal view of how and what to interpret for her parents.    Lara's aunt is, to the girl, the pinnacle of sophistication and independence.  The girl is thrilled with the gift of her aunt's old clarinet.    He father is less enthusiastic with the his daughter's attachment to his estranged sister. Lara, now 18, has become torn between the desires she has for her own life and the needs of her family.The more I think about this movie the more it reminds me of `The Little Mermaid'.  I'm not trying to be funny, it just kept striking me about the girl who longs to be &#145;part of that world' of music and yet is drawn to the world of silence where her parents live.I should have read the box on this a little more carefully.  I didn't realize that it was in German when I rented it.  Those guys from Miramax are very clever about not playing up those little points.  I wonder if  GSL is similar enough to ASL for American signers to follow the plot without the sub-titles.  "},{"Title":"Slice of Life German Film","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Entertaining film about a young girl whose parents are mute and depend upon her to communicate to the speaking world for them. Her aunt, a free-spirited musician, teaches her to play the clarinet, but the parents object.  The young girl matures into a young woman whose musical abilities and desires become paramount. Her dependent parents attempt to keep her home and away from her chosen vocation. Well acted and a good drama.  Large, yellow subtitles.  "}{"Title":"Well-portrayed unique perspective on Deaf vs. hearing lives","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Definitely a rare and wonderful find for a movie which includes a cast of REAL (instead of  hired  hearing-actor-pretending-as-a-deaf-person actors that you see sometimes in films!) deaf actors in the movie world nowadays....  Also, it's a bigger plus when you consider the directional approach chosen for this film -- it's an appreciative success.     "},{"Title":"A beautiful film","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Beyond Silence is a beautiful film that you never forget. Her beautiful scenes and her story make an excellent movie. Her director,Caroline Link,make a sence film about life and love.Her music is wonderfull,including the Klezmer music with the actress,Sylvie Testud,touched in a scene.The rest of actors have a perfect performance.Presented in Mar del Plata Film Festival in 1997,the movie is one of the best pictures of this decade in Argentina. My opinionThe best german film of every times.Please,don´t forget see.Is an order. "},{"Title":"Outstanding German Movie","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  As a German myself I know how bad usually German movies are. This one is one of the very very very few exceptions. What makes it an exception is no overdoing morality, no sentimentality beyond realism, GOOD ACTORS (all of them newcomers, so nepotism didn't do it as in many other German movies), an original story. Is there a scent of dawn in German Filmindustry ? "},{"Title":"Honest, but no great insights.","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  The story was beautiful and provoked deep emotions in many sections, but I felt that much of the talent was aimed at displaying the ordinary communication within the family rather than the love of music or whatever passion the main characters may have had for their chosen lives.  I felt cheated in some respects because the music and jobs seemed more window-dressing that life choices.  Seeing and hearing Giora Feldman was a surprise and a treat.  I wish there had been more about the music or more about the parents and their internal lives. "},{"Title":"The difference in Sign Language","Date":"26 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" When saying that because FSL, GSL, and ASL appear the same so they must be similar, is like saying because you can speak French, German, or English it is all similar, as you know isn't the case. Believe it or not, they are very much different and there is no such thing as universal signs. Although there are a few signs that are similar, just like we say NO and in Spanish the word for our no is in fact, NO. But really, a Deaf person who signs ASL would have a VERY hard time communicating with someone who signs GSL. Sorry to be giving you an educational piece, but you wrote it so I had to comment it and I didn't want you to look bad to the Deaf Community. Thanks, have a great day!!! "}]