[{"Title":"Sayles' Masterpiece","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"83 out of 90 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I just bought this movie on DVD and watched it for the first time in a couple of years, and once again it amazed me. While most scripts stumble recklessly from one hackneyed plot device to another, Lone Star flows like a steady, winding river, never letting the viewer see too far downstream. The spine of the film is Sherrif Sam Deed's investigation into a thirty-year-old murder, yet this story is quickly absorbed by many finely scripted subplots and an overall theme on the futility of trying to escape history.  While most directors can't help but show off when using flashy camera movement  and jumps in continuity, Sayles employs such a subtle directing style that his leaps in time and location are seamless.  Sayles fleshes out his script with subplots on racism, national pride, censorship, generation gaps, politics, social revisionism, and on and on.  Most directors don't tackle this many topics in a career, yet Sayles juggles them all in one film without jamming them down the audiences' throats.  If the subplots in Sayles' City of Hope were connected like a series of dominos, here they are gently woven together like a colorful, well-worn Southwestern quilt.  The love story between Chris Cooper and Elizabeth Pena is both wistful and steamy.  The film's social conscience is compelling.  The father/son conflict between Otis and Delmore Payne (Ron Canada and Joe Morton) feels totally realistic.  The dialoge is concise and insightful. Fate hangs over every character and every moment.  Plus Lone Star has one of my favorite final scenes, one that perfectly sums up the ironies of the film.  It is simply one of the best movies I have ever seen.     "},{"Title":"One of the best movies ever.","Date":"6 July 2004","Score":"83 out of 94 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This just ran tonight on HBO. I haven't watched it in a few years now. Lone Star has, if anything, improved with each viewing, which is really saying something because I remember how truly riveted and fulfilled I was on its first viewing in the theater. This is film-making at its very best.This must be one of the all time greatest pieces of writing for the cinema. Period. So many characters are here and they're all richly developed and mined to make you think even more about the film's many themes. The story just hooks you right from the start and is utterly absorbing, and the layers of subplots and meanings reach dizzying heights of complexity and poignancy without sacrificing entertainment value. You practically walk away from the film saying yes, for once someone has something to say and it's said so eloquently. To me, Lone Star is one of the masterpieces of American movies.This has one of the greatest final lines that I've ever seen in a movie. That last line illuminates everything that has come before it in a way that is both shattering and ironic. The performances are uniformly superb, and you can just imagine what the cast was thinking, with the opportunity to perform this piece. All the technical aspects are first rate, which makes you truly wonder why movies cost so much in Hollywood. The music is outstanding. But at the end of the day, it's the incredible writing here that lingers. The second half of the movie pays off in spades due to the development of the many characters and sub plots that are so brilliantly interwoven. The movies Lone Star reminds me of most are The Last Picture Show, Chinatown, and Nashville. Take my word; if you like any of those pictures and haven't had the distinct pleasure of seeing Lone Star, please give it a chance. You will not be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"A rich tapestry &#150; 2 hours flew by","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"63 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The discovery of a skull and a sheriff's badge on a disused military firing range prompts Sheriff Sam Deeds to investigate.  Sam has long lived in the shadow of his father Buddy, himself the sheriff at one time.  However clues point to the fact that the skull may belong to Charley Wade, the corrupt sheriff who `vanished' to Mexico when Deeds challenged him many years prior.  However when Sam begins to ask questions that go deeper than the legends, he finds secrets within the border town that hit very near home.Having just watched The Hi Lo Country (a modern day western with a sprawling story but focused on one thing), I was put in mind to watch Lone Star again.  Lone Star is easily the superior film and is a rich weaving of many characters and stories all around one event.  The one event is the uncovering of an old murder (possibly) and this central investigation holds the attention easily.  Within this investigation and the lives that Buddy affected we are shown a lot of subplots &#150; some followed through, others just giving us enough background to understand the characters.  All of these work very well and as a result you don't feel like the film is wandering when it moves away from the investigation by Sam.  The subplots are so well translated that we are given a lot of back story to complex characters in a very short time.For the script to be able to create so many characters that feel real and that have meaningful things going on is impressive.  That it makes them all work is amazing and is due to Sayles both writing and editing.  As director he is great as well, avoiding the washed out desert feel many `Mexico related' films have and instead goes for richer colours that reflect the rich mix of communities that are in his story.The acting is faultless all round.  No one actor stands out regardless of screen time simply because no one goes over the top and everyone realises they are playing part of a story &#150; even Cooper (realistically the nearest thing to a lead actor) plays it down rather than taking the film over.  Morton is good even if his character is the least connected to the investigation, McConaughey is strong despite being little more than a cameo, likewise with Kristofferson.  McDormand has a small role but is very impressive as Deeds' ex-wife.  Elizabeth Peña, so often dumped with almost token Espanic roles is given a real good part and works with it well.  I could list them all, however if any one person stands out it can only be Sayles himself &#150; he takes all the strands and brings them together.  I watched a 90 minutes comedy earlier the same day that had dragged.  At 130 minutes this simply flew &#150; it is that engrossing.Overall some will find it too slow, too character driven, sadly some will just not sit through a good story if that's all there is to it (all!).  I think this was reflected in poor box office at the time (comparatively poor anyway).  But those who have seen it will generally love it &#150; if only more people would watch it!  A final word on the film &#150; the ending is shocking and sensationalist on paper and a lesser man would have made a big deal out of it.  Sayles simply ends the film softly and leaves us the audience to take what we will from it.  Low key from start to finish &#150; I can't praise it enough. "},{"Title":"The sins of the fathers come back to haunt","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"43 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  John Sayles' direction of this film reminded me of Hitchcock in that I was always aware of the director's style and I enjoyed it every bit as much as the acting and the story. Like Godfather, this is a tale of families and how the sins of the fathers cast their shadows over the generations. To illustrate the connection, Sayles will slowly track his camera from a conversation in one part of a room to another part of the same room where characters who lived 25 years earlier are conversing. The years have passed, we realize, but all the characters, even the dead ones, are in this together. The technique may sound strange, but it works magically. And another thing I've always thought Kris Kristofferson was a better singer than actor, and a better songwriter than singer. But in this film he turns in an outstanding performance as a very very bad Texas border town sheriff who disappeared years ago and whose bones have just turned up in the desert. At least we think those are his bones, and to solve the puzzle, the current sheriff, son of the man who became sheriff when Kris disappeared, must dig further than he wants into the town's secrets. And once again, knowing how the film ends makes subsequent viewings just as fascinating as the first. "},{"Title":"Great movie -- one of the few I watch over and over.","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"39 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I live in San Antonio and have been to Eagle Pass (where the movie was filmed) many times. I have watched this movie over a dozen times. It is a wonderful piece of film-making! John Sayles captures a lot in this film. His characters have depth and substance. His portrayals of the role racism has played in Hispanic and African-American lives are brilliant but not heavy-handed. The acting is incredible. The casting was perfect. Frances McDormand as Sam's ex-wife is unforgettable. I agree with another commenter that the camera work was exceptional when Sayles filmed flashback scenes using a single take. I especially liked the scene along the river with Sam and Pilar. I am sure there are some people who don't share my opinion, but this movie is one of my top ten favorites of all time. "},{"Title":"John Sayles' best movie","Date":"19 October 2005","Score":"39 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Lone Star was John Sayles' first look at a state, followed by Limbo (Alaska), Sunshine State (Florida) and Silver City (Colorado). This one focuses on a border town in Texas, and the influences of and conflicts between the white, black and Hispanic populations there. It starts when they discover the remains of racist Sheriff Charlie Wade (Kris Kristofferson), murdered under mysterious circumstances many years earlier; Sheriff Sam Deeds (Chris Cooper) leads the investigation. In the process of everything, we get to see - among other things - the battle over education in the Lone Star State the school only wants to teach the white people's side of history, but Pilar Cruz (Elizabeth Pena) wants to teach it from the Mexican point of view. As it is, this town carries many secrets, many of which are about to blow open. This was, in my opinion, John Sayles' greatest movie ever. It is not to be missed. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"27 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Ive always admired Sayles as a writer and a filmmaker. His early films (Secaucus 7, Brother from Another Planet) even though they were rough and messy had wit and brilliant acting, but when he gets it right, he gets it right Matewan and City of Hope are two examples of multi-layered stories with believable three-dimensional people in powerful situations. Lone Star is an amazing film characters that are on screen for even a few minutes come of as real people, flesh and blood, no cardboard cut-outs here. Great performances from Chris Cooper, Kris Kristofferson, Elizabeth Pena, Joe Morton and many, many more. Taut, funny, thrilling and emotional. Great film by a great talent. "},{"Title":"An entrancing yarn.","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  An entrancing yarn that takes place in a small, quiet Texas border town where the memories of two former lawmen, the crooked Charlie Wade (Kris Kristofferson) and the legendary Buddy Deeds (Matthew McConaughey) are slowly resurrected when the remains of Wade are found on an deserted Army firing range by Deeds' son, Sam (Chris Cooper), who is the current town sheriff.  Throughout the movie, Sam visits some of the locals and asks each one if they knew what happened to Wade and if Buddy had a role in the murder.  Writer-director-editor John Sayles serves up an unpredictable gem here with a great cast that includes Joe Morton, Elisabeth Pena, Frances McDormand, etc., and to me, it seems like nearly all the characters here make sense right up to the end.   "},{"Title":"Best Movie of 1996","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"22 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The flashbacks with Kris Kristofferson are some of the most moving and brilliant scenes on film.  He should have got an Oscar nomination.  Chris Cooper and Elizabeth Pena have great romantic chemistry.  There is so much more going on just besides the mystery of who killed Charlie Wade so many years ago.  All the actors are wonderful, in a great setting, and great script.  The ending is my favorite part, when the biggest secret of all is revealed.  It shows that love can overcome anything.  10/10 "},{"Title":"A good watch for those who missed it in 1996.","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  In Lone Star, a skull is found in an isolated part of a Texas border county which begins an investigation by the local Sheriff who must unlock a closet full of skeletons to solve the mystery. Critically acclaimed and a high scoring flick on this website, Lone Star is a film to be reckoned with. It features solid performances without the usual blockbuster star power, an engaging story, a real feel, and masterful editing which allows for a seamless presentation of the numerous flashbacks required to tell the story. You'll find little emoting or little reason to emote in this matter-of-fact contemporary film which ends with a kicker. Worth a look for just about anyone mature enough for the subject matter. "}{"Title":"Perhaps Sayles' best film","Date":"30 April 2008","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" John Sayles is not only a great director, but he is also a truly great writer, and Lone Star is simply one of the best-written films of all time. Out of the 30+ scripts I studied in script analysis classes, this was, other than Manhattan, the most interesting, involving, evocative screenplay I read during that period, and probably the one with the most depth. I saw the film a few months after reading its screenplay, and found that it far surpassed the mental image I had in my head of the film.Lone Star could have been a standard mystery. It could have been a 'modern Western', or it could have been a superficial race drama, but it is none of those things (at least not exclusively), it is a fascinating, subtle look at race relations in Texas, as well as at basic human nature. Unlike the contrived writing one would find in an 'Oscar bait' drama film, Sayles' interwoven plots don't feel forced simply because he sets them up so well. The depth and scale of the writing here is remarkable, especially because the film, with all its subplots and characters, never feels cluttered or unnatural. This is a character study of the highest order, and there's no point in discussing the actual events of the film further because this is a film that is best seen (or, indeed, read) with fresh eyes, and I'd hate to spoil that for readers who haven't seen the film.It's a sad fact of life that directors like Sayles, who see films as stories that must be told, and direct them well, but without intrusive and obvious stylistic quirks, are less noticed than directors who practically beg for attention. That's not to say that this film is not well-made, because anyone with any sort of experience with technical details of cinema could tell you that it is a very well-shot and very well-edited film with excellent use of music. That said, this film is ultimately about the writing, and the acting, and both are absolutely superb, the standout from the latter category being Chris Cooper, who gives what is probably one of the nineties' best performances in this film.10/10 "},{"Title":"My favourite film of all time.","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is the only film I've ever seen for the first time, and then rewound and watched straight through again without even getting up for a cup of coffee. I don't even know where to begin in listing its qualities. Few films succeed in addressing such complex issues as race; our relationships with our parents; the nature of our attitudes to history; and the way the past shapes our lives in so subtle a manner as this. Somehow, John Sayles has managed to touch on all of these questions, without at any point being didactic, and to deal with them realistically and with respect to their complexity.Most amazingly of all, Sayles shows all sides of the various arguments running through the film and yet still manages to produce solutions, or at least the hope of solutions. That he is able to achieve this is a consequence of the humanity of his outlook. With the exception of Charlie Wade - the one straightforward character in the script - everybody in this film is complicated, realistic and, above all, sympathetic. The smallest cameo parts - the old lady playing a gameboy; the as liberal as the next guy bartender - are more interesting and plausible than the central characters in the majority of films.All this in a film which is not ostensibly character- or issue-driven. A film which instead features an involving mystery and an affecting romance, as well as numerous subplots (all beautifully paced and integrated), and in which almost everything proves to be connected.Great works of art shouldn't have to throw their message into the audience's faces. Instead, as the audience looks at their more superficial aspects of beauty or excitement, they should be drawn into their subtleties and more interesting depths. In Lone Star, everything - the arguments about race and the past, the tangible sense of a real community, the subversiveness of the film's ending - flows from what is at base simply a good story. This film is one of the outstanding achievements of 90s American cinema 10/10. "},{"Title":"See it, and then see Touch of Evil!","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed Lone Star. The story was well-constructed and presented, and kept me interested and guessing throughout. The acting is understated and exceptional. Throughout the movie, I was reminded of Orson Welles' masterpiece, Touch of Evil,  also about a border town.  "},{"Title":"The best film of the '90s","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" John Sayles is one of the best--and certainly among the most interesting--American directors working in film today. Self-financed on a small budget, using his large number of talented friends as cast and crew, Sayles crafts films that owe allegiances to no one but himself. Virtually never does he make the same film twice, and almost all of them are a great pleasure to watch.Lone Star is Sayles' masterpiece. It succeeds on every level as mystery, as romance, as social commentary. Set in a Texas border town, it creates a rich world peopled with characters and situations we understand and identify with.There is plot, mood, color, drama, passion, suspense and even humor, but if pressed to explain what it really is about, I would say that the theme is how the present is a product of the past, and how people are given opportunities to be imprisoned by it or to transcend it.Lone Star is one of only two American films of this decade (the other is Schindler's List) to which I would give a '10'. It's been a long time since I have felt so thoroughly challenged, entertained and satisfied by a single piece of art. "},{"Title":"One of Sayles' best","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  John Sayles has often been dismissed as just a left-wing filmmaker, as if having a point of view automatically meant you had no talent.  True, he's made a couple which didn't quite work(BABY, IT'S YOU and EIGHT MEN OUT didn't work, at least for me), but he really is a talented filmmaker.  His films are almost always well-scripted, with the same care that goes into great novels(Sayles, of course, started out as a novelist).  Every film he makes really feels like it takes place somewhere, as opposed to just having a generic location.  His themes are often complex and interesting, and although he may come from a left-wing point of view, he doesn't paint one side as all good and one as all bad; he allows complexity and three dimensions to come in.  Finally, he's great with actors.LONE STAR ranks with my favorite of his work, along with RETURN OF THE SECAUCUS SEVEN and CITY OF HOPE.  Like those films, this is an ensemble film, and like CITY OF HOPE, this is an intimate epic, a balancing act which is difficult to pull off.  He also really pays attention to history and how it affects all of us here, not just our personal history but our collective history.  It may take place in the context of a murder mystery(which was, admittedly, not hard to figure out), but that's just the starting point of Sayles' canvas.  Along with history, it's about family, what binds us together and what divides us, from father to son, mother to daughter, and sibling to sibling.  And finally, of course, it's about race, but again, not in the simplistic way of most Hollywood films.  What may seem like a cut-and-dried attitude, for example, by Buddy Deeds(Matthew McConaughey) towards his son Sam(played as an adult by Chris Cooper) and Pilar(played as an adult by Elizabeth Pena) going out together, is revealed to be something altogether different.Cooper brings to mind another Cooper, Gary, with his performance here.  As in MATEWAN, another Sayles film, he shows a complex set of emotions hidden behind what seems to be a simple man.  Elizabeth Pena, an underused actress, is quite good as Pilar, the schoolteacher caught between her present problems and her past love.  I've never been a fan of Kris Kristofferson, but he's quite menacing as Charlie Wade, the crooked sheriff whose past murder drives the present plot.  And Sayles regulars like Joe Morton and Stephen Mendillo put in memorable appearances as well.  A masterpiece. "},{"Title":"One of the truly GREAT films...such a shame it's not well-known","Date":"18 July 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I think John Sayles, for the most part, makes great films. This one, in my opinion, is his best. In fact, I think it's a masterpiece. I just got done watching it for the second time (I had to find it on DVD from the LIBRARY of all places...how frustrating that such a great film isn't widely available in video stores), but I have been telling people about this film at every opportunity for about 10 years now. Oh it's not that I feel real cool telling people to go find and see a great film that they've never heard of (although I must admit I do), but more that Mr. Sayles so often gets forgotten as one of the greatest writer/directors ever, and it's such a shame he doesn't get the notoriety he deserves for making such great films. He often uses many of the same actors in his movies, but then again, why shouldn't he...they're always terrific (and by the way, why don't THEY get more notoriety, too?) After all these years, Chris Cooper is finally becoming well known as an excellent actor (and is getting more roles as a result), and as usual, he's tremendous here in playing the lead role. In fact, I've never liked Kris Kristofferson, but he is SUPERB in this film, and I cannot possibly imagine anyone playing the role of Charlie Wade any better. You can get the plot line of this movie from many of the other IMDb comments, but it's not simply the intriguing plot of this movie that makes it so great. It's the way the film is woven and the atmosphere that is created throughout (a John Sayles specialty.) Granted, it IS a character study with general societal overtones, so it may appear slow in comparison to big budget special effects action movies, or kick-in-the-groin comedies (our unfortunate obsessions), but if you stick with it for just a bit, you'll find the beautifully crafted tapestry unfolding through the characters with riveting intrigue. It's really a pleasure to watch a film take bits and pieces of many different stories (and with flashbacks mixed in as well) and slowly but surely lead you to the edge of your seat as it ties all the different subplots together until you gradually begin to realize what a GREAT film you're watching and you can't wait to see how it's going to turn out in the end. One of the exceptional things about this film is that just when you thought the ending was quite good, and you got to find out the truth, it turns out that the FINAL closing scene is the REAL payoff, and it's even BETTER than what you THOUGHT would be the ending. I've been telling others to see this outstanding, exceptional film for about 10 years now, and will continue to do so at every opportunity. "},{"Title":"A great movie--one of the best of all time.","Date":"4 September 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" LONE STAR is absolutely one of the best movies ever made (and, yes, I am including the great, older classics in that, not just the past few decades' lot). Reading so many excellent reviews of it here kind of gives me hope for humanity and the possible future of civilization (the prospects of both of which seem dire, so much of the time). The richness and depth of this tapestry of stories, characters, themes, emotions, atmospheres--there's just no doing justice to it here, so see it! I only hope John Sayles will one day reach such heights again. He has made movies of extreme excellence before and since LONE STAR (his worst movies have more worth than most filmmakers' best), but this one is the zenith thus far (well, I haven't seen MATEWAN, about which I've heard raves for years, or SILVER CITY, which was reportedly not top Sayles, but look forward to both of them). The fact that he and his casts and crews achieve such wonders on tiny (in Hollywood terms) budgets, and that he funds them pretty much himself, makes me all the more impressed. I wish him long life, much energy and inspiration, and MANY more movies! Oh, and the reviewer here who said Chris Cooper and Elizabeth Pena have no chemistry must be numb--the relationship is intense, leading to one of the hottest love scenes in film history. "},{"Title":"West done right","Date":"3 March 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" The west is done a deal more realistically here by writer-director John Sayles, who focuses on character and plot more than atmosphere and legend.Sayles is more than happy to explode the myth of the pure as pure lawman putting things right in his town. Instead he gives us racial tensions, troubled minority groups and Sheriff Sam Deeds, an uneasy man whose dominant, well-loved father still haunts him years after his death.Chris Cooper is solid and reliable as Sheriff Junior, and alongside him the passionate Elizabeth Pena is most admirable as his long lost sweetheart. As the larger than life Sheriff Buddy Deeds, Matthew McConaughey gets to do little, so the show-stealing is left to Kris Kristofferson, who personifies heartless cruelty as the much maligned and feared Sheriff Charlie Wade. Stuart Dryburgh's photography of arid Texas also deserves top billing.All credit though to Sayles' screenplay that gets you interested without really trying.Monday, October 12, 1998 - Hoyts Croydon "},{"Title":"Masterpiece","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Masterpiece is the only word, that comes to my mind. It takes some concentration, to put the puzzle together, that John Sayles offers to your eyes. But it is one of those rare movies, where no shot is wasted. Every picture tells a story! "},{"Title":"Masterpiece","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  One of the best films I have ever seen.  John Sayles blends several themes -- father/son relationships, Mexico/US relations, racism, justice, and love -- so brilliantly that each sheds unique light on all the others. The film is perfectly conceived and executed from start to finish, in all respects.  Excellent, subtle performances are provided by every member of the cast.  Sayles's script is complex but never confusing, and unfolds at just the right pace.  The serious issues explored in the film are combined with humorous dialogue without trivializing the former or making the latter seem awkward.  In my opinion this is one of the all-time masterpieces of the medium. "}{"Title":"One of the best films of the '90s","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  As nearly a perfect as I've seen in the last decade.  I'd rank it with Shawshank Redemption as one of the best films made in the 1990s.  The script is filled with social issues all flawlessly interconnected. The story lines are linked together around a border town sheriff's investigation of a 40-year-old murder that may have been committed by his own father.  There is also a touching romance at the center of the story. But the story touches on racism, interracial relationships, multicultural education, drug use, criminal justice, difficulties between generations, political and police corruption, mental illness, divorce, and illegal immigration.Sayles is a great director and this is his best work.  I also recommend Men with Guns and Limbo which are both outstanding although I'd put them slightly below Lone Star.The movie is about history and our connections to it.  Its also about how boundaries and borders between nations and races are really meaningless and artificial.  That is the real theme of the movie and it is presented in numerous fascinating metaphors.  The direction and screenwriting is fabulous and the characters seem natural and normal.  This is clearly a tribute to Sayles's skills since he also wrote the script.  Some of the lines are hilariously unforgettable in the natural way that people really talk. Chris Cooper is terrific as the sheriff.  Even Matt McConaughey is believable in flashback scenes as sheriff's late father.  Kris Kristofferson, Elizabeth Pena, and rest of the cast are flawless.  Look for Frances McDormand late in the movie in a hilarious cameo as the sheriff's ex-wife.It is a real shame that this film was nominated for only one Academy Award in screen writing.  It lost out to Fargo which is also a very good film, but not as good as Lone Star.  It deserved a best picture nomination.  I suspect that Sayles will one day be recognized as a great director that he is.  "},{"Title":"A Great Big Wall Mural of a Movie.","Date":"1 May 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" This presents itself as a mystery in which the local sheriff (Chris Cooper) investigates the decades-old murder of a real mean old-time sheriff (Kris Kristofferson) but that plot is hardly more than a peg on which to drape a series of character studies that add up to a sketch of the social dynamics of small-town Texas.Cooper's investigation leads him into contact with individuals of varying backgrounds who could easily have been turned into stereotypes by a lesser writer. Here they emerge as quirky, robust characters in themselves. The problem of the murder, which Cooper is discouraged from looking into, recedes into the background.Mostly this is Sayles' look at three sub-cultures red-necked, savvy Texas rustics, the flourishing and ambitious Mexican community, and the more marginalized African-Americans who run the roadhouse on the outskirts of town and who have populated the local army base.Sayles has used this tripartite structure before, most notably in Matewan. The intent of the earlier film was more didactic and its execution more obvious. We all have to pull together to achieve a common goal. (Cf., Muzafer Sheriff's Robber's Cave experiment.) In Lone Star the important conflicts have more to do with family relations and love affairs, including interracial ones.Elizabeth Pena plays Cooper's simmering long-time love. Whew. She's slender without being shapely. Her features are large and not pretty by Hollywood standards. But she's a magnetic figure on screen. She moves languidly and her speech kind of slouches around its phones, the words melting slowly into one another. I grew up near the New Jersey neighborhood in which she lived and it was a quiet Cuban settlement where you could find a cup of espresso coffee for a nickel. It was hardly elegant but it was safe and tolerant, even welcoming. She's a little like that.Her exact opposite is Frances MacDormand, Cooper's ex, who is obsessed by football and other sports and describes herself (in a short scene) as wound up, but any shrink is more likely to recognize her as a mild bipolar in a manic phase, full of speech pressure, poor judgment, and irritability. (Had any more of your fires lately?, asks Cooper gently, inquiring about some goods he left behind when he moved out.) There's a neat exchange between the two of them. I guess you didn't know I was tightly wound when we got together, she says to him as he's leaving. It wasn't only you, Bunny, he replies. I know, she says with some of her irritation returning. That's pretty good writing. It avoid turning her into nothing more than a flake and it points up Cooper's own imperfections and the certain insight that two intelligent people have into a now-extinct love relationship.I may run out of space here, and we don't want any red flags, so let me just say that this is a movie with a measured and deliberate pace, more interested in people than plot, and that it's superbly acted by all of the principals. (Some of the minor parts are no better than they should be.) It's atmospheric too. It's a film for adults and might better be avoided by the child-like because it doesn't have much in the way of gun play. The only one-dimensional character is Kris Kristofferson's greedy, corrupt, and genuinely rude sheriff -- now safely dead except in flashbacks.Well worth catching. "},{"Title":"The editing is stunning","Date":"20 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Sayles signs off the credits thus Written, directed and edited by John Sayles. Most directors would have preferred to say the same in this order Edited, written and directed by John Sayles. The last mentioned is often the substantive role. Sayles is not flippant when he makes these statements--he is aware of what he has contributed most in this work. It is the editing. The editing in this film is seamless and yet complex, switching from one era to another, one lighting to another with intelligent punctuation in cinematography (for example tortillas covering banknotes) adding to the entertainment.Sayles must be aware that he has achieved better milestones in direction than in Lone Star. Limbo has a philosophical depth and maturity that overshadows the more earthy realities that lend color to Lone Star. While individual performances in Lone Star cry out for recognition, the performances of the lead actors in Limbo are low key but nonetheless fascinating.Sayles won plaudits for the screenplay and he deserved it. The social complexities that the screenplay presents interweaving three races and three families grabs the attention of the American social quilt. It's real and immediate. In Limbo, the screenplay reaches out beyond America; it's more universal in appeal. The end scene of Lone star seems to have been the inspiration for the last shot of Monster's Ball. While Lone Star will be remembered for individual personalities, Sayles' Limbo will be remembered for its brilliant philosophical, open-ended closing shot. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Although I haven't seen this film since 1996 it is another movie which lingers in my mind.  I really enjoyed this film and the chemistry between Chris Cooper and Elizabeth Pena was beautiful. It has all the elements of a good film- a good story, well cast, romance and mystery.  I really noticed and appreciated Chris Cooper in this film along with his excellent performance in American Beauty "},{"Title":"A movie that's a mini humanities education","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Many people argue that the whole point of getting a liberal arts education is to develop the ability to identify with different perspectives or empathize.  And there is no doubt that this is one of the greatest payoffs that comes from reading, writing, discussing, and studying work from lots of different disciplines.  This is also one of the greatest payoffs of John Sayles' superb film, Lone Star.  It is a story with a non-linear, winding plot, a vast array of characters, and it takes a little patience to watch. But it is also richly rewarding because Sayles' vision brings together people from different backgrounds in the most surprising and illuminating ways.  Characters that seem closed-minded and foolish end up being very human by the end of this film.  It's almost as if Sayles can't help but write complex characters, even when they have a small role to play in the overall plot.  This film masterfully explodes the notion that there's just one perspective, one story.  Multiple perspectives, multiple views of one incident are the meat of Lone Star.I would also add that the way Sayles writes male characters is very special. If Raging Bull is the ultimate in what is ugly and heart wrenching about masculinity, then John Sayles' many male characters throughout his films are the equivalent of what is decent, enduring, and worthy about men in America. Chris Cooper's character in Lone Star is someone that young men should watch and try to emulate.  It takes a lot more strength to be decent and gentle like this than it does to be cruel and macho.Simply put, I can't recommend Lone Star enough.  If you haven't seen it yet, you're in for a treat. "},{"Title":"An unheralded American masterpiece; complex but outstanding.","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  See this film -- again and again. Yes, it's a bit complicated; there's a lot of going forward and back in time. But what a story! And the performances -- the wide view of humanity, the warmth at the heart of it all. Every character so interesting, even when shown but briefly -- could make ten or twelve great films from characters like these. And that's just what this film is -- ten or twelve levels of magnitude above even most good films. I've seen it three times, maybe four. Saw it twice at the theater in one week, when it first came out. Then watched with friends on their home dish, then rented the video. Still can't get enough of it. Should rate up there with Treasure of the Sierra Madre or Kurosawa's Roshoman. Compares well, oddly enough, with Truffaut's Day for Night... although a very different type of story. Sad in tone, a little like Hitchcock's Marnie, but Lone Star is more hopeful, more optimistic, all the more surprisingly so because of how it gazes unflinchingly at and exposes many evils. Quite a few other great films come to mind, but Sayles' Lone Star is uniquely its vision, its own style. Maybe it was overlooked because people thought it was just a detective story; just a Western. Maybe the young crowd wanted more of young Chris, not old Kris. Elizabeth Pena didn't time her appearance to coincide with Ricky Martin, Jennifer Lopez and the rest of the Latin Explosion which arrived a few years later. Unfortunate. Well, maybe its time for a revival. She's outstanding here; but so many performances shine. This is a Citizen Kane level film; an American movie which stands up well alongside the best international masterpieces. Why is it so unsung? "},{"Title":"A two-hour treat","Date":"20 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Lone Star is John Sayles' low-key take on the familiar don't-open-the-can-of-worms story. Set in Texas, the movie slowly unfolds the secrets behind the mythical sheriff, Buddy Deed (Matthew McConaughey) and the actions of the past that have come to play a crucial part in the present.Sam Deed (Chris Cooper) is the new sheriff in town, living under the heavy expectations of his heroic father, who discovers a dead body in the Texan desert. And that's just the beginning.The film has several sub-plots, intervening superbly with each other, cutting back and forth in time, until finally revealing some painful truths about several characters. A must see. "},{"Title":"Cannot recommend this enough","Date":"25 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I won't try to describe how wonderful this film is, because other reviewers have done a better job. Just reading the reviews of others similarly moved--CHANGED dare I say (I do daresay, because I am given to hyperbole) by this film causes a big lump of feeling to grow in my throat, and I don't really have much more to say except to lend my voice to pumping up how important it is to watch this little film. This little movie is so perfectly, astonishingly human, it encapsulates so much pain, feeling, experience, I am a big ol' wordsmith but this is the kind of thing that makes me stop typing, because it is so beautifully painfully real that after watching I find my words dried up. Because even if it is a specific story about a specific time and specific people, it manages to encapsulate human lives with a painfully--AND I MEAN PAINFULLY--beautiful universal story. I can't think of another film that I get choked up even by reading about, and I am a cold hard cookie. Sayles is gifted. But if you are turned off by adoration for a director, skip that sentence, please, because this tiny long beautiful story WILL affect you. And make you think and feel and all sorts of dumb stuff maybe you thought you were too hard for, especially in an old and even slightly dated film. There is the kind of familiar beauty in this that you won't find anywhere.And of course, forgive me for saying, but Chris Cooper is brilliant in this, he is the actor you have seen in a million things but didn't realize it because he dissolves himself completely in EVERY role, because he is the ultimate in admirable acting you don't even recognize how many things you have seen him in, most likely, because he is ZERO PERCENT about recognition and 100% about the craft. Look him up and be blown away at the things he has been a-feckin-mazing in and you didn't even KNOW it was the same actor, that's how far he immerses himself in his roles! "},{"Title":"The Classic Texas Movie","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is THE classic Texas movie, or at a minimum it's the classic SOUTH Texas movie. When Ellizabeth Pena spoke her memorable closing line when I went to see it at the theater here in Austin, the audience erupted in applause.The film is set in the fictional equivalent of Eagle Pass, on the Rio Grande, which thus contributes to the plot both Anglos and Hispanics. (Eagle Pass is a location also in Like Water for Chocolate.) Add to the mix a U.S. army base, incorporating African-Americans, and the brew isn't complete even there. A discussion among local teachers about how best to teach the state's history sets up the rich portion of the plot which revolves around issues of ethnicity, while simultaneously (cleverly) misdirecting the viewer's expectations about one of the movie's major mysteries.It is amazing that John Sayles can come in from outside and understand this region so well. An exemplary instance is when Frances McDormand's character is raving about a high school football player from...and the script fills in (if I recall correctly)...San Antonio Churchill. It's a perfect choice, in a way that nowhere else except maybe Converse Judson or Gregory-Portland or Refugio would have achieved. Permian (Odessa Permian) would have been too obvious. Austin McCallum, or some such, would have left gridiron-fan moviegoers wrinkling their noses at the faux pas. In short, Sayles, who was writer as well as director, superbly did his homework.Pena, McDormand, Chris Cooper, Matthew McConaughey, Kris Kristofferson, Joe Morton, and Clifton James are all great. Miriam Colon (in INGLIS, Enrique) and Ron Canada stand out. Tony Plana, as a deputy who is contemplated by the minority community as an electoral challenger to Cooper the incumbent sheriff, delivers the movie's most comical non-McDormand line. It seems that Cooper is headed across the border as part of a criminal investigation. They chance to talk briefly just as he is leaving, and Plana establishes that there are no hard feelings about the political competition. Whereupon Cooper announces that he is going over to the other side. Plana responds, astounded, The REPUBLICANS?? "},{"Title":"A real masterpiece","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  In short, a wonderful and complex movie. Easily one of John Sayles' best. Oh, and the music is Great too! Elizabeth Pena is fantastic and Kris Kristofferson is grisly, as is required!A real treat and a film to see time and time again. "}{"Title":"Sayles - Interesting and thoughtful, as always","Date":"9 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" If John Casavettes invented the independent film, John Sayles perfected it. Time and time again he crafts works that are both commercial and intellectually interesting. Lone Star would stand on its own as film about a 40 year-old murder mystery, but we see so much more in typical Sayle's style; well written dialog, impeccable casting and even-paced story telling.Rio County, where Lone Star is set, is a microcosm of the U.S.; minorities becoming the majority and a town and its inhabitants coming to terms with past prejudices and deeply held secrets. The lead character, Sheriff Sam Deeds, seeks to reconcile the reverence with which the town holds his late father and predecessor, Buddy Deeds, with the man he knew as a distant and sometimes cruel father. When the 40 year-old remains of his father's immediate predecessor are discovered, Deeds retraces the lives and secrets and papered-over injustices of Rio. The murder is only one more sin that has come unexpectedly back to the surface.Rio's Mexican and black residents have suffered under the weight of Rio's history, and some prefer to leave the past buried. Truth is less important than distance from the pain. Sam Deeds looks at his father's legacy and sees compromise, corruption and selective justice. The younger Deeds came back to Rio not to continue his father's legacy but to come to terms with an identity he walked away from years before.Deeds ultimately solves the murder mystery, an outcome that is unsatisfactory (he wants to expose his father as a severely corrupt and phony hero) in some ways, but delivers to him a perspective on his town, his life and his father that brings a different type of closure. Justice is not always perfect or transparent. "},{"Title":"Sayles Narrative Style","Date":"24 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The film Lone Star (1996) was written and directed by John Sayles who has directed other popular in depth films such as Matewan, Passion Fish, Men With Guns and Limbo. Choosing a specific genre for this film to fall into was quite tricky for both producers and film critics, but I would label this film a modern melodrama. Although, Sayles does an excellent job in narrating the complex plot and surprise ending by delivering information in small timely digestible doses, making the film much more real and simply dramatic, I would still consider this film closer to the realm of modern melodrama mainly because of the incestuous surprise ending. The film's popularity has recently increased in the past couple of years seeing that it did not do so well in the box office, this would explain why this film was definitely ahead of the times. Reflections and Reactions One of the most interesting aspects of this film involved Sayles' use of narrative style. The traditional narrative style is deconstructed through the use of intricate flash backs, characters discussion of conflicting views of History, and the use of tangible historical artifacts in order to provide a much needed connection to the past. Through this narrative style Sayles was able to touch on just about every controversial political topic thinkable for the community in the small border town. It seems that the main argument for each of the different political subjects was based on the idea of history and who ever controls that history. One strong example involves Pilar Cruz (the school teacher) trying to explain why she taught the history of the Alamo the way that she did, as disgruntled parents insist that she 'just teach what's in the books'. Pilar Cruz who is half Mexican and half White obviously has trouble swallowing the Alamo history which the state of Texas has issued her and simply wants to give a different account or viewpoint on the matter, but it is blasphemy to do so because she would be stepping out of her bounds, her element. In this town one can see that the rich, successful, and political office holding citizens are all white with the exception of one Mexican American woman, Mercedez Cruz, who has become not only a successful business owner but also a racist self hating Mexican. This theme of controlling whiteness represents an invisible institutionalized racism which has manifested itself into simply controlling the wealth, as well as history, which is why so many parents were outraged by Pilar Cruz's teaching approach because losing the control of what is taught to their children is like losing the Alamo all over again. This example of Sayles' use of history through narrative was just one small subplot from the film, which is why the film was praised by all serious film critics  "},{"Title":"Life Cut Short","Date":"19 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  John Sayles' Lone Star is, above all else, a film about the past, personal and historical, and its impact on the citizens of a small Texas town. The opening of the film sets up the theme quite nicely - we can imagine what kind of past Sayles is exploring here when two bullet collectors discover the skeleton of a corrupt sheriff. Surely, it's not a past of flowers and rainbows, but a dark and sordid one, full of conflict, greed and power struggles. Thus it comes as a surprise that a film about people who attempt to uncover the mystery and deal with the findings ends so neatly. In doing so Lone Star misses greatness, but it is hardly a bad film.That's because Sayles understands the interaction between temporal ecstasies rather well. The past affects the present and vice-versa. He shows us that we derive our identity from the past, our sense of belonging and of community. We see this illustrated through the mosaic of stories, a form of narrative brought to its perfection in Magnolia or 13 Conversations About One Thing. There is the sheriff played superbly by the pre-American Beauty Chris Cooper who gets drawn into the mystery out of duty and because of his father, in whose shadow he lives. There is his former love interest, a Mexican teacher who attempts to justify teaching a more complex version of Texan history to the kids, only to be countered by the white minority of Rio County. And we have Colonel Delmore Payne played by Terminator-2-black-guy-who-dies-to-save-the-future Joe Morton whose misconception of the past prevents a relationship with his father.The past affects the way these characters perceive themselves, others and it steers the choices they make. However Sayles' film would be incomplete if it settled for a one-sided relationship between the past and the present. Sayles is aware of this. The present, after all, also impacts they way the characters perceive the past. Cooper's Sheriff Sam Deeds is influenced by the image of his father in his investigation. The white parents of school kids carry certain biases which prevent them from understanding the complexity of the past.These interactions are fascinating when they are unraveling. Relationships build, racial and generational conflicts emerge, perceptions change and choices are made. All this occurs against a large temporal backdrop, but it comes to a far too conclusive end. While you're watching Lone Star, the atmosphere comes alive, but by its conclusion, it becomes clear that it's a neatly dissected tale about intersecting stories that were designed to come together. The film detaches itself from the viewer and says all that was supposed to happen happened exactly as planned - you may go. The problem, of course, is that the issues presented by the film should not be entirely resolved. Yes, the mystery of the skeleton, which really occurs in the background (though it drives the story), should arguably be explained. But the rest - it seems like Sayles put a lot of effort into characters that aren't allowed to argue, conflict and interact after the credits.Still, that's just me quibbling because I really wanted more. The truth of the matter is that Lone Star is a remarkably structured and directed film. It's got phenomenal performances by Chris Cooper (who always stars in *almost* great films - e.g. Adaptation or American Beauty), Kris Kristofferson as the skeleton before he becomes one and Matthew McConaughey (whom I generally don't like) as Cooper's father. Lone Star is worth seeing because it has the makings of a great film. It just isn't one.  "},{"Title":"Lone Star Filmed In My Hometown","Date":"3 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Lone Star was filmed in my hometown of Eagle Pass, Texas. It's a small, dusty, little town sitting on the border between the US and Mexico. I wasn't in town when the film was being made, but my family still lives there, and they saw a lot of the scenes being filmed, as well as a lot of the bloopers and outtakes. My brother is an extra in the film. He's in the classroom scene, and he's sitting behind the Army officer's kid. My brother is wearing a blue, button-down shirt....he borrowed it from my dad. What's funny about this is that the entire classroom is filled with people from Eagle Pass, people I know personally. Anyway, the girls who are sitting at the front of the classroom sat there because they thought, if they took a place at the front of the classroom, they'd get maximum exposure. Well, they didn't. My brother, Derek, who really didn't care about exposure time, sat wherever there was an empty seat, and that spot is where the camera was focused. Also, the police station, was filmed at the Eagle Pass City Hall building. The lake scenes were actually filmed in Del Rio, Texas, which is Eagle Pass's sister sister located less than an hour away. There is one scene where Chris Cooper goes into Mexico, and we follow his car going into Mexico, then another shot follows his car going in the opposite direction. The scene is supposed to relay Cooper's travels into Mexico, but these two shots are actually just two shots of the same car going one way, then the same car going down the same street IN THE WRONG DIRECTION. Pierdras Negras, Mexico is infamous for having only one-way streets, and if you watch carefully, you will see the same motel sign coming and going. The movie was filmed during the early spring....I know because Eagle Pass is HOTTER THAN HELL any other time of the year.Big O's place was actually a building that already existed. It was a dive bar, a hole in the wall, a place where even if you were so Jone's'n for a drink, you'd have to think twice about stepping foot in that place because it was so stank. After the film closed, the sign out front remained, but soon it was changed to something else....a strip bar. It remained open for a while, but then closed, and I'm not sure why. Anyway, if there is anything else you'd like to know about this movie, just email me at thought-fox@excite.com. Until then, enjoy the film. "},{"Title":"The Lonely Star","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Invented realities, constructed memories. That's what concerns Sayles. Storytelling through film is all about constructing realities around memories in the community. Sayles is a master film storyteller and intelligent as well. The result is a story that contains its own philosophy about storytelling. Part of this is too obvious to mention memories built around deeds and following laws of nature. Communities defining themselves in terms of constructed myths, myths which provide the skeletons for recall. New entrants in the community redefining themselves to internalize the myths. Some of this is wonderfully subtle note how Sayles folds time by simple pans. Some of this is just attention to the writing mirrors of fatherhood -- a men discovering their boys, sons discovering their fathers. History as tradition in the military, in the community, in the family. The barriers emplaced to prevent wandering from the strictures of concretized memory. The bribes to suppress new history; the threats to the lone star as he plows ahead.I consider `Limbo' to be a more masterful and affecting film because it is less introspective. But this is pretty powerful and intelligent stuff. "},{"Title":"You ever shoot a man who's looking you in the eye?","Date":"21 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a remarkable film on a number of levels, not the least of which is the startling reveal at the end of the story regarding the relationship between Sam Deeds (Chris Cooper) and Pilar Cruz (Elizabeth Pena). Additionally, two of the principal characters are already dead and seen only in flashback scenes. I can't recall this device employed in any prior films I've seen, and this adds to the complexity of the story's non-linear narrative.Above all perhaps is the sophisticated writing and direction of John Sayles, who handles the topics of racism and incest in a straightforward but non judgmental manner. I have to say, the ending left me conflicted about the direction the relationship between Sam and Pilar might take. As offspring of the same father, I would have expected there to be a lot more turmoil and conflicted feelings between the two after Sam explains everything he learned about his father's past. The dialog between the characters allows the viewer to reach their own conclusion about where they go from here, though to me it seems they were open to making things work out for themselves.The thing that really jolted me in this story was the person of Sheriff Charlie Wade as portrayed by Kris Kristofferson. I've never seen Kristofferson reach so low in the gutter before to create a character like the former sheriff. He was just vile with no regard for normal decency or human kindness. What happened to Charlie Wade was the lesser of two significant twists in the story. Having set up the viewer to expect that he was killed by former deputy Buddy Deeds (Matthew McConaughey), Sayles once again stuns the viewer with the circumstances of Wade's death. Unquestionably, Lone Star is masterful story telling with a masterful cast. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece. An understated classic.","Date":"1 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Lone Star is one of my all-time favorite films. I've watched it at least six times and each time I catch subtle nuances that I hadn't noticed before. I find it much more enjoyable, engaging and interesting than Casablanca, Strangers on a Train, Citizen Kane or The Seventh Seal. The plot is simple, yet complex. The characters are ordinary, yet multi-dimensional. The film is a detective story / mystery, a love story, a tale of redemption and a multi-layered slice-of- life. Performances are uniformly excellent. Technical aspects are more than adequate and of a quality that never distracts. The viewer never notices or is distracted by the make-up, lighting, wardrobe or sets, even though some seem contrived on repeated viewings. The two exceptions are editing and musical score, which are often noticeable, but not in a negative way. It's more like, Wow, that was a slick transition or What a great song! This is a film that everybody should watch at least three or four times. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"9 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Great movie.Even better than expected. Billed as a murder-mystery, it is that, and more. The murder-mystery part is very original and intriguing, and you're kept guessing right to the end. Around this, writer-director John Sayles spins several human-drama stories, spanning 40 years, each of which deserve a movie of their own. Even the relationships side is not without intrigue, so the whole movie requires you to piece together the puzzle, like a good drama should.Superb performance by Chris Cooper in the lead role. How he didn't get an Oscar nomination, I don't know. Good support from Elizabeth Pena, Joe Morton and Kris Kristofferson. Matthew McConaughey's character, though crucial to the plot, has very little screen time. Minor appearance from Frances McDormand too. "},{"Title":"A yarn that demands to be unspooled","Date":"7 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" It's implied on the box for Lone Star that Kris Kristofferson takes center stage as an monstrously corrupt sheriff (which I took to mean something like Denzel in Training Day). And though he is wicked, he's much more a fringe player. That was a surprise, but it turned out to be far from unpleasant. This movie is much more complicated than that; its Texas border town steeped in fictionalized history, where prejudices are ingrained and everything - right down to the characters - is more complex than at first glance. It's a procedural, but slow-burning and character-driven, and I found myself caring deeply for these people (Cooper and Peña, especially). It's very well cast (Frances McDormand's a trip in this movie) and the flashbacks are handled seamlessly with a subtle camera move. And the final fifteen minutes makes for some of the finest cinema pay-off ever, where everything finally gets laid out and you're treated to a series of narrative punches to the face.Very well done.8/10 "},{"Title":"A Texan Precursor to Crash","Date":"13 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" When the skeleton of his murdered predecessor is found, Sheriff Sam Deeds (Chris Cooper) unearths many other long-buried secrets in his Texas border town.In much the same way Crash would handle Los Angeles racial issues almost a decade later, Lone Star seems less concerned with its plot and more concerned with its racial politics. There is white and black, and white and Hispanic. Being near the border, the issues are not just racial but national, too, and the film raises the question rather forcefully whether Texas should be seen as American or Mexican.Interestingly, what makes this more than a look at race, and therefore probably a better film than Crash, is that it also brings in the matter of generations, especially fathers and sons. Through this we not only get a family dynamic, but see how race can change over the course of thirty years. "}{"Title":"A superlative movie, & my all-time favourite!","Date":"18 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" The sad news of Elizabeth Pena's death earlier this week (on 14.10.14) aged only 55 prompted me to watch the DVD of this superb movie again.The action takes place over 6 days commencing on a Tuesday morning with the discovery of a skeleton in an abandoned rifle range outside the border town of Frontera, Texas. This brings the mystery of the sudden, unexplained disappearance 40 years earlier of the town's bullying, psychopath Sheriff, Charlie Wade (played with great menace by Kris Kristofferson - there was a collective intake of breath amongst the cinema audience every time he came on screen when I first saw the film here in London in 1996!), back to the fore amongst the older residents of Frontera.Chiefly concerned is the current Sheriff, Sam Deeds (Chris Cooper) whose father (& long-term predecessor as Sheriff) Buddy had long been suspected of murdering Wade. The twists and turns of the plot as Sam talks to people who had known his two predecessors in the town & across the border in Mexico are gradually skilfully tied together. During these few days, Sam also re-kindles his romance with his high school sweetheart Pilar (played with understated elegance by Elizabeth Pena), which Buddy had forcibly ended 23 years earlier.Mr Sayles also uses a tracking technique several times in the film to great effect by switching from events happening now to those taking place in the past, using exactly the same locations.A couple of slight carps - the character of young Hollis (Buddy Deeds' co Deputy Sheriff to Charlie Wade 40 years earlier) is very under-developed, so he unfortunately comes across as a complete nonentity, & the two characters of Wesley Birdsong (Gordon Tootoosis) & Bunny, Sam's tightly wound ex-wife (an electrifying 5 minute performance by Frances McDormand) each appear out of the blue 3/4 of the way through the film with very little connection to the action up to that point - but, between them, manage to provide the final clues to enable Sam to solve the murder mystery!These are very minor criticisms in what is a beautifully shot & acted, enthralling murder mystery, which also shows how people of different cultures manage to co-exist astride the US - Mexico border. This was the first John Sayles movies I ever saw, & remains his finest, although all his other 17 films are very well worth seeing as well. "},{"Title":"Texas state of mind","Date":"15 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" John Sayles is regarded as one of the best independent film-makers about and Lone Star is a film of a man in full throttle. Its a set of interwoven stories set in two time periods as Chris Cooper a border town sheriff who has returned to his home town where his father was a legendary Sheriff investigates a 40 year old murder that may have been committed by his own father. He also rekindles a romance with a childhood, Hispanic sweetheart that his father was very much against at the time.The film is foremost a murder mystery but also deals with issues of police corruption, illegal immigration, justice, politics and racism. Sayles was rightly nominated for an Oscar for his screenplay.Chris Cooper holds the film as the dogged sheriff. Kriss Kristofferson and Matthew McConaughey make effective cameos in flashback scenes. There is a strange cameo from Frances McDormand as Cooper's ex-wife who is dealing with mental health issues which probably led to their divorce.The film is thoughtful, provocative and requires attention. Its not a slam bang or a slow burner. Many multiple stories come together as the past comes to haunt the present and relationships are made clearer. "},{"Title":"Knockout Movie","Date":"1 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Great acting by Chris Cooper, Elizabeth Pena, Matthew McCounaghy, and Kris Krostofferson help make this movie into the fine viewing experience it is.Chris Cooper, playing Sam Deeds, is seeking to know how a skeleton found on a old firing range is connected to his late father, Buddy Deeds. Buddy is a legend in the Southwestern Texas town.The atmosphere with Mexicans, blacks, illegals, white townspeople all in the mix, is great. You feel like you are there experiencing the tensions and clash of cultures good and bad.The mystery builds and with it a fantastic love story with an unexpected plot twist.Highly recommended. John Sayles has created a masterpiece here. "},{"Title":"Good , but too long and talky drama","Date":"23 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I have seen three movies of John Sayles now with this one. For me Sayles definitely works better as a writer than a director. As a writer he knows what he wants , but as a director he fails to deliver it. I get what the movie is about , I understand it and I appreciate it. The problem is that the movie feels much like a long episode of some TV drama. It's not really a cinematic experience , the pacing could be better and the movie lacks style. I wasn't involved emotionally in the whole story for one moment. As a director Sayles kinda fails to put some meaning into the story , to make it something that will stay with you long after the movie is gone. Maybe he should allow somebody else to direct his screenplays ? It doesn't mean that I wasted my time on this one. The mystery about the past of our hero's father kept me interested. Lone star is a good drama about conflict between a child and it's parent , which appears here three times (Sam , Pilar and Delmore Payne &#x96; they all in conflict with one of their parents). The movie also quite well portrays the tension between the citizens of the city &#x96; white , black , Latin . The portrayal here seems very realistic and doesn't take any sides. It's fair look at the serious problem and allows you to make your own opinion.The acting is solid , especially Kris Kristofferson as the evil sheriff. The characters are likable. The screenplay has it's share of good humor and some nice twists near the end.The movie with a better direction and 30 minutes shorter (some subplots don't seem that necessary) could be a really great one. Still , it's a good movie. I give it 7/10. "},{"Title":"Forget the Alamo","Date":"29 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" In this Texas detective story, a sheriff finds himself investigating the past of his own father, a man who was also his predecessor as sheriff, and a local hero everywhere except in his own household. The characters may be slow-moving and tight-lipped out of habit, but the ambiguity of their feelings is plain, and a strength of this drama, as is the way the plot weaves in many aspects of life in a border town. Perhaps some aspects of the way that town life is portrayed are a little too stylised, a little anachronistic, the reality of Mexican-American relations shown through the lens of the traditional western but but film stays consistently within the world it has created. In terms of overall mood, there are elements that resemble the later 'No Country For Old Men', but without that movie's fall-back psychopath-driven plot, it offers a more interesting and ultimately humane vision of south Texas life. "},{"Title":"Very noir...","Date":"28 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" If anything I found this one a little too complex; there were several threads that seemed totally unrelated to the main thrust of the story. It's also, I felt, a little too long; the filmmakers are asking quite a lot for an audience to concentrate for two hours and fifteen minutes. It is slow paced, but I didn't particularly mind that; I'm used to the noir style and it is usually quite a slow burner. Some great performances with Chris Cooper coping well with the leading role and Kris Kristofferson playing the villain of the peace with gusto. Also we have Elizabeth Peña, who did an excellent job as the female lead and a small part for Matthew McConaughey as Buddy Deeds. Although it does have its problems I still found it an excellent watch; definitely one to look out for for all you noir fans out there.SteelMonster's verdict RECOMMENDEDMy score 7.5/10.You can find an expanded version of this review on my blog Thoughts of a SteelMonster. "},{"Title":"A hidden gem.","Date":"26 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Never thought I would see Matthew McConaughey playing Chris Cooper's farther! But yes, don't worry. It has to do with the simple fact that this movie keeps switching back and forth between present time and the past. With the use of flashback it slowly starts to become more apparent what happened 40-years before a skeleton got dug up, somewhere in the Texas desert. Lots of different story lines and characters end up getting intertwined but luckily the movie never becomes a messy or confusing one.It's actually a nice thing the movie has so many different characters in it, with each their own thing happening. It makes the movie, that otherwise probably would had been kind of slow, one that has always something happening in it and never becomes dull or a drag. You could actually say that the movie thrives on its characters. Everything that is happening and going on in this movie is due to them. They makes things interesting, as basically all of them need to come on terms with themselves and their past. This really ain't no ordinary murder mystery but more of a character-piece instead!And the movie of course has a great cast for that. The movie is well cast, especially when considering that most of the actors who appear in this movie weren't being big stars yet at the time. This for instance goes for Chris Cooper and Matthew McConaughey. All of the actors did a great job in this movie and were given plenty of opportunity to shine in this one.The movie at first truly feels like a Coen-brothers movie and it maintains this sort of feeling and style pretty much throughout the entire movie but it's being a bit more drama than comedy orientated. I actually do believe that if the Coen-brothers directed this movie it would had been a far better known was, as well as a better one I feel. The movie could had used some humor and entertainment in at times, since the right type of story and characters were definitely there for it.But oh well, the movie was going for a different approach and it still is for most part being successful with it as well. It simply great, little and simple movie to watch and there is also no good reason why you shouldn't!8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"It's not like there's a line between the good people and the bad people. It is not like you're one or the other.","Date":"1 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Lone Star is written and directed by John Sayles. It stars Chris Cooper, Joe Morton, Stephen J. Lang, Stephen Mendillo, Elizabeth Peña and Kris Kristofferson. Music is scored by Mason Daring and cinematography by Stuart Dryburgh.The small Texas town of Rio County is rocked when a human skeleton is found in the sand and a Rio County Sheriff's badge found near by. The evidence points to it being the body of one time Sheriff Charlie Wade, a vile man who bullied the town for gratification and who one day just disappeared. Current Sheriff Sam Deeds begins investigating, knowing full well that there's a good chance the murderer could have be his own father, Buddy, who was known to have stood up to Wade with some hostile conviction.A hugely enjoyable pulpy mystery that's given a cunning make over by the talented Sayles. The who done it question at the film's core is merely one ingredient in this particular stew, this deals in themes such as violence, racism and family strife, the impact of lawmen on one small town, spread out across two generations. All the characters are interesting and well delineated, the dialogue as part of a non-linear narrative is precise and telling, while Sayles proves to be a stylistic craftsman by presenting two scenes 40 years apart within the same shot. A morality tale of some substance, with cast performances to match, it's a film sure to reward more with each viewing. 8/10 "},{"Title":"This Stretch Of Road Runs Between Nowhere And Not Much Else","Date":"28 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Sam Deeds is the son of a late but much beloved Texas county sheriff who has inherited his father's job. But when a body is dug up from forty years ago and Sam investigates he discovers his father's illustrious past contains some dark and painful secrets ...This Texican murder mystery is one of Sayles' many beautifully constructed and densely populated character dramas (see also City Of Hope and Sunshine State) where, as with so much of his work, every single person is interesting, thoughtful and fully-rounded. This film is also a beautiful example of how to elegantly switch a narrative back and forward through two different eras, both visually through lovely little panning shots which dip in and out of time, and plot-wise as gradually the gauze covering the complex relationships is slowly lifted to reveal what has made the characters who they are. This is immensely satisfying as the pieces fit together, delicately played by a sensational ensemble cast who understand exactly what the story is trying to achieve. Cooper and Peña are both superb as the middle-aged leads, both working county jobs, both struggling to find any meaning to their lives, both unable to move on from a fateful past together. The older actors steal the show with irascible wit, and pragmatism and regret written in equal measure on their faces - Canada in particular is outstanding - and Morton is terrific as ever in one of many parts for Sayles as the no-nonsense army man forced to embrace the tenderness he has long considered a weakness. Perhaps the casting masterstroke though is country legend Kristofferson as the thoroughly evil ghost from the past, whose violent brand of personal justice is horrifyingly plausible. Full of poignant moments, clever misdirection, evocative locations, heartfelt performances and funny lines (when Sam is headed to Mexico and tells a colleague he's going to the other side, the response is Republicans ?), with a fine story and a great ending, this is high quality drama all the way. Shot in the beautiful south-western Texas border cities of Del Rio, Eagle Pass and Laredo. "},{"Title":"Chris and Kris....","Date":"26 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Chris Cooper and Kris Kristofferson respectively, play two Mexican border sheriffs in John Sayle's excellent movie, but one is dead and the other is very much alive.This is a brooding, simmering and multi-layered drama of the highest order. The pacing is quite superb, unfolding like a great novel and keeps one quietly riveted for all of its two & a quarter hours. The characters are all so well rounded, their persona's so completely but subtly explored that one lives in and breathes every scene.Watching again on BBC2, after several year's gap, it still smacks of being totally relevant and up to date. Wrapped up within its celluloid binding is a tale of every family nuance, racial bigotry and human thought and emotion that a Chekov might. The soundtrack, too, is wonderfully eclectic and fitting.The plot is involved, but easy to follow, and never patronising in its assumptions. Other reviewers have explored it further than I'm going to and I'm simply reinforcing their voices and opinions and say that Lone Star is a must-see film. "}{"Title":"Just fantastic","Date":"29 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" One of my top 20 movies of all time. After 3 viewings this feature just keeps getting better. This movie has a most unusual depth and diversity of characters and cultures that spans many generations (at times back into 19th century history), the only film I can think of that comes close is Gone with the Wind. The crime scene investigation is only the outermost layer of the onion. It is a metaphor for one man's quest for Truth in a deeply flawed human world that strongly prefers myths. The movie is an exploration of the inexorable individual, generational, cultural, and racial baggage that haunts our mortal existence. It is about the human connections that transcend imagined and ever-changing boundaries. The school PTA meeting scene is not an irrelevant tangent. It is an encapsulation of this central underlying theme. When the white man dances with the Hispanic woman in a Mexican restaurant in Texas to an Ivory Joe Hunter rhythm and blues song sung in Spanish by Freddy Fender you should get the picture! This film is a rich tapestry that can fairly be called Shakesperian. In classic form, the multiple layers of mythologies are slowly revealed to be solace from the boundless tragedy of human truths. This is a must see film about the threads of humanity that link (and separate) us all across many generations. Strongly recommended. Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"You are not alone, Lone Star","Date":"17 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a complex movie, for sure. And i like it because of that.I watch this movie twice. At my first watch, i thought the movie is an okay, i rated it 6/10. But, it made me think, how could a movie this good is an okay for me? So, I decided to watch it again last night. And, ..... wow!!! The acting, the cinematography, the screenplay(the best part from this movie, i guess), and score match together like it made by heaven. It has more than one messages, but don't worry . John Sayles(Director) invited us in a believable way. In my opinion, the twist is one of the best.Bravo!!!! "},{"Title":"She ain't heavy, she's my sister","Date":"16 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" What is so thoroughly false is the way the scene tries to render the 'mind of the Nazi' - here the split between attraction and repulsion - as his direct psychological self-experience a deceptive 'humanisation' in that it is wrong to assume that Nazi executioners experienced the contradictions of their racist attitudes in the form of psychological doubt. The only way to have rendered this split attitude correctly would have been to stage the scene in a de-psychologised, mocking Brechtian manner, with the actor directly addressing the public 'I, the commander of the concentration camp, find this girl sexually attractive, however, I am also impregnated by the racist ideology which tells me that Jews are filthy and unworthy of my attention. So I do not know how to decide.' &#x96; Slavoj Zizek (on Schindler's List) Regarded by many as the director's best film, John Sayles' Lone Star takes place in a Texan border town. Here a cast of Mexicans, Texans and African Americans mull over the usual John Sayles topics ethnic tensions, cultural assimilation, politics, education, capitalism, forced excavation and even ethnic cleansing. And as usual with Sayles, this multi-ethnic, multi-class, multi-generation tale is told via an ensemble cast, subplots criss-crossing and co-mingling until the film's message coalesces.Until its climax, Lone Star is fairly riveting, not only a superior version of race-relation movies like Grand Canyon and Paul Haggiss' Crash, but a tense Southern Noir, with that genre's usual assortment of showdowns, criminal investigations and murder mysteries. When the film reveals its point, however, you realise how small an artist Sayles is. He's a far-left Stanley Kramer, a maker of middlebrow message moves which often chew on Big Issues in the most obvious, condescending ways imaginable.The plot the always excellent Chris Cooper plays a Texan Sheriff who symbolically puts his long dead father on trial. Did daddy, the film asks, commit a murder many years ago? Did the murdered man, a symbolic totem of America's racist past, deserve to die? Was Daddy himself racist? Why did Daddy prevent the young Cooper from striking up a relationship with a Mexican girl? By the film's end, Sayles has dredged up the past and used interracial sex as a cynosure for racial harmony and racial equality. If whites, blacks, Indians and Mexicans can have some good ole interracial sex, and produce some smiley-toothed mixed race kids, everything will be all right. This is a common trope in cinema. Be it Avatar, Monster's Ball, Dances With Wolves, Sayonara, Heaven and Earth, Passage To India, The Searchers, A Man Called Horse etc etc, interracial sex is always used as a clunky metaphor for the soothing of racial tensions, the white man humping Mexicans, giant blue aliens, native American Indians, and Africans as a form of racial therapy. This is miscegenation and clitoral stimulation as affirmative action, the implication being that the Other can only be made whole again if the white man takes her in, accepts her, as a sexual object, object of beauty, or in a benevolent, paternalistic way. In other words, unless chosen for sex, unless deemed physically attractive by your suitor, you remain debased, an animal beneath compatibility with true Homo Sapiens.In many ways, Lone Star is a glorified version of the cellar scene in Schindler's List, in which ideology is understood as a literal moment of psychological doubt between attraction and hatred. Ie &#x96; my country tells me to hate Africans/Blue-Aliens/Jews/Indians, but my eyes tell me they are sexy; which is right? Of course you never see these films from the perspective of the woman. It is always the male symbolically inducting, from a position of authority, the foreign subject into the realm of Western norms of sex, civilisation and sexuality. And such narratives always posit sex as being evidence against primitivism, rather than itself being a product of a primal desire for ownership, domination, even a desire to be desired. A better question is whether ideology can really be undermined by giving way to sexual desire or permissiveness. In some ways yes, in most ways no; things are much too complex.Lone Star works well when it's sticking to pulpy, genre conventions, Sayles serving up a nice little Western/noir/drama hybrid; along these lines its brilliant. Unfortunately the film's dialogue is comprised mostly of lectures, on the nose preaching and spoon-feeding. Sayles is always explaining himself. Of the cast, Sayles regulars Kris Kristofferson and Chris Cooper shine. They have wonderful faces, and know how to chew scenery without speaking.7.9/10 &#x96; Though excellent, underrated, well-meaning and much more visually confident than Sayles other films, this ultimately becomes a very middle-brow message movie. Worth two viewings. "},{"Title":"This is a quietly excellent movie about murder, racism, and love.","Date":"14 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Lone StarChris Cooper plays present-day Sheriff Sam Deeds, filling the boots of his late father, Sheriff Buddy Deeds. Much of the movie is told in flashback by director John Sayles, with the camera panning from a present day scene to the location of some event in the Fifties where we see it replayed, then panning back to the present characters, lost in recollection of those days gone by. It works very well, without having to have title cards telling us when we've moved in time.The story takes place in a sleepy hick town in Texas on the Mexican border, near a US Army base. In this town, everyone has a past. Even the sheriffs. Sam has gone through a divorce, and we get to see him with his ex-wife, Bunny (Frances McDormand). It's a heart-tugging scene, as it becomes clear Bunny will never be the son her father wanted.Sam moves back home to see his high school flame, Pilar (Elizabeth Pena). However, his father's friends press him to run for sheriff because the name Buddy Deeds still carries weight, and the current sheriff isn't popular. Sam wins, but it's no victory for him. Sheriff Buddy Deeds took over the job when Sheriff Charlie Wade (played with great menace by Kris Kristofferson), a corrupt, racist man, simply disappeared, never to be heard from again. Since Wade was hated by all the blacks and browns in town, it was a toss up who did him in, and sleeping dogs were let lie.But Sleep ... knits up the ravell'd sleeve of care, and Sam keeps getting clues across his sheriff's desk that he can't ignore. Clues about who murdered Wade; unfortunately, the clues point all over the place -- to the African American bar owner who ran numbers in the backroom, a Mexican who ran wetbacks across the Rio Grande in the back of his truck, and it takes some quiet patience to knit up the unraveled threads that go back about forty years.Sam renews his acquaintance with Pilar, and we meet her mother and learn her mother's past. The African American bar owner has a past, too, and it's bound up with the current base commander (Joe Morton, lately in the TV series Eureka). Sam patiently knits the clues into a fabric that tells the story, and we find that everyone's past is intertwined. As Sam pulls it all together, he discovers more than he bargained for. Much more.Although there is violence in the movie, it takes a back seat to the development of character. We watch Sam shed his old skin, accept his divorce, and move on. Elizabeth Pena is very good, giving us novels with a brief pause in her walk when she sees Sam again. It's a movie for patient people, and the patience is rewarded with an ending that is moving.John Sayles directed The Brother from Another Planet, a completely off beat picture totally unlike Lone Star except that it stars Joe Morton. And Chris Cooper played Colonel Frank Fits, a character totally unlike Sam, in American Beauty. And Frances McDormand - I haven't seen her in a film I didn't like Blood Simple, Fargo, Burn After Reading. "},{"Title":"Viva El Tex-Mex","Date":"4 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film imparts to viewers a generally accurate impression of the Tex-Mex ambiance in and around Texas border towns strung out along the Rio Grande from Brownsville to El Paso. The rich colors, the semi-arid desert landscape, the music, the vocal twang, the food, the clothes, etc., all look, sound, and feel legit, a tribute to the film's casting, production design, costumes, acting, dialogue, soundtrack, and cinematography. The only problem is that Blacks are not nearly as numerous as Lone Star would lead one to believe.I wish I could viva el cuento, but I can't. The story here combines sordid personal relationships in a small, fictional border town, with a forty year old murder, all told in periodic flashbacks. The plot is unnecessarily complex. It rambles and it meanders. The film's too many, and not well defined, characters come and go in a haphazard way. And that results in a jumble of loosely related and, at times, confusing subplots.Lone Star reminds me of a much older film, one from 1971, about life in a small Texas town. The Last Picture Show contained all the realism of rural Texas in the early 50s. But, in addition, it told a straightforward story; it had well defined characters; and it effectively blended humor into the poignant drama.I enjoyed the Tex-Mex atmosphere of Lone Star. But when I want to watch a Texas film with a satisfying story, I will be more inclined to watch The Last Picture Show. "},{"Title":"Deep in the heart","Date":"23 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Lone Star has the distinction of being probably the only movie ever shot in Eagle Pass, TX.  Nor is that its only distinction. Sam Deeds, the reluctant sheriff of fictional Rio County, TX, investigates a 40-year-old mystery when a human skeleton turns up in the desert.  The body is identified as Charlie Wade, thug, murderer, racist goon -- and former sheriff, missing since 1957 or so.  The investigation seems to cast suspicion on Buddy Deeds, Wade's successor, who became a local hero of legendary status -- to everyone except his son Sam.  The resolution of the mystery reminds one of the conclusion of The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance.En route to that resolution, the movie takes an unhurried and unsentimental look at the dynamics and tensions of race -- white, Mexican, black, and Indian -- in a waning border town. A fine cast helps Chris Cooper is Sam Deeds; Elizabeth Pena is his main squeeze and then some; and Frances McDormand is memorable in a one-scene role as Sam's ex-wife Bunny, an avid Dallas Cowboys fan accurately described as highly-strung. In extensive flashbacks, Kris Kristofferson is Charlie Wade and Matthew McConaughey is Buddy Deeds.A sad but absorbing story, Lone Star has the ring of truth. "},{"Title":"An intelligent modern western","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Lone Star is a thought provoking and absorbing mystery set in a modern day frontier town. The discovery of a skull in the desert forces the sherriff, played by Chris Cooper, to re-evaluate both his own past and the past of his much beloved, deceased father. Full of excellent performances, including an inspired turn by Kris Kristofferson as a sadistic local sheriff, and with a plot that contains enough twists and turns to keep any viewer interested, Lone Star comes highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Mellow, scorching small town saga","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A beautifully told tale of jealousy, power, corruption, cruelty and family, this little gem piles in heaps of characters and masses of backstory, betraying its literary origins in its complexity but losing nothing for it. The intricacy of the tale is wonderfully well-worked, allowing the alert viewer to follow the story without assuming stupidity and flagging every hinted-at event or emotion for the hard of thinking. The heat surrounding our Texan characters is reflected in the heat of their passions, as a town sheriff investigates his local hero father's possible involvement in the death of a previous, corrupt lawman, portrayed with vigorous meanness by the great Kris Kristofferson. A proud moment for all involved, this is powerful, intelligent filmmaking, portraying real people, situations and emotions with great skill. Definitive modern-day western viewing. "},{"Title":"A Classic","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Lone Star cemented John Sayles' place as the best director working today. Every film of his is different from the last and each one is a solid piece of filmmaking.This film (as many of Sayles' films) tells many different stories concentrating on several characters. To go too deeply into it would spoil the sheer joy of experiencing it for yourself.It opens with the discovery of a skull in the desert. Might it be the skull of the long missing sheriff (superbly played by Kris Kristofferson in flashback)? It's up to Chris Cooper, the current sheriff and son of a deputy of the missing sheriff to solve the mystery. But there is SO much more. So many other stories including Cooper rekindling a romance with his old sweetheart that leads to a shocking revelation.The pace is slow but the film is so involving you never notice. Credit, again, must go to Sayles for his crisp direction and beautiful screenplay. And the very last line of the film sums it all up. It's a haunting line and one of the best closing lines in movie history. "},{"Title":"Another feather in John Sayles's cap","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Yeah, I know.  I live in Wichita Falls, TX, but I first saw Lone Star when I was living in New Jersey.  Now that that's out of the way...I think, next to Men With Guns, this is the best John Sayles movie.  There are very few directors who can pack this much plot into a film and make every aspect work.  Rekindled romance, social issues of whites, blacks, and mexicans, and a murder mystery that would make Raymond Chandler jealous.I like to lump Sayles right along side John Huston.  They were probably the best in the business, but becaues neither one worked in a specific genre, they are more or less forgotten.  How about a John Huston double feature of The Treasure of the Sierra Madre and Annie! "}{"Title":"What a powerful movie to not have been noticed.","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I went to Blockbuster to rent Wonder Boys, The Contender, and Almost Famous, but I had noticed this movie on the Frances McDormand list of filmography.  I'd never heard of it and didn't expect much, so you must imagine my surprise to find that this was by far the best of my selections that day.  I didn't like ANY of the first three movies, but Lone Star just blew me away in the masterful weaving of plots, sub-plots, flashbacks (which I'm not always a fan of), and personality conflicts.  I'm a native of Texas, so I know much about the border history.  This movie tells a great tale of how many survived and didn't survive.  Interesting to note the bitterness of Mercedes insisting that all those around her only speak English.  This is the United States!. I will purchase this movie and watch it again and again.  I didn't pay close enough attention at the beginning of the movie during the setup as to who was whom, and I found myself lost later on as to who had actually died and who had been the bad guys.  This was my fault and not the movie's.  John Sayles was nominated for Best Writing, Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen but did not win.  What are these people thinking in the Academy when they vote?  McDormand's 5 minutes on the screen were great as usual.  She is one my favorites since Fargo.  Chris Cooper really holds everything together, and everyone else in the film is perfectly cast and characters expertly portrayed. Highly, I say highly, recommended!! Aloha  "},{"Title":"A movie that stays on your mind","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I had never heard of this movie until my husband brought it home from Blockbuster and said a coworker had recommended it. I watched it twice in two days and am thinking about watching it again before we take it back. An incredibly subtle film, not flashy or on-your-face, with a complex but easy-to-follow plot, just right dialogue and a life lesson in every frame. Highly recommended.  "},{"Title":"A terrific little film","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Why was this film so overlooked?  I certainly don't have theanswer,  but if you're looking for a great independent film,  this is agreat place to be.  Sayles has never been better,  the story tighter,or the acting as wonderful.  Everyone is perfectly cast, and thoughthe pace may be a little different than what we've grownaccustomed to (i.e. it can be a little slow) it's definitely worth it.  Andthe new DVD is such a great quality,  I was shocked.  I think it wasbetter than when I saw it in the theaters......      "},{"Title":"A modern American frontier classic","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This masterfully done film shows some of the social tensions on the southern border of the U.S.  Chris Cooper's performance was masterful.  I was happy to see him in a sympathetic role, as he usually plays a rather sneering villain - and is quite good at it!  This is the type of movie that demands one's complete attention, with all of its finely crafted plot lines.  The final denouement was a surprise to me, as it will be to all first-time viewers.  Every actor outdid himself - or herself in this fine film.  One of the best I've ever seen! "},{"Title":"One of the ten best American movies ever.","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Anyone hoping to understand American culture must see this one.  The story is current yet historic.  The cast is brilliantly conceived ,and the atmosphere is right now.  America is about amalgamation, and this film tells a small story about all of us.  It's immortal.  Thanks for stories, directors and actors like these. "},{"Title":"Richer than buttercake","Date":"5 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I've seen this movie about 15 times since it came out, and I have yet to be bored with a single frame.  This is the film that films like Magnolia want to be.  With a plot based on coincidence, long-held secrets, murder, betrayal, the shadowy acts of good men, and families driven apart, there are probably 3 or 4 ordinary films in Lone Star.  But Sayles (finally) takes only the best and creates an Escher drawing of a movie.  Creativity shows in every aspect from plotting to scrupting to cinematography.  Fine performances all around, with Elizabeth Pena and Kris Kristofferson especially good, and an interesting cameo from Frances McDormand.  Add in a wonderful soundtrack and you wonder why this film was ignored for the awards. "},{"Title":"Will go down as a classic!","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I first saw this movie when it came out and then again this past week-end on TNT.It has lost nothing of its power and punch in the four years since its release.John Sayles is proving over and over again just how very talented he is and what a good eye/ear he has for directing/dialogue. This movie does not snap along, it's slow and builds to a powerful conclusion, with a surprise twist thrown in for good measure.I'm going to purchase this movie for my collection.  It's that good. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Masterful.","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A splendid combination of compelling storytelling and character development. Real human beings populate this tale, not cliche'd Hollywood stereotypes. Understated performances point up issues that actually matter in real life. First rate in every respect.   "},{"Title":"Brilliant, brilliant film","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film's intelligence embarrasses most films.  This film is so complex, and so thoughtful in its dialogue, that it barely seems possible that someone could be so intelligent as to write this film, keeping the continuity as strong as it is.  But writer/director John Sayles, who has been brilliant before but has reached a new level here, is more than up to the task.  He spins a multiracial, multigenerational story, in a murder mystery that is a perfect web.  There are no illogical steps, no misplaced scenes.  Each scene becomes more meaningful after people realize the full scope of the film.  The ending, which is a surprise, is not played for shock value, but for retrospection.  It is played with the quiet confidence of a film that knows its surprise ending comes out of the story and the characters, and not from some Hollywood need for shock.  Lone Star is a richly satisfying film and a reminder that films can still exercise that most important of muscles, the brain. "},{"Title":"the best movie about american history I have ever seen","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  We live with the past.  We live with former enemies.  We nurse some old wounds and forget others.Lone Star is about history.  Sure, it's about a man and a woman and a murder, about a small Texas town, about cultures colliding, about lies and secrets.  But it's about America in the dusk of the twentieth century. It's about coming to terms with history.Lines are drawn in this film, lines of demarcation between Anglos and Latinos and Blacks, between the old and the young, between the past and the present, between truth and memory.  Ultimately, Sayles tries to express that these lines are all results of failure to communicate, failure to come to terms (in the literal sense).  We are doomed to repeat the mistakes of the past because we can't seem to learn to listen to one another, to look an old enemy in the face and see not an enemy but a man.If I've made the movie sound highfalutin' and inaccessable, I'm sorry, because it's also a compelling mystery (whose bones are buried on old firing range?), a sweet and sexy love story, and great fun to watch.I'm not one for ranking and lists, but if I had to name the best film of the last ten years (or may favorite film of the last ten years--they wouldn't be the same lists), Lone Star would be alone at the top. "}{"Title":"A low key classic","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  What others say here I agree to for the most part-excellant performances, intricate plot that never fails to get you right Here as you watch it unspool. I had to watch this through twice to really get it-parts I liked the best were everything with Chris Cooper digging into Kristofferson's past, and Cooper's affair with Elizabeth Pena.(What a twist involving them, too, at the end huh?) I liked the international links in the film, and the way that Sayles showed how all the differing races, cultures and languages intertwine in the town, the plot and in each other's lives. You don't see this in today's movies all that much now, the movie had an off-hand '70's feel to it-and I mean that in the best way.So-my rating-**** outta ****, you will enjoy this if you like good movies. "},{"Title":"Perhaps the best movie ever made","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Lone Star is one of those rare movies that draws together everything that a good movie should be.  It's not the most beautiful film ever made (for that, it's a tie between The Sweet Hereafter or Exotica, by Atom Egoyan) or the most brilliant (Citizen Kane), but it's the best movie ever that bridges the gap between popcorn entertainment and art.  What starts out as a simple murder mystery will throw you for a loop.  The relationships between the characters are more intimate than one would suspect at first glance.  And then there's Bunny... "},{"Title":"I just loved it","Date":"3 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I just loved it!  I thought Mendillo and Pena had great chemistry going and the art direction and cinematography perfectly nailed the feel of the border town.  It's hard to find a flaw in this movie, as far as I'm concerned. "},{"Title":"It has all the makings of a classic.","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It is by far John Sayles finest movie.It is shows an honest depiction of life in a West Texas town.   The love story of the old high school sweethearts. murder mystery, and homecomings.  Lone Star has all the makings of a classic for years to come.  A cant miss for one who wants a well directed and acted flick.  "},{"Title":"A wonderful movie starring God's gift to women","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Briefly, this is one of the 100 best movies ever created.I am not a rabid John Sayles fan but this one sucked me in from the very first frame. The complexity and the weaving of past and present is amazing -- the circular motion where many different threads are actually leading to a very similar place - reminds me of another great film, L.A. Confidential.Having said that, I must also say that Chris Cooper is one of the hottest men in film today. (And he can act, of course). His two and a half second sex scene with Elizabeth Pena (who I adore- remember Jacob's Ladder?) was worth twenty minutes of seeing almost any other actor I can think of between the sheets. (On film of course). "},{"Title":"good, but not Sayles's best","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  First, an acknowledgment  John Sayles's is incapable of making a bad film.  He is the godfather of the independent film movement, working as a writer (often a re-writer called in to rescue a weak script) until he has enough money to make the film he wants on his own, without help from a studio.  I would rather watch the out-takes from any of his films than most completed Hollywood blockbusters.  His writing is always intelligent and complex, with a well-defined political sensibility.  His films challenge the viewer to think, and then to care.  In addition, he has developed a stable of remarkably fine actors (Chris Cooper, David Strathairn, even Gordon Clapp -- those who saw him play a killer in _Matewan_, know his acting range goes far beyond Medavoy on _NYPD Blue_) whom he uses repeatedly and with whom he obviously has a special rapport._Lone Star_ has a lot going for it.  Cooper, Kris Kristofferson, and the best performance yet from Matthew McConaghey.  An interesting social milieu.  A challenging and debatable moral (sometimes it is best, even necessary, to forget history).  A storyline that includes romance, racial divisions, and a murder mystery.  And to those who have called the style Tarantino-ish, I disagree completely.  They may both use flashbacks, but Tarentino does so as a way to subvert traditional narrative, whereas Sayles does so in order to strengthen his narrative by showing us a backstory -- very different things.But in any case, in _Lone Star_  all these elements don't all quite work together.  The romance is a little tepid.  The tension between the white, black, and Mexican communities comes across a bit heavy handedly (unlike in _Matewan_, where the dynamics of a three-sided community -- white Appalachians, blacks, and Italians -- are always unpredictable).  The political message is less effective than in other Sayles movies such as _Men With Guns_, _Eight Men Out_ and the aforementioned _Matewan_, perhaps because 1990's American politics is harder for people to care about; everyone seems too petulant.  The murder mystery isn't much of one.  And both I and the person with whom I saw the film guessed the final revelation about a third of the way into the film.That doesn't make _Lone Star_ a bad film, as I said.  It's better than 90% of the things you can rent.  But it isn't the John Sayles film to start with, if you've never seen one.  Start with _Eight Men Out_, which may be the best baseball movie ever made, or _Matewan_, one of the few movies about the Appalachians that doesn't make everyone out to be Ma & Pa Kettle, or _The Secret of Roan Inish_, a film both children over ten or so and their parents can love. "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Film That Was Miserably Marketed...","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  When I first saw trailers for this movie about three years ago, I remember thinking it sounded like Western, so I didn't go see it.  Despite Matthew McConaughey.Anyway, it turns out that Lone Star is Robert Altman meets Social Classes in Texas.  It was a delight to see Elizabeth Pena again, who isn't in nearly enough movies.  Absolutely recommended. "},{"Title":"Complex and captivating","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a movie about people and how they relate to their environment, as well as how the environment guides their lives and position in life.What sounds like a cliché (and not a very good one) turns out to be a powerful premise for a film that is both balanced and compelling, grabbing one's attention through a rich and complex plot that shows the coexistence of three different ethnic groups in a small town on the U.S. border with México, each one with a reason to be there.  Without really making any social or political point, it certainly depicts an interesting subplot out of the racial issue, in a community where openness has not totally erased mistrust.The effective portrayal of characters is also to be noted, as well as the overall craftmanship of the film.One more thing Despite the fact that the story is placed in southern Texas, there is a sheriff present and a lot of characters use cowboy hats, I wouldn't be sure this is enough to make this movie a western.  "},{"Title":"Clever, Well-done, and Low-Key","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was a surprise; I didn't know anything about it, or the director. The film is very subtle, even in the end, when it takes several wrenching twists.  It is also well-acted, the kind of story that would be much less effective with a popular, high-profile stars.  Its social commentary is not heavy-handed.  Overall, the best phrase to describe this film is well-crafted.  I have only watched it once because I think repeated viewings would diminish my enjoyment.  It is in that class of artistic products which can be compared to the fledgling efforts of a talented student; they show promise, ingenuity, inspiration, insight, and, occasionally, brilliance.  Yet it is clear that it is not a *masterpiece*, it is not complete in some way.  Like the student who performed well on an exercise, it is still only an exercise.  If you would like to watch an interesting, high-quality drama, which isn't goofy, sappy, depressing, or extreme in any direction, Lone Star will be enjoyed. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest of American films.","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I remember seeing this film in 1996 and being totally, utterly enthralled by the experience. I can only think of a handful of American films of comparable richness, thematic intricacy , and profoundity. A reviewer for The British Catholic magazine The Tablet, compared it to Middlemarch in its cast of characters and its social analysis.The comparison was, in fact , richly deserved. All of the characters are magnificently portrayed, and Canada, Pena, Cooper-and especially Kristofferson, all deserved oscar nominations...as did John Sayles. Now let me me think..what WAS the waterlogged mess that DID win the Oscar that year? Oh, excuse  me, 1996 was the year the dry, sandy mess won.Let me just say it Lone star was the greatest American film on American themes  since the seventies;Sayles even surpassed Goodfellas and Unforgiven. The only film of the nineties that comes even remotely close as a meditation on history and tradition is The Age of Innocence. "}{"Title":"Social analysis of Lone Star","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The underlying theme behind the film Lone Star essentially revolves around the assimilation and struggles of American culture. The meshing of cultures in Rio county is especially flagrant because it is juxtaposed on the border between the US and Mexico. The struggle to assimilate is also combined with the struggle between generations. The audience faces three families one Mexican, one White, and one Black. Parallels drawn between the experiences of the families' result in confronting the audience with issues of race and class and the role they play in the education and politics of a small town. The film heavily relies on old memories, rendered as flashbacks, to extricate the jumble of the past. "},{"Title":"Life ain't simple on the border","Date":"29 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a great film about the American Experience.  It's a movie about generations, the gaps they must overcome, and the taks of leaving the shadows of famous (or notorious) parentage.  All the characters, from Otis and his son and grandson, to Sheriff Dodds and his father, Sheriff Dodds, all of the main characters need come to importnat relalizations about their common past of the frontier of America.There are no easy answers.  But for this group of Texans, the first step to the future is the last line in the film  Forget the Alamo.A classic, snubbed on all counts by the MPAA. "},{"Title":"Poignant love story, a search for identity, and Great Western!","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  One of my all-time favorite films of recent years, LONE STAR scores on all fronts.  This southwestern border town is a composite of America and its cultural mix, but it also contains the very human and complex people who make this film so special.  Add to that a great sound track, and you have the making of a special movie treat.I've seen it four times and would recommend it to anyone!! "},{"Title":"Interesting characters in a complex environment.","Date":"9 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  There's more than a crime going on here -- there's issues of class, race, culture clashes galore.  Lone Star takes the history between Mexico and Texas and adds believable characters to it.  No one and nothing is what it seems.  Certainly not a typical western.  It's on my recommended list for people who like the unconventional in their movies. "},{"Title":"This is a great story, beautifully told.","Date":"2 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of the best movies of all time.  It does not have any great special effect or great actors.  It only has a great story and great acting. "},{"Title":"Big and Bright","Date":"23 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A true classic and one of my all time favorites.An engrossing tale of the effects of it's history on a small Texas border town.  Makes comments on political issues with very individual characters. Very funny at points also.The whole cast is wonderful.  Chris Cooper, Elizabeth Pena and Kris Kristofferson make the biggest impression.John Sayles writing should have won the Oscar it was up for and it deserved more nominations especially Picture, Director and some acting nods.Look for it under mystery suspense or drama in your local video store.  Not to be missed. "},{"Title":"This film is pure art","Date":"28 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" One of the top 10 films of all time for me. Lone Star was a jaw dropping experience the first time I saw it, and more so, fun each time I revisit it for the appreciation of the art of the craft. The seamless and cut-less transitions through time are remarkable. Almost every scene added a subtle piece of the puzzle that completed the story. The characters are both believable and richly developed. Putting big name actors with inflated persona's in these roles would have overshadowed the storyline and diluted the effect of the film. This is an overlooked sleeper in the cinematic world and a must see for anyone looking for something memorable of substance devoid of cgi special effects, car chases and explosions. "},{"Title":"Sayles' Masterpiece","Date":"20 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" A skeleton is discovered in a Texas border town, prompting the sheriff to start an investigation that sheds light on his father, a former sheriff and a legendary figure. Using the racial tensions among whites, blacks, and Mexicans as a backdrop, Sayles spins an absorbing if somewhat unwieldy tale of love and hate. Complementing his writing skills, Sayles' direction and editing are assured and masterful. In a low-key performance, Cooper is excellent as the laconic, thoughtful sheriff intent on uncovering the truth even if it implicates the memory of his father. Pena is equally good as the childhood sweetheart with whom Cooper tries to rekindle a romance. "},{"Title":"Bring along the blackboard and chalk","Date":"4 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" It'd been a few years since I last watched this film. Since it's a series of tightly woven mysteries set in one small Texas town over about a 40 year period, it's probably good to let go of what I knew, and re-experience it fresh. It's written, produced, and directed by John Sayles, who did one of my favorite films, The Secret of Roan Inish. He is very good at creating atmospheric mood, detailing, and a sense of Story&#133; Legend, more like it. Starring Chris Cooper, Mathew McConaughey, Kris Kristofferson, Elizabeth Pena and others, plus a great cameo by Frances McDormand, talented people take their time creating a tapestry of relationships that slowly come together, and help explain a very old crime being re-investigated. The style of slipping in and out of the past and present is done so smoothly, you need to pay attention at all times, and the complexity of the relationships may require you pulling out the football blackboard and chalk. It is well worth your attention. "},{"Title":"Simply the Best","Date":"18 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" John Sayles hit the top of the top in this great Texas drama. Multiple plot lines, many, many excellent flesh-out characters, and super dialog, combine to make this a classic film that will be watched forever.A murder mystery, a romance, a cultural snapshot- this film has everything. An army base, a honky tonk, a tex-mex restaurant and many outdoor locales make for great cinema. Who can forget Frances McDormand's five minute superb performance as Sam's ex wife? She teaches actors what neurotic behavior and speech look like and sound like. Brava! And what a script. Racial bigots, without stereotyping. How to teach history in a border town? Who can name another movie where spent bullets are made into sculptures? Thank you John Salyes, for another glimpse into humanity. "}{"Title":"You sure don't need $50,000,000.00 to make a GREAT movie!","Date":"26 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Superlative telling of a great story. Chris Kristofferson's performance as the wicked sheriff was Oscar worthy, and the different personalities were well crafted.A lot of movies, even good ones, are still actors acting. This is one of those rare movies that really pulls you in. I really felt like I was transported to that little town in Texas, and during the flashbacks, I was convinced I was really taken back to the time when most folks didn't have a television, many didn't have indoor plumbing, and no cell phones.Most of the actors in this film are not Hollywood gorgeous scientologists types. They really come off real. The dialog is great, the twists in the story are great. "},{"Title":"Lone Star is one of my favorite movies","Date":"15 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Lone Star is one of my favorite movies. I believe John Sayles was channeling genius when he wrote this story and directed this movie. There are so many levels that this movie reaches me on that I hardly know how to break it down. It must have something to do with the fact that this story is set in Texas, where I was born and have lived most of my life. I was born and spent the first six years of my life in a town along the southern border of Texas, so there is something about the movie that touches me on a primal level. There are layers of symbolism and themes that superimpose themselves one upon the other. There is the theme of cultures colliding and merging and rejecting each other in ways sometimes unholy. There is the theme of history; history within families, history within ethnicities, history within cities and counties and nations. Then there is the classic period murder mystery that pushes the story along. There is one theme that is truly a classic Southern theme; that of The Keeping of Secrets. This keeping of secrets to spare others is probably the theme that rings as true as any other truth in this masterpiece. Every time I see Lone Star (and I have seen it so many times that I have lost track), I see something new and it always rocks me to my soul. There is nothing in Lone Star that doesn't ring true for me. This movie has a remarkable cast and there are a number of memorable performances that move me, including those of Chris Cooper, Elizabeth Pena, Joe Morton, Ron Canada, Chandra Wilson and Frances McDormand. "},{"Title":"Better Late Than Never...","Date":"6 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Wow, it took me a decade, but I finally watched this movie and am now haunted by it. It's probably the most complete movie I've ever watched in terms of (A) a great, multi-layered story; (B) superb, understated acting; and (C) great camera and musical arrangements that are powerful. I took one film class in college, but none of those movies struck so many nerves as this one...one of the best movies I've ever seen...not an exaggeration.(A)...so many themes...a great whodunit, father/son relations, first loves, haunting past/present memories, race relations, good cop/bad cop (and grayness in between), immigration, political maneuvering, and probably several others I missed (need to watch it again and again). Somehow they were all blended together and presented in a way that wasn't overwhelming or too cerebral. I have the sense that this film has a timeless quality and will never be dated (kind of like The Godfather). (B)...such perfect casting and understated acting where the story is front and center and the actors blend into it. The story overshadows all else, especially when you realize how little McConaughey and Kristofferson are actually on screen...but their characters are so powerful and dialogue between present-day figures fills in the mythic proportions that these characters take on. Cooper and Pena are fantastic together, and you can feel the smoldering heat that has remained over the years...not necessarily from the dialogue, but the momentary pauses and gazes between them, and the way they don't address things head-on but dance around them because they're too painful or heavy.(C)...I loved the cuts from past to present day...seems like such a simple camera technique but maybe the brilliance is in the simplicity. And the jail scene where Sam helps release Pila's son...as Pila walks off, the camera backs away but locked onto Sam, and you can just feel his enduring but suppressed love, even BEFORE you know the full history between him and Pila...so brilliant! I just love the way the story was revealed slowly and deliberately...no instant, MTV gratification here...the payoff is following and enjoying the slow and winding pace of the story. The bluesy musical arrangements also provided a melancholy backdrop...the Texan landscapes, passionate/deliberate characters, and the sense of loss and passage of time.I definitely need to rush out and rent/buy some Sayles movies, but I can't believe I've never heard of this brilliant, talented individual. After watching Lonestar, I feel so inferior to Sayles...I'm guessing his IQ is in the stratosphere. There aren't many that can combine the artistic talent of writing a great screenplay, the precision and tedium of directing and editing, and the human aspects of casting and managing actors. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Beautiful story","Date":"4 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Wonderful pacing, excellent character performances by so many actors. I've watched it a dozen times to see again these superb portrayals. Hats off to the writer/director for an outstanding film. I single out for their outstanding work Chris Cooper, Ron Canada and Kris Kristofferson. They may be the most standout performers, but the rest of the cast is uniformly excellent, and I believe credit must go to the director. The director's technique of segueing from one time frame to another is intriguing. The exploration of the cultural interface on a border town was an added element of depth to this story. The film conveys the arid heat of south Texas, and its measured pace emphasizes the reflective nature of the people involved. "},{"Title":"beware your daddies legacy especially if you live in the deep south","Date":"14 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Chris Cooper's coup de gras he carries this movie effortlessly as his character tries to find meaning within in his own life. Having come to his mid-forties having failed to achieve a sense of purpose he attempts to emulate is legendary father Buddy (everyones friend and hero) by becoming the town sheriff. As a quirk of fate he becomes embroiled in a mystery that involves his late father, one that seems to embolden his own bitter memories of Buddy. Paradoxically he realises to become the man he wants be he must embrace that part of him that is his father. A salutatory tale for all chaps, witness also a truly terrifying Kris Kristofferson "},{"Title":"movie is world class in its complexity and subtlety","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Lone Star is a movie about two parallel cultures, the Anglo and Hispanic/Mexican over three generations.What is remarkable is that it plays off the interactions of these 6 elements (2 subcultures X 3 generations) in such a beautiful and touching way.The only criticism of the movie may be that it is too neat, and that the parallels are too contrived. I disagree with this criticism - it is respectful of the differences while it plays off them.I cannot think of any movie which is at the same time so moving and subtle, while at the same time so thoughtful.Therefore, I think it is most unfortunate that it is labeled a murder mystery when it is far more. "},{"Title":"Inexplicably underrated","Date":"20 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It is difficult to understand why this film hasn't occupied a more prominent place in critical history. The plot beautifully intertwines the lives of three sets of characters in the past and present as they search for what may be the unpleasant truth, circling around it closer and closer until the final discoveries.  The acting and direction are first rate. The story is compelling and moving. One would think it should have won Best Picture. What's not to like here? Was it lack of a marketing budget that left this effort unrecognized?When you consider that such thin stuff as 'Rocky,' 'Dances with Wolves,' 'Platoon' and 'Tootsie' made the AFI 100 Best Films list, perhaps Lone Star's subtlety is the real problem.  Maybe Sayles need to add a car chase scene.  "},{"Title":"One of the best scripts written","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  John Sayles is undoubtedly one of the best screenwriters working...and Lone Star stands front and center to this testament.  I would argue that the Lone Star script ranks with Casablanca or Annie Hall in terms of its greatness.This rich mystery reveals itself so slowly and has so many interesting twists.  Moreover...it deals with issues such as race, parental/child relationships, forbidden love, cultural clashes, international political strife, the military, and immigration without being the slightest bit preachy.  Even the most minor of characters seem so real and familiar to us, that everyone strikes us as sympathetic.  Additionally, this script has possibly the strongest subtext of any since the Hays Code was lifted.  The very nature of story-telling is brought to attention and handled with such graceful and amazing care by Sayles.  I'm not sure there's been a better use of flashbacks in any film.Great performances, interesting cinematography, and fine music make a rather lengthy sit fly by.A modern-day Touch of Evil with a far superior script.  Easily one of the best films of the 1990s.  I cannot recommend Lone Star enough "},{"Title":"Should Have Been a Mainstream Hit","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  While I was watching _Lone_Star_, I was thinking that it reminded me of the sort of novel that writers from Dixie are said to be best at creating, one that emphasizes how the past -- individual choices and historical events -- creates the present.I also was thinking that I lack an intuitive understanding of the common man's tastes because it seemed strange to me that this movie was marketed as an artsy flick.  It seemed to me that _LS_ should have been a mainstream hit because it's got something for everyone  Its plot is driven by a murder mystery, it's got not one but several love stories, parts are laugh-out-loud funny (I particularly liked the humorous sergeants.), parts are violent, it's got family drama galore, it's stuffed full of conflicts (Mexican vs. American, black vs. white, military vs. civilian, Indian vs. non-Indian, old vs. young, informality vs. by-the-book, justice vs. law, etc.), and it even has an approximately happy ending.  Also, it makes better use of flashbacks than any other movie I can remember.Probably one of the reasons I liked _Lone_Star_ is that I saw it right after _Trainspotting_, which was energetic, memorable, and well made but which was about unpleasant people doing unpleasant things.  It was a relief to see _LS_, in which most of the characters are reasonably decent.  "},{"Title":"Can we get much better?","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  John Sayles has a talent that few directors have, and that is the ability to take a large cast, one complicated story driven by one main plot, with subplots popping up right and left, and make it make sense. Lone Star starts off slow. We know nothing of the story. But as the movie goes on, little bits of information start to arise and become the focus of the movie. We learn everything along with the characters. We are part of the movie.The main premise of the movie is the investigation of a murder. But that is not the only plot. There are the plots of romance, forgotten history, evil police officers, forbidden love, illegal aliens, and so much more.Now...the ending is where the movie really hits you full force. I will not even hint at what happens, but DAMN. I walked away with my mouth hanging open. Sure, it's insignificant to the main plot, but it really leaves a warped image in your mind.10/10 "}{"Title":"10/10, one of the best of the 90's","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A superb script, very well done,much details, Fantastic acting and Lone star is both very exciting and funny too. There are VERY much characters in this film and still you get very close to every one of them. I have not seen any other John Sayle film. Kris Kristofferson is really magnificent as sheriff Charlie Wade.This film includes everything, the plot is just the beginning. The direction is perfect and also the acting(Joe Morton, Elizabeth Pena, Chris Cooper...). In the final scene everything comes right and it has a big complex.It's a modern masterpiece, it is very touching,funny and exciting. I would count it as one of the best films of the whole 90's. A film that simply includes a bit of everything. I will remember all the characters.10/10 "},{"Title":"Efficient, verisimilitudinous, supremely accessible.","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is the King of Films. If that seems like hyperbolic phrase for a dusty little murder mystery, that is really the point. This film is FAR more than it seems. I have seen at least a dozen heavily-hyped films documenting years or decades of history and their effect on a family, couple, or town, but I have never seen one that does it as well as this.Sam Deeds, the new sheriff of Rio County, TX, is the town-disappointing son of the legendary late sheriff, Buddy. When a decades-old corpse is discovered on the old Army post outside town, Sam is guided by his resentment of the Great Sheriff and is thus led to unexpected results and meets suspiciously gentle hints to look the other way.The county, town and people are completely fictitious and yet entirely real. The ethnic mix of the area is thrown into sharp focus and gets some surprising kinks (Black Indians, Chicano and Tejano versus Wetback, the Army portrayed as an ethnic group,) and it's all done by subtlety, not speeches. The border politics of the mid-1990s and the frontier mindset of the late 19th century hold equal importance in the development of the characters.In the course of the main story, the plot and subplots reveal how the town copes with the past, and brings us to conclusions we never would have guessed. The film so assiduously avoids stereotypes that it is frankly amazing. These people are not the childishly primitive narrow-minded moralists you would imagine, and Sayles plays with those expectations until the very end.While the heart of the film's success is Sayle's adherence to the rule show, don't tell, he, like every great artist, knows exactly when to break the rules. His characters say the things that have already been implied in the film in order to show their feelings about the diverse legacies of the town's tragic history. Sometimes, this turns the sub-text on its head in astonishing ways.If you want to see how every trick in the book can be employed in a surprisingly organic and accessible way, watch this movie. "},{"Title":"A Memorable Soap Drama","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a better than expected drama with good characters, a rather complex but still credible mix of story lines. I am no fan of the western or border literature or movies, but I have learned something about the Texan history and complicated racial problems of the area from this film. Without succeeding - or even trying - to escape a certain soap operas framework, this film still succeeds to create a memorable impression and some true emotions for the viewer. "},{"Title":"A modern masterpiece","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Yes, this film moves slowly. Yes, there isn't any great action. But YES! This is an AMAZING film! Rarely do you find a film so elegantly moving between the life stories of so many characters, times, and feelings. I've never seen a more intelligent portrayal of so many types of relationships all at once; fathers & sons, mothers & daughters, siblings, races, economic strata, generations, good & bad. And the acting is superb, including the two best American actors today (Chris Cooper and a cameo from Frances McDormand) amongst a fine cast. All of the characters are memorable, and you will leave the film really knowing at least 15 of them.At the risk of being rude; if you didn't like this movie, you probably didn't get it. It delivers so vastly much more than the sum of its parts. What kind of movie is this? What's it about? That's just it; like Blade Runner, it breaks the bounds of a single genre, and challenges you to read much more into what you see and hear.If you've never seen this film before, I envy the delight of your discovery! "},{"Title":"Texas is a large dysfunctional family.","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Texas is a large dysfunctional family.  From an ethnic standpoint, its three largest food groups are Black, White, and Mexican.  John Sayles weaves a generations old murder mystery around three families that represent the groups above.  Each of these families has a desire to connect to adjacent generations, but it is often a long arduous process filled with things you might be better off not knowing. Young Sherrif Deeds leads a life haunted by the greatness his community thrust upon his late father who was also the Sherrif of the same county.   Along the way we meet Kris Kristofferson as an evil spirit that haunts families of all walks of life, even from his 40 year old grave. We also see a person who can't connect to her family in any way at all  Deed's ex-wife.   Instead, she wallows in the National Religion of Texas  Football.  Being a fan is the closest to family she can deal with. As the central mystery of the movie unviels itself, all three of the families learn something about themselves, and their neighbors, and how good the whole idea of family, and Texas can be.Sayles flawlessly slides back and forth from the 90's to the 50's with brilliant editing.  The Sherrif and the mayor sitting in the Mexican Restaurant and talking about the mystery has a great segue way as one of them reaches for a tortilla.  The camera zooms in on the hand and tortilla, and then it zooms out as the taco is lifted out of the basket.  The same restaurant is now as it was 40 years earlier, and we pick up on the story the mayor was telling the sherrif in the 90's.My only complaint with the film is a small one in the dialogue. After the young female soldier fails a drug test and is called before her commanding officer (Joe Morton in a stand out job), she says back when I was coming up on 5th street in Houston. I am sure the line was meant to be coming up in the 5th ward, which is a predominantly black neighborhoods, where as 5th street is mostly Mexican American.  This is mildly important as the young soldier is supposed to be from a hellish ghetto back groud.Anyway, I think it is the best Texas movie ever (I am a 6th generation Texan, so I have a bit of a clue).  It gets a slight nod over Giant, Last Picture Show, and Lonesome Dove. "},{"Title":"great story","Date":"24 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  john sayles is the master of story telling..he gets a wonderful performance from all his actors to unravel a rareity amongst odern films..a good tale well told...with a great twist at the end....john sayles proves with this film he is unrivalled as a story teller "},{"Title":"The best movie ever made","Date":"15 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I love movies, and there are some movies that I would rank as great, among them movies like Driving Miss Daisy, Fried Green Tomatoes, Kiss the Girls, Sleepless in Seattle, Terminator II and others.Lone Star is far and away the best movie I have ever seen, and I have seen a bunch of movies over my lifetime. The dialog is taut, filled with innuendo and the subtle understanding of understated meaning that people who have lived in a place all their lives have. Some lines are so parsimonious it takes repeated viewings to see the depth of the subtlety. Yet you don't need that understanding to enjoy this film the first time. In other words, if this is your first viewing, you will enjoy it thoroughly. If it's your hundredth, you will still be engaged until the end, and you will look forward to the next viewing as well.The character development is robust and filled with depth. Even those who are dead when the story takes place are fully developed through both the dialog and their own behavior when scenes from the past occur.There are several subplots yet every one is fully explored, a feat that only an accomplished director would attempt, much less pull off. Add to that the full flavor and aroma of a Texas border town, rendered truly by someone who clearly knew it well, including its prejudices, politics and people, and you have a movie with so many layers you will be peeling for hours.After 143 previous comments, one might wonder why I chose to register just to post another. I did it because I simply must insist - you MUST see this movie. Do not put it off. You will never view movies the same again, and you will be repeatedly disappointed by the vacuous dialog and plot contrivances of many of the movies you see subsequently.Why didn't this movie win the Academy Award for Best Picture? Because Academy Awards aren't about excellence. They're about popularity and political statement-making. Good film-making is secondary. "},{"Title":"Excellent Entertainment","Date":"2 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is film-making and story-telling at it's genuine best (I suppose it could be compared to a much less frenzied Quentin Tarantino, or to the films Crash and Go and many others that interweave several story lines at once).An excellently plotted film that really takes it's time and isn't afraid to hide details from it's audience. It contains startling revelations, an absolutely sizzling script (full of quotable one-liners) and a great cast, ranging from Matthew McConaughey who has little to do, Joe Morton (who you should recognise from Terminator 2, Executive Decision etc), Frances McDormand as a slightly eccentric woman to Chris Cooper (American Beauty) who is phenomenal as the film's lead.Set deep in Texas, near to the Mexican border, the plot starts when two off duty Sergeants find a skull, a Sheriff's badge and a Masonic ring. They belong to Charley Wade, a Sheriff who ruled by fear before one night mysteriously disappearing. Does the new Sheriff's father have something to do with it? I cannot even begin to explain the rest of the plot, you should just go and watch it and see what I mean.As well as the story-telling, the cinematography was beautiful, especially the seamless transitions from the present into flashbacks and memories and then back again - they are brilliantly choreographed, but again you must watch the film to see what I mean.The ending has a very Oldboy-style twist and although I guessed many of the twists to come they did not take away from the film at all, I guessed what had happened but wanted to know why and how.An absolute peach! "},{"Title":"Uncovering crime and passion in","Date":"28 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Watching reviews and hearing promotions of this movie more than 10 years ago, now, I had no concept of its dimensions, the universals it deals with so effortlessly race, legal oppression, cross-cultural taboo-challenging love, the drug laws, the environment... and Texas itself. Lone Star is solidly on my top 10 list.The story is of Sam Deeds (Cooper) the son of a former popular sheriff Buddy Deeds (McConaughey) of a small border town (loosely patterned after Del Rio, Texas) who returns to take the same job his father had. A skeleton has been discovered on an old military target range, which appears to be that of the murderous racist sheriff Charlie Wade (Kristofferson) who preceded Sam's father.As Sam proceeds to figure out what happened, he reignites a passion he once had for Pilar (Peña), who is working as a teacher. The movie flashes back to the late 1950s into the early 1970s to show the stage from which the main characters have been propelled, and the influences that make the town of Frontera, Texas, the menudo (soup) it is today.The military base near to the town is being shut down, and Big O's, a bar that serves the relatively small number of blacks from the base and town, figures prominently in several plot-related incidents. A parallel story to the families of Sam and Pilar is the story of the family of the new base commander, Colonel Payne (Joe Morton).The colonel's father is Big O, himself, i.e. Otis Payne (Joe Canada). O is a fascinating man, who, though he may have once been irresponsible for abandoning his wife and son, has an intense interest in the bigger picture of who the Paynes truly are. Otis maintains a personal museum with photos and artifacts that go back to his slave ancestors intermarrying with Seminole Indians from Florida.Big O shares these ancestral stories with the colonel's son, O's grandson, who is struggling with his relationship to his own militarily inclined father. Will we find resolution in this family matter? What's brilliant in the film is how Sayles weaves all these different lives together into and out of families, then with families of differing backgrounds&#151;Mexican, Anglo, Indian, African-American&#151;living their stories among other families.The immigration issue comes into play, as well, and it's portrayals such as these that humanize those who so many want to wall out, imprison, or expel. Hey, people, these are people you're talking about here, not alien invaders.The plot thickens and some discoveries are made that may disturb the sensibilities of some in the audience, but I won't give either away. I will state the acting is first-class, especially from Cooper and Peña.For my complete review of this movie and for other movie and book reviews, please visit my site TheCoffeeCoaster.com.Brian Wright Copyright 2007 "},{"Title":"Forgetting the Alamo","Date":"5 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I just reviewed a few weeks ago another film of the same title that's about the annexation of Texas into the USA. The origins of Texas contribute a whole lot to the Texas of today that you see depicted in this Lone Star.Sheriff Chris Cooper, the son of the previous sheriff, gets a nice little mystery to solve when some skeletal remains turn up on the old rifle range of an army base soon to close down. Those remains turn out to be those of Kris Kristofferson, the sheriff before Cooper's father. He'd just disappeared around the same time as $10,000.00 of county funds had up and vanished also.As Cooper investigates a whole lot about the ugly underbelly of racism emerges. Also some unlikely heroes emerge out of Lone Star which actually gives an optimistic tone to Lone Star.Look for some really outstanding performances by Kris Kristofferson as a truly malevolent portrait of a tyrant without accountability and from Clifton James who is the mayor of the town and back in the day was Kristofferson's deputy.John Sayles puts together a winner of a film and a true portrait of the strengths and weaknesses of contemporary Texas. "}{"Title":"The film Crash owes a lot to","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Crash, Paul Haggis' directorial debut, has been called a masterpiece of modern cinema. In fact it was so critically lauded that it beat Capote, Munich and Brokeback Mountain at the 2005 Oscar ceremony.Although the film was praised for its originality it owes a lot to John Sayles' masterpiece, Lone Star.Both films deal with racial disputes, although Sayles does with much more subtlety. In Haggis' film, characters seem too clean cut they're either heroes or villains. In Lone Star however the line between good and evil isn't quite as easy to see. We enter a moral grey zone, where our protagonists become antagonists, where villains show a more tender, intellectual side to their characters and where it is almost impossible to tell right from wrong.On top of that, both films have a collection of central protagonists. Instead of focusing on one story, Crash and Lone Star pick a number of 'heroes' to guide us through this moral swamp. And although Haggis' screenplay does this well, it doesn't quite reach the level of complexity that Sayles' does. Lone Star unfolds like a novel. In the film's opening we are presented with a rather simplistic view of a local lawman. But as the film progresses and our narrator changes, we soon realizes there's more to this story than we could have ever imagined...It's always good to see where a film has ripped off from. So go off and see Lone Star today. I'm sure you won't regret it. "},{"Title":"Were you there when Wade left town?","Date":"8 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" For nearly three quarters of a century, films of the Wild West have shown audiences the heroes and villains that roam the lonesome, panoramic frontier. In the early 90's, a surge of films kick-started a new generation of westerns, straying from the classic genre defining films of the latter century. Independent film maker John Sayles takes the western for a wild ride through present day Texas in Lone Star.Sayles shows the darker side of the small border town of Fontera, a town where the past haunts its residents, in particular Sheriff Sam Deeds (Chris Cooper). The son of the towns hailed Sheriff, Buddy Deeds (Matthew McConaughey), tries to solve the disappearance of Buddy's predecessor, Charlie Wade (Kris Kristofferson). Buddy turned the corrupted town into a thriving community. After Buddy's reign of justice, the town still has problems with racism, illegal immigrants, and the local military base. Sam is just out looking for peace of mind that will only come from the truth of the fateful night Charlie Wade left town.What started out as the discovery of human remains turns out to be a reliving of the past. Sam goes on a fact finding mission questioning all who came into contact with Buddy or Wade that night. Sam himself is debating whether or not his father was the hero he has been made out to be. Through this ordeal is the rekindling of a love whose flame blew out many years ago. Pilar (Elizabeth Peña) is a local school teacher trying to solve the towns problem with racism. Otis is a night club owner where a stabbing has taken place involving some military personnel, bringing in the Colonel who tries to get answers from Otis about the incident. In the end this cluster of mixed up individuals will all be brought together in a web of climactic events.With a cast of very intimate and complex characters, all Sayles needed were the right actors. He found that in Cooper, McConaughey, Kristoffereson, and a host of note worthy performers. To compliment the acting and the gripping screenplay, Sayles uses bold camera work to draw the audience closer to the film. The overlap of past and present in the same shot serves up a new style of filming that works, breaking all set boundaries of time conception. The film is spectacular thanks to Sayles ingenious work.The story of Lone Star is a combination of a murder mystery and social conflicts. Sayles utilizes the mysterious landscape that is the west to make the story seem that much more intriguing, hitting home with such content relevant to today's society. The location is remote enough to seem distant from our lives, but close enough not be conceived as foreign. It is a perfect equilibrium for the setting.Sayles's chilling tale from the Lone Star State is nothing short of breathtaking. His fluid camera movement captures every emotion protruding from the actors. What might seem like a far-fetched storyline, too dark and twisted for cinema, just goes to show you that the west still has its unknown territory just waiting to be used. "},{"Title":"Days later you could still be thinking about some of the moral issues.","Date":"29 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I first saw the fascinating film, Lone Star, at the QFA showing in October of 1996. I enjoyed the film but I did not fully understand it. The film is constructed like a jigsaw puzzle. The information comes in random order and we must connect the pieces. The second time I saw it was with a group of people. Each time a person made a connection, it was spoken out loud so that all would get it. We even stopped the tape occasionally to clarify our knowledge. By the time that the film was over, we had it all straightened out. One of the main problems was that the film ran in two time frames the current time and the events leading up to the killing and we must learn to recognize some characters in both time frames. Another problem was that there were many people involved and we had to figure out their relationships. Also there were many subplots that had to be connected. If viewing it alone, taking notes would be a great help. Also, many times, there were many moral issues that had to be considered. The film moves on at a pace too fast to absorb everything, a problem that disappears when a tape can be paused.The story begins with the discovery of a skeleton in the desert. The sheriff suspects that it was that of an evil predecessor, Charlie Wade, and that the killer might have been his own deceased father, a deputy sheriff and local hero, Buddy Deeds. Anything else that I tell you would spoil the film. Learn these three names and note all of the other names and relationships as you hear them, in your head or on paper. A second viewing would really clarify the story; the film is good enough for multiple viewings. Days later you could still be thinking about some of the moral issues. "},{"Title":"Film-making at its best!","Date":"10 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Lone Star was amazing the first time I saw it, and it gets better with each successive viewing.The film opens with one character's suggestion that if you're going to live in a place, you should learn something about it. Like the investigation into the meaning of rosebud in Citizen Kane, the discovery of a skull and the resulting investigation uncovers the complexities of life in a small community.I can't think of a single theme Sayles doesn't allude to in this film (man v. man, man v. himself, man v. nature, man v. time, present v. past, son v. father, daughter v. mother, race v. race, culture v. culture, etc.), and his use of metaphors (some obvious, some considerably less so) shows he has a great deal of respect for both his characters and the audience. Underlying everything is the idea that things are rarely as they appear, that no person's version of history is an absolute, and that it is only through understanding and coming to terms with our past that we can truly embrace the future.While I could wax poetic about the cinematography, camera angles, scene transitions, Sayle's ability to capture the true essence of a small border town in Texas (right down to the Shiner Bock beer - which wasn't widely available when Lone Star was filmed), what I find most remarkable is that in almost twenty viewings of this film, I learn something new about the characters and ultimately discover more about myself with each subsequent viewing. "},{"Title":"Brilliant movie - writing, acting and directing!","Date":"9 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I have just seen this film on Foxtel and must agree completely with Bob the Moo - this is indeed a remarkable film that keeps you riveted all the way. Exceptional performances from everyone all round but a particularly under-stated flawless one from the incredible Chris Cooper - an actor who is gaining my respect with every role that I see him in. The various sub-plots are all interesting and hold your attention almost as much as the central theme. Congratulations to John Sayles for a wonderful piece of writing and direction - extremely watchable and enjoyable, this film deserves much greater recognition. Strong performances noted for all the cast and Kris Kristofferson relishing his moments on screen - bravo! "},{"Title":"Must See","Date":"11 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" What can I say...easily in my Top Ten. Good characters, excellent actors giving great performances, interesting plot but most important a love story that touches the soul. BEST FLASHBACKS EVER, not only because they advanced the story at the right time but the seamless shift of the camera angles back and forth between the past and present while in the same local are a tutorial on how to use the technique. Several scenes where Mr. Sayles shows what it is like to be consumed by love as a teenager and never forgetting what that means, despite the passage of time. Ms. Pena NEVER looks more appealing. Kristopherson (spelling?) demonstrates talent that has been under-utilized. Most Highly Recommended. "},{"Title":"a small masterpiece","Date":"14 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" John Sayles has always made films with many stories intertwined but none are better than this little masterpiece about a Texas bordertown spanning two generations and tons of conflict. All the usual great character actors are in place. Viewers who are hooked on stars will be disappointed but fans of real acting will be more than satisfied. Elizabeth Pina has never been better and Chris Cooper is at the top of his minimalist form. Frances McDormand has a wonderful if small part. Sayles has established himself as the premiere independent film maker on the basis of films like this and Matewan, Secret of Roan Inish, Sunshine State and Passion Fish. A true American classic when few films qualify. "},{"Title":"my favorite film","Date":"28 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this film 5 times in General Release. It was like a ride that I would get on. As the theater went dark, and the story began - up and down, back and forth - moving from scene to scene. Oh, yeah now this part. Oh, yeah, then there was that whole part - that relationship. Those characters have that history...I think my single favorite aspect of this film was the way the flashbacks are done. The camera just pans between eras. It's so incredibly effective. And what great one-liners blended into the dialog!My ears don't pick out speech well, and since some of the characters mumble it did take me all those viewings to get all the lines in the film. Now it's on DVD, so, If your ears are like mine you can get English subtitles in the tricky parts, and get the whole thing the first viewing, even the English translations of the Spanish - assuming you don't know what phrases like Lo siento mean...I was thrilled when this film was nominated by the motion picture academy for best screen play. It lost to Fargo, a worthy competitor.  "},{"Title":"All Hat and No Cattle","Date":"9 October 2009","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" John Sayles wrote the original screenplay for, and directed, Lone Star. If his script fails to portray the development and intersection of ethnic relations, marital relations, migration, cultural assimilation, politics, education, big business, and even the army in the southern and western United States, from the Treaty of Payne's Landing and eviction of the Seminoles from Florida in 1832 to the cross-border migration of Mexicans to south Texas in the 1990's, it's not for lack of trying. The sweep of his screenplay aspires to be nothing less than multi-generational, multi-ethnic, multi-class, multi-marriage -- in a word, epic. . . . Alas, the script does ultimately fail. It fails because the screenwriter spends too much time having characters lecture each other for the benefit of the audience and too little time creating dramatic incidents through which the audience might see important issues articulated, developed, and resolved. As Laura Miller puts it in her Salon review, The independent filmmaker John Sayles reminds me of Gertrude Stein's description of Ezra Pound 'He is a village explainer. All very well if you happen to be a village. If not, not.' More simply, Sayles is not Chekhov, and his movie is not The Ox-Bow Incident or To Kill a Mockingbird. . . . The acting, or perhaps it is the direction of the acting, is a problem here too. Character actor Chris Cooper plays a rural sheriff faced with two cold cases -- a 40-year-old homicide and a father he never knew -- with such lack of affect that you want to kick some life into the guy. (I saw him as Sheriff Deeds, all right, but kept hearing the same dull voice he would later bring to FBI operative Robert Hanssen in Breach.) Comely Elizabeth Peña plays his romantic interest with a ground-down-by-life monotone and an accent that sounds more South Bronx than South Texas. Miriam Colon, as Peña's restaurateur mother, is given almost nothing but acerbic, if not hateful, lines to deliver. Even the wonderful Frances McDormand, who received the Academy Award for her role in Fargo the same year that Lone Star came out, is over-the-top in a comic turn as Sheriff Deeds' ex-wife Bunny. Only Kris Kristofferson, as the heavy Charlie Wade, and Joe Morton, as an Army colonel who's all spit, vinegar, and heart, are consistently fun to watch. . . . One final cavil the plot, such as it is, moves forward through luck and happenstance, not through the logic of real life. "},{"Title":"More Boring Psuedo-Reality from Sayles","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Contains spoilers * * * * * Why does everyone think this guy is such a genius? Every time I see one of his long, dull, politically correct movies with characters who say things that they would only say in a Sayles movie, I want to spit. Even the reviewers simply stampede each other to acclaim his latest work a masterpiece and you know what, nobody goes to see it! You know why? Because this kind of fake reality movie where the screenwriter is in love with the sound of his own dialogue is absolutely bogus.A sheriff who only came back to town to see his sweety once again, and spends two years shuffling his boots before he talks to her? A 1950s sheriff who is as corrupt as a gangster, shoots people in the back by the dozens, and is never reported to any higher authority? Half-brother/half-sister incest thrown in at the end because the murder mystery is so dreary. Characters who do, say, talk, as if they live nowhere but in the writer's mind and are endlessly clever while ruthlessly hueing to the political sentiment of the time. Sayles movies don't have characters they have trite ideas dressed up as characters whose only purpose is to bludgeon us with Sayles' viewpoint on everything. It's like listening to a cokehead ramble o n about the war on drugs you already know what his opinion is going to be, and you can't get him to shut up after he's given it to you.I can understand why Sayle's doesn't sell out and go Hollywood. Hollywood isn't interested in selling tickets to the same ten thousand critics and Sayles fanclub members year after year. Because those are the only people who pay to see the same needlessly convoluted and psuedo-historical malarkey this guy keeps putting out year after years.Lone Star is artificial, stilted, and about as much fun to sit through as a 2-hour lecture on social equality, which is exactly what this movie is.  "}{"Title":"Anoher PC Soap By Sayles","Date":"25 January 2008","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a typical John Sayles movie in that it has overt Liberal agendas but, unlike most of his films, is mostly boring. This starts off as a forensic story (before CSI popularized that topic) about trying to find out who killed someone years after their skeletal remains were found. The story, however, quickly veers into Sayles' more familiar territory political correctness and preaching more about racial tolerance, more on that than on the crime story. As a result, the story bogs down quickly, and never really recovers.Sayles is like many liberal filmmakers, soothes his conscience, apparently, by spewing his left wing diatribes over and over such as always showing white people and-or law enforcement as hateful racists. Right-wing politicos are always been evil, and all minorities innocent victims (rarely, if ever, perpetrators) from these hate-filled Caucasians. You get a lot of diversity here and it winds up being more soap opera than crime. In this film, we get a good mix of white, black and Hispanic as the story takes place in border town in Texas. Another key element of the story is dysfunctional families, another favorite topic of today's filmmakers. They must speak from experience. Here, the sheriff thinks his father - also a sheriff - might have been a murderer. Those who love small-town corruption stories, where everyone has a million skeletons in their closet, should like this cultural crime soaper. The cover of the DVD or VHS make may this film sound like it's a crime story but don't be fooled it's pure soap. It is a slow two and a quarter hours of political correctness gone amok. Nuff said. "},{"Title":"Inept plot, however well-meaning the story may be...","Date":"18 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I know I'm in the vast minority here, but I wasn't too impressed with this film. I think the problem was that too many of the subplots seemed incongruous, and frankly, uninteresting. I would have preferred it if the movie stuck to Chris Cooper's character. I was also expecting more Michael Mchonohay, maybe if the film had been 1 half set in the present with the Sheriff and then the other half set in the past. Instead we get a bunch of stories about different people of the town that is meant to represent some sort of portrait of America, but they don't interlock the way 'Crash', 'Babel', 'Nashville', or other films do. It's a film trying to be ensemble when it doesn't need to. It probably would have worked better as a TV show, as too many of the loose threads lack that satisfying cohesiveness that a film should offer.The relationship between Sam and Pilar is also quite strange, and by the end, rather off-putting. In addition, the revelation about their past seems completely out of left field and of no relation to the central aspect of the story... or maybe it does in a weird sort of way. Either way, I feel that Sayles script is a little too 1990s PC for my tastes. Much of the moralizing between the characters (save for one brilliant scene outside a Mexican gas station) feels like something out of Schoolhouse Rock.Additionally, I thought the 'who-dunnit' murder plot was rather straightforward. Seeing Kristofferson's evil was entertaining, but I would have expected a bigger reveal or a more interesting resolution to his story.Maybe I was just let down by all the hype. I gave it a 6/10. I definitely would have felt as if I wasted my time if I'd paid money to see it. "},{"Title":"Too many characters, too much dialog","Date":"28 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" At the risk of sounding like the music critic in the movie Amadeus, who referred to Mozart's music as having too many notes, I'm inclined to judge this movie as having too much of everything US-Mexican relations, racism, in depth family histories, US military policies, mixed-race relationships, lost love, Freudian father relationships,...it just goes on and on and on. The dialog is also excessive, with a lot of it sounding like characters from the show Law and Order. Although there were a few really good/powerful scenes, I felt many scenes were hard to follow along with - making the movie itself very convoluted. (Its been 15 years since its release and nobody has written an IMDb synopsis. Think about it.) I think a lot of the dialog went over my head for several reasons. For one, the sound quality seemed poor (but this could be my TV), the accents made it difficult too. And I might have just stopped caring about every single sentence. It seemed like every character in the movie was named Buddy, which didn't help either. Anyways, I'm willing to accept partial responsibility for not watching this with 115% concentration. Maybe I'll watch it again someday. "},{"Title":"unheralded masterpiece","Date":"8 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film is incredible. It mixes white, black and latino America in a complex and moving portrait of one man's attempt to uncover the real nature of his past - and of the past of the world he lives in. The writing is superb, the performances riveting, the editing top-notch. Sayles has made some fine films (among them Brother from Another Planet - the film that contains the words, men in black, which will return years later as a winking title for MB I and II), but here he enters into the halls of unheralded masters. Would that film makers like him could take over the studios and offer the public films that are both entertaining, technically astute, and capable of real insight. "},{"Title":"Nice Plot but loose ends don't get tied at the end","Date":"2 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I actually enjoyed this movie a lot. It has the plot plot plus several other subplots between various characters that sadly don't get resolved by the end of the movie. Only the main characters(Chris Cooper & Liz Pena) come to grips with their fate by the end of the movie and the other plots between the other characters just stop. The movie run time is about 2 1/2 hours and you'd think that would be enough time to wrap up all the subplot as well as the main plot. For instance, what happens to the black female sargeant and her white equal counterpart who wanted to get married? Do Col. Payne and his father mend their differences? I would actually like to see this movie redone because it has potential, but it just doesn't deliver. "},{"Title":"Superb film","Date":"12 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Chris Cooper has got to be one the most underrated actors in the game. His presentations never get overburdened with hammy or scene-chewing emotions. This film is a winner with a great story-- actually, three stories in one-- great direction and fine acting. I was taken from the start and it didn't let up until the final credits started to roll. I missed this one when it came out and overlooked it when it first came out on VHS/DVD. But, I'm glad I saw it and will see it again, which is something I rarely do. Even my wife, who rarely enjoys non-romances, was taken with it. The little twists at the end always add to a good story. The subtle addition of one of my favorites, Frances McDormand, as the sports-fraught daughter of Texas ex-wife, was a surprise as well. This film is a keeper. "},{"Title":"Lone Star deserves 10 stars","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" When the good citizens of Rio County want to honor the late Sheriff Buddy Deeds, his son Sam has a problem. Sam didn't revere Dad the way so many others did. He and his dad have a history, as does everyone in this film, one of the greatest of our time. Sam, played by Chris Cooper, thinks he's doing his job as he investigates the discovery of some old bones, but it becomes personal, too. As he investigates how his father came to power, he also reunites with a former lover, Pilar Cruz (Elizabeth Pena). While the murder mystery and the love story wind their way to a climax, there are many other story lines that reveal the realities of modern-day Texas' uneasy racial and ethnic structure. Outstanding performances by a cast of character actors, Clifton James, Ron Canada, Joe Morton, Kris Kristofferson, but the real hero is writer/director John Sayles. A masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Ten years old and still going strong","Date":"25 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I just rented and viewed this film after trying to find it in video stores for years. I saw it when it first came out but haven't been able to see it more than twice since. I was blown away by it then and again today. Apparently a lot of others feel the same. I see over 13 pages of reviews about this film here. Some from the late '90's. Some from this month. It's still getting rave reviews after 10 years. That says something about this film. Like many others, I love the editing. The flashbacks with a simple camera pan showing not much has changed in 40 years except the people. The same tables, chairs, walls, paint, stains, beer signs - all are still as they were 40 years before. I've been to places like that. Hell, I grew up in places like that. I did note that the less than stellar reviews posted here are invariably from people who are not from Texas and who haven't lived in that area. If you've 'done there, been that' you appreciate this film for it's accurate depiction of time, place, and attitudes. An excellent film. A classic! "},{"Title":"I was shocked and surprised at the quality of this story","Date":"10 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I am a fourth generation Texan and usually avoid shows about it. Most movies are a combination of stereotypes of Texans. I was home with a cold and this was on a movie channel. At first I skipped over it for something else but later came back in the middle of it. I was blown away buy what I saw. There is so much depth to the story. I checked the listings and caught it from the start. It requires at least two viewings to get it all. Just to get to know the characters and their relationship both looking back and to the present is a joy. Everyone from the smallest character has a history that is either verbally or graphically reveled. I am surprised it did not get more play. "},{"Title":"Tremendous Film","Date":"1 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Every time I watch this film I enjoy it more. The way Sayles keeps all the subplots revolving around the primary story line is just beautiful. Every character seems very real and true to me and all the actors were perfectly cast for their respective roles. The transitions from present to past are unbelievable; without a doubt the best I have ever seen. The first one with the tortillas on the table is probably the sweetest. If you haven't seen it, definitely check this one out. It has a great ending that I did not see coming the first time I watched it. One of the best films ever made in my opinion. The next few lines are just added so I can meet the 10 line minimum that they have seen fit to put in place if you want to post a comment. I said everything I wanted say above but if I don't type this other stuff my comment will not be posted and I think that if you are looking at the comments for this film you deserve to see them all, not just the ones that are looooonng ) "}{"Title":"Lone Star is a must see","Date":"14 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I had seen previews a long time ago, but somehow it was one of those movies I just never seemed to see. I was flipping through the channels and happened upon it and I highly suggest you find time to do so, as well. If you like a story with constant twists and turns, this is one for you. It's one of those films that has a little bit of everything wrapped up in one nice little package. Interlapping story lines can be confusing in some films, but this one flows perfectly. This is a hard movie to review without giving anything away, it's well written and so very well acted that it just needs to be seen to be appreciated. Chris Cooper is convincing as the small town sheriff as is the entire cast. Don't miss it!!! "},{"Title":"Shining Star","Date":"3 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I have seen this movie several times... in the theatre, on DVD and broadcast with friends. Like a complex piece of music, or a wonderfully written play, it has many levels. The plot flows flawlessly, even though there are many flashbacks. The characters are complex and are many layered. I think I have gleaned a new appreciation of this movie almost every time I have watched it, at intervals of a couple of years, usually. It is almost flawless, showing the complicated lives of people who live in a small Texas town with each ethnic group having its own view of what their history is and how their history should be presented. Like the story of the region itself, their lives have biographies which are either clouded or opaque after so many years of re-interpretation. I shall always have a copy of this movie to ponder. "},{"Title":"great character piece, good mystery","Date":"29 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Chris Cooper elevates every movie he's in. This movie is no different, he is the main reason to watch it. I first saw him in another Sayles film called Matewan (awesome flick by the way) and thought he was excellent. Since then I've watched him in several movies and decided that he's an actor I'll watch any chance I get. Lots of good performances and good character development in this slow-paced but riveting mystery. The way the movie switches between present and past to reveal the plot works very well for me. You get the story in little bits and pieces, kudos to John Sayles for making it work so well. Sayles spends time on the details that flesh out his stories and characters, the results are usually very realistic and true to life. "},{"Title":"A great film, with a good cast and great script","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" An interesting story, that can be viewed as a modern western, however it is much more. John Sayles' drama uses flashback brilliantly, to tell the story of Sam Deeds (Cooper) who tries to find out what really happened and the true story about his father who is known by people as a hero, Buddy Deeds (McConaughey). The film is directed very well, and although slow and a bit too long, it is very enjoyable and acted perfectly. I thought Sayles' script was a bit lacking, but his great direction and extremely good acting by Cooper, McConaughey, Kristofferson and Pena were all great. All doing their roles perfectly, however my personal favorite was Kristofferson who gave a very memorable performance as dark sheriff Charlie Wade. The film is done very well, if only it had some better writing and connected the stories a bit better, it would have been perfect to me, but nevertheless a great film. 9/10, #120 on my list of all-time favorite films "},{"Title":"Sayles defines atmosphere of small town secrets","Date":"19 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Although a long time fan of John Sayles, I had never seen this movie until I watched it this weekend. My brother warned me the ending was a surprise that I would not see coming, and he was dead on.Sayles gift is the actors he uses to tell his stories. He chooses just the right people to make his dead on dialogue ring even truer. I first saw Joe Morton in The Brother from Another Planet, which remains one of my favorite movies ever, and was thrilled to see him in Lone Star.The suspense involving the skeleton, which was really the tip of the iceberg, kept pace with the genuinely drawn characterizations of the lives of these people struggling to live side by side in a world of cultural demarcation.Thought provoking without being ponderous.  "},{"Title":"Superb Story Telling","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Lone Star and Limbo are two of my favorite films ever. Sayles' ability to write believable, multi-faceted characters is second to none. I find that as I've gotten older, I appreciate a well-written character more than just about any other part of a good film, and the characters in Lone Star are all fantastic. The grandmother on the porch playing the Gameboy is just one small example of how much detail goes into Sayles' characters -- and she's only on screen for 15 seconds!Other films by different directors that I have similarly enjoyed due to their wonderfully complex characters Gosford Park and Sexy Beast.  "},{"Title":"GREAT!","Date":"17 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This one of the best mystery movies I've ever watched. Unearthing secrets after 35+ years had to be grueling for some. Forbidden romance was the part that interested me. Pilar and Sam didn't let too much of anything not even his own father could hold back the relationship. I even liked the mixed couple part about working the relationship together. To most people, Buddy Deeds was the better sheriff than his predecesor Sheriff Charlie Wade. Kris Kristofferson did a terrific job playing the cruel lawman who should be NOT be recognized by any citizen of Texas. When Buddy Deeds yelled out, CHARLIE WADE! Wade was terminated by the future mayor. In this case, Wade didn't expect that his own deputy would teach him about repect to all citizens. There were some mixed reactions of Deeds, but Wade was the worst sheriff towards minorities. This movie was great and it's highly recommended to all. 10+! "},{"Title":"Three plots merge; one of Sayles' best","Date":"9 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Those who think of Sayles movies as dull or too cerebral need to consider that his films involve multiple threads that only come together at the end. This was true of Matewan, Passion Fish, Men With Guns, Limbo and most magnificently with Lone Star.  For me, one of those three plots is the indirectly-told story of Mercedes Cruz, Pilar's mother. Follow this thread and the rest of the movie comes together powerfully at the end.I gave it 9/10.  "},{"Title":"The return of Kris","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie stands to me firstly as the return of Kris Kristofferson to quality films and he gives his best performance here since Alice doesnt live here anymore.His performance as the evil sheriff Charlie Wade is really so convincing that it ranks among the best villain performances in the last thirty years(and iam not exagerrating!).A great return for the best actor among singers and songwriters(by far!).The other actors are also palpable in their roles and i enjoyed the appearance of Gordon Tootoosis,although brief,who to me is one of the best Native American actors ever.His face is always a pleasure to see. McConaughey also does a surprisingly good job in my eyes,specially since this is one of his first roles.I hated him in A time to kill,but here he redeemed himself.The story is well crafted,with a few misses caused by inconsistent work on the scenes and its the only reason why this isnt a classic.I find the scenes with that black soldier girl wasted and completely an unnessecary addition to the story.It just complicates the storyline without a reason. The music is great and camera too.The climax was well made and it highlighted a movie that was about to lose its edge,right between the boring love scenes and sheriff Deeds jr.'s crazy wife.So i think this picture deserved a rating of 8. "},{"Title":"An utterly fantastic look at a true melting pot","Date":"8 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Everyone should see this film.  It is well-made and engrossing. The actors truly live in their roles, and clearly enjoyed playing them. The story is tight, and everything makes sense.  The interactionsbetween the whites, blacks, Mexicans, and (to a lesser extent,unfortunately) American Indians are the best part of the film.I watched it as part of a course studying minority images on film,and there was something for everyone to identify with.  There is agood selection of quotes on the quotes page here, even if severalare grossly misquoted, and the one that best sums up a gooddeal of the interactions is this- Bartender Now, I'm as liberal as the next guy... Sam Deeds Yeah, if the next guy is a redneck.This review is already much longer than it needs to be- just go seeit! "}{"Title":"Extraordinary, but not enough McConaughey and disappointing ending","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The atmosphere and acting and writing in this film are about as good as you will find.  If you have glanced at the reviews here, you have surmised as much. Still, I would have liked to have seen more of Buddy Deeds (McConaughey, who is terrific in his 5 or so minutes of screen time) and the ending let me down.  Apparently others didn't even find those faults, and this is certainly a top ten level movie in any year.  See it. "},{"Title":"no flash, no hype - just subtle genius","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Lone Star is perhaps my favorite movie of all time.Its simplicity is what appeals to me most. Somehow Sayles is able to weave a tapestry of characters and cultures into a plot that evolves as thoughtfully as a great novel, and yet it always feels natural and never forced. There is no pretense to this movie and no flash either - just a brilliant screenplay brought to life by exceptional actors and directing.My only pet peeve regarding this movie is the terrible Spanish accents in it. But since Sayles took the extraordinary risk of making a Hollywood film entirely in Spanish afterwards (Men With Guns - a good movie, but not a great one like Lone Star), I quickly forgave him. And none of the accents are as bad as those in Traffic! "},{"Title":"Art at its best!","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is so good that it should be studied by anyone interested in writing or filmmaking as a career. Like most great art, it must be watched more than once and discussed with others to fully appreciate its genius, and allow you to not only understand the characters, but the complex relationships of the characters. This movie is far superior to many of the top grossing films of all time. If you did not like it, you also probably thought Forrest Gump deserved the Best Film Oscar over Shawshank Redemption. I guess some critize the Mona Lisa and say She'd be pretty if she'd only smile... "},{"Title":"In the spirit of O. Henry","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I just recently viewed the movie Lone Star and I want to see it again soon.  Sayles does an incredible job in weaving together a tapestry of characters from all aspects of Rio County, Texas.  The many twists and turns the plot takes allows the viewer to grasp more than multiple sub-plots, but instead gives momentum to the main plot, until the excellent climax.  The camera shots and transitions between space and time are superb, keeping the mind and eyes of the viewer alert and refreshed.  If you like great stories when you watch a movie, I'd place Lone Star on my short list. "},{"Title":"Welcome to southern USA","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Long before Traffic has this movie become a classic Southern. (following the term Western).An investigation of a past murder case, opens many coffins in a southern small town, and what comes out surpasses the murder itself.This is a great-small movie. It is cooked on low flame, developing slowly like a good chili-con-carne. Movies like this one, going 25 miles an hour, often term to be overcooked, but when right cooked - they are delicious. What keeps this gem from being overcooked is tension, of varied kinds between two adults who were each other's first love, between a young officer and his late dad's foe, between red-necks and Mexicans... and all this tension is handled tenderly, not the in your face attitude of Traffic.Acting here is not as great as the actors themselves. Kristofferson, McConaughey and Cooper are actors you never get tired of watching. They pick their movies with a looking glass, and perfectly match the roles they accept. Like in Disney's The Jungle Book, even the bad guys are played by such lovable actors that you can't really hate them.A big 10. To my opinion, the best of the 90's. "},{"Title":"A great movie","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this movie one month ago. I never had seen a John Sayles' film before but, since then, I have been searching information about the director and I have bought three DVDs of him. I think that this is an universal film, because everywhere you go you could find the same troubles with people who is different from us in some way (culture,colour...) and between one generation and the next one.The investigation about the skull, the love story, the relationships between fathers and sons, the secrets that everybody keeps, the feelings of the three communities, everything has a his own intrigue. The characters are very well defined, and Chris Cooper is absolutely fantastic as frustrated and sad middle aged man, son tired to be less than his father in the eyes of the community, persistent lovesick. You can feel all the love that John Sayles takes in these characters, and some kind of poetry in the way that he explains the story. "},{"Title":"An all-time favorite!","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  If you haven't seen Lone Star, then do yourself a favor and SEE it! I had a country-Texas preconception of what the movie would be like and I couldn't have been more wrong.John Sayles most consistent work to date, Lone Star uses an incredible group of talent to weave a tapestry of rich characters, timeline-bending storyline and a  complex yet enjoyable plot. I have since seen most other Sayles offerings, but none have yet rewarded me the way Lone Star did.John Sayles keeps complete creative control over his later movies (write, direct and edit!), and this just adds to my amazement and enjoyment of this film. One of maybe three or four movies I would even consider giving a 10 to... "},{"Title":"Essential for all Texans","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  No movie that I can recall (of course I've never seen Giant) so well encapsulates the experience of being a Texan.  This film is even better than The Last Picture Show without a doubt.  John Sayles seems to perfectly examine the relations between the Mexican-Americans and Texans.  And it's a great story, to boot.  Chris Cooper is fantastic in this film, and it's good to see Matt McConaughey (with no billing) before he's famous.  It's also my favorite Kris Kristofferson role.  If you've never examined the history of this great state, Lone Star will definitely make you think. "},{"Title":"Cross-Generational Multi-Cultural Love and Mystery","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Texas border town of Frontera is a crossroads of cultures. Add in a soon-to-close military base and the town pulses with a variety of socio-cultural themes (and conflicts) Anglo, Mexican-American, Mexican, African-American, military. John Sayles provides these cultures with voices in the varied mix of characters who populate his story. Actually he weaves many, subordinate stories around a major mystery story which provides the framework for everything else. The mystery is instigated in the first scene by the discovery of a 40-year old skeleton in the desert. The skeleton is that of Frontera's tyrannical sheriff who ruled the town through violence and intimidation until his sudden disappearance in 1957.Sayles' tale not only spans cultures but also generations. The characters are wonderfully drawn, and the actors that portray them constitute a great ensemble cast. No one stands out, but they all shine. It helps to be well directed and have a great script, and the actors have both. This movie is not an emotional knockout, but is a very enjoyable journey from beginning to end.  It is very highly recommended.  "},{"Title":"Fascinating Combo of Mystery and Social Commentary","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Lone Star is certainly John Sayles' most assured and engrossing work ever - his best film I think (and Eight Men Out and Matewan are tough competition).  Sayles' seemingly effortless ability to weave a complex narrative that includes both a mystery story and a tale of racial prejudice which spans decades shows how far he has come as a director.  This one is definitely worth the purchase.  The whole cast is superb, with Chris Cooper and Elizabeth Pena as standouts. "}{"Title":"A thinking person's modern western","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a well told modern western.  Antihero Cooper has had to contend with his larger-than-life father for his entire life.  Despite his mixed feelings, he winds up following in his footsteps as town sheriff.  But a dig at a construction site leads to more digging into forbidden pasts.  Taut throughout.  he chemistry between Cooper and Pena is truly sizzling and the movie never strikes a false note. Kristofferson, Huddleston, and Morton are all superb in supporting roles.  This is another Sayles masterpiece that could never be created in a Hollywood studio. "},{"Title":"Just watch it, one of the best you'll see.","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Based on the title alone, Lone Star, I probably would never have watched it. However, it came with high recommendations from others, and now, after seeing it a few times (2005 update) it has become one of my favorites. Most of it is set in modern times, but flashbacks are used judiciously to provide connecting back story.Overall, Lone Star, a John Sayles movie, is one of the best stories I have encountered, with interesting characters, good acting, and tight directing. Set in a Texas/Mexico border town, every character and every scene has a meaning, all to tie things together before the movie ends. Wonderful story, see it if you haven't yet.SPOILERS in the rest of my comments. Chris Cooper as present day Sheriff Sam Deeds is the central protagonist. Two men are hunting metal treasure in the West Texas brush, and find an old badge. That badge is traced to Buddy Deeds (Matthew McConaughey), Sam's father who had disappeared years earlier. This also brings into focus Sheriff Charlie Wade (Kris Kristofferson) who by all accounts was a real S.O.B. Did Sam's dad have something to do with Wade's disappearance, or vice versa?The story is also brimming with ethnic tension among the residents of the area. That includes a military base, with a black commander, long estranged from his local father. He gives a good explanation to a young black female recruit, that the US Government that hired her is not a them, but is in fact part of her.Elizabeth Peña is perfect as Pilar Cruz, an old girlfriend of Sam's. Their apparent attempt at rekindling an old relationship brings additional surprises. "},{"Title":"What a wonderful film!","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This was my first John Sayles film, and it is now among my top 5 (and some days even my top 2 or 3) films of all time.  The subtle way Sayles depicts history and conflict - conflict between families, between generations, between the past and the present, and between cultures in this small, Texas border town - shows us how masterfully a truly talented writer and director can illuminate how these same issues play themselves out in our own lives.  A friend of mine commented, after seeing this film This film is what every movie would be if it could.  I think he was right.  The few criticisms I've seen in these reviews are, in their way, correct -- you DO have to be willing, and able, to think to enjoy this film.  I just wish there were more like it. "},{"Title":"A wonderful and truly cinematic achievement","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  City of Hope was a really nice film; but its real value was a a precursor to Lone Star.  With Lone Star, John Sayles has reached the full height of his powers as an artist.  The wonderful, complex, and subtle story of an unsolved disappearance and the part(s) it plays in the history of a border town and its residents explores the interconnectedness of a particular area, its past and present, its here and there.  The writing is skillful and mature, the filmmaking understated and yet masterful.  Well-cast, well-acted. . . a perfect film. "},{"Title":"Great Tarantino-ish movie","Date":"27 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Part western, part thriller, part social analysis, I purchased this movie on a whim, I had never seen it, never heard anything about it, the only way I knew it existed was that it was on The Movie Channel once.  I just remembered the title and bought it.  When I first watched it I was amazed. It was an excellent movie, and it had the stories of many people past and present that all get tied up in a nice little package at the end.  It is similar to Tarantino's movies in that way, and the way Tarantino uses flashbacks to tell more of the story.  It was very deep and entertaining, and it should have won some oscars.  Simply put I loved this movie, and I would recommend it to anyone who likes to think while they watch movies. "},{"Title":"More than Matthew McConaughey!","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The only reason I went to the theater to see this film was because the luscious Matthew McConaughey was in the cast.  To my surprise, I found a gripping drama and wonderful performances by all.  This is a very good movie.  One of my favorites for the year (1996).   "},{"Title":"You can't escape the past, but you can fight it.","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A chilling look at the effects of the past on our lives. In a small Texas town, three communities (white, hispanic, black) struggle to come to terms with history in all its forms personal, communal, societal, textual.The cast all turn in brilliant performances, and John Sayle's grasp of the complexity of the material makes the film very believable and compelling.Don't miss Sayles' other films-check 'em out right here in the web! "},{"Title":"Probably Sayles best--no small compliment","Date":"23 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is an ambitious film, covering a lot of characters with very different backgrounds over many years. Sayles pulls it off perfectly. He gives a great sense of place, and shows each of his characers as people. As always, Sayles asks you to think, and gives you something worth thinking about. "},{"Title":"A well-crafted masterpiece","Date":"13 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A film that definitely should have garnered most Oscar attention than it was given.  Writer-director John Sayles presents us with a film so deep, so rich in texture, and so intricately complex, almost novelistic, with a host of well-developed characters. His best film to date (you should also check out Eight Men Out).  Chris Cooper is brilliant in a quietly strong performance as the sheriff of a dusty Texas town investigating a decades old murder where his late legendary father (McConaughey) happens to be the prime suspect. While the murder mystery is compelling and perplexing, it serves only as a pretext to the numerous sub-plots revolving around it, including the complications of a torn black family (including Joe Morton), and Cooper's pursuit of an old flame (Elizabeth Pena). Somewhere amidst all of this tension, there's Kris Kristofferson, in a rejuvenated performance as a coldy reptilian beady-eyed villain. "},{"Title":"There is something wrong with me, but what is it?","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Can someone please tell me what is wrong with me, because I don't consider this movie as being one of the best ever made? Sure it has some nice things to offer and yes I had some fun watching it, but overall it isn't all that special, making it deserve such a high score (a 7.7/10 right now). Perhaps it is because I'm not familiar with Texan small boarder town politics. I don't know, but when some small changes would be added to it, this would be a story that could have been told everywhere, not just in Texas or even the USA and that's also it's biggest problem in my opinion. Despite the location it wasn't too special.When the 40-year-old remains of a dead man are found on a former shooting range, Sam Deeds, the local sheriff is called to investigate this murder. As he digs deeper into the past, it's getting more and more obvious that his father, the legendary former sheriff Buddy Deeds, has had a lot to do with some dark town secrets, which the older inhabitants prefer not to be revealed. While he puzzles out the long-past events, Sam also tries to restart a romance with his old high-school flame, but in a town where nothing is what it seems, that can be a very difficult thing to do...What I liked most about this movie was the fact that the characters had some depth. What I fear most about many movies is that the characters are too easy to understand, making you know everything about them too quickly in the movie. That's certainly not the case with this movie. Even at the end of it, you'll get some surprising information about some people. I'm not going to tell you what that is of course, because I don't want to spoil the fun, but it sure works. But despite the fact that the characters have been well developed, it doesn't save the entire story of the movie. Somehow it all looked a bit too stereotypical and obvious.Despite the fact that this movie doesn't have any real big names in the cast, the acting certainly is OK and the same can be said about the direction of John Sayles. What he did with this movie wasn't exactly the most original approach possible, but it worked and that's what counts. Overall I liked it enough to recommend it, but it just isn't worth the actual rating. I would rather like to give it a 6.5/10. "}{"Title":"Not Exactly Riveting","Date":"8 September 2008","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Lone Star opens with the discovery of skeletal remains, and the calling in of local sheriff Sam Deeds (played by Chris Cooper.) The opening leads you to believe that you're in for a murder mystery focusing around the investigation into the identity of both the victim and the killer. Instead, the investigation (such as it is, and it's pretty weakly portrayed) definitely fades into the background, with the movie instead focusing on the tension between the white, latino and black communities in this small town on the Texas-Mexico border, on the tensions within those communities and on the tensions between families within the communities. Parent-child relationships are definitely strained. The focus is on the relationship between current sheriff Deeds and his father, a former legendary sheriff in the same town (played in flashbacks by Matthew McConaghey), but there are other families portrayed as well - frankly too many, especially given that I didn't find many of the family issues all that interesting.In fact, I thought the whole movie was rather dry. For all the tensions portrayed (that I mentioned above) nothing really dramatic happens because of them. It's kind of like watching a movie about your next door neighbours. They're nice folks, but do you need two and a half hours about them? I give director John Sayles credit for the seamless way he worked the flashbacks into the main story, and the resolution of the mystery around the killer came as a bit of a surprise to me. I can't, however, say that I found any of this riveting. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Sluggish Is Different Than Leisurely","Date":"16 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" The appeal of John Sayles films has always eluded me.There's a difference between leisurely and thoughtful storytelling and lacklustre, sluggish storytelling, but Sayles doesn't seem to know it. This film about a bunch of secrets long thought buried in a Texas border town is probably the best Sayles film I've seen, but that's not saying all that much.Chris Cooper, Elizabeth Pena and a young, mostly unknown Matthew McConaughey star. Sayles received a Best Original Screenplay Oscar nomination but lost that year to the Coen brothers' Fargo. Grade B- "},{"Title":"John Sayles At His Best","Date":"10 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It has been several years since I had the pleasure of seeing this one - and classics are often better the second time around. For a Yankee like me, the setting, the characters and the poignant story were a treat. Beautifully written, so well played and totally engrossing, how DID they do this for $ 5 million. While not all of John Sayles inexpensive productions work for me, this absolutely entertaining film, with many things to say, should have taken in far more money and acclaim. Well, at least Hollywood writers had the smarts to grant Sayles an Oscar nomination for this one.Super cast (Chris Cooper first caught my attention in this one), this rates a 10 for me. Enjoy!  "},{"Title":"Sublime Sayles; one of his best","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  LONE STAR (1996) ***1/2 Chris Cooper, Elizabeth Pena, Kris Kristofferson, Matthew McConaughey, Joe Morton, Frances McDormand, Clifton James.  Excellent John Sayles flick about a small town in Texas facing the ugly roots of history when the remains of a missing sheriff is found in the desert opening an entire can of worms with some Hitchcockian moments of wallow.  Great ensemble cast particularly Cooper the current lawman investigating the crime and recognizing the evil all around as well as the questionablity of his father's image as the last good sheriff.  Nicely edited by the filmmaker. "},{"Title":"Pity director and editor didn't consider clarity of any importance.","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This story of the outrageous corruption and racism of a sheriff murdered 20 years previously forms the background to the  problems of racism in a Texas bordertown in the present. The story is excellent, as is the cast, but the direction and editing reflect the all too prevalent attitude among present-day filmmakers that clarity of story presentation is of relatively little importance. Pity, because this could have been a great film.  "},{"Title":"John Sayles is trying too hard...","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Don't take me wrong. I like John Sayle's Brother From Another Planet and The Secret Of Roan Inish, but Lone Star falls completely flat. I remember the time of the release that it received a lot of critic's praise; either I'm an ingrate who doesn't know how to like a movie, or this film is basically a long, boring exercise with slow stretches, low-chemistry romance and thin characters. The plot seems all too familiar, and it shouldn't take long to predict the outcome. "},{"Title":"Lone Star feelings","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The movie Lone Star is very confusing. Before you watch it, I would recommend being comfortable with Tarantino-style flicks. This movie jumps around a lot, and tends to get too caught up in exposition rather than telling a story. Bottom line this movie is for thinkers.  "},{"Title":"Do this mean what I think it do?","Date":"2 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I feel sorry for those who think this is the best American film ever made, even though I can't quite believe anyone would genuinely claim such a thing.Mind you, perhaps it did turn out that way in the last 50 minutes - because my perseverance gave out at that point, so I have no idea how it ends. Nor do I care...Slow and boring. One of the most tedious films I've never watched. Others that lost me before the end Perfect Storm (actually only 10 minutes in) and The Hours (ghastly). Oh yes and Atonement. Strange how the film industry has declined in every department over the years. I suppose it's the audience.Typical clichéd modern film making at its worst. Poor in every department - just another excuse to bash people over the head with the same old liberal politics in place of entertainment. Utter crap. "},{"Title":"Who is voting here?","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film is not without redeeming features but, on the whole, is boring and meaningless. Maybe I just can't relate to life on the border??? In any case, there's no way it deserves the 8 it's currently running at. I noticed someone compared it to 'Age of Innocence', interesting, a hell of a stretch but they share one thing in common - they're both terminally dull (although AofI wins that category). If you want clever and cerebral film-making try somewhere else. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Interesting, but too slow","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Several intertwining stories are ongoing parts of the whole tale; a story of greed, murder, dysfunctional families, and old secrets. I liked the way the scenes see-saw'd back and forth through time later copied, and executed better in Jerry and Tom, but the dialogue was tepid and the whole thing progressed at a snail's pace.  "}]