[{"Title":"Bloody wonderful and totally underrated","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"48 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  When I saw Extreme measures for the first time I didn't expect anything special from it. Just a basic thriller among others and that's pretty much it. However as it turned out, Extreme measures has a certain place in my top 10 of the best suspense movies of the 90's. I think this movie has never received all the recognition it deserves. Extreme measures delivers excellent acting, fascinating plot, cool action and lots of excitement and most important of all, it gives birth to a rather interesting ethical question.The story gets deeper and deeper and film really keeps the viewer in the edge of the seat. In the end even the bad guy (splendidly played by Gene Hackman) turns out to be, how should I put it...a good bad guy. If you haven't seen this thriller yet, I must say that I envy you because naturally the experience is the most impressive in the first time around when you haven't heard too much about this and haven't got a slightest idea what to expect. The less you know about this film in advance, the better. Actually I feel that even the mere trailer uncovers too much. Watch it, enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Not a bad movie  at all ----  but probably  made ten years too early!","Date":"8 August 2006","Score":"25 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Despite lead actor Hugh Grant still riding high from his sleeper hit FOUR WEDDINGS AND A FUNERAL and a well publicized arrest for curb crawling in Hollywood the previous year, this was not received well in the theaters. Even with the support from the ever versatile Gene Hackman the movie was a box office flop! It's important to state from the outset that the film itself is pretty good and deserved better than it got, not just from the standard of movies that were around but also because it was well acted and raised some very important moral and medical questions that to some extent are more relative today with the controversy over stem cells than it was ten years ago! As for why the movie bombed I cant really say, perhaps not enough guns, sex and violence or maybe the theme or scenario was very depressing to many people. Also I think that being a thriller, actor George Cloony who was a lead in the popular medical soap ER would have been a better box office draw than Grant. Clooney who was struggling to break into the A&#150; list of movie stars at the time would have been believable as a doctor and the movie it self would have elevated him faster up to stardom than the duffers he did at around that time! However, it has to be said this is only as far as being a better box office draw, Cloony of course being American. It has to be said Hugh Grant was very good in this part and I think it was one of his best films. Grant was and still is better known for comedy or a romantic lead not a tough guy roles or action films, so perhaps this is why many in his fan base did not take to his character because it was a thriller not a comedy.Having said that he was very well cast for the part and on many occasions was able to display his dead pan dry wit and came across quite believable as the out of towner Dr. from the UK who didn't know what he was getting into. His character was typical Grant in the USA not aloof and pompous, but just a little awkward, slightly eccentric maybe and disorganized! I think that coming from England only made the character come across as more vulnerable and isolated as events unraveled and things seemed to conspire against him. When the well respected Dr. Myrick (Gene Hackman) decided that Dr. Luthan's (Hugh Grant) meddling was proving to be problematic as well as inconvenient, Luthan's feeling of paranoia towards his colleagues was more believable. No tough guy or macho part was needed here!Grant played Guy Luthan who was deemed for great things in the medical profession is a physician who encounters a distraught and frightened patient who had been found wandering the streets. He is extremely agitated, suffering convulsions and has strange legations at the base of his spine. Despite desperate attempts to save his life the mysterious patent dies. Luthan who is shocked over what he has witnessed is puzzled by a silver bracelet on the wrist which indicates that the patient (Claude Minkins) was probably a hospital patient somewhere and starts to make inquires. He orders blood work and lab analysis despite the fact that patient has no medical insurance (much to the annoyance of his superiors). When he can not find the hospital that used silver a bracelet and is concerned about the bizzar results in the lab report, he then delves further into this case much to the disdain of colleges and top faculty administrators. It appears that the patient was homeless and his medical records wiped and put in storage where he is unable to track them.Then the body mysteriously disappears, the chief residence is very nonchalant about it and berates and scolds Luthan in very dismissive and casual manner over his concern, this only leads him to become more suspicious. Soon he feels that he can't trust anybody as it appears that some are trying to thwart his own investigations. He is correct, ------ some within the hospital as well as outside are trying to frustrate his efforts in unraveling this mystery. Rather than back off, he let's his curiosity get the better off him, puts his professional reputation on the line which only results in disastrous consequences for him personally. Realizing that he is really on to something and now with nothing to lose he becomes even more determined to track down who is responsible for trying to ruin him, ------ but more importantly why?This movie raises medical and moral issues over the balance of patient care and medical advancement. This is not a new topic, the earlier movie COMA and many or medial shows since have dabbled with this dilemma but the ending in this movie leaves that question strangely unanswered? (Interestingly, at the beginning of the movie Luthan has an ethical dilemma of his own. While working in the ER he has to decide who gets the priority for the only OR room available at the time. It's a choice between a wounded Cop and the and the 'perp' who shot him, who incidentally is in a more serious condition. He decides that the cop should get priority)!Hugh Grant was good, so was Hackman and fine support from Sara Jessica -Parker, David Morse and Paul Guilfoyle. I would highly recommend this movie! "},{"Title":"Very underrated film that actually provokes thought","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I just saw this for the second time, on telly, and was struck again by how good it is; not great, maybe, but a very solidly written and acted film on an intriguing premiss and leaving the viewer a bit of room to make up their own mind (this is a GOOD THING, in case anyone is wondering).  Hugh Grant shows again that he can do more than play variations on this 4 Weddings character - anyone who has seen An Awfully Big Adventure will be well aware of this.  And Gene Hackman is as excellent as ever.  A word for Elizabeth Hurley, who produced the film, and I think it was her first a damn good job she did, despite some unsavoury sniping in the British press about her.  I'd give it an 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A thrilling movie that puts you in a moral dilemma","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A movie starring Hugh Grant, Gene Hackman and David Morse is a must-see for me. Extreme Measures is a thriller, and it does its job well - it is thrilling. On top of that the director managed to put me in a moral dilemma. There was a point in the movie, where I could not decide whether the bad guy really was such a bad guy. I think that this sounds very confusing, but watch the movie and decide for yourself. The bad guy's motives aren't bad at all, it is just the way he does it! A thrilling, although a bit slow movie at times. I voted 7/10. "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"19 December 2007","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie is very relevant in this day and age with the on slot of diseases and people who are searching for the answers. Hugh Grant playing the moral side of this left and right medical thriller. The big question brought up in this film is that of medical morals that have been brought up in many movies and in the thoughts of many people,  Would you kill many people to save lives in the name of medicine?Hugh Grant is amazing as the hero Doctor Guy Luthan. His character works feverishly to find the truth of, What is going on with this mysterious men that come into his life, why his life is being destroyed and what is Triphase? This is a good movie of Hugh Grant's and shows how he works well as a serious actress which I think he should go back to. Go rent this movie or check HBO for the next time it appears. "},{"Title":"Above-average thriller.","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  While it hardly offers any twists that we haven't seen before, Extreme Measures is a well-made, well-acted thriller that has an unusual air of believability. The most effective set piece, which doesn't have all that much to do with the main plot, is the hero's descent into the underground lairs beneath the Grand Central Station. Hugh Grant is very convincing and unaffected in one of his most serious roles, and the ending is not as cut-and-dried as you might expect it to be. But the most memorable moment, for me at least, occurs early on, when a very ill and frightened man, barely able to speak, looks straight into Grant's eyes, pleading for help.    (**1/2) "},{"Title":"Reminded me of a Robin Cook novel","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Very exciting film with lots of surprises. Not really all that original, I have run across the story of the mad doctor wanting to play God before. Still it was well done, and the ending left me wondering..... Hugh Grant and Gene Hackman were, as usual, flawless in their performances, as was the entire cast. "},{"Title":"Moral thriller in the medical world","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A thriller in the medical world. Generally, doctors abide by the Hippocratic Oath - roughly summarized as to do good or to do no harm. Hugh Grant as the English Doctor strives to uphold this. Gene Hackman plays the role of the medical researcher, now head of a powerful medical research foundation that can influence police and politicians, believes that medical research is more important than to do no harm if in the long run research does provide valuable improvements to medicine. Hackman is the ominous shadow of the German Nazi doctors, 1935-1945, such as Josef Mengele, who carried out abominable medical experiments in order to promote so-called medical advancement. Thus the conflict between Grant and Hackman Grant the loner, a promising English doctor - a follower of the Hippocratic Oath, thus the moral man, is working temporarily in America to gain valuable medical experience. Hackman, the countervailing force, the ominous medical power with wide ranging influence in public power circles, controls the lives of his captured patients in underground catacombs, disregarding their concerns in order to achieve his results for the benefit of mankind . Sudden deaths, escapes, mysterious liaisons, threats, moral arguing (but only a little as this in a modern American film - historically there was plenty of moral arguing), shootings, and of course plenty of blood are the powerful ingredients to this cocktail. Grant certainly knows how to play convincingly other roles than those English ones which rocketed him to the top. Hackman as always is a master of his role. Well worth seeing! "},{"Title":"Exceptional Medical Drama Like the Movie Coma","Date":"11 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Hugh Grant stars a ER doctor that happens upon a patient with complex medical issues (and dies). His tests reveal something quite unusual.Gene Hackman plays a well-respected medical researcher that has a secret research lab using the homeless to find cures to diseases. Thought provoking to say the least.Grant's character is ruined after he starts digging into the mystery of this dead patient's maladies, medical mysteries. He just doesn't know what sinister medical research he stumbled upon and who is involved.Sarah Jessica Parker was okay in the film but Grant made it work. Liz Hurley was actually a Producer of the film. Hackman played his character okay but not excellent as usual.It is a taught medical thriller than will make you think if medical research like the Nazi's is really going on in real life. The movie was ahead of its time.Micheal Apted directed it well. Lots of great supporting actors. "},{"Title":"Thought-provoking stuff","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I just watched this movie on TV and my mind is reeling with the ethical dilemma it raises.  I thought I'd watch it while I did the ironing but I only got a couple of items done because I was glued to the movie!I must admit also I wondered what sort of a job Hugh Grant would do in a role much more serious than we usually see, but...surprise!  He is thoroughly convincing as a young surgeon troubled by some things that don't add up in the Emergency Room, troubled enough to investigate further, risking his career and ultimately his life to find out what is going on.Definitely worth a look! "}{"Title":"Great Movie, All-But-Obliterated by Final Scene","Date":"15 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is one of the better medical-oriented thrillers, or even medical-oriented movies in general, and I was prepared to issue it eight stars up until the final scene where Dr. Luthan is walking down the steps of N.S.U. with none other than the person who, very suspiciously, dogged and thwarted him through the movie, his supervisor, Dr. Manko. I was appalled when I saw that, and consider it a script error.Now they are buddies and all is forgiven? Manko was not a part of the conspiracy? Then why were we led to believe, repeatedly, that he was?If that is not enough, what happened next was enough to force me to detract one star and weep for what could have been movie that makes an important and powerful statement for human rights, and humanity in general When Ruth Myrick offers Dr. Luthan Dr. Myrick's notes (sic), the movie sends a message and projects the erroneous, cynical assumption that in society today, there is widespread approval, by intelligent, cultured, principled people, of the savagery inflicted by her husband.When Dr. Luthan, after all of his diligence and vigilance, actually accepted the research material borne-of-murder-and-torture, it literally reversed and convoluted the established tenor and heart of the picture.It was abhorrent and inexcuseable.Dr. Luthan, when offered the media, had the opportunity to underline, summarize and emphasize his world-view and code-of-ethics, as a doctor of medicine, and as a human being. A great opportunity was missed.Other scriptual wrong-turns; 1.) Placing Jodie Trammel (and her brother) as part of the conspiracy. By-the-way, why wasn't she and he indicted? 2.) The vague notion of the room. The definition seems to have morphed in the script, from a hospital room of torture to a homeless refuge far underground (with people who never come up to the surface)?Any other movie with these inconsistencies and horrible ending, I would have given 4 or 5 stars to. The promise of Extreme Measures was not fulfilled in the end, but the story is one of great social pertinence and one we should not forget nor dismiss. With medicine's singular focus on profit, it is highly likely that something like the scenario described in this movie could take place, performed by U.S. companies in either the U.S. or some other, more-receptive country. This could have been a great movie. "},{"Title":"A Thinker's Thriller&#x85;Contrived But Commanding&#x85;Hugh Grant is a Standout","Date":"10 August 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" With an Above Average Script from Tony Gilroy and a Surprisingly Effective Against Type Performance from Hugh Grant, This is an Intense Thriller with Ethical Questions and Moral Dilemmas that Have No Easy Answers. It s Those Difficult Questions the Movie Asks that Makes This the Kind of Movie that Isn't Made Much. The Thriller Format is Much More Popular and Easily Digested When This Type of Thinking is Not Required. Taxing the Brain is Not Formulaic for the Popcorn Crowd and it Doesn't Easily Sell Tickets.This One is Noble in its Efforts and Some Suspension of Disbelief is Required. There are a Few Scenes, Most Notably When Grant's Doctor Submerges to the Bowels of the City, that Strain for Realism and One of the Times When the Film Seems a Bit Too Hollywood.But Most of the Movie Plays Out Some Twists and Turns that are Surprising and the Quick Pacing Helps the Film Deal With the Malpractice Elements and the God Complex More Easily. Overall, it is a Thinking Man's Thriller with Good Performances and Good Writing and is Only Brought Down a Bit by the Contrived Situations Necessary to Make it All Fit Into a Two Hour Running Time. "},{"Title":"A great medical movie, and a great intelligent thriller movie!","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Extreme Measures was a very good movie, and probably one of the best medical movies out there. It provided a good plot, and it is more of an intelligent thriller rather than an action thriller or suspenseful thriller, and was very interesting to watch.The acting in this film was good, Hugh Grant (Luthan) and Gene Hackman (Myrick) are excellent, but no were near Oscar material. David Morse (Agent Hare) did very good as a cold FBI agent, but other supporting cast, like Sarah Jessica Parker (Jodie) and Bill Nunn (Burke) didn't do so well as the main roles. But nonetheless, it is well acted.The music was exceptionally good. Danny Elfman does a very good job as composer for this film. I am dying so bad to get the soundtrack for this movie, because it is very good. Although, like I said before, Extreme Measures isn't a suspense movie, but the tunes for the movie make it sound like one.The best part of this film was plot. It leaves you guessing throughout the entire film, and I enjoy films like this (Minority Report is a good one too). It also isn't idiotic or silly either, but just superb and excellent.(SPOILER AHEAD! YOU'VE BEEN WARNED) The ending where Myrick and Luthan mostly debate about medicine, Myrick believes that taking homeless people and murdering them for science is just, whereas Luthan believes it's wrong to murder people just for science. This is not just for nerves, but for more diseases in the world. The final part of the film is good where Luthan takes the package of Myrick's work. (SPOILER OVER)All in all, Extreme Measures is a good movie!Extreme Measures &#150; 7.5/10 or Very Good "},{"Title":"Interestiing idea, but it lacked realism","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Hugh Grant does his usual acting job of hesitating and acting surprised most of the time, but acting isn't a problem in this movie. When he has cocaine planted in his apartment by the bad guys, his closest friends and associates are quick to believe that he adopted drug use as a way of life. When he finds a homeless group underneath the city, they know too much about what is going on, yet don't trust him. Why were they not less trusting of the bad guys who were doing experiments on them? Why were the bad guys using innocent homeless people instead of prisoners or the terminally ill? The bad guys didn't make up very good cover stories for what they were trying to hide. Why not have one of their hit-men pose as the nearest relative of Claude and take his body away? Why wouldn't they need to keep a patient's body after he died for the research they were doing on him? It's a good story idea, and it presents a good moral question, but there are too many flaws. I can see FBI agents allowing research to be done that could help their loved ones, but I can't see them killing innocent people to cover it up. "},{"Title":"Excellent thinking thriller ...","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  1st watched 7/11/1998 - (Dir-Michel Apted) Excellent thinking thriller revolved around the medical field.  Well done and well played throughout despite not having very high hopes in Hugh Grant being able to hold his own with Hackman, but he does very well. "},{"Title":"standard entertainment","Date":"20 September 1998","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Entertaining, but a lot like coma with Michael Douglas. Nothing really original in the movie, apart from the fact that the main person doesn't happen to get into a relationship during the movie and all that sort of sideline nonesense. Funny to see Hugh Grant just cannot help playing an insecure character even if he is playing someone who succeeds in  at a very difficult task by being very determined. Moral issues, goodies & baddies with a little nuance, violent climax, happy end.  "},{"Title":"Dr Good vs Dr Evil?","Date":"5 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Two mans escape barely naked from an institute. One of them reaches at a hospital where Dr. Guy Luthan works who is a very good medic and has extreme care of his patients. Unfortunately he can not save the stranger who arrives at him but he has a doubt on the way he dies so now he starts to look for some clues that might bring him the truth and why that man was is such a worse condition.Hugh Grant plays the role very good although Gene Hackman doesn't appear for a very long time in the movie only at the end. This movie leaves us with a question on our minds. Is it good too kill some one in order to save other lives? Dr. Lawrence Myrick has a clinic where he brings homeless peoples or the kind that nobody will miss their absence and carry out on them experiments in witch he can find the cure to paralysis.A rough movie and I think it's one of the best on this topic from the '90 and with two great actors that give a dose of reality witch makes it even more real. "},{"Title":"Hugh Grant at his best","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Hugh Grant plays the likable, befuddled Englishman so well, that it was difficult for him to break out of that mold for a while. Therefore, he was cast in one romantic comedy after another. But, his performance as ER doctor Guy Luthan shows that he does have range. All of his quirks (the constant dopey smiles, the longwinded tripping over words, the tendency to hit his head on something) disappears as he portrays a curious doctor investigating the mysterious deaths of area homeless men. But, EXTREME MEASURES is more than just a showcase for Hugh Grant's range. This underrated thriller brings a little bit of humanity to its villain, played by Gene Hackman. His Dr. Lawrence Myrick is not trying to poison society because of mere evilness. He is just an idealist, trying to make the world a better place. But, alas, the road to hell is paved with good intentions. His quest to cure paralysis may be a noble one, but his method of killing his subjects in order to find a cure is corrupt and out of control. "},{"Title":"A Below Average Adventure with an Interesting Conflct","Date":"16 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Is it justifiable to kill innocent people to save thousands of lives? What if these people won't be missed by anybody?This fundamental question behind Extreme Measures raises the film above the level of a purely forgettable action-adventure story. Two different positions on this issue are represented in the film by doctors played by Hugh Grant and Gene Hackman. Most of the movie focuses on Grants investigation on the nature of the mysterious deaths of several homeless people, an investigation that leaves him to uncover the truth behind research conducted by Gene Hackman.In the meantime there's some routine, below-par chase scenes. It's all been done before, and better. An absolutely endless journey into an underground subway goes on for far too long. Hugh Grant is a surprising choice for his role but fares surprisingly well, despite his simply distracting hair.But what's really worth thinking about is the ethical dilemma. Is Hackman's abduction (and essential murder) of the homeless men a justifiable way to find life-saving cures Hugh's stance, that the men didn't ask to be heroes, perhaps makes the most sense, but the question remains. Unfortunately the film requires and unlikely (but once again competently done) shootout to put an end to the conflict. But the film deserves credit for raising the issue, an issue that could very well become increasingly relevant to life and research. 2/4 "},{"Title":"Competent but Routine Thriller","Date":"2 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Extreme Measures is virtually an unacknowledged remake of the 1978 film Coma. Guy Luthan is a young British doctor working at a major hospital in New York. When one of his patients dies with baffling symptoms, Luthan tries to investigate. His efforts, however, are not successful. The man's body mysteriously disappears and his colleagues prove uncooperative. This only fuels his suspicions that something underhand is going on and he makes further enquiries. He warned that if he persists he could be putting his career in jeopardy, and when he ignores this warning he is framed for possession of cocaine. He is forced to go on the run in an effort to clear his name, and discovers that a number of leading doctors, including the eminent neurosurgeon Dr Myrick, are carrying out unethical experiments on the city's vagrants and derelicts in an attempt to find a cure for spinal injuries. Luthan's dead patient was the victim of one of these experiments.As others have pointed out, this theme of a man trying to clear himself of an unjust accusation of crime is a common one in the thrillers of Alfred Hitchcock. (One difference between this film and most of Hitchcock's is that there is no romantic interest for the hero). By moving out of his normal territory of comedies, especially romantic comedies, Hugh Grant was clearly trying to extend his range. He is not an actor one would normally associate with thrillers, but his casting here makes sense. In some thrillers, the hero is a man- a soldier, spy, police officer or private eye- who is used to facing danger and risk as part of his job description. In others- and this is the more common pattern in Hitchcock films- he is an ordinary guy who suddenly and unexpectedly finds himself in danger. (Or, one might say, an ordinary Guy- Luthan shares this Christian name with the hero of Hitchcock's Strangers on a Train). Extreme Measures is an example of this second type of thriller, and we can accept Grant as the Everyman character out of his depth because we are so used to seeing him play Joe Average in films like Four Weddings and a Funeral. Had the role gone to an actor better known for playing tough guy roles in thrillers, say Bruce Willis, Pierce Brosnan or Mel Gibson, he might not have seemed so convincing.Gene Hackman generally makes a reliable villain, and he is reasonably good here as Myrick, but this is not one of his really great bad-guy roles such as Sheriff Daggett in Unforgiven, Captain Ramsey in Crimson Tide or Rankin Fitch, the monstrously cynical lawyer in Runaway Jury. Myrick attempts to defend his actions as being necessary in the interests of medical science, with a few having to be sacrificed in order to benefit the many, but these attempts at self-justification do not really succeed in making this a serious drama about medical ethics. Certainly, Luthan is not tempted for one minute to sympathise with Myrick's viewpoint- he retorts I don't care if you find a cure for every disease on the planet! You tortured and murdered those men upstairs, and that makes you a disgrace to your profession!. I doubt if many of the audience will be won over by Myrick either.Michael Apted's career as a film director (in Britain he is equally well known as a television director) has been rather mixed in terms of quality. He has made one great film (Nell) and some very good ones (such as Gorillas in the Mist), but much of his output consists of competent but routine thrillers such as Gorky Park, Thunderheart and the Bond vehicle The World is Not Enough. Extreme Measures falls into this category- it is exciting enough while it lasts, but contains nothing of any deeper significance. 6/10 "}{"Title":"Very interesting thriller","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Extreme Measures poses one very interesting and highly valid question How far would you go to advance medicine? This question is explored in this nearly 150 minute long film. But despite its considerable length, Desperate Measures keeps the viewer interested. It doesn't exactly drag you in, but it will definitely keep you viewing for the full length.Major points for Hugh Grant, who has seized the opportunity not to play the clumsy yet charming Englishman. And he does it well. With this film, he proves that he can do more than star in romantic comedies.Extreme Measures is definitely a film worth to watch. "},{"Title":"An uneasy blend of thriller and morality","Date":"12 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Summary The dilemma that underpins this is whether or not it is right to sacrifice a few for the good of many, particularly when the few are represented by New York homeless down-and-outs, and the many by wheelchair bound accident victims. In tackling this dilemma a number of cinematic options are open and here the makers opt for the thriller genre rather than a story woven around personal tragedy. But in so doing the moral dilemma tends to take a back seat in order that the thriller approach can grab the audience's attention.Dr Luthan (Grant) is a bright up-and-coming doctor working in the Emergency Room of Grammercy Hospital in New York. Gunshot wound and drug overdose victims are staple diet for this ER but Luthan's curiosity gets the better of him when one of his patients dies in mysterious circumstances. His subsequent investigation of this death see him drawn into a murky world equivalent to that of good old-fashioned body-snatching. Indeed, even the two police officers he comes up against are Messrs Burke and Hare!His pursuits lead him into all manner of personal and career crises as he descends (literally) into the Hell beneath the city streets. This leads to his eventual showdown with Dr Myrick (Hackman) who has his own ideas about conducting medical research. And here we are presented with the moral question - to what extent should it be permissible to sacrifice the few for the many? It's also at this point that the use of the thriller genre as a vehicle for the moral question comes a bit unstuck. We have been rooting for Luthan throughout as he overcomes one difficulty after another and, as a result, it is difficult not to side with him when it comes to resolution of the moral questions. Although some efforts are made to help convey Myrick's viewpoint they are really shoe-horned into the scene in which the two doctors come up against each other on level terms. Here the audience is clubbed about the ears with Myrick's viewpoint, a viewpoint rather heavy-handedly reinforced by the presence of his pretty wheelchair-bound assistant. The ending sees Luthan symbolically ascending the steps to his own Promised Land, in sharp contrast to his earlier escapades in the nether world. Overall the film was not a bad attempt at involving its audience in the underlying morality issue. But the thriller format and the consequent need, in such circumstances, to have the audience firmly on one side, obscured objective consideration of the issues. The performances in the main were excellent. Gene Hackman played a very cool and balanced Dr Myrick in such a way that although we are never sympathetic to him, we do recognise his intentions are good - the problem is with the means. Of Hugh Grant, what can be said? He again plays, well, Hugh Grant. He looks more like an amiable, slightly detached Notting Hill bookseller than an overworked ER doctor - but he does so in all his films! David Morse deserves a special mention for his mean portrayal of Hare (of Burke and Hare fame). The direction is well-paced and in the whole thing treats its audience with respect.  "},{"Title":" GREAT CASTE OF SUPER STARS!","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film surprised me with Gene Hackman as a mad doctor out of control with himself, using human bodies for experiments very much like the old Boris Karloff pictures.  David Morse(TV Hack star)was the guardian of Gene Hackman and his horror hospital. Paul Guilfoyle(TV actor CSI) a doctor who betrays Hugh Grant.  Grant gets the run -around throughout the entire picture.  He winds up running down the tracks of Grand Central station.  This film has a great cast of actors and the plot keeps you on the edge of your seat.  Hackman and Morse outshine Hugh Grant by a long shot. "},{"Title":"Why did I never hear of this one?","Date":"9 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Started watching it on cable because the cast seemed too goodfor an unknown medical thriller.  Kept on watching because it isreally good - correction - really well made. The story doesn't holdup when you think about it but the acting is so naturalistic yoususpend disbelief willingly. Grant gets most of the credit for beingan action hero you worry about. Very smart and very persistent butin over his head when the violence starts. It really adds to the fearfactor and makes his willingness to fight seem more admirable.The rest of the cast is also excellent. The hospital setting isrealistic when it should be and creepy when it should be (themedical examiner's lab). Miracle of miracles, they leave out theromance subplot. What discipline!  Good job! "},{"Title":"How far can medical science go?","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie not only has got a plot, it also makes you think, how far really can surgery go? It´s not really about good versus evil in that flick. Gene HACKMAN one of my favourite actors performed very well as the professor, that took homeless people from the streets for medical surgery-experiments. Well, on the other hand you got Hugh GRANT as a young doctor, who sticks on that case, and tried to solve it in a detective-like-manner. Good movie overall, go and watch it.  "},{"Title":"Playing God","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Having read the Michael Palmer's book a few years ago, I missed the screen version on purpose. Sometimes a book stays vividly in one's imagination that it's inevitably to make unfair comparisons between the movie and what we remember of the book. When this film showed on cable the other day, it was a good excuse to watch it because of its director, Michael Apted, and its cast.If you haven't watched the movie, please stop reading now.The mere idea of a scientist using humans as guinea pigs for his experiments is thoroughly repugnant. Yet, what Mr. Palmer presented in his novel, and what it's at stake here is how easy it is to gather unsuspecting people to experiment with them a technique that might be fatal, as it's proved in the opening sequence of the film.We watch in horror how the bald headed man lands up in the emergency room of the big city hospital where Guy Luthan, the up and coming intern, faces a crisis in trying to help this poor man who goes into convulsions and whose blood pressure goes up and down without any logical explanation. The strange illness affecting this man is not known until he tells the doctor a name that might be a medicine, a procedure, or a place.Because of Dr. Luthan's quest to unravel the mystery behind this patient, he ends up being at odds with the scientist who's been conducting the procedure, Dr. Myrick. This man the key to whatever happens to young Guy Luthan, who doesn't give up against all the conspiracy around him, risking his life at different times.As a thriller, Extreme Measures offers a great ride for the fans of an accomplished thriller. Mr. Apted has directed with verve. The only weak link with the film is a bland Hugh Grant in the leading role. Mr. Grant is an excellent comedy actor. His take Guy Luthan is fine, but one wonders what another actor would have been able to do with the role.Gene Hackman, as Dr.Myrick, shows why he is a class act. Mr. Hackman is totally believable as the mad man with no scruples. His reasoning at the end is chilling. Yes, there are people that die every day, but is it for him to determine which ones will be his victims in search of a possible discovery for what he is trying to accomplish? After all, like Guy tells him, these people didn't choose to participate in the experiment, at all..The supporting cast is good. David Morse, who we have seen in the theater in many plays in the New York stage, is one of the best character actors working in movies these days. His account of the FBI man, Frank Hare, shows a man torn between a paralyzed wife, that might be saved by Dr. Myrick's experiment and his blind loyalty to a mad scientist. Bill Nunn, Paul Guilfoyle, Sarah Jessica Parker, and Debra Monk add another dimension to the film.The movie will entertain as well as will make the viewer think about how far can science go when the power is in the hands of a crazy person. Michael Apted direction shows great flair in telling the story. "},{"Title":"Interesting if contentious medical drama","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This needs an American genre stalwart to make it the lead role shine rather than off beat Brit naturalism.Not being disabled myself (except maybe mentally) I can't know the emotions involved but I like to think that anyone in a wheelchair would be more enlightened than portrayed here. I just didn't buy the fact that they would be willing to sacrifice others just so they could walk again. Likewise, I didn't believe that Grant's doctor would except medical research obtained under those conditions after giving such an idealistic speech, it just didn't ring true. A curiously faithless film that almost doesn't want to acknowledge the good in people.Serviceable, I'll remember it chiefly for the poignant look in Hackman's eyes at the end. "},{"Title":"Very good, especially Grant and Hackman","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I thought Hugh Grant did an excellent job. True, Dr. Luthan just couldn't give up on finding out what happened to that man, which surely wouldn't be realistic for someone in his high-pressure profession as an ER doctor. That was just one patient, after all. But it made for an interesting and suspenseful movie. Grant also gave Dr. Luthan a pleasant manner even under pressure, and a sense of humor, as in the scene where a patient was screaming, and Dr. Luthan said she must have gotten her bill.Gene Hackman was also fabulous. Whether what he did was ethical could be debated, but Dr. Myrick came across very well as someone not quite evil, but not the sort of person one would necessarily want making life-and-death decisions.J. K. Simmons was quite good as Dr. Mingus, who was working with Dr. Myrick on his project. And Sarah Jessica Parker was quite appealing as Nurse Jodie. I also liked the black homeless man who kept coming to Dr. Luthan for prescriptions he didn't need.A very good effort, with difficult moral questions. "},{"Title":"Entertaining and Unique","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I found this to be an underrated movie, particularly by some movie critics. The premise (medical thriller) is different than those normally found routinely in the movies. Beyond that, it has an above average cast, with Gene Hackman leading the way. His acting alone raises the quality of the movie although I found Hugh Grant's character to be fairly pedestrian and uninspiring.While I think he (Hugh Grant) is a good actor, I think he is miscast and that a different actor might have been more convincing in this particular role. I always enjoy Sarah Jessica Parker's movies and found her to be quite good in a role much different than those in which she normally performs. The direction is well done with some unusual locales and very tense, exciting scenes along the way.Despite the fact that you can tell early on where the movie is headed, it still works as both a thriller and a medical drama and is worth watching just to see how it unfolds. You'll find some very thought provoking ethical questions along the way as well. This is a unique thriller, a movie well worth seeing in my opinion.     "},{"Title":"Good thriller","Date":"19 December 2003","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I enjoyed the suspense in this movie and the ethical debate as well. Hugh Grant, in a rare non-comedic role, was very convincing and Gene Hackman, as always, was first rate. The rest of the supporting cast, notably Sarah Jessica Parker and David Morse, were more than competent in their marginal roles. All in all, 7/10. "}{"Title":"could have been better","Date":"6 February 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Dr. Guy Luthan (Hugh Grant) works at Gramercy Hospital ER in NYC. He gets a patient with an unknown hospital's wristband and tells him about something called tri-phase. His patient body goes missing. He discovers records are missing and he is framed with drugs. After getting suspended, he asks nurse Jodie Trammel (Sarah Jessica Parker) for help. He follows the homeless to their underground world and secret experiments done by neurosurgeon Dr. Lawrence Myrick (Gene Hackman). FBI agent Frank Hare (David Morse) and NYPD detective Bob Burke (Bill Nunn) are also investigating a missing person.This reveals too much too early. Myrick shows his hand so quickly that the story has only one or two surprises. This could have been great paranoid thriller action for the first half but I'm simply waiting for Gene Hackman to connect the two dots. I'm not sure Hare and Burke make sense. They need to act heavier as the threatening muscle. I also don't understand how these patients keep walking away. They have terrible security. They could buy a bunch of handcuffs. This movie feels manufactured and should be more thrilling. "},{"Title":"Extreme Measures","Date":"11 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I have hardly seen Hugh Grant is any serious roles, and without being a bumbling hopeless-romantic, and this is a good break away from that stereotyping. He plays Dr. Guy Luthan, the main man of a New York hospital, he may be a little fussy and make difficult decisions, but he is a good doctor. The film by the way starts with two victims of a mysterious experiment, Claude Minkins (Shaun Austin-Olsen) comes to Guy's hospital, and Teddy Dolson (André De Shields) goes missing. Guy is now investigating Claude's mysterious condition for reason of death, and for some reason, all evidence of him or Teddy are not found. The only person who may know something about it would be Dr. Lawrence Myrick (Gene Hackman), who runs a secret research building, where Claude and Teddy escaped. Eventually Guy uncovers that he is taking homeless people to try and find cures for serious conditions, e.g. broken backs. Guy knows that what he is doing is wrong, as he torturing and in some cases murdering these people. Also starring Sarah Jessica Parker as Jodie Trammel, The Green Mile's David Morse as FBI Agent Frank Hare, Sister Act's Bill Nunn as Det. Bob Burke, Shaun Austin-Olsen as Claude Minkins, André De Shields as Teddy Dolson and Spider-Man's J.K. Simmons as Dr. Mingus. The ending is a little hard to handle because when justice is done (accidently), you don't know if it was the right thing to do or not. Good directing from The World Is Not Enough director Michael Apted. Good! "},{"Title":"What about the book?","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I am in the process of reading Michael Palmer's book, Extreme Measures. The book is actually quite riveting, but how the book became this movie kind of baffles me. I was 2/3 of the way through the book before I realized I had a seen this movie. It wasn't until the young doctor got framed for cocaine possession that I thought Wait, I think I saw a movie a few years ago with Hackman and Grant that sort of paralleled a lot of this book. Well, I looked it up on the trusty IMDB and sure enough, someone attempted to make a film of the book. However, the similarities stop at the basic plot and the title. All the character names have been changed; the lead character in the book was an Armenian American, not a British exchange student or whatever Grant was; the book's red herring was a voodoo subplot that, if memory serves me, was omitted from the film. The lead character was an ER doctor, not a neurosurgical intern and, even though I am yet to finish the novel, the plot doesn't have to do with spinal injuries, but instead seems to revolve around turning people into zombies and then subjecting them to illnesses so they can test experimental drugs.Unlike the 13 year old who reviewed this film, I liked the fact that Hackman's character had noble intentions in his evil plot. It gave you pause to think about your own moral decisions. The film I found to be a moderately enjoyable picture, but the fact that I didn't recall the title even though I was reading the book (sheer coincidence), tells you that I found the film to be overwhelmingly forgettable. However, if memory serves me, it had its moments and is probably an enjoyable enough movie if you happen to catch it on late night cable; I wouldn't recommend going out of your way to rent it or see it, unless you're a fan of Hugh Grant.Out of 5 stars, I rate the film 2. "},{"Title":"Great dilemma, not only for doctors","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" SOME OF THE FOLLOWING MIGHT BE CONSIDERED A SPOILER!Well, this movie surprised me a lot. And the surprise went increasingly on the whole movie through. Based on the first minutes I was convinced I am seeing an usual evil-tests-on-homeless flick with bold hero pushing the good against the sinister opponents including a deceitful FBI agent, which is rather banal plot. But there were things that distinguished this movie from another similar. First, the acting, Gene Hackman and Hugh Grant did a very good job. As well as David Morse as the bad guy. Then the legitimate questions the movie raises about the ethics of the scientific research. These are the questions that every doctor has to ask from time to time and unfortunately it often comes out that there is no right answer. Also I liked the grading suspense.Anyway, as strange as it may be, I gave it 9/10.Update 15 August 2005. I saw the movie for the second time while it was on TV and I must say I greatly overrated it before. The movie is not that good after all and therefore I lowered its rating to 6/10 and do not seem to watch it again. "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"23 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  What an outstanding story.I think the best quote for the movie would be Gene Hackman saying If you could cure cancer by killing one person, wouldn't you have to do just that?.The reality of this movie, for the most part, is outstanding.The story seems to flow pretty well, going from acclaimed doctor to trying to save his career, back to acclaimed doctor.If you want a suspenseful drama, this is the one.This is probably one of the best movies I've ever seen.I would highly recommend it for any of those people who like movies that imitate life. "},{"Title":"not bad, but mixing styles","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I believe that good old 'Coma' achieved far more suspense with less visible violence. Here, in 'Extreme Measures', different styles are combined. Though all defineable as 'thriller', the under-the-earth hunt for 'the room' deviates far too much from what this film is about. A bit of 'Bond', a bit of 'Indy', and, oh, yes, a bit of 'Coma'. Still, I think acting by both Grant and Hackman is convincing, despite what others write here. Not one of the 100 best films, though. "},{"Title":"Doctor Hugh  Grant uncovers experiments of Gene Hackman on involuntary human subjects","Date":"17 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I found Extreme Measures to be a decent thriller, even if we have seen this kind of plot before. The number of basic plots is, after all, limited.The movie carried me along and seemed reasonably logical and believable. Hugh Grant was just right for his part of a Hitchcock-type hero who finds himself plotted against, losing his job and with no one believing him, because he is asking questions that might uncover an unethical and deadly research project headed by Gene Hackman.It's really Hugh Grant that carries the movie with the critical assist of Hackman and the appearance of two heavies who work for him. There is also the assistance of various lower class people who add spice to the proceedings and a nurse with an ambiguous role, Sarah Jessica Parker. The operating room atmosphere also contributes early on.The director gave us a movie that looks mostly bright, not a standard neo-noir atmosphere, even if the plot is neo-noir in character. He kept it as a standard thriller, rather than some dark goings-on. The research institute where Hackman does his experiments is, for example, bright and spotlessly clean. And he is not portrayed as some kind of monster at all. This is all done intentionally. It is done this way, I presume, in order to show that evil has the appearance of good and disguises itself in many cases. Even though Hackman is doing evil experiments by kidnapping homeless men who do not live very long after he invades their bodies, his surroundings, he himself, and his justifications make it sound like it is a humane thing to do. We even see the crippled people he is trying to help in wheelchairs, and they are sympathetic looking. This way of portraying Hackman raises the stakes of the conflict to a moral plane, which is a less visible arena of conflict. It makes the viewer think and doesn't provide an answer within the visuals being experienced.There are noir stories that do this, like Leave Her to Heaven (1944), The Swimming Pool aka La Piscine (1969), and Purple Noon (1960), but they intensify the noir nature of the film through building greater extremes of character and action. Extreme Measures does this only up to a point, really not enough to turn this into a first-class neo-noir, so instead it is more of a thriller that dips its toes into neo-noir territory. If this film had shown Hackman's victims in a different way or had shown him actually doing the surgery or had connected him more directly and visually to his deeds, then it would have intensified the visual and emotional stakes. Instead, it kept matters more on an antiseptic plane.The film does bring out beautifully and clearly the ethical conflict between the coercive utilitarianism of Hackman and the rights-based and natural law ethic that a man owns himself, represented by Hugh Grant.This is a worthwhile and entertaining movie with a deep theme. "},{"Title":"2 Doctors' Extreme Measures","Date":"18 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Extreme Measures is a good, good mystery unraveling thriller. It's a bit bland is all. It's well worth watching, just a tad boring in smaller parts. Extreme Measures is a movie I quite enjoy. Hugh Grant is especially agreeable as Extreme Measure's dominating lead. It's nice seeing Mickey Blue Eyes acting in a quality something outside of his typical romantic-comedies, in fact, I so very well liked Hugh's job in Extreme Measures that I would strongly preference that he do more stout dramas. Dr. Guy Luthan was a great role for Grant, as I hope to see him starring in many more of the same roles in the future, oh wait, it is the future, and he didn't. Sarah Jessica Parker is so wonderful. I love seeing Carrie Bradshaw doing her strong female parts for a change-up, finding them even more appealing than her usually played damsel in delight. SJP is one super hot lady. Gene Hackman is great as Dr. Lawrence Myrick. Lex Luthor lays down a formidable villainous representation in Extreme Measures. Extreme Measures is good, I'm telling ya and I damn near rate it a 7, but it needed more added context to its good, intuitive story. Extreme Measures is a well made multifaceted movie. "},{"Title":"Paralyzing Suspense","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A well paced Euro-suspense film (as opposed to U.S. action film) for the adult mind, I could not move from from the moment I stumbled across it on HBO (you will get the reference later). Rather than a series of clumsy plot threads in a sloppy weave of gratuitous violence, this film has the cohesion, moral dilemmas and surprising plot twists of movies that have done much better at the box office.My only criticism is that the subplots could have been better developed. Some secondary character development might have enriched the already rich plot.I recommend this movie for a relaxing rainy afternoon with a glass of Bordeaux. "},{"Title":"Medical thriller works surprisingly well on a low budget.","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  PLOT SPOILER`Extreme Measures' is famous (or infamous) for two reasons. The first being that it was an attempt to add action to Hugh Grant's CV. The second is the fact the film was a box-office flop, grossing only 17 million in the US. This is a shame, because it's actually quite a good film. `Extreme Measures' goes in the same genre as `All the President's Men', `Silkwood', `The Game' and `Arlington Road'. The classic `I'm-on-to-something-but-no-one-will-believe-me' scenario. OK, the film isn't perfect and probably not worth any special merit, but it definitely deserved a lot more attention than it received.While it's a welcome change from the romantic comedies that he's most famous for, it's still questionable whether Hugh Grant is a good lead for this type of film. While I thought he was convincing as the paranoid doctor, he excels better at lighter material. Gene Hackman always handles the bad guy role with the greatest ease. What separates it from the norm is the fact that the character isn't an average stereotype, and certainly doesn't fit the credentials of an average villain. Sarah Jessica Parker is OK in support as the assistant, but definitely not remarkable for any particular reason.In this genre of paranoiac thrillers, one thing that's always required is the ability to engage, and `Extreme Measures' has that in spades. If one aspect begins to get boring, a new revelation/ plot twist is made and you are constantly on the edge of your seat. And when it looks as thought there is no hope that things will get better, the light is left in. In similar themed movies, they often aim for the bad ending that don't leave a satisfying taste. Luckily, `Extreme Measures' goes for an appropriately happy ending so as the paranoia is justified (just as well).Overall, `Extreme Measures' is an original and thoroughly compelling movie. There are generally good performances all round and good production from Hugh Grant's old flame, Elizabeth Hurley. While it is grim for much of its duration, all is justified at the end. My IMDb rating 6.8/10.  "}{"Title":"The most underrated movie, and a excellent movie","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Extreme Measures is not a action thriller, but more of a intelligent thriller. This movie leaves you thinking from beginning to end, and even after the ending.It had a great soundtrack, which I am dying to have.The cast was chosen well too. Hugh Grant does an excellent job as Guy. Gene Hackman does a excellent job. David Moorse did a good job as FBI Special Agent Hare, although he seemed dry in some scenes. I disliked Sarah Jessica Parker, she did awful.This movie is a great movie! Great music, acting, and plot, which leaves us thinking what to do with medicine.Extreme Measures - 8/10 "},{"Title":"Intelligent, clever thriller","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  An intelligent, thoughtful thriller that poses some questions. It's not Die Hard, but it's sharp, believable and has some interesting twists.Don't turn to this if you want a straight-forward, guns and explosion, good vs bad thriller, but if you're feeling a little more intellectual without going into Gosford Park and Iris territory, this may be your thing. "},{"Title":"The two sides of biomedical ethics shown in a thrilling environment.","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I found this movie to be a thriller, and I enjoyed especially the part where Guy realizes he is being duped when he tries to shake off the fly on his hand. The underlying issues of whether biomedical research is ethical in a case where human beings is involved are the main thing that impressed me about Extreme Measures. I was drawn in when I flipped by on television and saw Guy and learned he was paralyzed. Seeing that he was just finding this out, I thought this would be a unique moment and, of course, it was. Grant does a good job, with Hackman shining the brightest in my book. I only caught the tail end of this flick, so I will have to rent it to see it the whole way through. Boy, you really get on the edge of your seat during the elevator scene when the cops are asking, Nerves? Neurology...it's the study of nerves, right? and they are about to leave. What a good film.  "},{"Title":"A very topical subject making the film thought provoking","Date":"23 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  First I want to comment on the subject of the film which is one which is now becoming for society a real issue -the right to experiment on humans for advancing medical science now that to this with animals is becoming increasingly difficult.  This was placed in the context of an exciting thriller which starts with a patient's body disappearing from a hospital after death  from an unknown cause. Hugh Grant plays an unlikely English doctor in a New York hospital who for some reason is disturbed by the man's death and goes on a roller coaster investigation leading him down a path of disaster. Gene Hackman plays the good villian in usual style. The was too much dependence on violence and not enough on storyline and good direction, but I enjoyed the suspense and recommend it to be seen.  For me the very end of the film was most significant, it really summed up the ethical problems that many medical researchers will be confronted with in the next century when knowledge and technology will give opportunities to advance medicine beyond our widest dreams.  "},{"Title":"Intelligent premise not fully realized","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Early in Extreme Measures there is a brilliant moment when Gene Hackman's character is watching a tv news segment showing rats that have had their spinal cords damaged--and then repaired. He responds with a line likeFive billion rats are rejoicing the news.  One of the strongest arguments used by anti-vivisectionists is that if finding a cure for cancer is so important, why not experiment on humans to find a cure? It would certainly be safer and faster than using members of other species. It is indeed ironic that while many pro-animal research people would find this unethical, they do not blink an eye about the maiming and killing of civillians in war--to protect territories, preserve resource supplies, or uphold ideology, anything but for curing cancer(assuming it is even possible--after 100 years of research and an exploding human population you have to wonder if it is such a good idea). Hackman's character symbolizes an interesting conflict within the medical research community Desiring to relieve suffering(in humans) by CAUSING it(in non humans). The film also portrays the  recipients(and their families) of such research in a VERY selfish way.  In light of the film's ambiguous ending it is also interesting to consider that when survivors of Mengele's experiments attempted to have his Nazi research destroyed, the medical community refused, saying that the victims' sacrifice would be in vain if they did. I give the film credit for creating a complex antagonist in Dr. Myrick (or is he the protagonist?), and touching on themes that are indeed worth contemplating. "},{"Title":"Medical ethics and suspense","Date":"16 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I am a big fan of House because of the weekly dilemmas posed. Should we sacrifice a few for the benefit of the many is a question posed in this thriller with J.K. Simmons, Hugh Grant, Gene Hackman, and Sarah Jessica Parker.Grant, as a doctor who uncovers some shady goings on is out of his usual element and, because of that, it really works well. And, he always seems to have some luscious woman around - this time Sarah Jessica Parker.Hackman is superb as Grant's nemesis and really makes this a movie worth watching. "},{"Title":"Great use of Hugh Grant","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I was really impressed by Hugh Grant's performance in this film! His cheeky, I'm so cute, don't you just love me looks, actually translate very well with this film. He is obviously playing an intelligent, driven, charming doctor, who most of the single (and probably some of the married) staff must be lusting after. Well, that would be if this move were directed by Sharon Maguire. Here, Michael Apted draws out a deeper, more complex Grant, who really comes across more as a highly driven, but slightly nutty young, inexperienced ER doctor. Still charming and likable, but with an edge that Grant is truly gifted at delivering.If you like Hugh Grant, or if you don't like Hugh Grant, you MUST see this film. It's got a fairly well paced excitement to it, that keeps you close to the edge of your seat, but without much intense action or gore. A truly well crafted suspense story.Veteran (bad boy?) actor, Gene Hackman, play very well against Grant. Even character actor Marcia DeBonis helps create the mood of intrigue. Sarah Jessica Parker's performance was the only slight disappointment. I believe she may have been mis-cast, as she is an excellent actor, who failed to really deliver in this film.I hope that this film is well received, and Hugh Grant's talents as more than a cool, good looking actor with an accent. From what I can see, we have only seen the tip of the iceberg as to what he is capable of. He is incredibly subtle, so its hard to see at times, but his development of the character Guy Luthan, ranks (in my view) as his best so far.I highly recommend this film, for anyone who appreciates an intellectual, mystery, chock full of real life intrigue that is highly accessible by the average bloke.See it! And...be careful during your next visit to Hospital (I don't think that's a Spoiler) "},{"Title":"Not a very good thriller... tackling important social issues.","Date":"18 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The plot is as follows Hugh Grant is a brilliant doctor on a track of a grave medical conspiracy. He puts his own career and indeed his life on the line. He is framed, chased and shot at. Eventually he discovers that the dubious work of his colleagues can actually benefit humanity. He is forced to make a decision...The way I wrote this summary I might have described dozens of modern thrillers as they bear the same standards. The main character stumbles upon something he shouldn't have and gets himself in danger. Thats where the thrills come from. So how does this attempt at the genre fare here? Not very good. There is a lot of contrived situations and obvious plot holes that unfortunately kill the suspense. Most of the characters are not very well worked out, with an notable exception of the two thugs in the movie! It is very refreshing that Hare and Burke, unlike typical henchmen, actually have deeper humane reasons for being part of the conspiracy, which makes them more believable and determined. The cast apparently helped ruined the suspense. The Jodie character, for instance, had very unclear reasons for helping Luthan out, especially since she had very good reasons NOT to help him. Miss Parker did nothing to make us believe it. Mr. Grant is always a pleasure to watch, but he apparently cannot carry a role of a desperate character of strong morals to do what he has to through the movie. That's something designed, say, for Russel Crowe. Mr. Hackman was at his usual good as portraying a supposed villain. But that's also a problem because his routine approach didn't bring any charisma and sympathy necessary for this type of character. Morgan Freeman would suit the role better.So what this average (meaning clichéd) thriller is left with, is an ambitious goal to provoke a viewer into pondering on an important social issue. An issue of medical experiments on involuntary human patients is indeed a heavy subject. It deserves to be portrayed seriously and not just be relegated to a vehicle for a thriller. In a good thriller that still wouldn't be a problem (why not make a thriller on that theme?). But since it's a cliché thriller, its own clichés hinder the effort in seriousness. The thriller requires a good guy (Grant) and a villain (Heckman). Everything a villain does is automatically painted as bad and to bring a story to a required happy-end a hero must choose the exact opposite. No surprises there and nothing to ponder on after the credits. The puzzle is solved for us. Only worse cliché would be if Schwartzenegger was in place of Grant (then we would know for sure every dubious doctor has to be eradicated from the face of the Earth).Actually, just a little extra work over the ending, a different choices made by characters and a little more exposition to the dark side of the coin would've made much better thriller as well as much more controversy as this movie desperately needs to be talked about. "},{"Title":"Pushing the Extreme","Date":"1 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" With twists and turns, this tale of mystery and suspense will push you further into the depth of conspiracy. With raw emotion, this story will hold your heart and question the choices asked and choices made. Through the eyes and soul of two brilliant actors, Gene Hackman and Hugh Grant, we find ourselves torn between two men sworn to protect life, but one man's crusade to save the lives of others at the cost of others clashes with another man's belief to not play God. But would we go to Extreme Measures for the future of a better tomorrow? Would we choose to sacrifice others to save lives? This haunting tale strikes deep and leaves us questioning long after the credits roll. "},{"Title":"Holy Coma rip-off Batman!","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Gene, Gene, Gene--what on earth were you thinking?? LOLExtreme Measures could have been so much better than it was...but in the end it is what it is....BORING! A no frills, no thrills, thriller!!!If you think this movie sounds good, check out the movie Coma(1978 Michael Crichton-starring Michael Douglas)-- a far superior movie. "}{"Title":"Extremely Great Thriller.","Date":"26 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Extreme Measures (1996) Dir Michael Apted / Cast Hugh Grant, Gene Hackman, Sarah Jessica Parker, David Morse, Debra Monk Provocative thriller regarding decisions and consequences. Hugh Grant plays a surgeon who ends up in the underground homeless where people are being tested for medical purposes. Eventually he is framed for a crime he didn't commit. Intriguing plot that is quite graphic but its conclusion asks questions regarding preserving life. Tense directing by Michael Apted who often addresses the human condition and motives. He previously directed Coal Miner's Daughter and Gorillas in the Mist, and this ranks as one of his greats. Grant plays off confusion and anguish in his search for answers and reasoning. Eventually he is put in position where results are a must since his career and reputation are on the line. This is a very different role from his usual romantic comedy roles, and he is backed by good supporting players. Gene Hackman steals every scene he is in as this genius surgeon with costly theories. Sarah Jessica Parker appears in a wheelchair. She is paralyzed from the waist down and looked to Hackman for a cure. Smaller roles are flat including David Morse as an F.B.I. Agent. While the film has plenty of suspense, it is the idea of using people as risks to find a cure that elevate it above standard conventions. Theme ponders whether a cure is worth the sacrifice. Score 9 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"Too many inexplicable plot devices to be truly good","Date":"9 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" According to this plot an FBI agent and an NYPD cop spend all of their time performing (mostly) illegal acts on behalf of a private corporation performing highly illegal work involving kidnapping and murder. It bothered me throughout the movie. There is also the doctor, Jeff, who seemed pretty clearly to be doing things to help hide the same illegal acts, who, at the end of the movie is somehow miraculously NOT involved at all, with no explanation.There are many good points to the movie, and Grant seems fine as a New York ER doc, far from his usual roles. Gene Hackman is as wonderful and believable as always, and David Morse has the cold, hard-bitten lawman down pat. All in all it was worth watching, but could have been better. "},{"Title":"Excellent! Very Suspenseful, surprisingly entertaining!","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I love thrillers. Especially ones with good ideas, colorful characters, grading suspense and good pacing and Measures has all of those things.Hugh Grant is great in the lead role of a doctor who stumbles onto a medical conspiracy after one of his patients who mysteriously dies goes missing. Gene Hackman gives his best performance in a 90's movie (even if he isn't in it a lot) as the evil doctor who is killing off homeless people he is using as guinea pigs for his tests.The film, even at 120 minutes, has really good pacing, lots of great suspense, and more than a few surprises. The final showdown ending was actually good and NOT predictable, like so many thriller endings are, that seem to fall apart in their final act.Even the supporting players (including Parker and Morse) are really good, adding to the dark suspenseful and intelligent mix.Overall rating 9 out of 10.P.S. the one minor little detail that STILL bothers me just a bit every time I watch it Would Triphase really REALLY make its own garbage bags with their logo on it? "},{"Title":"You Bio-Engineering Majors, Take Heed!!!  Good Work for You","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Suspension of disbelief is necessary in certain parts of this movie, but look for some fascinating trips 1. Below the subways where the 'mole people' live.  Kurt Vonnegut has written about some of these people as well.  Funny, how dark it gets as he goes downward, then suddenly, great gobs of light!!!! 2. No trains to be seen as they make their torturous way down, the va-voom....2 trains bearing down within 5 minutes. 3. Girl/nurse acts totally clueless as to why Grant is at her apartment. 4. Grant acts completely mysterious and does not explain the whys of why he is there. 5. Bleeding and weak from blood, he engages in dialogue and even tries to save Hackman's life.But what I liked about it was the interesting enigma that Chris Reeves brings to all our minds What would you do to restore movement and feeling to those who have spinal injuries?  Hackman plays God, but at MIT we have a great program in bio-electrical engineering.  My son's buddy was getting a PhD in it, playing with making arms move, etc....then suddenly veered right and is a business consultant.How soon our idealism turns to the chase after dross!!!!Maybe there are some gotcha's in that exploration of the unknown I don't know about (chortle, chortle.....as if!!!) This is not your usual movie, fa sho', so if you can stand 2 hours of Hugh Grant playing the innocent, earnest naif, check it out. I did like it.  And of course, Hackman is ALWAYS sexy, even when he's a monster. "},{"Title":"True, genuine ethical dilemmas cover the relative weakness of the film as an action-thriller.","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A film which causes genuine interest and concern to erupt in regard of the themes treated in it.  Unable to sustain a high action level expected from a medical thriller kind of film, this movie raises ethical dilemmas of a doctor from a very concerned point of view.  The ethical dilemmas are the subject of the film, and the handling of those in the focus of the expected action-thriller, in my opinion, is the right decision.Does a doctor have the right to prefer to handle a patient first, albeit the (relative) severity of his condition?  (In this case, prefer handling a police officer instead of a maniac who has been threatening people with a gun in a bus..?)  Does anyone have the right to prefer one man's life over another's?  Is it possible to evaluate someone's life and compare it to another's?  Is it possible to end the life of a person who is willing to die?  (Euthanasia.)  Is it possible to kill one man to save hundreds and thousands of others?  Is it possible to do ANYTHING so cancer disappears the next day?In the movie, answers are not given.  The ethical discussion of the above dilemmas is subject to the spectator's jurisdiction.  And even if the people who die for the entire mankind are heroes, we don't have the right to choose that for them.  This is the only assumption of the film about the subject -- for homeless men in New York, which can save other lives and return millions of people the ability to walk, to eat -- from their paralyzed state.The extension that can be made is as follows if a man wants to die, and by killing that man hundreds, thousands or millions of people will be saved, does ANYONE have the right to kill that person?  Does the man have the right to play God?  This is an issue that is not a subject in the film, but this extension is definitely an issue that has a direct connection and influence on the spectator's eventual evaluation of the film.The right to choose to kill people to save others is not in our hands. Shall it remain so and is it justice -- it is not we who can judge. "},{"Title":"Can't Believe It","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" David Morse, Sarah Jessica Parker, Gene Hackman, Hugh Grant - quite a cast. Does anyone know how to make these actors look bad?I can't believe Michael Apted directed this. Isn't this the guy who directed a Bond film? (Actually that one wasn't too good either.) Didn't he direct Gorillas in the Mist? And Gorky Park? Those weren't bad - so what happened here?I can't believe this is based on a book either. Is it the screen writing - or the directing - or something else? Not being privy to how this film was put together, it's hard if not impossible to say.But it's certain that this is not a 'feel good movie'. To be that, a movie has to make you feel good in some way. It doesn't have to be a light topic; it can be a work of art with great performances and a message that really speaks to you.But this topic - haven't we had enough of this already? And there is no other way to describe this one except to say it seems to be trying to impress and it fails in a dazzling fashion.How do you make Sarah Jessica look bad? How do you film crucial scenes with plot holes all over the place? Above all how do you make Gene Hackman look bad and silly? That's almost impossible. Yet here we see it done admirably.The entire film smacks of second class movie making - this is not something Apted should be associated with - and certainly not the aforementioned actors either. "},{"Title":"Thought provoking","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Here is a movie where you actually agree with the supposedly bad guy and think the good guy is too by-the-book and irrational. A nice performance by Hugh Grant who is actually watchable in this movie, since he doesn't stutter like an idiot and he looks very convincing in a doctor's gown. Gene Hackman is his usual brilliant self, and the supporting actors do a great job as well. This, for some reason, overlooked movie(probably because the atmosphere is very dark) never stops its moderately fast paced tempo and there's also the brilliant scene when Hugh Grant awakes only to find himself...well I guess you'll have to see the movie, won't you)An above average crime thriller that had me thinking what I would be prepared to do if would find myself in a similar situation.Also, a nice score by Danny Elfman.    8/10 "},{"Title":"Not bad, but not enough thrilling or character interaction","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  For once, Hugh Grant doesn't play himself! He's a strong character who fights for what he believes in, and this in itself makes interesting viewing, he has a range in his acting abilities! Unfortunately Hackman isn't onscreen long enough for my liking, this man is a fantastic actor, and there doesn't seem to be enough interaction between these two characters, where's the dramatic tension.There are some really tense moments though, especially Hackman playing off a lowering lift in the end sequence, I tell you I was having strong words with the screen at that point. There's also an interesting twist moving towards the end of the film, for a few moments I wondered where is this going to go now?.This would have been a brilliant film if the character tension had been built on a bit more, although I did enjoy it. I have to argue with some people who have said that the motives of the baddies weren't bad enough to make this a proper thriller, I thought this only made it stronger as you didn't really know who to side with at the end. Thought provoking, is this another first in Grant's career? "},{"Title":"Differing points of view on the Hippocratic oath","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  If you could cure cancer.... Wouldn't you HAVE to do that?Yep, it's the what's between them two phrases. Killing people. I know a lot of paralyzed people, and can sympathize with Hackman's cause, but Grant's character is right in his stance of taking the Doctor's Oath.But it's an entertaining movie anyhow. I really love Gene Hackman, he don't make too many bad movies. "},{"Title":"Suffering beyond belief","Date":"29 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" In this movie, Hugh Grant proves he can do so much more than romantic comedies. I could easily picture him in one of the hospital shows on TV. Gene Hackman is good too, but David Morse - a personal favorite - is surprisingly stiff and boring. Sarah Jessica Parker isn't even worth mentioning.So what can I say about the plot? Well, the beginning is interesting, and a little spooky. After that a quick cut to the hospital where we reveal the most idiotic name anyone could have ever thought of. I mean, Guy Luthan?? Despite the intriguing plot, it eventually stretches too far and becomes quite ridiculos. And then, as we enter the under ground, my suffering is beyond belief. A very fuzzy climax where David Morse's lack of enthusiasm becomes even more obvious. This movie could have been a lot better if it hadn't made all those mistakes that could have been avoided so easily. Although, it was fun to see Hugh Grant's rom com character peek out in this mildly efficient thriller - which doesn't make his acting worse but adds sympathy to his character and makes him more likable. "}{"Title":"OK.  Not very good Grant.","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The actors are put in unsuitable roles, and the plot, though not slow, was dull and poorly executed, with some action scenes and a scene with two naked men, a fat, clean-shaven, white man and a thin, black bearded man.  Not the best movie to see, if you're bored or not. "},{"Title":"competent but colorless","Date":"26 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A bland, colorless little movie.  All involved are competent but uninspired, though there are some vague missteps in the screenplay.  There is no real tension or threat, perhaps because Hugh Grant seems isolated and uninvolving.  Gene Hackman is generously billed; he appears in just a few minutes of film.  "},{"Title":"Simply bad","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  An unfortunate choice for your entertainment. Full of artificial dilemmas, cliches and obligatory scenes. The moral speech at the end is fairly childish. I was annoyed by the pointless abundance of kinetically challenged persons. Hugh Grant cannot fit in action scenes. Only for Hugh (female) admirers.  "},{"Title":"Ridiculous","Date":"9 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Absolutely ridiculous (with a few typical Grant wits) and more and more so towards the end where they ramble on for 10 minutes and HG looks like a big fool. Moral dilemma? It just uses the moral dilemma as part of a very badly written plot; don't say that it triggers any deep reflection! Would have given it a 3 - or less - if it wasn't for the few jokes in the beginning that at least made me smile for some minutes. I do not understand how good actors like GH can lend themselves to such nonsense. HG was still relatively young and might have needed the money at this stage. And to see Sarah J P act - how on earth would anybody hire here after this - but we know they did. Woody Allen was almost right when he said that in Hollywood they don't throw their garbage away. They make it into television shows. He should have added films. This is garbage! "},{"Title":"A good movie that never manages to become great.","Date":"15 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a pretty good thriller and also a quite original one, for normal '90's standards but yet the movie never manages to become a truly great, tense or exciting one.The story is what's making the movie good but at the same time it's also the thing that is keeping this movie down. It could had turned into an interesting movie, that dealt with the issues of moral and medical ethics but the movie never really does so. It makes clear, pretty much from the start on already, who the good- and the bad guys are. And the good guys are extremely good, while the bad guys are totally evil and immoral. It's making this a very black and white and standardized thriller, that progresses in a mostly predictable manner, while still managing to throw in some good moments as well.But really, when watching this movie you just can't help but think how great it potentially could had been. It seems that all of the right ingredients were there but the film-makers just didn't really had a good idea how to handle them, so they went for a more safe and straight-forward approach. This really feels like a studio thriller, made to cash in on the stars that are all in it.But don't be fooled. Even though Gene Hackman is highly billed, he actually is hardly in the movie at all. Just a couple of scenes at the start of the movie and after that it takes a long while for him to appear again. He's only prominently present during the final minutes of the movie, as if he signed a contract that ensured he only had to appear in no more than 5 sequences with Hugh Grant. During those scenes he of course still outclasses Hugh Grant and makes you want to see more of him in his role.And while it was an overall good genre movie to watch, it still managed to annoy me with a couple of things. It's mostly nitpicking sort of stuff but still, it bugged me. For instance that the fact that the homeless people in this movie, who play an important role, never ever remotely look like an homeless person. All have perfect teeth and they and their clothes look far too clean. It's stuff like this that takes you out of a movie.It's also a movie that in the end is leaving more question than answers, especially when you start thinking back about it. It's actually a very unlikely movie, with a very unlikely story and main premise, that gets only made half believable while watching this movie. But just like everything else, it doesn't really push through and plays things far too standard and safe. A shame, since there was far more potential for this movie really.Definitely watchable but it just never becomes great in any way.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Weak but watchable thriller","Date":"24 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Not enough thrills to put this one in the big leagues but it is the kind of film I stop to watch whenever it's on TV. Not good enough to own on video, but certainly watchable. Grant is a doctor on the trail of some Nazi-like nonsense being perpetuated by none other than kindly old doctor Gene Hackman, who is always fun to watch if not particularly menacing here. The elevator/lobby and underground dwellers/subway sequences are the film's highlights. Thoughtful and thought-provoking ending, too. Give it a look, but do not spend more than a coupla bucks on it if you can't find it on TV. "},{"Title":"The difference between God and a doctor.","Date":"25 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" SPOILERS. It's an old joke. What's the difference between God and a doctor? God doesn't think he's a doctor.That's Dr. Gene Hackman's problem in this film -- he gets the two identities mixed up. He loses what sociologists call role distance. He begins to believe that because he can delay death, he can give life, and give the kind of life he'd like to give. Well, we won't get into that here. Please take my course in Philosophy of Medicine 101. You'll find the fee surprisingly affordable. Hurry, offer ends at midnight.Actually, Extreme Measures illustrates just about everything that can go wrong with what might have been a decent medical thriller. The story itself is pretty plain. Promising young doc roots out unethical shenanigans at higher levels, rather as in Robin Cook's Coma. In Coma they just did it for the money. Here they do it because they want to practice what Hackman, Chief of the Shenanigans Department, calls great medicine. It involves harvesting homeless men, cutting their spinal cords, and more or less encouraging the fusion of the severed nerves. Sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn't. When young Dr. Hugh Grant begins to suspect something is up and noses around, he is framed for cocaine possession, employee theft, and having a funny hair style. Ruined, he continues his investigation anyway and it ends in violence.Michael Palmer, a doc himself, wrote the novel on which this is based. I haven't read it, but Palmer must be aware of just how closely the methods used by Gene Hackman resemble those of the docs who worked under Hitler. Germany was exterminating people who were identified as medically unfit -- for the most humanitarian of reasons, of course. State-sponsored propaganda films showed movies justifying the pruning of the herd. Well, just look at these poor schizophrenic dudes, a kindly doc explains. Aren't they better off dead? Later, Jews were used in experiments to determine how long a human body could survive in near-freezing water, presumably to save the lives of sailors who lost their ships in the Baltic. Next to them, Hackman's doc seems only a trifle misguided.Did Palmer have anything to say about this script or did he just get paid and run? The film goes in for the cheapest kind of shock effects while the plot meanders around. I mean cheap, as in hands reaching in from out of the frame and grabbing the hero by the shoulder. Unimaginative too. When Hugh Grant gets his nose bashed in, he suffers from nothing more than a colorful trickle from one nostril to his lip. Didn't the writers ever see a fist fight in a schoolyard? Punched in the nose, the victim bleeds like Niagara and when he tries to wipe it off he smears it all over his lower face. (Cf., Ben Johnson in Shane for how it ought to be done.) At one point, Grant is told that he has a break in the 8th vertebra. Later, he sobs to his girl friend that he has a fracture in C6 (sixth cervical) when it should be T1 (first thoracic). Or is that wrong? I was never good at numbers.Way deep down underground in New York City live the mole people, from whom Hackman gets his experimental subjects. They're so terrifying that even the normal homeless people who live above ground are afraid to go down there. But Grant does and he finds an angry and suspicious community that looks made up of extras who have been told to dress down. Raggedy clothes, yes, and maybe greasy hair and odd faces, but not TOO extraordinary. Most are freshly shaved, and they speak like high school graduates making a public speech -- being sure to add the g at the end of a word like going. This is directorial sloppiness. Most of the homeless are mentally ill, uneducated, and without material or social resources, bankrupt in every sense. They could not organize a cohesive group. They couldn't organize a trip to a hot dog stand.It's a minor shame in a way, because there may be a decent thriller lurking in this plot somewhere. Alas, nobody found it, presumably because nobody was looking for it. Everyone involved seems to have taken the easy way out and settled for cash. "},{"Title":"The Good & Bad Of 'Extreme Measures'","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"16 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" GOOD - A very interesting story start-to-finish is the main attribute of this movie. It simply entertains, which is what you want in a film. It's also well-acted by the two leads Hugh Grant and Gene Hackman.It's nice to see Grant in a serious role for a change while Hackman and David Morse are their usual intense selves. Also included in the cast are Sarah Jessica Parker, Paul Guilfoyle (of CSI-Las Vegas fame) and Debra Monk.BAD - My objections to the films are 1 - a few unrealistic scenes such as the meek doctor (Grant) beating up a tough FBI agent; 2 - the FBI guy (Morse) portrayed as a cold-blooded killer (boy does Liberal Hollywood hate any law- enforcement group); 3 - they also get a religious cheap shot in by showing the hateful bad guy at home with a picture of Jesus. The film world's bigotry never lets up.OVERALL - The unique story and the acting talents of Grant and Hackman make this worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Can I ask you something! What the hell do you do here?","Date":"16 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Overlooked at the time of its released back in 1996 the movie Extreame Measures like a fine wine seems to get better with each viewing. More then just your average hospital drama the movies thought-provoking premise of sacrificing the few to save the many hunts you as well as its star Hugh Grant, as the overly conscientious Doctor Guy Luthan, long after its shocking and mind numbing ending sequence.Working grueling 90 hours weeks at the Gramancy General Hospitals emergency ward in New York City Dr. Luthan has seen everything there is to see in people being treated there. Thats until one evening when he comes across homeless and naked Claude Minkins, Shaun Austin-Olsen, who was found roaming the streets on NYC with nothing on but a plastic sheet. Minkins seems to have every illness known to medical science and before he can be treated he suffers what's called a complete metabolic meltdown dying right there in his hospital bed! Trying to find out the cause of Minkins death Dr. Luthan hits a stone wall in that his body has mysteriously disappeared, or was stolen, from the hospitals morgue.Told to forget about the now missing Minkins by his boss Dr. Jeff Marko, Paul Guilfoyle, Dr. Luthan instead tries to track down Minkins' fellow homeless friend Teddy Dolson, Andre De Shields, who's name Minkins spurted out just before he suddenly passed away. As things turned out Dr. Luthan finds out that both Minkins and Dolson were treated at the Riverside Neurological Center by non other then the famed and world renowned neurologist Dr. Lawrence Myrick, Gene Hackman. What's even more puzzling to the curious Dr. Luthan is that both Minkins and Dolson's medical records have completely disappeared from the hospital's record files!As Dr. Luthan gets closer to the truth behind what happened to both Minkins and his friend Dolson, who's still out loose on the streets, strange things start to happen to him. His apartment is broken into by someone who has cocaine planted there to have Dr. Luthan both discredited and disbarred from practicing medicine. Knowing that he's sitting on top of a volcano that's about to blow Dr. Luthan with the help of one of his patients the street wise Bobby, John Toles Bey, tracks down the place where both Minkins and Dolson were staying before they ended up at Riverdale Neurological Center! In the underground tunnels in and around Grand Central Center Station with their fellow homeless known as Mole People. While all this is happening Dr. Myrick has sent out two of his goons FBI Agent Hare, David Morse, and NYPD Detective Berke, Bill Nunn, to stop Dr. Luthan from finding out the reasons behind Minkins and Dolson medical conditions. If it ever came out what secret experiments Dr. Myrick was preforming at the center it would either put him behind bars for the rest of his life or ironically would save the lives of untold thousands of persons if they, with human beings used as guanine pigs, are proved successful!***SPOILERS*** Despite being the villain in the movie you just can't be that critical of Dr. Myrick's motives. What Dr. Myrick is doing in his illegal experiments is trying to save lives by implanting the nerve cells of helpless and in many cases terminally ill homeless people into the spines of the cripples patients he's treating at his hospital. Eariler in the movie Dr. Luthan came across the same dilemma that Dr. Myrick faces, in saving one person at the expense of another, and ended up doing in a split second decision the exact same thing that Dr. Myrick has been doing without a second thought for the last couple of years! It's that disturbing fact on Dr. Luthans part that has him, at the end of the film, continue Dr. Myrick's work despite his misgivings about it!***MAJOR SPOILERS*** Also in the movie is a homely looking, before she made it big on HBO's Sex in the City, Sarah Jessica Parker as Dr. Luthan's both friend and assistant nurse Jodie Trannel. Jodie as it later turned wasn't exactly as sympathetic to her friend Dr. Luthan's cause as she at first appeared to have been. As Dr. Luthan got closer to what was behind Dr. Myrick's secret experiments he was soon to find out that Jodie was somehow connected to them in a both major and family-like way! "},{"Title":"Stupid, boring, predictable ER thriller...","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Hugh Grant is the doctor who suspects more is going on than meets the eye in the E.R. of the hospital where he works as a doctor.Gene Hackman is the villain, as usual. He's good but the script isn't. Either is Grant.Whoever thought he could pull off the role of a doctor must have been high on something. Mutterin', stumblin' Hugh Grant as a trained doctor? And a *smart one*, too? I don't think so.Perhaps if the cliches had been taken out of the story and the primary lead had been changed to someone more, uh, believable, this would have been a good movie.But as it stands, it's predictable and silly.Don't waste your money, folks. "}{"Title":"Extreme waste of time","Date":"31 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Watchable but ultimately tripe with mis-cast Brit Hugh Grant playing a pre-eminent ER doctor who happens upon an apparent conspiracy when he treats a homeless man whose fatal symptoms are unlike any ever documented. His life is subsequently thrown into disarray as he's framed, fired and facing the prospect of ruin, decides to seek out those responsible and uncover their motives.Strong cast includes Hackman as the eminent professor somehow linked to the mysterious death, David Morse as a shady FBI agent and JK Simmons as a doctor mentored by Hackman. Parker and Grant are out of their depth, and both badly miscast, perhaps courtesy of Liz Hurley's influence as producer. The dialogue is abominable and no matter how hard he might try to convince you he's a fully fledged doctor on the edge, Hugh's anxious f-bombs all miss their target, likely to instead draw howls of laughter from the peanut gallery.It's technically well made, features some moments of genuine tension, but is so clichéd and contrived that the ethical dilemma proposed by the plot just can't withstand the patent idiocy of the execution. Interesting idea, just lacks the depth, refinement and core casting needed to make it vaguely plausible. "},{"Title":"Nice try - no cigar","Date":"29 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Extreme Measures constituted the first big attempt by the inflated-ego double act of Grant and Hurley to crack America with their imported production. It was a serious project - Michael Apted directs. But even the middle-of the road reception of Nine and a Half Months in the States (co-star Julianne Moore moved on to become a mainstream and indie darling) couldn't prepare the audience for the square peg in a round hole that Grant produced. His performance is heroic in as much as he soldiers on despite his rather wet screen presence. I think it's the hair. Seriously.Sarah Jessica Parker's an anonymous love interest, Hackman's thinking about renewing his agent... I didn't mind David Morse, who does thinking thugs rather well. A failed experiment. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Had potential but is really just a flawed thriller with a hatful of big names","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"5 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Guy Luthan is a British doctor working in the American health care system. He is on duty when a homeless man is brought into hospital with wildly fluctuating heart rates and other signs who has an unidentified medical bracelet on and speaks of a drug that doesn't exist before dying on the table. Luthan cannot understand the death and starts to look into the cause of death but only finds obstructive staff and missing reports. As he continues to search for the truth he finds himself framed and out of a job.Realising that the success of Four Weddings and his subsequent comedies had basically typecast him as a stuttering, slightly charming romantic comedy lead, Hugh Grant signed onto a more serious role in this rather workmanlike but interesting thriller. This also served to help us forget his arrest and the poor 'Nine Months' that occurred in the year before this film was made. This film has a basic plot but also an interesting one &#150; it has a simple thriller plot but it has the added element of having a little bit of an ethical debate about it towards the end. However this doesn't mean that it is better for it for really it isn't. It should be good and it has good moments and it is a classy, professional film but it's weaknesses outweigh it's plus points. The plot is very slow, too slow and lacks real tension for almost the whole film. The plot is still interesting and the gradual unravelling of a conspiracy is OK but it really should have been so much better than it is. Towards the end we get action, chases, shouting and some good acting but for the first 80 minutes the film has too many moments where it drags when it should be quick. Despite thinking it has a slight brain to it in regards medical ethics, it relies far too heavily on plot jumps (the bin bag thing being the most hilarious of many real plums), this is yet another reason for it lacking tension &#150; I was never swept away by it.Grant does OK but he is difficult to really buy in his role. His Britishness is writ large on his character but he does at least move away from his usual performance (a performance he has since sunk back into). Hackman is much better but is barely more than a cameo &#150; he is only really well used towards the end of the film and it is his acting chops that add gravitas to the film albeit too late in the game to improve the film as a whole. On top of Hackman, the film also has a raft of famous faces in the support character. Parker is given nothing to do what so ever while Morse and Nunn are nothing more than men with guns, a sad use of two men who are much more able &#150; especially Morse. Guilfoyle, Simmons and Ventimiglia will be familiar to fans of CSI, Oz and Sopranos respectively and add the feeling of cast depth even if they don't have much to do.Overall this film offers much &#150; it has an element of intelligence to the story, it has a good cast and it has had money spent on it but it delivers surprisingly little of this promise. The cast aren't used well (especially Hackman), the film is dull and lacks tension while the jumps the plot makes at times are just laughable and show a script that knew where it wanted to go but had no idea of how to get there. By the end of the film, my far-from-high hopes hadn't even partly been met and the film reveals itself to be a basic thriller that isn't very good and, without the foundation of a good film to stand on, the whole ethical debate is wasted and will only be seen as a rare good moment in an otherwise poor film.  "},{"Title":"Unsatisfactory","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  My Age 13Dr. Guy Luthan, played by Hugh Grant, begins making enquiries when the body of one of his patients who died under suspicious circumstances disappears. There are certain people who don't want these enquiries made.  They are led by Dr. Lawrence Myrick, played by Gene Hackman, who is experimenting with people to cure diseases.  But he is breaking the law by testing people instead of animals.  Guy uncovers this plan and must put a stop to it.Rather boring throughout most of its length, Extreme Measures isn't much of a thriller.  A bad guy shouldn't be trying to do a good thing in a thriller I think, which defeats the purpose of Gene Hackman's character. Characters weren't very well established, but acting was fairly good from both leads, but not so good from some of the supporting actors.  A fairly good end to the film makes it at least a fair go, but it is still an unsatisfactory film for me.Australian Classification M 15+ Medium Level Violence, Medium Level Coarse LanguageRating 47 out of 100 "}]