[{"Title":"Damn the critics! This movie was FUNNY!","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"43 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  This movie was blasted by every critic in the media, but I think they were all way off base. Was there anything plausible about it? No. Was there anything funny about it? YES! I never got a chance to see it in the theatre, but when I rented it on VHS, I couldn't stop laughing. Of course, I saw it alone at the time, so I thought that perhaps there was something wrong with me. Then my brother rented it, and the rest of my family saw it, and we all laughed, and I realized something I should've known earlier, that this was funny, and I shouldn't be ashamed to think that way...and neither should YOU! "},{"Title":"Totally off the wall creative genius","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"26 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  I had never heard of this movie before my 16 year-old son rented the video. It is hilarious. Think of Babe as produced by the Marx Brothers, using singing cockroaches instead of mice . Evidently the critics didn't like it much, and I can see how they might not see it as high art, but as entertainment and an enjoyable time in fantasy land, it right up there with the best of them, in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Disgusting, outrageous, I loved nearly every minute of it","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"27 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  Just remember, this is a critic who holds some of the most vile films ever (vile in a good way) in my list of best comedies ever (Dumb and Dumber, UHF, South Park), so it is not surprising that I found this movie enjoyable and funny.  The movie stars Jerry O'Connell as a loser type who finds an apartment in NY's east side for 50 or 60 bucks, but then he also finds it is infested with more cockroaches than the DMV has idiots.  I'm sure there will be some watching the movie who might think, this might be a good time to become bulemic, and for those people I don't reccomend the movie for the hurl factor.  But for those who can take the chum of roaches on a face, in breasts, in toilets singing songs (I love the funky towel song), this movie is for you.  By the way, this is the first MTV movie, so it shows that at first MTV might've had a good streak.  Looks like execs can't take urinal cake jokes though.  A "},{"Title":"laugh your head of","Date":"12 September 2004","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  What's wrong with you, people??? Why has this movie such a low rating???I loved those bugs everywhere. The special effects are OK. The story itself is a bit naive, but, hé, it's a fairy-tale!Everyone who likes Who frames Roger Rabbit, Ant Z, Thumbelina by Don Bluth (OK, bad example) or over-the-top-sentimental-romance like What Dreams May Come must like Joe's Apartment.What do we have here? 1 a lonely country-boy in New York; 2 two ugly and dumb bad guys; 3 a sweet girl as love interest; and 4 thousands of bugs who are supposed to be loathsome, but soon turn out to be adorable. The first three items you have seen all before. But the fourth! You've never seen something like this, and you will never forget you saw it.  "},{"Title":"A wonderfully imaginative movie","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"17 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  Ignore the negative rabble expressed above. Rent the movie, and I think you'll be pleasantly surprised. Joe's Apartment has more creativity and originality in it than most of the films I've seen in 1999. Great concept, great animation/set designs, great fun. "},{"Title":"Pretty original black humor comedy","Date":"6 November 2008","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" I've seen this many years ago when it just came out and now decided to watch it again. I remember it was pretty funny but then I was maybe 7 years old so now I was expecting this film to be stupid. I was surprised how clever this film was. The humor was sometimes stupid but in a good way. It also was kinda original humor sometimes. Jerry O'Connell played a naive new arrival to New York very well. It was so funny when I first saw his naive physiognomy just before he got robed. Jerry O'Connell is a really good comical actor. I also liked that Walter Sh!t character (played by Jim Turner), actually he was the reason why this comedy appeared original to me. It's also a half musical so there were few songs performed by Cockroaches, it was pretty clever made. "},{"Title":"Funny and well shot","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" I was quite surprised when I saw the mark given by the IMDb users to this film. Indeed, even though it's not the best movie of the century, I found it quite entertaining and fresh.I loved the way it is shot, there is a real work on the layouts that makes Joe's apartment look dirty and moving at the same time. Besides, the visual effects are well done for a film that dates back to 1996. They are not THAT impressive but they are very efficient to create the funny atmosphere. I could not describe the way I laughed rolling on the floor when I saw those roaches watching an insect porn movie, it cracked me up.This movie is worth seeing for sure and does not deserve such a mark. Everyone who's curious should watch it to make his/her own opinion and should not pay attention to the five miserable stars given to the film. "},{"Title":"Roach memories","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie despite one thing - I had an irrational phobia of roaches since I was young, and only got over it a few years ago just before this movie came out. Just as well - I might never watched it otherwise. To see the roaches up close and performing song and dance made me a little nauseous at first as it brought back memories of those times when I got too close to a real roach, but after a while, you sort of forget that they are dirty and disgusting pests and actually start enjoying and anticipating their next comic routine. For me, the stars of the show are the roaches, in fact, I can't even remember who acted in it after a while. "},{"Title":"Funny little singing critters","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  Decided to pick a film I'd never heard of- this turned out to be very funny especially the songs of the cockroaches.  Connolly plays a down on his luck character well and the scene at the 911 operations is hilarious-- even my son was laughing along with me. Whoever designed the set deserves credit for their creativity.. a funny film that deserved more credit than it got.  "},{"Title":"Singing and dancing cockroaches. Is that ingenuity or what? Ha, ha!","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  This movie is pretty funny. What it lacks in intelligence, it makes up for in fun.Joe(O'Connell)has just to New York City and into his first apartment. The only problem it's infested with thousands of talking cockroaches. They all seem to be a pain in Joe's butt, but the roaches come in more useful for him than he thought.This movie is no classic, of course I don't think any of MTV's movies will be considered classics. But they are really funny(also see Beavis and Butt-Head Do America and Dead Man On Campus).It's a hilarious and fun little flick, even for people who don't like bugs. 8/10 "}{"Title":"Goes In, Doesn't Come Out","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  Spoilers herein.This is successful in one dimension. And since few films even have that, perhaps we should celebrate.What stinks is all the normal mix of what usually makes a film the story (particularly the humor in the story), the acting, production and so on. But what works is a relative lack of constraint in what happens with the bugs.The Disney organization established a code which has become dogma. It sets pretty severe constraints on what a cartoon character can do in terms of bending reality or the normalcy of behavior. So Donald might get mad, but he doesn't turn himself inside out. Goofy's nose might get stretched, but he does have a nose. Walt's supposition was that the characters were surrogates for real people and if you break that wall, you bring into question all of the dramatic and comedic conventions he appropriates from real life.Essentially everyone follows this rule, and has thrived. The alternative world of animated creatures has a predictability to it. Ah, but that wall of expectations is a matter for humor too -- rare humor -- humor of the Marx Brothers variety. And here we have a Lenny Bruce-like piercing of the wall. Its outrageous in just the sort of way that South Park sometimes was.The Busby Berkeley routines really had me. It ran out of steam well before the end. So just turn it off after the apartment gets destroyed.Ted's evaluation 2 of 4 -- Has some interesting elements. "},{"Title":"Stupid, and with singing cockroaches?  I love it!!","Date":"14 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" We happened to notice this on the TV in the video store one evening, and decided we had to have it. Unfortunately for the poor shop assistant, she was in the middle of watching it and had to take it out of the VCR to rent it to us.Turned out to be a great choice, even though I hate cockroaches! A marvelously silly, feel-good film. Yes, of course it has a standard plot-by-numbers plot-line, but it's rare to find a film that doesn't these days. What's even better is that the shops think it is a bad film, so the DVD is very cheap. Go out and buy one! "},{"Title":"Joe's apartment full of laughs","Date":"22 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" I wonder why it got criticized because to me the worth of a movie is how you react to it.I first saw it on video in 1996 and I can tell you that we had to watch the intro three times because we were laughing so damn hard.Even the 'mother' of the house was constantly telling us to shooooshhhh because we laughed so loud.Never has a movie had me laughing so loud.Now 11 yrs later, my 5 yr and 6 yr old boys watch it and get a huge laugh out of it. They love to see the roaches singing and dancing..So if anyone cans it, they can go to buggery because we all get a lot of laughs and entertainment out of it. "},{"Title":"Disgusting, demented, though strangely appealing","Date":"4 November 2004","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" Joe has graduated from college and is moving from Iowa to New York City. He actually believes he can find a decent apartment and a good job, but the apartments that rent for $1000 a month are not fit to live in. Fortunately, he meets Walter, an artist, whose latest project is to lie on the street in a pool of blood and see who notices. For two days, only Joe does. Walter tells Joe about rent control, and Joe is lucky enough to be there when the resident of one rent-control apartment dies. But the apartment Joe finds is no prize either, even though he can afford it. Hundreds or even thousands of roaches live there. Talking roaches. And the building is the last one left in an area where Senator Dougherty wants to build a federal prison. Only Joe is left in his building, and he is harassed to the point where most people would move out. The roaches encourage Joe to stand his ground and even help him out.When Joe calls 911, the call is answered by Dougherty's frustrated daughter Lily, who has taken charge of a community garden in Joe's neighborhood and wants her father to leave things as they are. Lily doesn't like her paying job because all she can do is put people on hold; there's no one to switch them to (I did like the nice music that was played).If you don't like 'Fear Factor', this movie might not be for you. But the roaches were so cute I wasn't really disgusted (even by their slightly off-color language). And they were quite talented. I liked most of their songs, which tended to be older music styles. They even did dance routines, including an Esther Williams style performance in a toilet.This movie was very funny at times. Some of the humor tended toward the demented, but I still enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"Share it with someone you love","Date":"26 April 2007","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" Not just an old-fashioned music-and-dance extravaganza in the style of Busby Berkeley, Joe's Apartment is also a heartwarming tale of a naive midwestern boy learning about life, seeking his destiny in the big city. You'll find yourself cheering for Joe, as a tender romance is played out against the backdrop of an epic of modern life, when New York's poorest and most forgotten residents learn to overcome their distrust of an outsider, and help him to find both success and love.Based on the novel of the same name (winner of both the 1994 Pulitzer Prize and the 1995 Nobel prize for literature) and adapted for the screen through the combined efforts of Maya Angelou and Salman Rushdie, the power and majesty of the screenplay has been shown to lower blood pressure, reduce acid reflux, and cure eczema (Wisconsin Dermatological Review, November 1999.) Both a critical success and smash hit (by the end of 2007, the cumulative worldwide box office exceeded $830 million) the film has been playing continuously to packed houses in New York, Los Angeles, London, Prague, and Rio de Janeiro for over eleven years. Its theme music was adopted in 2004 as the national anthem of Norway (this led to a brief but violent conflict with neighboring Finland, which had also sought to use the music for its anthem, until UN Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali declared before the General Assembly that Joe's Apartment should be considered part of humanity's common cultural heritage.)Upon his return from a much-publicized audience with Pope John Paul II, star Jerry O'Connell was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom by President Bill Clinton. The Dalai Lama (who at the time of this writing has seen the movie over 2300 times) was recently quoted in Newsweek as saying No feeling person can see Joe's Apartment and not be moved to tears by its urgent message that we must all embrace biological diversity in the fight against homelessness, crime, and political corruption. That this simple truth remains as relevant in today's society as when the film was made, is simply more proof of the prescience and timeless universality of the message.With its magnificent cinematography, lush musical score, and sensitive direction of the outstanding performances, it's easy to see why Joe's Apartment swept every major category in the 1997 Oscars, and is third on the AFI's list of the most ground-breaking films of all time. The artistry of this film recalls the heyday of Hollywood's past greatness, and will leave you both profoundly moved, and filled with renewed hope for the future of the world.Joe's Apartment is THE feel-good movie of the late '90s, a film that will warm the hearts of young and old, from your grandmother to your grandchildren. See it today, with someone you love. "},{"Title":"MTV's first gem","Date":"10 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" I went into Joe's Apartment I was expecting a crappy film, not going to lie. It was lampooned by critics, and is the first of it's kind as it's the first film by MTV. I saw bits and pieces of this flick when I was around eight years old with my dad, and thought it was a horror film. Thousands of cockroaches and their scratchy voices running around a ceiling kicking two guy's asses sounds like a Horror film. I was surprised to find out it was a comedy film by none other than MTV. After all, this was all when I was eight.Like I stated, I went into this expecting a horrible film. It looked like a cheesy MTV film that lacked talent and humor. I was totally wrong. This film is now on the list of favorite MTV films. I always complain in my other reviews that movies have lost creativity and idea in recent years, I think I got what I asked for. Singing cockroaches? Haven't seen that done before! Joe (O'Connell) is a College grad who is having a hard time after moving to New York City. He can't find a place or a job to manage. After posing as a recently dead elderly women's son, he is able to get her Apartment at very cheap. Little does he know the podunk joint is home to over 5,000 singing and talking cockroaches.Joe must now cope with the roaches irrational behavior, as well as trying to score big with a local, garden nut named Lily (Ward). But there isn't a huge market for women who dig jobless men who have a home infested with thousands of cockroaches last I checked. I could be wrong though.I have seen the original short that this film is based on, and I hate cockroaches. Though seeing cheesy beta versions of themselves somehow made me tolerate them for 80 minutes. Plus Jerry O'Connell's likable persona was something that flowed nicely throughout the film.Joe's Apartment crosses the line of disgusting and becomes utterly filled with gross out humor and repulsive scenery of Joe's apartment. But it's a fun, creative movie that dares to go where no film has gone before. A disgusting slacker's apartment. Sure it seen briefly in films like Bio-Dome and Chairman of the Board, but to my recollection, I don't think a film has restricted it's boundaries to just a person's apartment. Gives me an idea for my fourth short film.Starring Jerry O'Connell, Megan Ward, Billy West, Robert Vaughn, Reginald Hudlin, Jim Turner, and Don Ho. Directed by John Payson. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly cute, simple comedy about my least favorite bug","Date":"24 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" I absolutely detest roaches. Effing can't stand them, which is why the movie is a success. Making what I think to be one of the most disgusting creatures on Earth to be endearing, lovable characters was a huge stretch, but it was the most successful aspect of the movie.The story is simple, and oftentimes can be dull, but the occasional insect song and dance routine, along with several apartment-sized battles between roach and human that stay consistently silly, it's easy to look past the tired love story.A wholly original, fun movie, anyone willing to let loose and laugh at some three stooges- esquire comedy will most likely enjoy the slapstick and excrement-related humor.Chances are that you can buy this movie for less than five dollars on DVD at this point, so if you happen to pass it, pick it up. What do you have to lose? "},{"Title":"Great Musical Sequences","Date":"15 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" When I read that someone had made a musical with singing & dancing cockroaches in a filthy apartment I was surprised. That the movie tanked didn't surprise me. I finally saw it and I loved it. Too funny. The musical scenes are great. Whoever planned them out knows a lot about musicals and what makes a song work on screen. The homage to Footlight Parade and the Esther Williams aqua spectaculars (aka the song in the toilet bowl) proves it. Great special effects. I wouldn't show it to small kids though-I did and they cried-the bugs freaked them out. Showed it again 6 years later to the same kids and they laughed and laughed. Very imaginative and the musical numbers are better than a lot of what has had some mainstream critics soiling themselves over in recent screen musicals. "},{"Title":"A gutbuster!","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  This is one of my all-time favorite comedies.  It was hilarious. From the opening animation scene of the singing cockroach atop the Statue of Liberty's torch to the end scene where they form the MTV logo, the film manages to get its purpose across - to make you laugh so hard that your stomach hurts. And this is what it did to me. Joe (a country boy from Iowa, played by luscious Jerry O'Connell) comes to the Big Apple in search of a job and his first apartment. The first joke is that he's looking for subsidized housing with a rent of $100/month (!) He finally settles on a seriously rundown tenement occupied by two American cockroaches named Randy and Ralph and their 5,000 singing and dancing family members(they're the big brown ones, folks, and they do fly in real life). Some of the scenes with the garbage and the toilet are enough to make you hurl but it's all in fun. **SPOILER**He meets a girl (Megan Ward) who wants to change the image of the ghetto by building a community garden on a vacant lot but her politician father (a very funny Robert Vaughn) has other plans and tries to have the building torn down. Cockroaches to the rescue! My favorite scene was the song and dance routine in the toilet to the original tune  Funky Towel. I laughed until I had tears in my eyes.For people like me who are squeamish about bugs this movie will definitely make you uneasy. But for those of you who don't give a crap (Randy's line when he meets Joe for the first time) you'll love it. Family fare, no; older kids and preteens, yes. Adults with a sick sense of humor, absolutely!  "},{"Title":"I Like Dark Humor, But Cockroaches - Yeech!","Date":"13 December 2007","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" As someone who usually appreciates the absurd and likes many black comedies, I was a little disappointed in this one. I mean, showing cockroaches who talk and sing sounded hilarious, so I rented the VHS shortly after it came out, but didn't find the dark humor as good as I had hoped.Somebody told me this film was really gross, but I didn't find that the case. It's not bad in that department. It just isn't as funny as you might hope. Also, let's be honest how many people want to look at cockroaches for over an hour? How many want to see one for a minute? Not many. Cockroaches have to be one of the most disgusting creatures on earth. Yet having the guts to make a movie about them, and having them sing and dance, especially in a Busby Berkeley-type number, is pretty outrageous and deserves an E for effort, as the saying used to go.I think this would have been more tolerable, and funny, had it been a short film, something around 20-30 minutes. It might even have won awards for Best Short. but the joke begins to wear thin after awhile.Still, if you are looking for something TOTALLY different and you are hard to offend, look no further! "}{"Title":"Hilarious and smart dark comedy","Date":"29 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" Very funny and smart dark comedy. Ignore the ridiculous awful bad rating inexplicably given by IMDb users. Unless you have a dire katsaridaphobia (uncontrollable fear of cockroaches), watch this movie. You will laugh a lot. Jerry O'Connell plays Joe, a guy from Iowa who cannot find a cheap apartment to rent in New York city because of real estate speculation. When he finally succeeds, in the most violent NY neighborhood, he finds out that he lives with Rodney, Ralph... and other dozens of thousands of roaches. They love to live with Joe because he is not the cleanest guy in town, to say the least. There are many musical scenes, yucky scenes, and yucky musical scenes. Anyway, problems related to coexistence and conflicts of interest will arrive, especially after Joe knows his love interest. Bugs are not something particularly romantic, you know... Though, that unconventional friendship among species will prevail. In conclusion, I'd like to tell Brazilian fellows Este filme é o maior barato! (This film is very nice!; barato is an old-fashioned slang that means nice, but barata means cockroach in Portuguese). "},{"Title":"Interesting but great!","Date":"9 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" This movie was a different one. But in every way possible was entertaining. I would give this a 6/10 at the least because it was a very different kind of story, but the acting for some characters could have been better, in my opinion. This is a great film for a more mature audiences simply because of its sexual humor and harsh language, which there is a lot of. But none the less, this was a fantastic movie, with a bunch of slap-stick humor, so anyone who loves this kind of humor should definitely watch. Also if your going to watch this film, be ready for some weird scenes and musical parts, because that is kind of what this movie is mostly put of. But overall, if your in the mood for a great slap-stick humor film, go watch Joe's Apartment. "},{"Title":"singing cockroaches hilarious!!","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  FUNNIEEEE!!... Wasn't a masterpiece but who can beat a good laugh and catchy tunes.Joe's Apartment a must see for those with a wacked sense of humour, not for those with weak stomachs and a dry straight up sense of humour. Rodney and Ralph are the stars of this movie I'd say, cockroaches with attitude, they sing they dance and damn they are funny.  "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  A complete stitch!  The all-roach musical numbers (complete with choreography!) had my whole household in stitches. The songs are so catchy they'll have you singing them for days.  I think it suffers by being expanded from a short, as the pasted-on plot becomes a bit cumbersome, but the bugs carry it all.  Very, very funny! "},{"Title":"Fun For The Right Kind of Crowd","Date":"3 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" I never thought I'd be praising a film for it's cockroaches but what can I say these little guys have style and some serious musical talent. The musical bits in this film are really original and alone would make this movie worth seeing and no its not just because they feature cockroaches.Aside from the vermin the visuals in this movie are great and almost have a cartoonish comic book element to them. It's kind of a shame that director John Payson hasn't had a chance to make other films since he seems to have a certain flare. The plot is rather thin its your basic boy meets girl boy tries to get girl story but others films have done worse job with the same material. Aside from the aforementioned cockroaches music wise you have to give the film credit. It has Moby long before he broke out with his album 'Play' and for a brief second you get to see what he looks look with hair ....well some hair. This film has a sense of humor and style that makes the idea that anybody thought it could be a mainstream hit kind of laughable. This is a certain film for an audience with a certain sensibility and is definitely not for everyone. If singing cockroaches don't sound like your thing then chances are you won't enjoy this film and the rather charming and talented vermin that star in it. However if your sense of humor is a little off Joe's Apartment is well worth checking out. "},{"Title":"jerry the slob and the roaches","Date":"17 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" Jerry O'Connell plays a small town guy who moves to the big city. The premise of a thousand other movies. What sets this movie apart from other like movies is he moves into a dead womans apartment inhabited by roaches. Roachs that talk. Roachs that talk English. Roachs that talk English and sing and dance. It all came together in this little movie from MTV. Far from a classic, but it's always fun to watch the roaches do their thing. The songs, although not catchy, make you sit up and watch. Jerry plays a slob to the nth degree (and looks like he never washes his face) who must make it in New York on his own. He goes through several jobs ranging from a drummer in a rock band to a urinal puck replacer ( glad that's not my occupation!). Billy West, voice actor from Futurama, plays one of the roaches quite well. Billy was born to play a roach apparently. Nobody will ever confuse this movie with an all time great, but it is a fun little movie that never takes itself seriously. "},{"Title":"How can you not like a movie with singing cockroaches?","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  May contain spoilersThis is actually a cute movie. Joe is a Iowa college Grad who's moved to the big, bad, dirty city. By sheer fate he gets to move into a dump that he calls home. Where he has to live with thousands of sassy cockroaches. Jerry O'Connell(sp?) very likable in this movie. No matter what happens to Joe you root for him.  Lily is also one of the most likable love interest characters you'll find in a mid 90's 'gen X' flicks. Her caring for both gardening and the community is nice to see in a character. Call me warped but I thought Robert Vaughn playing a cross dressing Senator was funny. But the roaches steal the show. They sing,the dance, they watch TV,you name it. In terms of musicals I'd rather watch this over Evita any day. To be forewarned this isn't a happy feel good comedy. This movie has one of the most pessimistic views on city living you'll find in a comedy. The gross out humor can be pretty tacky as well. ( Of course this is a movie about cockroaches.)Overall a likable low budget movie.  "},{"Title":"Roach Fantasy","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  This is one excellent movie and really hilarious for everyone. Even my mum laughs while watching it. I can always watch this movie over and over again coz it'll never stop being funny. This is definitely one of the top movies of all time and furthermore, it's an MTV production ) "},{"Title":"Sorry for my poor english.","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  Well, since i had NO expectations at all this film surprised me. It is silly and fresh with funny characters. Very well animated and creative bugs. If the Coen brothers had made Little Shop of Horrors this is what it would have looked like. The story is quite poor but that's the only complaint. "},{"Title":"Gotta Love the Slums!","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  O.k., so it's not Shakespeare, but god was this funny! I laughed so hard I cried. If the fact that Joe (O'Connell) works for a company that makes toilet cakes or that the the girl of his dreams is trying to build a beautiful park in the middle of the slums don't make you smile, than the singing roaches are sure to make you laugh. I went into this movie with a preset idea of what it was, another dumb MTV movie that was pointless and shallow, I was wrong. I found that this movie was actually sweet and sort of nice. I couldn't help but feel sorry for Joe, a poor mid-westerner in the big bad city. He can't catch a break. Until his 6 legged roomates lend a hand. It's a fish-out-of-water tale with romance, humor, talented Roaches, and urinal cakes! I highly recommend this movie to everyone!I give this one ****! "}{"Title":"If you need laughter tonight check in to Joe's Apartment","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  This movie was a funny comedy especially that part where they were watching a talk show with that roach asking a pigeon, a rat and a squirrel how to promote better understanding between species. Ralph was the funniest one in the pack. I will recommend this movie to all my friends.  "},{"Title":"Well, if singing cockroaches and an endless stream of toilet humor is your thing, you might enjoy the film...","Date":"3 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" ... of course, that might also mean you need extensive therapy. At least if you're over the age of seven. This film is an odd one. It's about a guy who moves into an apartment dominated by thousands upon thousands of cockroaches. I checked the director's entire filmography, and it seems like everything he does involves cockroaches... no, revolves around them. I'm guessing he's either fascinated by them or infatuated with them. I'm not sure which I find more disturbing. I wager he's got some counseling in his future... or maybe he's just a very large child, passing for an adult. That is the only group of people this... 'film' could possibly appeal to. The plot is stupid and completely predictable, not to mention formulaic in every sense of the word. Absolutely no originality whatsoever. The pacing is surprisingly poor, for such a short film. The acting is sub-par. The writing is horrid. The songs sung by the cockroaches... don't get me started. The rest of the soundtrack just seems out of place. I know this was produced by MTV, but even for them, this is a new low. But apart from every negative I've written in this review, I must admit that I followed this film from the very beginning pretty much to the very end... something I rarely do anymore, except for when I'm at the cinema. Despite how much I hated it, I never took my eyes off it. Of course, this was probably just because this was aired during a violent lightning storm, and I was afraid if I turned on my computer before it was over, it might attract a bolt of lightning. Of course, if you need to believe otherwise... then go right ahead. I recommend this to children and people who enjoy childish humor. To give a quick example of said humor; one scene has the main character running around town, collecting feces from various animals. Yes, seriously. The film is incredibly poorly done, and very amateurish in just about every aspect, but I suppose the kids won't mind. Personally, I'd choose a cartoon over this any day... but different strokes for different blokes. 1/10 "},{"Title":"Strange and funny","Date":"16 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" I watched this movie a while back, and I have just Yesterday watched it again. For a movie made back then, I'm sort of impressed. The animations were pretty good, the acting was fine, the story was okay, but the humor was really good! I rate it so low because of the lack of stuff going on. Main character trying to fit into the new town. Normal story. Finds a girl, something bad happens, they soon meet up and everyone's happy.My favorite scenes were those with the animations and the interaction the actor had with them. Must be tough! And that constant swearing... goodness! "},{"Title":"Stupid but funny","Date":"22 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" This film is one of the most stupid films ever but it's very entertaining. Even though I hate cockroaches I couldn't help but to like the singing cockroaches in this film. I love it in the end when there is a choire of cockroaches singing a love song, I was in stitches after hearing that. Though I think this film is more for the young teenagers who like toilette humour and kind of childish jokes. I have seen better comedies but this was quite good but like I have just written this film consists more of teenage kind of jokes rather than mature adult jokes. This is a kind of film which doesn't require brains as there is no complex story. If you just need to have a laugh this is a recommended film, like I said it was a very stupid film but very entertaining. "},{"Title":"Some hilarious moments with rocking tunes.","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  I watched this film coz there was nothing else on tv. After listening to the opening few bars of music I was just about to change channel when the music suddenly started rocking and a cockroach started singing from the top of the statue of liberty. This film is in no way a classic but it gave me one of the best laughs ive had in ages. "},{"Title":"Harmless fun","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  Basically, this movie belongs to the bugs. All human characters are pure caricatures and many are more revolting than the bugs themselves. Jerry O'Connell is likeable however in the leading human role, doing his best to assure us of his honesty. As his great love, Megan Ward, looks pretty but has a range in her acting that only runs from A to B. This could also be said for a script that is totally inadequate when it is not dealing with cockroaches and sometimes unforgivably obsessed with toilet-humour. The cockroaches, one the other hand, are very funny and got inventive musical numbers along with some funny one-liners. Special effects are effective and the movie moves along at a brisk pace so you never got a chance to be bored or too disgusted. Everything ends on a happy note and the movie as a whole is harmless fun. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly it's a good movie!?!","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  I was just going to turn off the TV one night when this movie came on, couldn't imagine it would be anything worthwhile to watch, but surprisingly it was not a bad movie at all. The atmosphere is good, and the actors are obviously not taking themselves seriously so I think this movie achieves what it sets out to be Simple, cheap (well, maybe) and most of all, fun!  "},{"Title":"What a film","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  When my friend first told me about a film with singing, dancing bugs, i didn't even wan't to go within a mile of seing it.  The plot of the film is rather odd at best, but the humour and enjoyment of this film is truly brilliant.  You do have to have your funny head on to appreciate it.  I have now seen it several times and only once when i was in a serious mood did i not find it funny.  This is a great film, so don't be put off by the plot. "},{"Title":"You know what bugs me....","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  This is a stupid movie.  A movie so mindless and dumb that the prospect that Beavis and Butthead might quote Shakespeare doesn't seem too far fetched.However, what gets me is how I really like this movie.I remember watching this movie years ago when it first came to video, and having the love of stupid humor that runs in my veins, I had an instant liking to the talking cockroaches.  As I grew and matured, I left this movie behind, pretty sure and hopeful that I wouldn't see or think upon this movie again.  But as fate would have it....My memory works in funny ways.  My fiancee and I were having a movie talk, and I mentioned that there was a scene in this movie that had a squirrel in it.  And of course, being a girl who loves those bushy-tailed rodents, we ended up renting it, and I found myself on a return trip to Joe's Apartment.  And even now, I laugh my butt off at those little foul mouthed roaches.  It's not a great movie, but it is entertaining in its own right.If nothing else, it gives you an urge to clean your house. "},{"Title":"Joe's Apartment is equal to India's Kolkata","Date":"27 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" Joe's Apartment is equal to India's KolkataCockroaches with individual names and identities &#150; Ralph, Alpha, Rodney Roaches & others &#133;&#133; occupying Joe's apartment &#150; and Joe was happily co-existing with them &#150; was rather friendly with them &#150; gave them incentives like doughnuts etc. to keep them happy and was basically non-interfering in their personal affairs. Their (Cock-roaches & Chick-roaches) personal affairs included  Water balled (they used the commode water for the balled &#150; the Kolkatans definitely use a better quality water for water sports and dance drama ), watch Television showing them their choicest best teleserials which obviously includes &#150; food recipes , love making tips and tricks, Seduction tips for female roaches , how to trap a female / male in seven days (saath din ladki in), consequences of laying eggs without proper marriage registration in front of other administrative Roaches, the miserable life cycle of a single lady roach amongst lusty cock roaches&#133;etc.Joe was non-affected about all this until he met his lady Love&#133;and he brings her home one day&#133;.The roaches all fall on her bosom and she runs away from him leaving him all alone in his vast world with roaches as his comrades !Joe decides to do away with all his companions once and for all &#150; and brings a poison spray for them. As a defense mechanism, the roaches try to kill Joe but failed as a 3rd party entered and tried to finish them all(Roaches & Joe) together. Its only the fear of a 3rd party which made the roaches realize that if they help Joe , they will help themselves. So together , as a team, they fulfil both Joe's and his girl friend's(Lily) dream by making a beautiful garden out of the smelly garbage dump yard .Alls well that ends well. Shows that even drain insects come handy &#150; basically if , and only if &#150; there is team work and aim is for a positive result.Lesson learnt  The roaches are the common average mass who have all the power in them to bring about the beautification of his own surroundings and make heaven out of hell ! "}{"Title":"It sucked so bad it was great!You need to see this film!","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  I never thought I'd say this, but this film sucked so bad it was great! It was so bad the movie ruled!! Its one of the funniest movies I have seen..you have to see this film, enough said! I actually give it a 6 on the dice! "},{"Title":"And then there were a billion","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  I like this movie because it is funny! Talking cockroaches is just about the funniest thing that I have ever seen. Other funny parts like when Joe is saved from the two landlords by a bunch of roaches, when Joe gets a job cleaning toilets, when the Joe loses his job or jobs because the roaches are everywhere, of course when the roaches sing songs like funky towel, towels got the funk, when Joes goes in a band with Walter, when Lily (Joes girlfriend) goes to Joes Apartment and gets the surprise of her life, and when the roaches get rid of the landlords and bring Joe and Lily back together again. The thing that I like best about the roaches is their sense of humor! My favorite roaches are the leader Ralph Roach and his assistant Rodney Roach! Did I mention it was funny? I highly recommend that you rent or purchase Joes apartment because that's when you will have the laugh of your life! "},{"Title":"Great way to waste money while genuine talented writers struggle","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  Film's predictable anyway, so I'll forget about spoilers and just say it straight.I sat through the film on tv, all the while trying to work out what's on the producers's minds when they took up this project. I never did find a logical explanation.Maybe it's a guy thing, but seeing a talentless irresponsible idiot getting a pretty girl without going through any chemistry, character developments, nor effort in getting the girl he wanted... it just sickens me.Yes the film's meant to be stupid, as was the jokes, but it doesn't excuse a feature length production tasteless waste of time. "},{"Title":"Chirps, but is otherwise devoid of merit","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  The high-pitched singing of the Chipmunks - I trace it back to the mice in Cinderella (1950), although there could be earlier instances - is a product of electronic trickery, a childishly simple gimmick; yet it was enough to make bland pop standards sound magically fresh, if you were a seven-year-old.  High-pitched singing is really all that Joe's Apartment has going for it.  Make the high-pitched singers cockroaches, and you can rope in older viewers who wouldn't dare admit even to themselves that they still find the Chipmunks kind of fun to listen to.  The plot is perfunctory - it tries to make its perfunctory nature into a knowing joke, and fails - and the love story is poisoned by irony.  (Cloying sentiment is not improved by being placed inside quotation marks.)Neither worth watching, nor worth remembering, nor even worth avoiding.  Why am I even writing about it?  Good question. "},{"Title":"Don't eat the popcorn","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" This is really a cartoon. The characters are caricatures without any depth, and the story line is beyond silly. The roaches have most of the good lines, delivered staccato-fashion so that it's hard to pick them up, just the thing for repeat and cult viewers. Amid the Loony Toons slapstick there are some good sight gags and some diverting hijinks. Mercifully the roaches are not quite as disgusting as possible.Jerry O'Connell plays a Wayne's World kind of sweet guy who spends a lot of time on his back surrounded by the Lilliputian roaches who even tie him down. But he gets the girl, the beautiful and talented Megan Ward, who has little to do other than mug, which she does very prettily.Nonetheless there is a strange pull to this loser-ID flick perhaps it is a metaphor for the world in which we live, surrounded by filth and the ever-present reminder that cockroaches will inherit the earth.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"Mainstream band references are annoying","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  I've found Joe's Apartment to be a cute movie. Yet- I found that all the banners and shirts, etc. all had mainstream MTV bands plugged everywhere in the movie. That was so annoying. A movie can be cool without having cool band names in the background. Anyway- The only part of music I enjoyed was the slight appearance of Jon Spencer(from the Jon Spencer Blues Explosion) in his wife's band, Boss Hog. It was cute seeing him play in his wife's band for a movie.katie  "},{"Title":"The roaches are revolting","Date":"24 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  Joe's Apartment is a feature-length adaptation of a short film previously seen on MTV.  Joe is played by Jerry O'Connell, who had the lead whiz-kid role in the TV series Sliders.  His girlfriend Lily's father, a scheming congressman afflicted with deviant sexual fetishism (and therefore obviously a Democrat), is played by the remains of Robert Vaughn. But of course the real stars are the hordes of digitally animated cockroaches who infest Joe's NYC digs.  They not only talk, they also sing, dance, and do synchronized swimming in the toilet.  Joe, an Iowa innocent new to the Big Apple, is horrified when the bugs take a liking to him because he's their kind of slob.  But his new friends are impossible to get rid of, just like in real life, so Joe just has to make the best of the situation.  Otherwise, the plot is dumb to the point of irrelevance the congressman wants to level Joe's building, the last one on its East Village block, to make way for the vast new Manhattan Maximum Security Prison (which makes him a Democrat who's caved in to Republican priorities -- again, just like real life).  But Lily wants to make the block into a park-like garden.  See?  Just the sort of tooth-grindingly stupid drek that begs to be livened up by swarms of wisecracking, punning, music-loving arthropods.  As silly fun, it works quite well, and would make an interesting second feature after Phase IV, a dead-serious 1974 SF effort about a colony of intelligent ants in the Arizona desert. "},{"Title":"TERRIBLE FILM","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  Quite possibly one of the most stupid, sickening, and boring movies ever made.  This movie was far from being funny.  I would seriously wonder about the people that laughed the whole time, or put this film on their top ten list.  If you are in the mood to watch something that will really make you feel like your night has been completely wasted, rent Joe's Apartment.  "},{"Title":"MTV, stop releasing movies.","Date":"23 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" This film is undeniable proof that shorts, especially MTV created ones, cannot make a good film. Joe's Apartment runs out of ideas before the halfway point. The Character Joe rents out an apartment, occupied by acres of cockroaches, who sing and dance and give Joe unwanted company. OK, we get it already.So how does a film revolving around annoying little roaches extend to 90 minutes? By adding in that predictable subplot involving the hard-to-get love interest for Joe of course, who the viewers automatically know will end up together by the end of the movie. Haven't we seen this predictable boy-gets-girl plot in countless other films? Well, not with singing and dancing roaches. I'll give it that.Joe somewhat befriends the roaches, even they are annoying and give him grief. Consider a scene where Joe brings a date to his apartment. The roaches hide, and the date suspects nothing. Soon after, when things look as if they're going well for Joe, the roaches fall out of the chandelier and fall all over Joe's date. Soon after, roaches everywhere, terrifying the girl. Joe tells her it's OK, but what woman is going to listen to that? So what does Joe do? He may start off as mad, but he always forgives them. This angers me. These are vindictive, controlling, and annoying roaches who, if I was occupied with them, would drive me to a point to get my apartment exterminated. These roaches cause Joe nothing but grief, and torture, and they invade his privacy; yet the film is supposed to make us laugh.When the film reaches its inevitable conclusion, I was so annoyed and disgusted by this time that I couldn't feel any of the euphoria the film was trying to feed its viewers. It didn't work.The film was made my MTV studios and it looks like it should have been a made-for-TV film specifically for MTV. I have not seen the short on which this was based, but I assume it was funnier that this film - it would rely on the roaches singing and dancing routine(s), without the subplots that a full length film has to have to reach its 90 minutes, which just made the cockroaches grow annoying, crude, mean, and tiresome. "},{"Title":"I'd rather eat a real bug than visit Joe's apartment again!","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  Attention all IMDB patrons!  This is a public service message, brought to you by one who has made a visit to Joe's Apartment and managed to escape! For the love of all that's holy, if you have a choice between visiting the radioactive aftermath of ground zero of a nuclear explosion, or renting a copy of Joe's Apartment, please, choose the former.  On second thought, don't visit nuclear ground zero either, as only the @#$%! cockroaches will be left after nuclear detonation, so in either case, you're F.U.B.A.R.ed!I had the unfortunate privilage of actually witnessing Joe's Apartment when it played in theaters.  I cannot remember if I finished watching the film, as I seem to have blacked out as a result of the extreme trauma of having this unfiltered cinematic excrement thrust into my eyes. The film primarily fails because the cockroaches in it are NOT endearing in any sort of way at all.  They are gross, dispicable, loathsome creatures as rendered by the flick's F/X.  Also, the film backfired majorly by featuring master thespian Jerry O'Connell, who disgraces his passable work in both Stand By Me and  Crossing Jordan by appearing in the filth that is Joe's Apartment.  He should've been arrested for bad acting after this debackle.  Third, the film doesn't work because of the plot device of urinal cakes.  There is no reason in the five rhelms of hell why urinal cakes should ever be featured in a film at all.  What's so funny about these oversized pee-flavored breath mints anyway? If you absolutely MUST watch a film with talking cockroaches, then try to track down the original MTV short that Joe's Apartment is based on.  The feature-length version of Joe's Apartment makes the MTV short look like Citizen Kaine! "}{"Title":"Yuck!","Date":"11 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" Joe moves from Iowa to New York and he thinks that he can get a cheap apartment. Well he ends up in a dead lady's place and it is crawling with thousands of singing cockroaches. Joe gets a job selling or distributing urinal cakes. I cannot think of a more disgusting and nasty movie. I wanted to vomit the whole time I was watching this. The cockroaches put his towel in the toilet and think that it's funny that a big pile of them landed on his date. I have no idea how Joe got a date. If I walked into that apartment I would walk right back out. It probably stunk of cockroach urine and feces. Yuck! I would only recommend this movie if you have the flu and need to vomit. It will make you sick. "},{"Title":"Redefining bad","Date":"30 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" This movie tries very hard to be strange and zany (the word used by boring people to describe mundane, outmoded comedy that they have just been introduced to but the rest of the world has become jaded to many years previously). This is an old, crusty splatter of teenage, cartoon ejaculation dried and forgotten on a dirty bed sheet badly in need of a washing. In other words... who cares? Not me. If you care about this film, I suggest you beat yourself in the head with your Saved by the Bell VHS collection until puberty sets in. Endless annoying Chipmunk songs sung by a chorus of poorly made cockroach puppets doing idiotic choreography is not entertainment. In fact, it's not even Meet the Feebles which is a masterpiece of cinema in comparison. This movie tries SO hard to be weird that it's painful. Oh, the pain. MY EYES! "},{"Title":"This film belongs with the cockroaches - in a dark place, hidden away!","Date":"2 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" I cannot begin to express my disdain and hatred for this film. I think I actually got dumber from having seen it...This is honestly one of THE worst films I have ever had the discomfort of sitting through. I made myself watch the entire thing because it wouldn't be right to put down a film I hadn't fully given a chance to. It was almost painful folks.It's disgusting, it's not funny, it's poorly acted, it's poorly written, it's beyond ridiculous and to make it even worse - they added musical numbers!!!!! I mean, how on earth could this film have gotten ANY worse? (oh right, see musical numbers) It is so wrong on pretty much every level and I, for one, am surprised Jerry O'Connell even shows his face in Hollywood after this disaster. (for crying out loud, Kangaroo Jack is 10 times better than this piece of refuse)Save your brain cells, skip this one. (and yes, it WAS that bad!) "},{"Title":"Simply Awful","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  The only reason I'm even commenting on this piece of rubbish is that it's the only film I've ever walked out on.  30 minutes of watching this attempt to stretch a clever segueway commercial into a film was enough. Inauspicious beginning, MTV Films! "},{"Title":"This movie was just awful!!!!   The best part was the end because I didn't have to watch it anymore...","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  The movie was awful....the effects were terrible and the plot was nonexistent....one of the worst movies next to Something about Mary and The Avengers... "},{"Title":"oh my god","Date":"9 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" This movie was on TV one day and I was bored, and tired so I just watched about 10 minutes of it. I was DISGUSTED. The bugs living with him creep me out, the disgusting-ness of his apartment. It's too hard to watch. I didn't finish it. I kinda felt like crying the whole time I was watching. It might just be the fact that I'm not a bug person and the whole idea just grossed me out, but who in their right mind who like a movie like this? I don't even know why they would put it on T.V! The only thing that was slightly enjoy-able was the voices of the roaches. It made me laugh, but seriously! I shudder thinking about it! This movie haunts me. I swear to god. Don't see it. "}]