[{"Title":"Arnold Knew How To Make Entertaining Films","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"66 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A decade ago, this Arnold Schwarzenegger action flick was fairly hot stuff but I wonder if it would have the impact today since special effects are so much better and we've seen so many of these type of action stories in the past 10 years.One of Arnold's keys to his successful career in films was simply that his movies were entertaining, and that's why people come to the theaters. High-brow critics often forget that. Eraser is a prime example. Entertainment alone is how this particular movie survives since common logic doesn't exist while violence and profanity are overdone. But, despite it's low-brow tastes and stupidity, it's still generally fun to watch if you can put your brain on hold for two hours. It's also fun to hear if you have a nice surround system.This movie has one of the most outrageous action scenes I've ever seen on film, even to this day one in which Arnold hangs from the outside of a jet airplane, finally lets go, free-falls to catch his parachute that had been ripped off, and then has to worry about the jet plane which had circled around and was going to smash him!!The audio came into play nicely each time the super rifle that was featured in the movie was shot. Vanessa Williams plays the female lead satisfactorily and James Caan is very effective as the villain. Robert Pastorelli and James Coburn also add to the fun. A few laughs along the way help this no-brainer to become even more entertaining. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite Schwarzenegger movies!","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"47 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  For the most part, I'm a Schwarzenegger fan, although I may never forgive him for his role in BATMAN AND ROBIN. ERASER is one of my favorites of his movies. I think it ranks right up there with the TERMINATOR movies and TRUE LIES. The plot, I think, is better in this movie than in most of Schwarzenegger's movies, and of course the action does not disappoint.Dr. Lee Cullen, (Vanessa Williams) a dedicated worker for the Cyrez Corporation, learns that there is a conspiracy going on within her business. Guns that were supposed to have been being made for the military are finding themselves in the hands of terrorists. Lee does an undercover job for the FBI and barely escapes alive. U.S. Marshal John Kruger (Arnold Schwarzenegger) of the Witness Protection Program is assigned to protect Lee. Kruger will erase Lee's identity to keep her safe. But when he finds out that his mentor and teacher Robert Deguerin (James Caan) is also in on the conspiracy, both Lee and Kruger are in danger.Much credit goes out to the main actors of this movie. Arnold Schwarzeneger does a fine job, although this character is the same type of character her normally plays. James Kaan is excellent in this film, as is the beautiful Vanessa Williams did an excellent job. Robert Pastorelli also does a great job playing the comic relief of this movie.The plot is very good and it usually keeps the views interested and on the edge of his seat. There are also some great special effects that are used for the weapons in this movie. It's another great case of Arnold kicking some enemy *** and saving the day, as well as the girl. Check it out! "},{"Title":"Rock 'em sock 'em cinema","Date":"13 November 2004","Score":"38 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Eraser is a film typical of its genre. What genre, you ask? Why, the the terrorists-are-coming-and-it's one-man-against-the-world-so-shoot-em-up, blow-em-up, and save-the-girl-and-the-day genre, of course. Too complicated for you? Don't worry, because the movie isn't. As a matter of fact, it's readily accessible to anyone over the age of 7 - not that this movie is age-appropriate for everyone over the age of 7 (Note This was my favorite movie when I was 10) - but rather that the concepts, and thus the plot, are simple. This isn't a movie you go see if you're seeking a two hour thinking experience.Casting Schwarzenegger for the lead instantly gives the main character, John Kruger, a personality of his own. Though nothing is ever known of his background (even by the end credits), that doesn't matter. Dialogue is used mainly for two purposes to explain the unfolding saga of the federal scandal in the movie, and for the ever-composed and ever-cool Schwarzenegger to calm Dr. Lee Cullen (Vanessa Williams), a key witness in the scandal saga. Instead, what drives the movie is the action sequences and Schwarzenegger's resourcefulness in a myriad of combat situations where he always finds himself outmanned, outgunned, and beaten to the first punch, yet always manages to gain the upper hand.Williams does an excellent job, and in many ways, is forced to be more of an actor, per se, than Schwarzenegger. She has to display a wide array of emotions, from sadness, to fear, to regret, to resolve, and even anger, while Schwarzenegger is only called on to mainly display the final two. James Caan is legitimately a scumbag in his role as Robert DeGuerin, and James Coburn, in a smaller role, is fatherly to Kruger as Chief Beller. Solid, unspectacular performances all around...save that of Caan, who borders on something more.The action in this movie is incredible for its time. The rail guns are visually impressive if not scientifically plausible (but who cares about that anyway?), and Schwarzenegger's combat ingenuity gives flavor and style to the action sequences. Director Russell seems to show a bizarre fixation with bloody puncture wounds (objects protruding entirely through the skin) throughout, but does show some creativity of his own in placing Schwarzenegger in clever combat situations where he can use his mind to outsmart his many more-heavily-armed enemies. Russell also plays with the moviegoer in several situations, making it unclear whether or not Kruger is alive after several close calls. This keeps moviegoers on the edge of their seats for the nonstop thrill ride that rarely pauses to take a breath. From the first scene to the last, explosions, shooting, and violence are the norm, and it is not meant to be any other way. "},{"Title":"Exciting action with Arnold","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"39 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Chuck Russel's Eraser is exploding and intense action film starring Arnold Scwarzenegger as secret government officer, who erases people i.e. destroys their past in order to save their future. He gets to erase an important witness (Vanessa Williams) who knows about her company's illegal activities as it sells guns to foreigners. The film is full of action and mayhem, which is great since hardboiled action films are not made too often in Hollywood anymore.There are hardly any stops throughout the movie and the viewer should not be bored, at least I wasn't now that I watched the movie for the second time. It looks fantastic in its original widescreen format, and this is definitely among Arnold's more noteworthy performances and proves the talent of director Chuck (Scorpion King, Elm Street 3) Russell. There are many effects that look pretty realistic and the crocodile shoot out is one memorable scene, and maybe that is the screenwriters' comment on zoos' that don't feed their animals sufficiently as the crocodiles are VERY hungry and fierce for food! Also, there is one over the top airplane scene, that really grabs an attention. The actors are great throughout the film and James Caan doesn't make an exception. The finale is perhaps little too familiar and relies on gun fights and explosions, but still, as a whole, I found this film very pleasant experience in its own genre. It is not the greatest action film ever made in Hollywood, but it is one of the most interesting US action films of the 90's.7/10 "},{"Title":"Very good. Surprisingly.","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"22 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" As one of the later Arnold movies and a suspicious title, there are initially serious worries about how good this film will be. Fortunately it turned out to be a great movie in the end. The only nitpick would be those obviously fake CGI crocodiles used in one scene but otherwise, the movie has consistency in quality. This movie also introduced the famous rail gun which became an instant hit when videogames copied it. The rail gun in the movie itself is more like a super fast rocket launcher than a sniping weapon. The story itself, surrounds the marketing of that weapon. The acting is very good as is the screenplay and cinematography. This film isn't anything new, isn't a groundbreaker in any way but is still highly enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Arnold Satisfies Once Again","Date":"6 January 2008","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" After Arnold Schwarzenegger's 1997 heart surgery, his box office popularity faded. 1996's Kindergarten Cop is a comedy, and he did not play the lead role in Batman and Robin, even though his name grabbed him top billing. That makes Eraser his last great action film until Terminator 3 became his last hurrah, for now anyway. Schwarzenegger plays John Kruger, The Eraser. He puts the protection in the Witness Protection Program.I cannot imagine a better beginning. Two thugs have invaded the home of a Federal witness (Robert Pastorelli). His wife writhes on the floor as the duo prepare to burn the house. Hearing gagged screams of a visibly bound woman having gasoline poured on her is not a pleasant experience for most people, nor is the sight of an innocent man about to have his tongue removed. The sounds and images ramp up audience hate towards the two, then greatly increases the euphoria when Kruger comes in and kills them in a most unpleasant fashion. His timely rough justice spurs us to root even for him even harder later on, even if the effect is on a subconscious level.His next assignment is Lee Cullen (Vanessa Williams) who works Cyrez, a weapons manufacturer. Company President William Donahue (the always dependable James Cromwell) is selling high tech weapons on the open market, weapons that are supposed to be for the United States only. As Kruger points out, the men who recruit Cullen fail to inform her that she will need to be placed under Witness Protection. She refuses the program and returns home. An encounter with hi-tech hit men forces her to reconsider, and Kruger places her in a secret location and gives her a new identity.The new weapon is the rail gun. It uses magnetic fields to propel aluminum rounds close to the speed of light. Of course, that means it can shoot through walls, and its scope can see through them, though not in great detail. There is a side shot of one being fired later, and the rounds are obviously not moving as quickly as advertised. They leave a visible trail, but it takes two of three frames for them to move the length of the shot, when it should be all the way through in one, but I don't care. The graphic looks cool and such a small detail is hardly a deal breaker.Any list of the positives must start with Vanessa Williams. Cullen is hardly a part with Oscar caliber demands, but Williams plays her about as perfectly as possible. She is firm and disdainful when speaking to Donahue, then firm and surprised during her later meeting with FBI agents. She is often required to act fearfully, and in a state of controlled panic. Selling those emotions is not easy. I have acting experience, I should know. The former Miss America is more known as a singer than an actress, but her performance here illustrates why she received a musical theater scholarship to Syracuse. The aftermath of the first attack on her provides her best moment.Similar praise goes to James Caan, playing Kruger's mentor. Caan is also a talented actor. The same can also be said of James Coburn as the Witness Protection agency's highest officer. Both had spent over thirty years in movie acting by 1996, and there abilities are evident in how well they convey their authority. There are too many action films with weak acting, but people like Williams, Caan, Coburn and Pastorelli ensure that Eraser is the opposite. Melora Walters provides arguably the best acting in her small but animated part as the Pastorelli character's wife.The action, of course, must be well done, and for the most part it lives up to the Schwarzenegger standards. The opening scene is set up so well it does not have to be good, but it is, and the precedent is set. The action is not Arnold's best, but still more than adequate. I was disappointed at how little the rail gun is used, and I probably would have voted an eight if it made more appearances. When it does come, the action is not disappointing. Watching Arnold wield them brought a big smile to my face. Their lack of screen time a detriment, but with good acting and clever plot, there are still more than enough qualities to earn a full recommendation for yet another good effort from Mr. Schwarzenegger. "},{"Title":"Another good Arnold Schwarzenegger movie","Date":"8 April 2007","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" the story goes as follows Lee Cullen a worker for Cyrez Corporation which develops top secret weapons stumbles upon illegal arms deals and acquires the information and barley escapes with help from the F.B.I and is then placed under the protection of U.S Marshell John Kruger who erases the past of witnesses under Witness Protection to give them a future Lee however has been targeted by terrorists to cover up the scam and John Kruger is being targeted by some of his fellow US Marshells and is framed for murder now he has to protect Lee prove his innocence and exposes the illegal arms deal before it happens. I give Eraser seven out of ten because its one of Arnolds best movies of the late 1990's just see it for yourself to believe it. "},{"Title":"Arnold delivers bigger than life action once again","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  When this movie came out, it had been two years since Arnold had been on the big screen.  Well, it was worth the wait as ERASER was a great action/thriller.  Really cool special effects, a great plot.  Arnold shows he is still the top star of action movies.   "},{"Title":"Better than I remember","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I just saw Eraser again, and I am suprised to find that I enjoyed it more than when I saw it before. It Delivers thrills, laughs and lot of action. Schwarzenegger is not Robert DeNiro, but he is likeable in his role here. The story is intriguing A U.S. Marshall that erases peoples identities. This is not Schwarzengger's best movie but it is definitly worth a look. "},{"Title":"Arnie at his best","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"19 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is the kind of film that Arnie should stick to.  He plays the Eraser to perfection, having just the right amount of over the top macho humour to balance with the all action heroics.  If you like Arnie and you like action films, then you'll love Eraser. "}{"Title":"Perfectly acceptable hard-hitting fun!","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  John Kruger, a.k.a. The Eraser (The big man himself, Arnold Schwarzenegger) is a ferocious U.S. Federal Marshal working as a member for the Witness Protection Agency. His latest assignment is to protect the beautiful and astute Dr. Lee Cullen (Miss America's Vanessa Williams). For Miss Cullen is an employee working for a powerful engineering company specializing in high technological products for the future. This company is responsible for manufacturing powerful laser guns with destructive capabilities and mechanisms which allow these weapons to produce maximum damage. The original intent of these delicate weapons is for military purposes. What Miss Cullen does not know is that there is a conspiracy going on from within the company... Lately, Cullen has evinced an illegal, black market trading and selling of these top secret, laser ray weapons to rogue foreign terrorists... Cullen's life is in jeopardy...she has been targeted for murder...and only John Kruger can save and protect her from imminent threats...by erasing Cullen's old identity and implanting a new one...Robert Deguerin (James Caan), Kruger's superior, has to make sure that everything in this operation is running smoothly and that Kruger does a decent job keeping his eye on Cullen. However, even with the guaranteed safekeeping of her own life by Kruger, Cullen must learn to defend herself from the clutches of her ruthless employer and hitherto unknown criminal mastermind organizing the whole deal alongside with renegade extremists... As well, Cullen learns to trust no one for the government itself may be embroiled in this entire catastrophe...What predictably follows throughout ERASER is a melange of excessive firepower, brutal fist-fighting, shoot-outs performed with celerity, tons of violent carnage, massive explosions, and nonstop excitement.  Yes, ERASER is a definite high testosterone thriller with state of the art effects and a wonderful sense of humor thanks to Arnold's crafty one-liners.As a chef who owes a debt of gratitude to The Eraser, Robert Pastorelli ( Striking Distance, TV's Murphy Brown ) shines with some spotlight stealing moments also.ERASER is fun-filled and exhilarating, with a pace that moves lightning fast. However, a paucity of character development or originality in the film's cliché story-line bring this movie down a notch or so. The scantiness of actual substance is sadly common in ERASER. The premise is wonderful, but the product could have been better. The director, cast, and production crew should have been slightly more ambitious with this film's mold...That having been said, ERASER is a fine treat for male audiences. There's plenty of action, energy, and blood with a fair amount of thrills. Interesting adventure sequences include Arnold parachuting from a burning passenger jet and Arnold again attempting to fight against a myriad of man-eating crocodiles bare-fisted. (Though instead, he had to resort to conventional firearms as weapons.) By the end, when the battle is every man for himself, Arnold's methods of nailing and eliminating the enemy with their own medicine is pure poetic justice!Some outrageous stunts and special effects, plus the presence of Herculean Arnold Schwarzenegger boost ERASER above complete imbecility. Still, the failure to convey any character depth or meaning into a simplistic plot may classify ERASER as an escapist film, but also a mindless action film as well. Never once, do the characters convince the audience the gravity of the situation. The performers never persuade the audience to think about the consequences of their actions. Is ERASER a thought-provoking film? Yeah right!  ERASER is a standard, kill or be killed thriller, nothing more.Considering Arnold's earlier blockbuster achievements which actually included three dimensional characters such as TOTAL RECALL (1990), TERMINATOR 2, JUDGMENT DAY, (1991) and TRUE LIES (1994), this film is somewhat rudimentary in characterization. For many people though, this quality may not exactly be a setback.ERASER is a film that is always fun to sit back, watch, and enjoy the action! If you expect anything profound from this movie...try again. ERASER is a cool, better than expected action film with great special effects, two appealing leads, and a package full of car explosions and other assortments of surprises and tricks. Sure, ERASER may not be a classic action film, but entertaining, it definitely is. A better plot though, can prove to be very conducive for a film of this caliber...RATING **1/2 out of ****.  "},{"Title":"Schwarzenegger's baaaaaaack!","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  ERASER mixes great action sequences, with good acting, and stunts.(Not to mention GREAT explosions and weapons)I don't feel like writing out the plot on this one. I'll just tell you that it's great. It's not Arnold's best, but it's in his top ten. James Caan was perfect as the villian, and I'm glad they didn't mess up the movie with romance between Schwarzenegger and Vanessa Williams(I think that's her name, excuse me if I'm wrong). Alot of action films turn corny when they do that. There are armed bad guys firing at the hero, and he has time for a kiss(I'm NOT talking about Bond, those are meant to be like that). Anyway, Schwarznegger's back, and with like I said, great action, stunts(unfortunately some bad graphics in the plane scene) and other classic Arnold stuff, Eraser delivers. It's action, people, stop picking things apart! 3.5/5-moviecritic2003 "},{"Title":"Very Entertaining  Action Film!","Date":"5 February 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I beg to differ with those who berate this film. It's one of Arnold's best and so what if the acting isn't Oscar quality, the film delivers non-stop action, like a boulder rolling down a mountain it never lets up. So what if there are believability problems in the script. If we didn't use a little imagination there'd be no James Bond, no Star Wars, no Batman, no ET, no Lord of the Rings, no Transformers, etc. If you want believability watch Grapes of Wrath. So what if it's not possible to dive out of Jet plane to chase down a parachute. So what if the villain doesn't kill the hero the easy way. So what if Arnold demands a cheesy line in every one of his movies; You're luggage! to an alligator he just killed, is a small price to pay for a high energy, roller coaster ride of a movie. This movie is great in high definition with surround sound. Geez, why are people so damned critical! Don't look for flaws, didn't you come to the theater to have a fun time? "},{"Title":"Rail guns, stunts, computer security, man-and-woman--the flick has it all","Date":"22 September 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The flick tells us about something that can be as scary than any large nuclear weapon--the electromagnetic assault gun. Specifically, it is the EM-1 rail gun.Vanessa Williams points out that this gun fires metal bullets by way of electromagnetic pulse at a rate of about 186,000 mph--about light speed.Film cameras also find another use of this gun....it uses heat-seeking technology that finds any human flesh. Once the technology finds the human flesh, the gun locks on to its target, making it easy to fire.Besides the fear created by the EM-1 gun, there were several other parts that I liked about the film. This--like other action films---are not complete without exciting stunts. The airplane scene is popular, when Arnold gets off a flying plane and catches the plane's emergency parachute while in the air, gets that parachute on, and finally pulls the rip cord to activate the main parachute.But you think it is over? There were more stunts I like, when the plane makes a very big bank around...and heads straight towards him! Arnold knows that and he pulls out his 9-milimeter Beretta to fire several shots at the plane; nevertheless, the plane still rams right into him with the parachute, ripping off the main parachute.Going down to imminent death at a speed of 120 mph, he also knows that the parachute apparatus has a back-up parachute to replace the one that was ripped off by the plane. He releases that chute at about 80 feet above ground, just before he hits his body very hard on a junkyard car at about 40-50 mph. The junkyard car's roof is crushed and its windows are broken from the impact (therefore the car absorbed some of the impact of him hitting the ground), saving the protagonist from what would have been death...and he lives another day.This definitely speaks of all of those James Bond movies.Or the zoo scene, which was slightly better, when all of those alligators first take out the enemy shooters who were after Vanessa, and then, when Arnold comes in, he faces off with one of the alligators that was about to bite his head off, but somehow, Arnold fires one 9-millimeter round to kill one of those voracious reptiles cold as the alligator opened its mouth wide. With that, this reminds me of all of the Jaws movies. "},{"Title":"One of Arnie's classic no-brainer shoot-'em-ups.","Date":"29 January 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Eraser starts as weapons manufacturer Cyrez executive Lee Cullen (Vanessa Williams) steals some important data for the FBI to help prove that hi-tech weaponry developed for the US military is being sold to foreign terrorists. Cullen is caught on CCTV cameras stealing the information & the people behind the plan want her dead, in steps witness protection agent & US Marshal John Kruger (Arnold Schwarzenegger) who is a specialist is 'erasing' the lives of the people he is trying to protect & relocate. As the stakes get higher & a lot of very important & dangerous people are implicated by the information Cullen has they have to get at John to reveal where she is, but John is the best there is & intends to bring the bad guy's down & save the life of Cullen...Co-executive produced & directed by Chuck Russell as Charles Russell this was an attempt by Schwarzenegger to get back to his roots after the disaster that is Junior (1994) which he made two years prior, while Eraser isn't up to the standard of say a Total Recall (1990) or a Terminator 2 Judgemnt Day (1991) in my opinion it's a damned sight better than either a Kindergarten Cop (1990) or a True Lies (1994). Anyway, the script by Tony Puryear & Walon Green apparently went through lots of rewrites from many different writers & so the final shooting script was referred to it 'looking like a rainbow' & also according to the IMDb Terminator 2 Judgment Day co-writer William Wisher Jr. did multiple rewrites during production as well so it's maybe somewhat of a surprise that Eraser is as good as it is. There's nothing deep or meaningful here in Eraser, it is what it is, an unashamedly violent big budget action flick. The character's are decent but I didn't like the idea of Schwarzenegger killing so many FBI agents who were just following orders, OK they were orders from corrupt officials but they were only doing their job & it just didn't sit well with me that Schwarzenegger was killing everyone in sight regardless of overriding factors. I mean he was supposed to be the all American hero of the piece wasn't he? Away from the moralistic side of things Eraser has plenty to enjoy if your an action junkie, there's explosions, gun fights, huge cool looking hi-tech futuristic weaponry, fights & some good set-pieces including one taken straight from the James Bond film Moonraker (1981) where Schwarzenegger gets thrown out of a plane without a parachute & he has to skydive after one to a great sequence in a New York zoo involving several Crocodiles.Director Russell does a good job & he directs with pace & a fair amount of energy. The action scenes are suitably big budget & suitably over the top although as usual for this type of film there are scenes which really push the boundaries of plausibility with Schwarzenegger falling out of a plane without a parachute & surviving by landing on a car, sustaining injuries yet seemingly getting over them very quickly & a scene which shows him hanging onto the side of a flying plane using just his fingertips. I thought the story revolving around the weapons could have been better & doesn't have much of an impact, for instance it's never revealed who exactly is buying them or for what purpose & surely one gun is pretty much like any other? I don't really see why having a technologically more advanced gun is going to make a huge difference, as I said surely a gun is just a gun? There is plenty of violence here & a body count to almost rival World War II, those who don't like strong graphic violence should give Eraser a miss.With a supposed budget of about $100,000,000 this had a lot of money spent on it, I don't think it was a huge box-office success & while it definitely didn't flop it was probably a disappointment for Warner Bros. According to the IMDb lots of scenes were written, lit & prepared to be filmed but never were & that drove the budget up. If that is true I cannot for the life of me figure out why they weren't shot, there's just no reason for it. The acting is alright, Scharzenegger is his usual self while James Cann makes for a good villain & it's nice to see James Coburn in there as well.Eraser is is a great big budget action film the sort that Schwarzenegger could make in his sleep, I personally really liked it despite a slightly weak story & think it's one of Arnie's action packed best. "},{"Title":"Only some bad CGI slows things down","Date":"14 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Watching ERASER again recently, I can truthfully say Ah-nuld still had what it took as late as 1996. And with veteran action director Chuck Russell at the helm, we are presented with a slam-bang action movie that cooks, although it is not as well-executed as action movies of the 1980s. Ah-nuld is a federal officer hiding a very important crime witness (Vanessa Williams). Corrupt fellow officer James Caan is after her, along with about 200 other bad guys. The plot is silly, but the action sequences are for the most part rip-roaring. Some bad CGI intrudes from time to time. but that's about the worst that can be said of this fast-paced flick. Watch for several familiar faces in smaller roles, including the late, great Robert Pastorelli. "},{"Title":"If only Schwarzenegger could erase everything since","Date":"13 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Ah, the last great Schwarzenegger flick. Almost definitively, from here on out.He had plenty of features after Eraser (and before his governorship,) but none that reminded us why Schwarzenegger was a justified big-budgeted action star. And though predictable, silly at moments and mimicked Schwarzenegger's Terminator in more than one way, Eraser is still thoroughly enjoyable. As was Vanessa Williams. She stole every scene she was in, and it would be nice to see more singers-turned-actor take a performance like this.Schwarzenegger stars as John Kruger whose job is to, well, erase the lives of people set up for witness protection by faking their deaths and setting up anonymous new identities. Sure his methods might be severe, unorthodox, unethical and obviously confidential, he's the best and gets the job done. The movie's main target is Lee Cullen (Williams) after she's approached to rat out an illegal weapons manufacture. But, wait! Inside the branch Kruger works, there's a mole! If you can't tell who the mole is in first few shots, don't worry; they'll tell you soon enough. Kruger spends the rest of the movie on the lam with Cullen as he's being, get this! Set up! And he attempts to clear his name and save the dame at the same time.Sure the movie's as predictable as most Schwarzenegger movies are, but due to a lot of great action sequences, Williams' performance and a real ode to The Terminator (Terminator 3, a few years down he road, doesn't count as it sucked bad) this movie is highly recommended for die-hard Schwarzenegger fans.Suffice to say, it's hard to go further into this without giving away so-called surprises. Skip everything since this 1996 gem and enjoy the real Schwarzenegger. "},{"Title":"Arnold saves the day in one great action flick","Date":"21 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I admit that Arnold Schwarzeneger is one of my favorite actors of all time but his work is to carry heavy weapons, killing bad people and destroying everything, he could. His not a dramatic performer but Arnold is really a great actor to us cause he entertains us with his lines and action styles. Let's see what do we got here John Kruger is an eraser which means that he is a serial killer of the serial killers. But one day he involves in a mission that includes weapons and not ordinary weapons. We are talking about high tech. weapons that we could only see in a movie and to be more specific-made to be hold by Arnold. Soon, he finds out that one of his best friends and his boss as well, has been involved in this mess. That is the plot. The opening scene shows Kruger in action, the middle of the film shows Kruger in really heavy action and the end of the movie, show Kruger in some fantastic action scenes that would blow up even the people who hate these kind of movies only cause of its pointless plots and stupid action scenes. We got a female hero, we got James Caan who is a really positive surprise. Not to mention that his performance is really convincing. So Eraser, is full of action and amazing effects and its Oscar nomination for best effects and sound editing, are not casual, believe me. "},{"Title":"Good film but started Schwarzenegger's downhill","Date":"10 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Eraser was the film that unofficially launched the downhill of Arnold Schwarzenegger's career as a movie star. Jimmy Cameron's spectacular True lies was a major hit and one of the most memorable action masterpieces of the 90's but unfortunately after that the good old Arnold had only one way to travel down. Please don't get me wrong. I personally think films like End of days, The 6th day and Collateral damage are all perfectly watchable, entertaining and quite a decent action flicks but regretfully the biggest audience didn't care about the poor guy anymore. Eraser is also a highly entertaining package of action, humor and...well, Arnie. I thought James Caan was splendid too and it's amusing to see a real actor like the legendary late James Coburn playing with someone like our dear Arnold. Only trouble Schwarzenegger's softer side is too clearly on view and who wants to see that? My favorite part of Eraser is the end shoot-out at the dock. I love it because that's classic Schwarzenegger - the main reason we watch his films in the first place. "},{"Title":"The best action flick of 1996 that DOES have a meaningful plot.","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  You may think that Eraser is just another special-effects filled, common killing-spree, Schwarzenegger action-fest....you'd be right except for one other simple attribute....original story. I'm a great Schwarzenegger fan, and I like a good action bonanza, but this movie gave more than just that....a story that no other Hollywood flick has used before. Schwarzenegger plays US Marshal John Kruger, who is charged with erasing the lives and identities of Federal Witnesses entering the Witness Protection Program. He has to protect a woman (Vanessa Williams) who has witnessed illegal arms development in the company of which she is an executive. As you can guess, the company is after her blood, and Kruger has to make sure they don't. The hyper-velocity EMP rail gun is what really stunned me....a very cool gun indeed! From jumping out of a 737 AFTER his parachute to turning man-eating alligators into luggage, Kruger puts on a show that not many action heroes can rival. Boasting some awesome action sequences, including a great final showdown on NYC docks with a whole arsenal of rail guns, Eraser really is a non-stop action bonanza....with a story. The technical aspects of Eraser are quite impressive too, with the movie being nominated for an Oscar in Sound Effects Editing. The visuals are extremely stimulating, making sure the audience is watching. Alan Silvestri's score is also very impressive...especially when Kruger escapes the airborne 737. I must say that this was the best action flick of 1996. We've been without Schwarzenegger's action movies for quite some time (his last being T2 in '91), and this one is a big and impressive welcome-back to the genre. For power-packed excitement, Eraser is unstoppable.   "}{"Title":"Review By starwarskid 1992","Date":"24 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Your luggage-John Kruger John Kruger (Arnold) is an eraser, a man who erases people lives so they can safely enter the Witness Protection Agency. His newest client(Vanessa Williams) has uncovered a plot to sell rail-guns to terrorists all over the world, and Kruger's boss (James Cann) is in on it. Now her and Kruger must stop this plot and save the day.Another superb entry from The Oak, action is great as per usual and Sven-Ole Thorsen makes a appearance. Vanessa Williams and Arnie have good chemistry. James Cann is also great as the villain.I give it a 5 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Great Action from Arnie Again!!","Date":"1 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie is one of Arnie's best recent action flicks. From start to finish it is pure pumping action. I admit It's a bit corny in the way that John Krueger(Arnold) only ever gets shot once in the whole movie, but that's the gist of all action movies. He must have been shot at 1000 times at least, but the funny thing is you always know John Krueger(Arnold) is NOT going to die, yet your still totally fixed to the movie, or I at least was anyway - maybe it's because I'm a massive Arnie fan. If you're not satisfied with the action there is also a top babe as one of the lead roles, she's lush. So if you haven't watched it and want to see some action/james bond type movie, then go watch this. I'm sure you won't regret it. I give it 8/10. "},{"Title":"Average Action Movie","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Average action movie that could have been better if it had a better screenplay and better CGI special effects.The movie was probably rushed during it's filming.Too bad because the acting,story and cast was good.Some ill adviced scene sequences that should have been reshot like the first few scenes showing Arnie doing the ERASURE procedures (very sloppy) and later on the very cartoonish hungry reptiles at the city Zoo (cheap CGI).The seriousness of the storyline also degrades toward the last 30 minutes of the movie.Only for big action movie fans and fans of the lead actors......   "},{"Title":"Arnold at his Best!!!","Date":"23 November 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie did very good job on keeping me on the edge of my chair.  This movie showed the talents of Arnold, Vanessa Williams, and James Caan. The movie was very entertaining and did a very good job on keeping the plot in the story.  I hope to see Vanessa Williams in more movies like theses.  "},{"Title":"One of Arnold`s best!","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  In my opinion 1996 was one of the biggest years ever for movies. Eraser is on of Arnold`s best pictures. It has alot stars and action! It Stars the huge Arnold,James Caan,the beautiful Vanessa Williams,the vertern actors James Coburn and Andy Romano,Robert Pastorelli,bad guys Patrick Kilpatrick and Sven-Ole Thorsen, and the legendary actor James Cromwell. It has a good story and it really has some great scenes including the air plane and zoo scenes! The music by Alan Silvestri in it is pretty good! I think this is one of his best movies and all Arnold fans should check this one out! "},{"Title":"Full of action and adventure.","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Arnold Schwarzenegger battles evil men and protects harmless victims. All the acting is thoroughly good, and the special effects are also good. Arnold is good at fighting the bad guys and doing things that require strength. This is a movie almost anyone can enjoy. "},{"Title":"You're Luggage!","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Arnold chalks up another blockbuster to his list.  This time he's The Eraser John Kruger, who will erase your past to protect your future. After Kruger's boss turns on him, he must not only protect himself but the lady he must keep alive!This action packed movie really hits home.  "},{"Title":"Arnie Action All the Way!","Date":"22 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" U.S. Marshal John Kruger (Arnie, who is credited simply as Eraser in the end credits) is...an eraser, a man who works for WITSEC, or Witness Security, erasing the identities of people in the Witness Relocation Program so baddies won't find them and kill them. No one is better than Kruger at what he does, but he faces his toughest challenge yet when he's assigned to protect Lee Cullen (Williams), a woman on the run. After working with the FBI on a sting operation involving illegal gunrunning - especially as it relates to a high-tech new EMP gun - now all sorts of bad guys are after her, from corrupt U.S. bureaucrats to the Russian Mafia. (Not to be confused with Roma Maffia, who's in the movie). Kruger's rival is his former compatriot DeGuerin (Caan), who is a formidable nemesis, but Kruger's got plenty of tricks up his sleeve besides erasing people, as we'll clearly see. Will DeGuerin and the other baddies get ERASED...permanently? Eraser is probably one of the last, best Arnold movies. It's a fitting way to unofficially wrap up the Golden Age of his career of the 80's and 90's, because the movie is pure Hollywood ridiculous action in true Schwarzenegger style. It truly is an Arnold Schwarzenegger movie, a genre unto itself, if that makes any sense. You pretty much have to love it. It's nice to see a younger, thinner, more agile Arnie, along with his unmistakable voice. Of course, he gets many classic one-liners to cap off many sequences. The fact that Kruger is supposed to be a U.S. Marshal, but becomes an unkillable superhero who for all intents and purposes can fly and survive grievous injuries with ease, is an oversight of the best kind, something the audience has to go with and couldn't do without, unless they wanted a much less entertaining movie.The whole thing is very 90's, with classic computers, including the very-new Internet, and some now-vintage cell phones. The technology even helps Kruger with his job, stating on the screen Prepare to Erase. But whether tiny budget or huge budget, action movies of the day had one thing in common people after the disc, in this case what appears to be some more hot technology, Minidisc. Someone always wants that darn disc. But you KNOW the action isn't taking place in the present time because James Caan smokes indoors in government buildings. That's the ultimate no-no. Only a true bad guy would do that.Besides Caan, we also have Vanessa Williams, who confronts James Cromwell, stating to him that at the Cyrez Corporation, treason is part of the corporate strategy! - which sounds like a perfect ad tagline for them. Williams has had a long and storied career, but is only really relevant to fans of this site as co-star of Under the Gun (1988) with Sam Jones. So, between this and that, her action pedigree is surprising and pretty respectable. While we often joke about the star singing the end credits song (like we've done for Jerry Trimble, etc.), in this case, Williams actually does, because this is a Hollywood production, after all, and they can get high-caliber talent. There is another rockin' tune that plays after the movie, which we suspect is Trevor Rabin's Caught a Train, but we're not sure. As far as the soundtrack itself, there are those wailin' guitar squeals heard often, which we liked because we thought it was a throwback to the 80's.Watch out for a cameo from Sven-Ole Thorsen towards the end of the movie, uncredited, as a Russian thug. Evidently, he and Arnie are buddies. Arnie should have advised him against being in Fatal Combat (1997). Another familiar face for us who turned up briefly was Patrick Kilpatrick, which helped to seal Eraser's connection to other action movies of the day. We also liked seeing James Coburn, if it was a pretty small role, but in a movie filled with actors with distinctive voices (i.e. Arnold and Caan), he stood out. Pastorelli added energy as Arnold's sidekick, and full marks go to one Andy Romano, who played Undersecretary of Defense Daniel Harper. Romano is one of those character actors that has been in tons of stuff, but gets little acclaim or recognition. We try to celebrate these people, especially when they shine, and here he certainly does as one of DeGuerin's partners in crime.If what we've read is true, Eraser was a troubled production with many problems along the road to completion. It's one of those situations where there are many writers and people have to be brought in to do tons of rewrites. Maybe it's because some Law & Order people started the script, or heavyweights like Frank Darabont and even John Milius came in to polish things up, but, from a viewer's perspective, you really can't tell. Nor should you. The whole thing is improbable enough - any behind the scenes flaws are papered over invisibly to us. Eraser is classic, big-budget, Arnie Action All the Way - call us old-fashioned, but we really enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"You've just been Erased.....Arnold's Best!!!","Date":"12 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Eraser is another Underrated Arnold Movie and i'm amazed that it has such a low score in IMDb the film is full of action and some great one liners. Arnold is great as always the rest of the cast does a pretty great job James Caan is cool and Vanessa Williams is good as well. The best scene from the film is when he grabs the 2 guns and he starts shooting people it's like watching a human Terminator killing resistance soldiers. This movie is EPIC by miles great action, great cast and a good story they don't make them like this anymore that's for sure. If you love Arnie and his movies then you gonna love this film. You're Luggage 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"good action, fair body count but needs better wisecracks","Date":"15 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" US Marshal John Kruger (Arnold Schwarzenegger) is an expert at erasing identities at WITSEC. Chief Beller (James Coburn) assigns Lee Cullen (Vanessa Williams) to him. She's a whistle-blower at defense contractor Cyrez Corporation. After getting the evidence for the government, she is resistant to WITSEC and killers come after her with high-tech weapons. Fellow Marshal Robert DeGuerin (James Caan) tells Kruger that someone is killing witnesses.It's a nice action thriller. There are lots of gun action. The body count is pretty good. Arnold gets to hang out of a plane and battle some crocodiles. It probably needs a few more wisecracks to be as fun as some of Arnold's best. The one-liners aren't quite as good. I like it but people may be tired of his big action movies by that point. "}{"Title":"Not classic Arnie, but good Arnie","Date":"16 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" To enjoy Eraser you must...1. Already like Schwarzenegger and his films 2. Suspend your disbelief 3. Have popcorn and nibbles on hand while you watch 4. Find a comfy chair 5. Enjoy the ride If you can do that, you'll find that your two hours spent in front of the TV will not be wasted.Simple as that. Some people called Eraser 'Arnie's last great action film' (not including Terminator 3). That it may be. He got old. He went into politics. Action heroes became younger, better-looking and the stunts they participated in more elaborate and dangerous.So maybe Eraser is Arnie's 'swansong?' Maybe not. I hear he's gearing up to do some 'post-politics' acting. If so, following in Eraser's footsteps would not be that badder place to start.http//thewrongtreemoviereviews.blogspot.co.uk/ "},{"Title":"Another action-packed Arnold adventure!","Date":"20 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is one of the many action/adventure films starring Arnold Scharzenegger. Here, Arnold plays U.S. marshal John Kruger who is assigned to protect Cyrez Corporation employee Lee Cullen (Vanessa Williams). Lee is a key witness to a scam involving the secret weapons military company and is being stalked by baddies, including that of a corrupt U.S. Marshal of John's. This movie is full of excitement and suspense (i.e., in the scene where Lee tries quickly copy files onto a disc to expose the bad guys. It also shows several of the villains' brutality and evil deeds, giving this film more and carnage and tension than other Arnold action flicks. And, this film is also full of Arnold's famous one-liners and sometimes over-the-top action scenes.The writing credits did a great job on the screenplay, providing us with an intriguing story that grabs your attention. Alan Silvestri provided an upbeat music score and Chuck Russell did a good job directing a movie with descent acting and the right balance of drama and action. Overall, one of Arnold's better action films. Grade B "},{"Title":"Those things on the end of pencils.","Date":"7 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The 2-year gap between True Lies and Eraser forced some action fans into thinking that Big Arn had retired. He had delivered at least one action movie per year since Terminator. Eraser had an awesome trailer, to the tune of Enigma's wonderful I Love You, I'll Kill You, that rocked my world in the summer of 1996. I saw virtually every blockbuster that year, and the Eraser trailer was attached to every one of them. It came out out in the UK in the very last week of summer (and my first week back at school). I saw it at the now demolished UCI cinema in Edinburgh with a sold-out audience, mostly filled with guys out for a lad's night. The movie was rated 18, and even though I was 3 years below that mark, I still got in, which was fortunate since the cinema version is the only uncut version of the film that has ever been released in the UK. For its VHS and DVD release the mad BBFC saw fit to cut 4 minutes from Eraser, turning it into an incomprehensible mess. It capped-off an awesome summer season (or so my 15-year-old self thought), and put to rest any fears that Big Arn was slowing down (although he has only made 5 action movies, to date, since then).Arn is John Kruger (an amusing choice of name since director Chuck Russell also made the 3rd Nightmare on Elm Street Movie), a Witness Protection Program Agent who is tasked with 'erasing' and protecting a high-level informant who can prove that there are traitors within the US government who are selling weapons to Russian terrorists. Naturally the informant is the lovely, and wide-eyed, Vanessa Williams, who involves herself in a subdued romantic subplot with Kruger. James Caan and the always great James Coburn provide respectable support as Kruger's antagonist and mentor, but the best support is no doubt Robert Pastorelli (an actor who I really liked who died of a heroin overdose in 2004), who plays a previous witness who is eager to please Kruger in his latest, impossible quest.Overall, it's hardly revolutionary, but what makes Eraser stand out from the crowd is the utterly breathtaking (literally) scene in which Kruger escapes a jet, mid-flight, without the comfort of a parachute on his shoulders. It's definitely one of the best action scenes in the last 20 years and, let me tell you, when that scene climaxed in the cinema, the packed audience of 'lads' totally sucked the air out of the auditorium. A massively exciting, and completely exhilarating, scene that never fails to get your heart racing.Alan Silvestri's score is one of the film's more underrated features. Silvestri scored Big Arn's Predator, a famous score in its own right, and while Eraser is not as famous as Predator you should not rule out the integrity of the score. When separated from the movie it is still one of Silvestri's best efforts.I guess the only complaint I could have about Eraser is that it's kinda anti-climatic. The best scene occurs at the end of the second act, leaving the final act pale in comparison. There's no iconic imagery to the film and it seems kinda forgettable when compared to other Arn characters who have endured the test of time. Nonetheless, it's at the top of the bottom of Arn's best movies, but make sure you the version you watch has not been butchered by the BBFC.The Blu Ray is in 2.401 1080p with Dolby TrueHD sound. Extras are non-existent. "},{"Title":"Huge fun","Date":"24 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This late period - by which I mean Schwarzenegger's late period - action romp stars Schwarzenegger as a specialist in making people disappear - erasing them - not by killing them, but by making it look as if they have died before setting them up with new identities. He is assigned to erase Vanessa Williams but it becomes clear that she is completely expendable in the course of a plot by (not very surprisingly) Schwarzenegger's line manager James Caan to sell super-guns to foreigners.The plot doesn't really matter - it is just a vehicle for the action sequences, but it is perfectly serviceable and quite entertaining. The action sequences, typically over the top, include some CGI crocodiles and Arnold holding onto the side of a jet airliner by his fingertips (I must confess that last one stretched my credulity a little).Schwarzenegger is, well, Schwarzenegger. Williams is a feisty damsel in distress. Caan is downright dastardly. But the film is utterly stolen by Robert Pastorelli as someone erased at the start of the movie, recalled towards the end to repay a favour.This one is big fun. "},{"Title":"One of Arnie's best","Date":"18 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" With 20 years of acting experience under his belt, Arnold has become a really good actor, and it shows in this movie. This movie was made when he was in his prime, and is one of the best movie he's done to this date.John Kruger (Arnold Schwarzenegger) is a US marshal who's task is to erase the identity of government witnesses under witness protection program. He's assigned to protect Lee Cullin (Vanessa Williams) who has the information to expose that her employer Cyrez Corporation is attempting to covertly smuggle rail gun rifles to international arms dealer. The master mind of this deal includes Kruger's associate Deguerin (James Khaan). Deguerin wants Cullin dead, and the only thing standing between them is Kruger.The quality of production and acting is extremely good in this movie. Arnie and Williams delivers great acting working as a team. Cinematography is beautiful, and special effects are also great. Everything comes together in this movie, making it one of Arnold's best movie. "},{"Title":"Who's the tree trunk?","Date":"23 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" By this point in Arnold's career he had long since surpassed the low-budget, bad action movie phase, although there are certainly some elements of that phase that he never quite left behind. Eraser is a polished, fast-paced action film that reminds me of some of the highlights of Michael Bay's or Jerry Bruckheimer's careers. Maybe Eraser isn't THAT big, but it's definitely that GOOD. It's a smart return to what Arnold does best, run around with a massive gun in each hand and blow stuff up. It's little more than a high-octane action film, but it's a smart one and it doesn't pretend to be anything else. Arnold plays John Kruger, a U.S. Marshal who works for the witness protection program in the capacity of erasing peoples' pasts in order to give them a safe future. Here he is charged with the assignment of Lee Cullens, played remarkably well by Vanessa Williams, a government agent who has come forward with information about shockingly high-tech hand-held weapons being readied for sale to the Russian mafia. If you apply logic or reason to the film, as is to be expected, it falls apart completely. Arnold sustains pretty serious injuries throughout the film which later have no effect on his ability to wrestle alligators or hold Vanessa Williams with one hand, keeping her from falling, and there's really no reason to go into the logistics of a hand-held weapon that can launch any kind of projectiles at just below the speed of light. There are a lot of movies where these kind of logistical liberties cause a real problem for the movie, but I think Eraser stands well enough on it's own as pure popcorn fun. One of the things that was not left behind with the bad action movies, however, was the cheesy one-liners. They never worked for James Bond and they rarely worked for Arnold either (I can think of a few that were good though, like I let him go), so I could have certainly done without You're luggage, or, even worse, They caught a train. But hey, a few x-ray super-weapon shooting scenes will help you forget about all that.... "},{"Title":"Witness protection never saw so many explosions...","Date":"7 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Logic, my arch-nemesis. Thankfully, logic gets beaten to a bloody pulp in 'Eraser', an explosion filled showcase of Arnie goodness, in which dozens of bad guys and CGI crocodiles kick the oxygen habit. Awesome.Arnie plays John Kruger, a US federal marshal who puts the Don't worry, we'll protect you, but it will involve several explosions into the Witness Protection Program. Kruger is assigned to protect Lee Cullen (Vanessa Williams), an employee of the Cyrex Corporation. Lee knows a bit too much about a conspiracy involving Cyrex, crooked government agents, and a hi-tech electro-magnetic pulse rail-gun that causes many an explosion. Can anyone say, awesome? Half of the plot is related to the showcase of explosion-causing super-weapons, another quarter is a standard action plot element involving a conspiracy and crooked agents, and the rest is Arnie delivering lines such as You're luggage! to crocodiles and whatnot. Standard action stuff really - predictable, with a host of two-dimensional characters. Then again, plot twists and character development take time away from the gun-fights and explosions...'Eraser' seems to be the last of a dying breed of 'Commando' style action flicks, where Arnie - or any other action-hero - can perform one man invasions of whole countries, and whatnot. Sure, that was going out with the 80s, but now look where we are 'Charlie's Angels'. Nuff said. It may be a stretch to call 'Eraser' a modern action movie, but its still better than most American action movies now. Plenty of explosions, stunts, and gun fights, with no Cameron Diaz, no Keanu Reeves, and no rappers in sight! Now this is a good action movie.'Eraser' is a good Arnie flick, and perfect for fans of Arnie or action connoisseurs in general - 7/10 "},{"Title":"Govnah Ahnuld dishes out the pain in this not-so family friendly action extravaganza.","Date":"23 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Starring Arnold Schwarzenager, James Caan, Vanessa Williams Since this is my first action movie review, I'd like to take this moment to note that in real life, when you punch someone, it makes a dull thud noise. The whap noise you hear in the movies is not real. I know from personal experience.So, it was somewhat refreshing to be able to watch a movie that I knew wouldn't be burdened with large quantities of weepy females and sappy romance.That stuff has its own time and place, sure, but I really don't care about it right now.Eraser is, flat out, a guy movie. This is classic Arnie, dishing out pain in vast quantities. The plot is sufficient and easy to follow, but it is not really the plot of any Ahnuld movie that draws us in. It's always the action.As the tagline says, he will erase your past to protect your future. Arnold is U.S. Marshal John Kruger, a man who works for the Witness Protection Program. He erases identities in order to keep witnesses alive.One particular witness gets screwed by the FBI when she helps them by getting evidence that her company is selling new weapons to bad people. Henceforth, Arnold is called onto the scene to protect her.Like I said, this is an action movie. It's all about the killing and the violence. If that doesn't float your boat, go rent Kate & Leopold or How To Lose A Guy In Ten Days (gag).You just have to be in the right mood for this kind of thing.Bottom Line 3 out of 4 (worth a view) "},{"Title":"Fairly Enjoyable but definitely a wasted opportunity!","Date":"23 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The main problem with this film is it seems very old. Also there is the feeling of a wasted opportunity for a good thriller. It kind of starts off like that, but by the last half it turns into one of Arnolds movies from the 80's without the limitless violence. This is one of a line of films Arnie did in the last ten years working with average directors, since his last stint with Jim Cameron in True Lies. Of all of them, including the likes of Roger Spottiswoode and Peter Hyams, Chuck Russell is one of the better ones. They are all really average directors, with the exception of a severely off form Joel Schumacher in Batman and Robin. Chucks direction is functional and he shows a certain degree of flair, there is also a good amount of action but aside from a good opening scene a sky high action scene and the mildly entertaining end piece, the action is average. This is for fans first and foremost. Vanessa Williams is hot and provides your not so typical female support. The major failing of this is you can tell that the film was designed, and scripted, around these big pulse rifles in the movie, for the sole reason of having some cool scenes with a very large gun, much like Lundgren's Silent Trigger was. ** "},{"Title":"GREAT SPECIAL EFFECTS","Date":"30 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A top thriller with humour and suspense. I watched it already at least three times and I will add it no doubt to my best of DVD collection. It is one of those movies you don´t fall asleep cause there are so many twists, plots and great special effects. I was impressed especially by the one of the plane. Arnie´s jokes were as usual very funny. Congratulations to all the stuff and to the big cast. Arnie delivered again a strong performance and James Caan´s role as a villain cop was splendid. Why Hollywood stops nearly producing action films such this one? Okay the end seemed a little bit Terminator but my wife enjoyed the whole film anyway.Check this out. If you liked it don´t miss the two blockbusters Collateral Damage or End of Days with Arnold Schwarzenegger. 8/10. "}{"Title":"Explosive and Exciting, but no True Lies","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  For some of the lesser action stars, you know Seagal and Van Damme, this sort of movie would have been some of their finest work. As for Arnold, he has actually headed up some of the best action vehicles out there like Predator (1987), T2 (1991), and True Lies (1994). Eraser is not in the same league as these action films.  Though it certainly tried to follow in their traditions of mega-budgets and mega-violence, there was just something missing.  To its credit, Eraser did come equipped huge special effects, a half dozen major action sequences each more explosive than the last, decent comic relief, and a cool villain.  But it just didn't have that distinctive edge plot-wise that those other ones had.  As far as characters go, only James Caan managed to stand out, even though the character he was playing was thoroughly over-the-top. But of course, so was the rest of the film so it was all good.  It is always entertaining to watch a villain with real panache, and he had that going on here.  So bottom line, Eraser was a solid Summer action movie, the kind worth seeing, but not necessarily worth buying.  Better to get a copy of Predator instead.   "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"   This is probably my favourite Schwarzenegger movie.I mean i liked Terminator but really this is a better movie. I like the story and the acting is great. It also has a lot of comedy. This is tied for 1 on my favourite Schwarzenegger movies list,the other one being Red Heat.I know most people like the terminator movies and i do to.These movies are better because they make more sense.In all i would give this movie 10 out of ten because it is so exciting and has good action. Go see it.You won't be dissappointed. "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  For action buffs only, but good","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Eraser is one of the good ones in a long string of Arnold Schwartzenegger films. First see Terminator, Terminator 2, and True Lies. Eraser is #4 of his set, and the last of the good ones before a sharp drop to #5 and #6 (Last Action Hero, and End of Days, in my opinion.)Lots and lots of stuff blows up. There are some great special effects, the story makes sense (more or less). While it's not high art, and the story lacks all manner of powerful characterization, the whole thing hangs together pretty well as an action film.Who should see this film-- Action film buffs, including kids, and take along your SODrama buffs who're going slumming check out Terminator 2 instead. I'll give Eraser a 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Arnold at his best","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Arnold Schwarzenegger plays a U.S. Marshal who provides protection to a woman in danger, then becomes marked for death also. Their only hope for survival is for him to protect both their lives. If you're just looking for a good time, then watch this film. There's plenty of violent and high-tech action to spare. 3/4 "},{"Title":"Arnold does it again","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Another great action film courtesy of Arnold Schwarzenegger. He plays a U.S. Marshal who protects a woman, but then becomes a target as well! There only chance for survival is for him to protect both of them. Exciting, violent, and high-tech, this is a film that you don't want to miss. Hang on during this thrill ride! 3/4 "},{"Title":"Arnold does it again","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Slick, stylish, high-tech, and extremely violent action thriller is one of Arnold's best. He plays a U.S. Marshal who protects a woman, then must fight for his life when he becomes marked for death also. Forget what you've heard, this is a must see for Arnold fans. A great action film just like his previous hit True Lies. 3/4 "},{"Title":"Arnold's Last Great Action Movie.","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie stays with the Arnold Formula. Lots of action, one-liners, and a fast pace. And it works! Fans will be happy with this movie. After this he took a brake from action for a couple of years. He returned in 1999 with the very average END OF DAYS. Skip that and watch this if you want to see Arnold in top form.    "},{"Title":"Fun all around","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film is fun fun fun fun! I laughed constantly when I saw it, and for you guys who don't like it because it's not serious it's not supposed to be!Arnie has a knack for making these absolute horrors of films, and viewed from a more in-depth POV, they would last long. But as comedy, they're great. This is one of them, and it's really good. "},{"Title":"The best of Arnold's 90's flicks","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a very entertaining action film.  This is Arnold's best film of the decade (yes, I'm including Terminator 2).  Arnold plays a US Marshall who has to protect a sexy witness (Vanessa Wiliams) from a bunch of corrupt Government agents armed with high tech weapons.  Great action scenes and stuntwork.   "},{"Title":"Typical shoot-'em-up","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a completely typical, and unbelievable, action film - all the sophisticated weaponry they throw at him can't give Arnold Schwarzenegger more than a broken arm.  Nonetheless, very good viewing for those times when you are tired, and want to put your brain into neutral. "}{"Title":"Excellent film that is sure to keep you on the edge of your seat and blow you away","Date":"8 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" If you ask me, ERASER is an excellent film that is sure to keep you on the edge of your seat and blow you away. Deguerin (James Caan) kind of gave me the creeps. You'll understand why once you've seen this movie. In my opinion, the performances were top grade, the direction was superior, the costumes were perfectly designed, and the cast was perfectly chosen. Also, the soundtrack is really good, too. Before I wrap this up, I must warn you that this movie is very violent if you're going to see it, so viewer discretion is strongly advised. Now, in conclusion, if you like Arnold Schwarzenegger films or the music of Vanessa Williams, I highly recommend this movie. It's sure to keep you guessing from start to finish. "},{"Title":"Eraser is High Powered","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" You knew right away that a movie starring Schwarzenegger was going to be action packed, the only question there could be is if there would be a good enough story to go with the action. I'd say that Eraser delivered on both counts. John Kruger (Schwarzenegger) had the interesting yet dubious task of being the Eraser. His job was to stage the murder of high profile witnesses then relocate them so that the perpetrators targeting the witness would believe that the witness is dead. The job goes well for John until he has a witness to a scandal involving the Undersecretary of Defense.The movie is an action chess match. The whole time Kruger has to stay one step ahead of his pursuers both mentally and physically. This movie truly appeals to males because there is plenty of shooting, fighting, narrow escapes, and not even one love scene. In fact there is not even a love interest. Eraser deserves high marks for originality and suspense. "},{"Title":"There's plenty of plot holes and Schwarzenegger is at his corny best, but it's still an enjoyable action movie.","Date":"7 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Eraser was Arnold Schwarzenegger's last decent movie before his string of box office flops including Batman and Robin (1997), End of Days (1999), The Sixth Day (2000), and Collateral Damage (2002). Despite several flaws here and there as well as Arnold Schwarzenegger at his corny best dispensing his vintage one liners as well as the bad guys, Eraser is still an entertaining action movie.Arnold Schwarzenegger is U.S. Marshall John Kruger, also known as the Eraser. John Kruger is responsible for erasing the lives of witnesses that are a part of the Witness Protection Program by faking their deaths and giving them new identities. He is assigned to protect Lee Cullen (Vanessa Williams) after she agrees to retrieve information from Cyrez Corporation, who is also responsible for shady illegal arms deals, including the sale of an electromagnetic pulse rifle also known as the rail gun. John Kruger must keep Lee Cullen safe as well as uncovering a further conspiracy that involves high ranking members of the government, as well as his boss and mentor fellow U.S. Marshall Robert DeGuerin (James Cann).Also featured in the cast is James Coburn as WitSec Chief Beller who turns out to be Kruger's only ally, James Cromwell as the crooked Cyrez boss William Donahue, and Robert Pastorelli as a fellow witness Kruger erases Johnny Casteleone.Director Charles Russell (The Blob, The Mask) was a surprise choice as the director given that he had just directed the smash hit comedy The Mask (1994) with Jim Carrey. Charles Russell keeps the movie enjoyable with comic book action.Eraser used to be one of my favourite movies when I was 13 years old, however as time has gone on Eraser is not as a huge movie as it used to be. Unfortunately there are plot holes aplenty and Arnold Schwarzenegger's corny humour seems forced, but is certainly an enjoyable action movie that can pass the time.7/10. "},{"Title":"Politically exposed the out of hand Military Industrial Complex","Date":"8 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a very good movie if you know anything about the corruption that exists in the Military Industrial Complex__the companies that the fake government gives blank checks to in order to receive advanced weapon systems to kill camel jockeys! Did anybody associate the scene with James Caan and AS and the 727 and the 911 attack on the WTCs by Boeing jets? Why didn't anybody try and shoot the jets down? Too bad Arnold wasn't flying around lower Manhattan in a Cessna or Lear Jet on September 11. I'm sure Arnold would have crashed his jet into the big Boeings to stop the attack. Oh, that is the Hollywood version. Anyway, Erasure is not factual because the MIC can DOA anybody, anywhere, for any reason, and no reason at all and this is why the DOD should be destroyed or reduced in size. "},{"Title":"One of The 1990s Parties !","Date":"6 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" So what do we have here ? A plot with the action thriller movie constituents and condiments  Brave hero. Beautiful heroine. Nice sidekick. Bad guy from the supposedly good guys. Chase the good guys. Try to kill them. Frame the lead. Plus a new sophisticated gun, some good action sequences, one every 7 minutes, added to a dialogue consisting of successive macho and funny one-liners like  If you drop your gun now, I promise I won't kill you., You're luggage!, Mr. Sixty Minutes, tell me something I don't know., You're late! / Traffic., Where is this? / Earth. Welcome., They caught a train., and my favorite since the first viewing long time ago  You've just been erased. Schwarzenegger is so charismatic and in shape, being shot in mostly low angles to look like a *true* tree trunk. See how he walks perfectly confident, wears a long coat as if he's a dusty sheriff, fights like a live wire, and humorously negotiates a kid 50 Bucks ?! Vanessa Williams never looked better, shining every scene she's in. She didn't have to get naked or vulgar to be sexy, because with modest outfit and by a look from her incomparable blue eyes, she instantly is. And I love when she had to move her lips to curse by the F word without uttering it.. so delicate ! Robert Pastorelli made what could be his best role. Alan Silvestri music explodes instead of the image sometimes. And some of the CGI impress. It even had a promoting music video, Where Do We Go From Here, fervently arranged, and charmingly performed (by Vanessa Williams herself); being part of the MTV legacy which, for its quality, won't fall into utter oblivion. So this is fast-paced, action packed, colorfully dazzling fare, that hit $234,400,000 gross, and an academy award nomination for best sound effects editing. Though, many accusations may find a way to harm it. Vanessa Williams doesn't have a real character, she's more like a doll whose being chased, and that's it. We don't know a thing about Schwarzenegger's character either. And, most importantly, there is no love story to develop between them, or even a friendship with distinct features. Look at a scene like the one in which he forced her to burn her ID cards in the hearth's fire, the script didn't utilize the moment to build any kind of emotional convergence between the 2 characters, so nothing was warm there but the hearth's fire ! However, million can defend by saying that this is a straight action, where things like character development, or characterization in the first place, are considered bore, nonsense, or blasphemy ! How a man jumps off a plane, to chase his parachute, and catches it, then shoots the plane's windshield, as if he's facing a car ?!! But, again, it's a fantastic realm, exclusively made to entertain you, show you an invincible hero, give you a lovely dream, to compensate your foibles, feel victory and have a model, whatever.. The lead doesn't have a solution at last, but murdering all the baddies, since the law is so weak to condemn them. It's another way to gift you with the salvation. An extremely violent, if not insane, but it's the Dirty Harry effect, where justice must be bloody !However, other accusations can harm the movie, with no defense from my side. While being ideal in places, the CGI is exposed in others. The crocodiles, the exploded door of Williams's flat, the falling container, and hitting Arnie by the plane; are enough examples. And it always provokes me to see the bullets while the moment of the bulletproof glass ! The face of Arnie's double is so obvious in couple of shots (one is at the parachute sequence). Arnie's nail injury disappears within a scene. No way that Arnie couldn't glimpse implanting Williams's picture in the murdered woman's clothes. The Baltimore docks' men are suddenly heroes, all-set to sacrifice their lives for their country (they seemed rather angry for not having a commission !). Dismembering one of the bad guys' shoulder was awful, and felt inserted just to get the R rating, as long as there is no sex scene ! The no love, friendship, or character in the mix did leave the movie a bit empty. And James Caan can't be Schwarzenegger's antagonist. Yes, he's a tough guy, but also old, shorty, and un-scary compared to Arnie ! When Arnie comes disguised as a balloon delivery man to Williams's house, with Let's Party! printed on his jacket; it's a reference to Commando (1985) in which he says that line. Actually, Eraser is nothing but a party. It mixes the 1970s tough cop actions, and political thrillers, with the 1990s Terminator's sci-fi, and big and loud blockbusters, through the formula of a-man-and-a-woman-on-the-run, which was in fashion since the 1960's end, and being made in numerous movies at the time; such as The Pelican Brief (1993), I Love Trouble (1994), Fair Game (1995), and The Long Good Night Kiss (1996), all to end up as average crap, though ready to entertainingly fill any 2 spare hours in your life. I know it did that for me, many times too ! Finally, it's a shame that Chuck Russell, director of The Mask (1994), and Eraser (1996), isn't working in Hollywood movies anymore. Unlike the way it goes in Eraser, something erased his future, and left him unprotected ! "},{"Title":"An enjoyable, if somewhat predictable Arnie vehicle","Date":"26 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" John Kruger (Arnold Schwarzenegger) is a US Marshal who specialises in Witness Protection. Lee Cullen (Vanessa Williams) is an employee of CYREZ who, with the assistance of the FBI attempts to infiltrate her own organisation as it is believed that her boss William Donohue (James Cromwell) is selling weapons illegally on the black market. Cullen manages to acquire a disk which contains vital evidence regarding the illicit deal, but when those that Donohue are working for find out that Cullen has this piece of evidence, they set about doing everything they can to silence her and it's down to John Kruger to do his best to protect her; As action thrillers go this is fairly generic with very little in the way of surprises. However, the story is constantly engaging and the action never really lets up throughout the 115 minute running time. Caan was solid as always and I also felt that Vanessa Williams was also fairly convincing in her respective role. The film also has quite a lot of 'tongue in cheek' humour running through it such as when Kruger parachutes out of a plane and lands in a car compound and asks a couple of kids where he is and they just reply 'Earth'. Another funny moment is when Kruger catches up with Cullen and she says 'You're late' and Kruger replies 'Traffic'. It just showed that the film maker's managed to make a serious film, but not one that took itself too seriously. Michael Bay does this a lot (I know that he has a lot of haters, but I meant this as a compliment).Whilst I'm all for fun and things not always being taken seriously in actions films, I do get bothered when filmmaker's create set pieces that defy the law of physics in order to make things more exciting; there is a scene on the aircraft where Arnie opens the door at a relatively high altitude. However, for some reason he isn't sucked out of the door even when he's sat next to it and seemingly doesn't have to hold onto anything to stay in the aircraft. Then a short while later, he finds himself clinging onto the edge of the door on the outside of the plane (Laws of Physics have now been remembered) and then he lets go and manages to avoid being sucked into one of the engines which is directly behind him (admittedly it was on fire, but surely it still would have had enough force to suck him into the engine rather than under it). Exciting? Yes, Plausible? Hell no!!!!!Then the following scene shows him chasing a parachute through the sky (which has clearly been ripped off from the start of Moonraker)Then we come to Arnie himself, whilst there's no denying that he's not the best of actors, I personally feel that he is one of the best when it comes to delivering the 'One Liners' - he seems to do it in a dry sort of way which just almost seems effortless. Of course, he's also such a big screen presence that he doesn't always need much dialogue to be awesome (think about the first Terminator film - how many lines did he actually have in that film and he was still brilliant and so was that film).In summary, this is a fairly generic film which we have seen several times before with very few surprises. However, it's serviceable because the story is good, the performances from the main cast are good and the film never lags or loses momentum for one minute. Whilst, it's far from being Arnie's best (admittedly the bar has been set high with films like T2, T1, Predator etc) this is still a very good film which seems to have been overlooked by a lot of people. Definitely worth watching! "},{"Title":"Arnold Erases","Date":"30 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Arnold Schwarzenegger plays U.S. Marshal John 'The Eraser' Kruger, a specialist in the witness protection program who is assigned to protect Lee Cullen(Vanessa Williams) who had uncovered shady dealings at a military weapons manufacturer that she had worked for. The company now wants her dead, so John takes Lee to New York City with the help of his friend, fellow U.S. Marshal Robert Guerin(played by James Caan) Unfortunately, someone in the program has betrayed them, and now John and Lee must go on the run from both forces in order to expose the true villains, and save their lives.Pretty good Arnold S. film has lots of exciting action scenes, and an appealing cast of characters. Film has a predictable plot though, and stretches credibility at times, but is mostly entertaining. "},{"Title":"The beginning of the Arnie-end. More fun for his butchering of the English language.","Date":"17 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Arnie's career was really losing steam by the time Eraser came around. After all he'd played every role that suited him, often multiple times. The robot. The soldier. The cop. The special agent. The ummm&#x85; barbarian.And believe it or not, as IMDb is my witness, he played ALL of those characters more than once by this time, the only difference sometimes being the Eastern European country he was supposed to have come from.So by this stage Schwarzenegger was sorta grasping at straws, the result often being awful and often recycled projects that played with his image and in desperation introduced more and more illogical and ridiculous hooks and sequences.Take Eraser, where the bad guys have heat detecting scopes on their RAY GUNS(!) that go bing-bing-bing and cut through anything in their path, and Arnie gets to kill a 90s style CGI alligator and after consigning it to its fate declares it 'luggage'. (You know what? That bit still makes me laugh.) Arnie plays John Kruger, a guy who doesn't officially exist, whose specialty is making it look like people in need of protection don't exist to keep them safe from various nefarious high-ups and/or low lives. Hence the 'erasing' reference of the title, he erases them from being&#x85; mostly without even killing them! This time however the case is a young employee who is a key witness against a Big (evil) Corporation that is illegally making the naughty bing-bing-bing weapons.Eraser actually sports a fairly string cast of mainly James'; Coburn, Caan and Cromwell all get turns at being bad guys or Arnie's superiors&#x85; or both. And Vanessa Williams is the damsel in distress in need of the protection only Arnie's big gun could give.The rest of the film is a series of carefully conceived yet palpably ridiculous action setpieces that are technically proficient but lack any sense of true action goodness. The plane escape sequence is fine, the zoo chase scene OK (featuring the afore-mentioned luggage) and the finale at the docks gives Arnie the chance to wield the big guns for himself. Two of them actually. But aside from these moments Eraser marks the point in Arnie's career where the enjoyment was primarily derived from mocking his butchering of the English language. To that point this was merely an added bonus in between the action.I think the scriptwriters spent more time coming up with short dialogue snippets that would sound funnier coming out of Arnie's lips &#x96; which is almost everything really &#x96; my favourite here was how he managed to turn the 4 syllables of I work alone into about 17&#x85; I wanted to like Eraser, and as a guilty 2 hour throwaway it served its purpose I guess. But after the 80s and 90s spoiled us (and Arnie) by casting him as super-soldiers, FBI/KGB agents and Terminators it just seems like after a decade of Coke you are forced to switch to Royal Cola for eternity. Sure it's still cola, but&#x85; Final Rating &#x96; 5.5 / 10. Need more evidence that this was the beginning of the end? Arnie's 5 films after Eraser Jingle all the Way, Batman & Robin, End of Days, The 6th Day and Collateral Damage. I might argue that this was his last vaguely average film if I could summon the energy. "},{"Title":"We're way beyond bullsh*t here.","Date":"15 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" With an Oscar nomination for sound effects an award for music, this is no B-movie. It is Schwarzenegger in one of his best film roles.He has a superb backup cast with Vanessa L. Williams, James Caan, and Robert Pastorelli.The excitement never stops with fantastic weaponry and a really great shootout in the zoo.Of course, you have to ignore the fact that Arnie manages to perform feats of magic with a shattered shoulder bone and an injured hand. He can do anything through the pain apparently.But the airplane scene makes it all worthwhile.More than a guilty pleasure, this is truly a movie worth watching over and over. "},{"Title":"Arnie vs the weapons manufacturer","Date":"20 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" What can I say about this movie other than it is another pointless Arnie action flick. Personally I enjoy the mindless Arnie action flicks, just as my friend enjoys wrestling. Unfortunately he cannot understand why somebody hates something that he loves and loves something that he hates. If one disagrees with him then we are the ones that have the problem. So much for opinions.Anyway, this movie is about a agent working for the witness protection program, whose job is to erase people's identities and set them up with new ones. He is assigned to look after a witness who is testifying against a large weapons corporation who are selling weapons to overseas buyers instead of the United States. This corporation has a lot of people on the payroll, so Arnie is up against the entire government, including his mentor.What I really don't understand is why a company selling its product to an overseas buyer, even if it is state of the art weaponry, would be considered treason. I guess it has something to do with using America as a base to build weaponry which will be sold to people who will end up using them against America. As such I think it is fair enough for them to be screaming treason.In the end this movie is a patriotic catching the badguys and saving the motherland. In the end America is safe and everybody can continue on being Americans.Personally, this is not one of Arnie's best movies, and unfortunately, since Terminator II, his movies seem to be downgrading a bit. Still, when one considers this movie, it is really no different to movies like Running Man, Total Recall, and Predator. In the end we do not come to see this movie to be astounded by Arnie's acting ability, but rather to see action, and as an action movie, we get plenty of it, and as such it lives up to the standards of other Arnie action movies (including the pathetic one-liners). "}{"Title":"You're luggage......","Date":"3 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" U.S. Marshal deputy John Kruger is one of the toughest Marshals, his methods are to Erase The identities of his witnesses he is assigned to protect.A woman named Lee Cullen who works for a corporation named Cyrez performed an undercover job for the FBI to unveil a top secret weapon which uses an electromagnetic pulse to dispatch targets.Cyrez discovered this about Lee and are now out to kill her, Kruger's job is now to protect Lee so she can testify against Cyrez.But, when Kruger was assigned to perform a job with another Marshal named Robert Deguerin, he discovers that Deguerin is behind the plot that will involve the EM Gun.Which will change hands to a Russian criminal if Kruger does not stop them, Kruger must not only protect Lee's life but his own....Let's face it, this was Arnies last big film where he didn't play a Terminator. Back in the day where he could command a summer movie and make it score big, Eraser is a typical eighties action film in the nineties, trying to be hi-tech, so when you watch it 15 years on, it looks terribly dated.Arnie is great as the line spouting Marshal who is assigned to protect Williams. But Caan steals the show as the villain, one of the most sinister villains Arnie has faced this side of Mars.The action is over the top, the effects by todays standard are very bad, and there are so many plot holes, that it defies belief.But then you saw this movie, and you read this, so you know what to expect.Arnie getting shot in the arm, pulling items out of him that have stabbed him, jumpimg out of a plane and killing Alligators.Silly stuff, but still as watchable as it was in 1996. "},{"Title":"Action-Packed!","Date":"20 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" 'Eraser', directed by Chuck Russell, is an Action-Packed Flick, that offers some truly entertaining sequences in the goings-on. An interesting premise gets it's due, and a really energetic Arnold Schwarzenegger, does the trick.'Eraser' tells the story of A Top-Grade Witness Protection specialist, Played by Schwarzenegger, who, becomes suspicious of his co-workers when dealing with a case involving high-tech weapons.Screenplay by Tony Puryear and Walon Green, is interesting and is aimed completely for the Masses. This Box Office Hit is meant for those who enjoy and relish Action-Flicks, that offer super stunts and sudden twists and turns. This entertainer is not meant for the pseudo critics! Chuck Russell's Direction is good, while the Stunts are applaud-worthy. Cinematography by Adam Greenberg, is passable. Editing is fair.Performance-Wise As mentioned, Schwarzenegger is highly energetic in the central role. James Caan looks each bit of the character and is perfect, as always. Vanessa L. Williams is fairly good. James Coburn gets less scope, while Robert Pastorelli shines. Others lend good support.On the whole, An interesting action-flick, that has potential. Watch It! "},{"Title":"We're way beyond bullshit here.","Date":"3 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" With an Oscar nomination for sound effects an award for music, this is no B-movie. It is Schwarzenegger in one of his best film roles.He has a superb backup cast with Vanessa L. Williams, James Caan, and Robert Pastorelli.The excitement never stops with fantastic weaponry and a really great shootout in the zoo.Of course, you have to ignore the fact that Arnie manages to perform feats of magic with a shattered shoulder bone and an injured hand. He can do anything through the pain apparently.But the airplane scene makes it all worthwhile.More than a guilty pleasure, this is truly a movie worth watching over and over. "},{"Title":"Eraser","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Bottom lineThis is a preposterous, ridiculous, and absolutely unrealistic action film. Bottom lineIt's VERY, VERY entertaining action film which never lets you catch a breath. If you try and read the realism of an action film which has Arnold just dodge a damaged wing propeller of an airplane, will himself to a falling parachute pack, shoot out the windshield of said airplane while it is flying towards him, dodge hitting the plane again as it drifts away when bullets blow holes and intense air into the pilots' face, get his parachute all tangled around his legs, unwind the tangled parachute, loose that parachute, but unearth the emergency parachute, and finally land on a junkyard car bending the entire top, yet barely bat an eyelash. Okay, have I made that pretty clear. The film takes..umm..liberties with the limits of what one man is able to do. Arnold Schwarzenegger plays US Marshal John Kruger..a man who erases the identities of people under the special witness program. We see his impressive work early as he rescues Johnny Castelone(Robert Pastorelli, who is very funny)and his wife from certain death at the hands of gangsters working for a mob boss he plan to squeal on. We watch him defuse the situation rather easily. He's good at his job and shows that this kind of operation, if placed in the trustworthy hands of Kruger, that a person can escape possible doom. He receives a new person to relocate..Lee Cullen(the always beautiful Vanessa Williams), a woman who uncovers the plans of her company, Cyrez, in the possible sell of military hi-tech weaponry). Kruger's boss, Chief Beller(James Coburn), informs him that there are some high-level people that will be effected greatly by Lee's witnessing at a trial in regards to her Defense Corporation, Cyrez. We soon discover that even the Undersecretary of Defense Daniel Harper(Andy Romano)is a major player in arms selling. But, nothing would prepare Kruger for the ultimate betrayal of his mentor, US Marshal Robert Deguerin(James Caan), who is behind the works of getting the operation all set up and balanced without complications. Deguerin, unfortunately, isn't able to finish off Kruger in the plane(he needed him to guide them to Lee)and creates some real trouble to his almost too smooth plans in setting up the selling of a major load of state-of-the-art, electromagnetic rifles for $52 million. The problem Kruger faces is not only keeping Lee alive but convincing Beller that Deguerin is the mole of WITSEC(the official name of the witness protection program Kruger works for). The film shows countless scenarios where by all true rights, Kruger would never make it out alive. Every time the screenplay stacks the deck, Kruger superhumanly brings himself out safely. The film provides some real humdingers in the way of complications..there is an unlimited supply of dead meat for Deguerin to send into the grinder to kill Kruger. Check out the most famous scene, in the zoo sequence where Kruger shoots out the alligator tank and these reptiles eat several men trying to kill them. In a ball-busting escape from an alligator, Kruger shoots it in the mouth and proclaims, You're luggage. The film has lots of fast-moving chases where we ponder momentarily how Kruger and Lee will ever accomplish their mountainous goals of taking down the evil corruption of those willing to sell weaponry to a dangerous terrorist. I liked how Kruger uses Castelone to get into the Cyrez building to access information about what is on the disc that she copied at the beginning of the film that got her into such trouble to start with. I thought the entire sequence was unbelievable, but so is the rest of the film so why quarrel with such things. Ultimately, the film is a cat-and-mouse between teacher and student. Kruger has to find ways to outsmart the man that taught him all the ways of being an Eraser. So it's up to the two of them in understanding how each others' mind works to determine how thee whole difficult situation will be played out. The film is never boring, always on the run with few chances to unleash those horrible moments of characterization. All we need is the non-stop, jaw dropping, exhausting action to keep out heads from towering over in sleepy slumber. This delivers, though, what it sets out for..it is a blast to watch even if you don't believe a bit of it. "},{"Title":"Starring Arnold -- and Jimmy Caan's hair.","Date":"16 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I lived for several years in southwestern Missouri, near Branson. Being there a lot, both for business and the shows, I had the opportunity to see most performers in their theaters, and many at events in the area. With a lot of them getting along in years, a friend and I observed that Branson may well be keeping the manufacturers of hair dying products in business. We dubbed the apparently most popular as Wayne Newton black, and Mel Tillis red. (The latter was actually more of a cross between strawberry and beige blonde shades.) In watching this flick, I couldn't help but notice, and then be somewhat distracted by, the thought that Jimmy Caan must have gotten a good supply of the product from Mel (actually, probably another source, since Mel's hair has always looked pretty good). In some scenes it looked orange. For goodness sake, Jim, with the facilities in Hollywood and on movie sets, please find a stylist with better color sense or a supply of a better product. Arnold proceeds in this story to plod through everything and everyone in his way. The scene where he's been drugged, enclosed within an aircraft with several skilled rogue federal agents out to get him - yet still escapes by jumping from the plane - WITHOUT A CHUTE! - - skydiving to the one he threw out earlier (plus just a few moments ago they had slipped him a mickey!!) -- is worth the two hours' viewing by itself. The acting in this film was largely so-so by the supporting cast. Caan looked and talked like an aging Sonny Corleone who perhaps had inhaled too many fumes from the hair dye. Vanessa Williams is pleasant to view, but her acting is wooden to watch, and James Coburn looked like a stuffed replica of himself, with someone pulling strings and providing a voice. James Pastorelli, and the other character actors who specialize in playing mob goons, gave the best performances and provided the only humor. And Arnold was Arnold, from jumping out of the plane early-on, to the rather unbelievable climax. His and Vanessa's disappearing act from the van towards the finale would have taken Houdini ten times as long to effect. I happen to enjoy the escape mechanism provided by Swarzenegger films, so give this a seven on that basis. True Lies is the epitomé of this genre, and this one fell somewhat short of its level. "},{"Title":"Decent Enough Arnie Film, However, He Has Done A LOT better!","Date":"14 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a decent enough Arnie film, however he has done a lot better, and it feels stale at times. I liked the characters, and it had a few great action sequences, plus Arnold Schwarzenegger is simply amazing in this!. Don't get me wrong it's entertaining, it's just a bit disappointing since Arnie has done so many fantastic action films, plus while Arnie, is amazing as he usually is, it feels like he is bored at times. Arnie and Vanessa Williams had good chemistry together,and James Caan is great as the main villain, plus the finale was above average. It is rather exciting at times, it just feels a bit too routine, and i wasn't really rooting for anyone in the film, plus Arnie,had some good one liners. This is a decent enough Arnie film, however he has done a LOT better, and it just felt a little too routine for me still it's well worth the watch. The Direction is decent. Chuck Russell does a decent job here, with some good camera work, some good angles, and he kept the film fairly entertaining throughout. There is a bit of blood and violence. We get impaling's lots of bloody gunshot wounds, and other stuff. The Acting is great. Arnold Schwarzenegger is AMAZING as always, and is amazing here, he is very likable, as always,is fantastic in the acting department had good chemistry with Vanessa Williams,and had some classic one liners once again, only problem i had was he seemed a little bored at times,, still he was tons of fun to watch!. (Arnie Rules!!). James Caan is fantastic as the main villain, he was constantly unpredictable and seemed to be enjoying himself!,he is a fantastic actor!. Vanessa L. Williams is very good with what she had to do, she is gorgeous and had good chemistry with Arnie, i liked her lots. James Coburn and Robert Pastorelli are good in there roles. rest of the cast do OK. Overall well worth the watch, it's just Arnie has done a LOT better!. *** out of 5 "},{"Title":"One of Arnie's better outings from the 90s","Date":"7 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" In the 90s Arnie went all soft now and then, appearing in watered down roles that blended more comedy with less action. Eraser has plenty of funny moments, but marks a return to a more traditional Arnie movie; he kills a helluva lot of people! As some kind of undercover chap, Arnie helps to erase people's identities after they've given evidence in court etc, and that's the theme of the film, except he soon finds himself in a spot of trouble. Naturally there is plenty of gun action and a pretty female sidekick, all the usual elements are there and done nicely. Perhaps the highlight of Eraser comes when Arnie battles a crocodile! All highly unlikely of course but good fun. The weaponry seems a bit futuristic which at least makes the film a tad different from such fare as Commando and Predator, just to emphasise that its a different movie. On the whole a good picture, worth catching. "},{"Title":"Another enjoyable Arnold actioner","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  ERASER is yet another Arnold Schwarzenegger action film that's loaded with shootouts, explosions, and exciting stunt scene's.  The plot is pretty basic of an action film, protect a witness from killers, but it works and the film is quite enjoyable.  Arnold is his usual tough action hero self and he is very good in this one, and James Caan made a good villain.  There were also some cool new weapons introduced in this film that dont actually exist in real life but are fun to see used throughout the film.  Overall, a very enjoyable film, and though it's not one of Arnold's best, it is still a fun film.  3.5/5 "},{"Title":"Just read my comments","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Pretty entertaining, standard Schwartznegger film.I loved how the guns are supposed to fire bullets at nearly the speed of light and yet Arnold can still dodge them. I also didn't like the part with the alligator, it was too fake looking. I'd give this a 7 though, because the ending was cool.  "},{"Title":"Great Special Effects","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I thought this movie was adequate. Arnold Scwartzenegger does a great job, and this movie does not detract from his acting abilities. This movie deals with a U.S. Marshal who sets witnesses up with new identities in order to protect their lives. One such person is Lee Cullin, who works at Cyrez Corporation. Cyrez produces high-tech weapons that end up being sold on the black market. The plot of this movie was really good, the only problem I had with it was the beleivability of the weapon in question (the EM gun). A weapon that can fire rounds at near light speed seems rather far-fetched. One thing I thought was interesting was the fact that anyone using this gun could see through solid objects, like x-rays. Wouldn't this involve radiation? If so, would the person using the gun have to be shielded like an x-ray technician does when they operate an x-ray machine? The Internet Movie Database does an excellent job in pointing out these flaws in the movie goofs. For instance, the heat that would have to be generated to fire the rounds, and the damage it would do. This would create a lot of questions to anyone with at least a little physics knowledge.  The movie does do an excellent job with the special effects, and made the movie enjoyable. I actually used this movie in a career day presentation at my son's school. I used the scene where Lee goes into the Cyrez vault to copy files on the EM gun. I used this to explain the concept of downloading files from a mainframe coomputer. James Caan does an excellent job playing the bad guy. "}{"Title":"Rubs Up to Its Audience.","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Another wild and crazed, but strangely entertaining film from Arnold Schwarzenegger. He stars as a witness protection program man who gets caught up protecting the beautiful Vanessa Williams who has some information about some new high-tech weapons that interest some really bad guys. James Caan is super as Schwarzenegger's best friend who is not at all what he seems. Williams does well by standing around and looking good and the film-makers make her an asset rather than a liability. The intense action sequences are truly good-looking and inventive. 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"imperfect but highly entertaining just the same","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Slick, stylish action flick stars Schwarzenegger as a U.S. Marshal who protects witnesses by erasing their pasts and giving them a new future in the Witness Protection Program. His newest client Williams is a government employee who stumbles upon a confidential secret that endangers both of them. In order to protect her, he must take it on the lam to try to thwart the corrupt government agents who are determined to stop him no matter what the cost. Fans may be disappointed by the video game-like special effects, but the film provides enough memorable, energetic action set pieces, colorful lines, and sophisticated, high-tech weaponry to be entertaining; score another one for Arnold. *** "},{"Title":"When you have to absolutely, positively have to disappear overnight...","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Arnold Schwarzenegger gives a fine performance as  US Marshall Jack Kruger who is an expert in the art of erasing; (giving a witness a new identity, eliminating all ties to their past lives and moving them secretly(?) to a new and safer(?) neighborhood. He is given the job of protecting the lovely Vanessa Williams who discovers high-level government corruption in the form of arms sales to enemies of the United States. NO ONE can be trusted in this action-packed game of deception and he must rely on his wits, physical strength and years of experience to aid him in his search for the entire gang of culprits. James Coburn gives a fine portrayal as the corrupt rich tycoon Arnold encounters along the way in this fine film that climaxes with a SPECTACULAR ending! This film has earned a space on my shelf next to the other fine action movies and should be in your collection as well! Get a copy on DVD. And wait for AH-nold to be-back in more films soon!  "},{"Title":"Loud but not gutsy","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Eraser is fine entertainment, but unlike other previous Arnold movies, what it has in techno-porn and continuous action it lacks severely in visceral punch. It isn't violent enough to reach the heights of T2, and the combined effects of ultra-celebrity for Arnold and higher acting standards for action movies show through in its overly slick presentation, like water rising up around his head. The antagonism isn't sharp enough, and his character lacks the amoral edge that made Commando and the Terminator series so intense. Watch it and enjoy, but don't bother for a second viewing. "},{"Title":"Another great Arnold movie.","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I always have fun with Schwarzenegger's movies. Even in some of his bad ones(Batman and Robin and Hercules), he's still fun to watch. This is just another gem for me.U.S. Marshall John Kruger has been assigned to protect a young woman, who holds a secret from one of the nation's largest weapon making facilities that they are smuggling weapons to U.S. enemies. Kruger must erase her past and protect her future as several people are sent to kill them and the two realize they can trust no one.Arnold is great as always and this was probably the last good movie he did until the 6th Day. Can't wait to see Collateral Damage. Vanessa Williams and James Caan do great jobs also.Arnold and action. They were meant for each other. 9/10 "},{"Title":"good on most counts","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  To like this movie, there are two qualificationsyou have to like action movies, and you have to like Arnold Schwarzenegger.Actually, you might like it either way. I did. It contains plenty of explosions, chases, action, and fights with the bad guys. All in all, this was a fun movie and you just might like it.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"My number 150 movie ( contains story )","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  ´Eraser´ is my number 150 movie, because I usually like action movies and I like Arnold Schwarzenegger. This is definitely not his best work ( Terminator 1&2 / true Lies are better ), but it is a good one. I recommend it to action fans and to Arnie fans. OK, I do not consider myself an action fan or an Arnie fan, but I nevertheless liked this movie. It deals with Arnie Schwarzenegger who gives witnesses in murder trials a new identity to get their life back. But then there is a particular case ( Vanessa Williams ) and he has his problems to do his job, because ... ( I do not remember why )But there has been any reason. All in all, I rate this movie 8/10. it is good stuff. "},{"Title":"Good action for the audience","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I think as always, that schwarzenegger always do good action movies. This movie is not an exception. i like the futurama basis and the weird guns he uses.  "},{"Title":"Very cool, and slick Arnie movie!!","Date":"19 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this at the movie theatre's back in 96 and I really enjoyed it. Now I own it on DVD(the best format available) and the movie is better than ever. I watch it annually with my other Arnie movies. The action is good and the plot is good with a little humor in between the action scenes. Now this movie can't compare to True Lies or T-2, but it is a very good movie non the less. I especially like those guns that they use. They are so cool. If you haven't seen this movie, I suggest that you go and see it now, before you too become Erased!! 9/10 "},{"Title":"Pretty cool Schwarzenegger Movie!!!","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this at the show back when it came out and I really liked it. The special effects were good, and the story was good. I really like the guns that they had. I have this movie on DVD and it is really good on that format. This isn't arnie's best movie, but it is cool none the less. I recommend you to go see this, because I really enjoyed it,a nd I think that you will too.  9/10 "}{"Title":"Ok, if not perfect action movie. 4 stars out of 5.","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is an ok but not perfect action movie starring Arnold Schwarzenegger. The action and special effects are good, but the script isn't perfect. If you like Schwarzenegger I suggest you see Terminator or Terminator 2. 4 star out of five. "},{"Title":"Great for the Stuntmen","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  My kids chose this. Did you see how many stuntmen were credited? I thought the first half of the film was great. James Caan is excellent as the bad guy, there is some good intrigue. And then I started to get bored by the constant action and blowing things up, the increasing impossibility of Arnie getting killed. A very bad bit was where they couldn't be bothered to show you how he escaped from the 25 storey building. A goofy ending to boot. (BTW I am an Arnie fan!) "},{"Title":"a good movie","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  He said he would be back & he surely is in this action packed movie. Arnold kicks a$$ yet again. He protects your life by erasing it & giving u a new 1, it should weird but its pretty awesome. Same Arnold action but its cool. Well, there r the those blue screen scenes but its exceptable. Even though there is 1 scene where says, You're luggage after he shoots a gator-which is lame & Arnold should stick away from corny lines like that. its worth seeing & having if u r a Arnold fan. "},{"Title":"Ah-nold erases the bad guys","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Arnold Schwarzenegger does what he does best... yet again inthis fast-paced but heavily cliched action thriller. The bigAustrian plays Krueger, a slick officer for the WitnessProtection Program who has to protect a beautiful nuclearprogrammer named Lee (Vanessa Williams) from treacherous agents,terrorists, the usual bad guy for a flick like this! Ah-noldwastes the enemy with his usual fashion (He blows them up), andhas time to strike up a nice bond with Williams, while JamesCaan has a field day as Krueger's ex-mentor. Eraser is for allfans who love a good adrenaline rush, but those with more subtletastes should  "},{"Title":"Erase our past to protect our future. What a tagline!","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I know what this tagline means by erasing our past and protecting our future. This means that we want a great future life, we can't go back to the past, because what's done is already DONE. Some of our past lives may have been worst, so we want to make them better in the future. Or you can say whatever things were negative in the past, we can make them positive in the future. In the future, you will have many many chances of doing activities, hobbies, etc. for your lifetime. So whenever you start a new life, put the past away for good, and say hello to the great future of your lifetime. You'll have more fun than ever, even better, too. I was only making a social issue about this movie and its tagline. This action-packed thriller was released at the time when I was in Pakistan during the Summer of 1996. So if your past was kind of boring, why not make it better in your future? Ha ha.  "},{"Title":"A bit overlong, but fun anyway","Date":"21 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Big Arnold Schwarzenegger blasts the bad guys and let's out one-liners... yet again in his big-budget flick Eraser. This time around, Arnold plays Kruger, a tough-assed U.S. Marshal protecting beautiful government operative Lee (Vanessa Williams) from bad guys who're trying to waste them left to right. Sound familliar? It should.Eraser is a great action-suspense thriller, but it can get a little tiresome, because the cliches come by the truckful in this movie!! It's way too predictable, as well. Anyway, Schwarzenegger still does a good job as the world's greatest action hero. His new movie End of Days looks even better than the former! I can't wait to see it.  "},{"Title":"Possibly the last true entertaining Arnie picture.","Date":"14 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" John Kruger is an Eraser, he works for the witness relocation program as a U.S. Marshal, he will erase your past to protect your future. His latest assignment is to hide and relocate Lee Cullen, a high level executive with a U.S. weapons manufacturer. Cullen is to testify against the Cyrex Corporation for treason crimes appertaining to the corporations weapons manufacturing, but the level of badness extends far beyond a mere few corporate big wigs. John and Lee are in a fight for their lives, and Kruger will need every ounce of his expertise to see them safely thru the ordeal.Eraser finds man mountain Arnold Schwarzenegger on particularly enjoyable beefcake nonsense form, so much so it is to me the last decent film that Arnold Schwarzenegger did. That of course is up for debate outside of my own personal opinion, and looking at the relatively low rating on IMDb, it would seem that I'm very much in the minority. Eraser has all the essential elements that make a hugely enjoyable Arnie movie, outrageous scenes an aeroplane bail out sequence is a riot, a dastardly villain James Caan hamming for all he's worth, weapons aplenty a gun here is as good as it gets and a pretty girl for Arnie to posture around Vanessa Williams gorgeous and effective. The plot naturally doesn't breath life into the genre that encompasses the crooked suit brigade, and yes we just know how it's going to end, but it's great fun in that great fun way that only Schwarzenegger and his Planet Hollywood pals can provide. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Cartoonist, enjoyable action-thriller.","Date":"5 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" John Kruger (Arnold Schwarzenegger) is a U.S. Marshall, who works for the Witness Relocation Program. His next assignment is protecting the attractive Lee Cullen (Vanessa Williams). Which Lee works as a high level executive as a U.S. weapons manufacturer at the Cyrex Coporation. She uncovers that a deal was made to put a new super-weapon in the wrong hands with the high level of treason in the U.S. Gouverment. But John discover that several people, he works with... including his friend/mentor Robert Deguerin (James Caan) and the politicians from Washington D.C. are not what they seems to be. John finds himself double-crossed by Robert and his men. Now John has to clear his name with the help of Lee and a man (The late Robert Pastorelli), that John once saved.Directed by Charles Russell (A Nightmare on Elm Street 3Dream Warriors, The Blob 1988, The Mask) made an enjoyable, although outrageous fast movie with plenty of creative action sequences and an refreshing sense of humour. Schwarzenegger is in top form here with the occasional great comic one-liners. Caan is certainly an joy to watch as a villain here. Williams is effective as the unwilling victim along the wild ride. Pastorelli is the comic relief here and the late Oscar-WinnerJames Coburn has a small role as the Chief Beller.DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (2.351) transfer (also in Pan & Scan) and an strongDolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD's only features are the original theatrical trailer and production notes. This film wasn't quite success in theaters before it got released in theaters, this film went over-schedule and over-budget. Causing problems with the director, the producers and the script re-writes. There's even rumours that Schwarzenegger couldn't say the word Ambulance! This is certainly one of the most underrated movies from Schwarzenegger and also one of his best. This has great humour, funny dialogue, excellent visual effects by Industrial Light & Magic (ILM) and superb (although quite impossible) action scenes both in the air and ground. Don't miss it. Screenplay by Tony Puryear and Walton Green (RoboCop 2, The Brink's Job, The Wild Bunch). From a story by Puryear, Green and Michael S. Chernuchin. John Milius (Who directed Conan The Barbarian) did uncredited re-writes as a favor for his buddy Schwarzengger. Panavision. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"Cool","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is not the greatest film but it is definitely a film worth watching. How can you make a film and not understand its contents? I think sometimes it is really obvious, but most of the time you are having a ride like the ride of your life. It is a fast paced film which will definitely bring you a lot of joy. You will not sit still in your seat for two hours. But you will be sweating and wanting to get out, not because it's a bad film but because you wanna go help him! You wanna be in that movie and you wanna be part of the action and part of the solution to the film. That's how much it takes you in, I mean it is your flesh and blood once you started watching this film. It is as I said not the best, but definitely worth riding this thrill ride for a couple of hours. "},{"Title":"Arnold's best next to the Terminators","Date":"27 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This was a great action movie. Very cliché, but nevertheless has awesome action. And for the time had great special effects (I loved the alligator scene).The story was very cool, the whole erasing thing was sweet. Acting was.. well, it wasn't that bad. But that's not the reason to watch this movie. The only thing I disliked was that the central conflict didn't really have much to do with erasing. They should've implied the eraser theme into it more, instead of turning Arnie into a one-man army like he always is. But hey, who cares, it was very entertaining! Worth a rental, but I got it with Collateral Damage for $10! "}{"Title":"Best Schwarzenegger movie","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I think that this is the best movie Arnold Schwarzenegger has ever made. I don't exactly know why, but I guess one of the reasons is the story. It's without doubt way above average. Action movies are often watched for the action scenes alone, but that's not the case for this movie. The story is about witness protection. Despite a great story, this is still a 100% action movie. There is A LOT of action in the movie, and the actions scenes are very good. The scenes with the airplane and with the crocodiles look a bit fake, but that doesn't matter. The last action scene down on the harbor is the best moment it the movie. Here, Arnold gets a chance to show his true potential. There are even some science fiction in the movie, with powerful weapons who doesn't exist in real life. "},{"Title":"Praise for Arnold!!!","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  	I'm so sick of seeing magazines and critics putting this movie down.  They said it had no plot and was senseless.  I guess critics forgot what a Arnold movie is supposed to be like.  And most of those movies were big hits.  All I have to say is that there was nothing wrong with his movie.  It had great action scenes,  a lot of laughs,  and good villains.  This was another underrated one from Arnold,  just like,  Jingle All the Way.  I don't know if the critics are idiots but the movie wasn't supposed to be an oscar contender.  It was made for the audiences to have fun.  And I think a lot of moviefans forgot to have fun watching movies anymore.  So what if it had bad acting and a bad script.  All action movies do and thats why a lot of them become hits.  Something this movie should've been.  To me,  Arnold is still the man.  Al least he is trying different things (Jingle All the Way,  Junior,  Twins,  Kindergarten Cop,  End of Days etc)  Look at Jean-Claude Van Damme and Steven Seagal.  All they did was making action movie after action movie and now we don't see them in any movies anymore.  Arnold may be a terrible actor but at least he does different things in his career.  Stallone should think about this too.   "},{"Title":"Erasing bad moments in action movies","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  When you think of Eraser, True Lies, Aliens II, you are considering solid movies, ones that have a reasonable story (no matter how far fetched the story may be), that show good handling on the part of the director and good performances by the actors.  Yes, Aliens II is by far the best among the titles I cited, but they all have a similar structure and mentality.  Eraser features two of the best known actors in Hollywood. Schwarzenneger, the most famous personality (and always improving character), against the talented, varied, fantastic actor that goes by the name of James Caan. The big man has yet a long way to go in order to achieve a flawless or impressive (such as when he shot Conan the Barbarian) performance, and James Caan is like Pacino and De Niro - absolutely great. He really can be a nasty, mean person - even if other characters are meaner (the under-secretary, for instance...).  These two actors could have distorted the whole picture, pulling it apart in the directions  they wanted but they didn´t. They are part of it, although their characters command  actions and other characters. Arnold is always a true professional, specially by the side of an enfant terrible like Caan.  Eraser features a princess like lady by the name of Vanessa Williams. Good looks, good presence, and very fine acting. I'm amazed at the fact that this lady has not yet achieved full stardom, one that could be compared with Zeta Jones and Sharon Stone. But this is Tinsel Town...      The other actors act and react accordingly, giving credibility to the story.    Special effects? Efficient and simple. Soundtrack - sometimes beautiful.  The story is pure action, has some very good scenes and shows delightful comedy moments. Of course,  the Witness Protection Program doesn´t function the way it´s portrayed in this picture, but its goals are the same - and they really go to great lenght to protect and hide those who are under their guard. The politics in this movie is realistic enough - we all know, irrespective of our countries, that some major and dark deals are going on within our governments and when some secrets are discovered, it´s only the small players who get squashed...  The plot could be more complex, but has twists and turns enough to keep it going.  The idea behind the mini-rail gun is not explored, nor should it have been. The gun simply exists - although its danger is overblown.  The main interest (in my opinion) of this movie lies in watching James Caan, Vanessa Williams, Pastorelli and  some comedy and action scenes.    All in all, good entertainment. "},{"Title":"Arnold Schwarzenegger is God...","Date":"11 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" ...and that movie is one of his best work. If you liked his classic pictures like Red Heat, Raw Deal or Commando, you will love this one that's for sure. He's badass in this one, there are some classic funny one-liners, and the action is top notch! Well okay...If I wanna be honest with you, the CGI is a bit crappy in one particular scene, but that doesn't matter.The story is simple, the acting is good, I really liked James Caan as the bad guy. He was so funny, if you see his face, it's just f*ckin perfect! The perfect bad guy! Vanessa Williams is beautiful I think, she gave us a solid performance. Nothing special but hey this is a Schwarzenegger-movie! Who wants Oscar-nominated performances from a guy's movie?? You get everything what you want from an action-flick! Big guns, big explosions, big muscles, the action is over-the-top a bit, but that's okay.Great movie, one of the best action films of the '90s. One of my favorite Arnie-movie along with Commando and Terminator - Judgement Day. See it! "},{"Title":"Defense Industry & Government Corruption All The Way To The Top!!!,","Date":"8 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" John Kruger (Arnold Swartzenegger)is a U.S. Marshal who protects federal witnesses and erases their old identities. Lee Cullen (Vanessa Williams)an employee of the President of Cyrez Corporation, manufacturer of top secret weapons (Electro-Magnetic Rail Guns for the military. She finds out he's selling weapons to terrorists, turns F.B.I. informant & gets a CD copy. Confronted by the President as an informant with a wiretap he threatens her but shoots himself in fear of prosecution as she escapes to the F.B.I.! Refusing witness protection she goes home, the agents are killed & they're after her! John Kruger arrives at the last minute battling and is wounded but saves her taking her to his New York City safe house, warning he only works alone. John discovers that his boss/trainer, U.S. Marshal Robert Deguerin (James Caan) is the mastermind behind the sales of weapons to terrorists! Robert takes John hostage on a plane,drugs & frames him for murder and fights him almost crashing the plane as he escapes after sending an emergency evacuation pager signal to Lee to leave the safe house and meet him at the New York Zoo. Tracing the call, they go to the zoo, battling John & Lee who escape. John discovers Lee has a backup CD but needs Cyrez's computer to read it's encryption. Faking a pizza man's heart attack they arrive as Paramedics and get in. They read the CD's weapons system delivery time and place at New York harbor docks but Lee is taken hostage! John's friend/witness has Union /Mafia friends and family that run the docks so they enlist their help for the final showdown. John phones the Ultra-Secret Agency Secretary (James Coburn) & tells him that his boss Robert,Cyrez V. P .& the Secretary of Defense are all involved in the weapons sale to terrorists and where to come to stop them. The firefight battle is on after nearly being killed by his boss they stop the shipment and the Ultra-Secret Feds arrive arresting survivors. Lee testifies before Congress but they blame it on Cyrez's dead President and may escape justice! John & Lee fake their deaths and arrange a final erasure of John's boss Robert,Cyrez V. P . & the Secretary of Defense!Available Subtitles English, Spanish, French Available Audio Tracks English (Dolby Digital 5.1), French (Dolby Digital 5.1),DVD Special Features Production Notes, Actor Filmographies, Theatrical Trailer, Scene Access, Interactive Menus. "},{"Title":"It's a typical Arnie movie","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Eraser is sadly not in the same league as The Terminator films or True Lies, but it's still good Arnie style action.John Kruger (Arnie) erases people who are entering the witness protection program, but now he has to protect Vanessa Williams who plays an executive that has uncovered a deal to place a new super-weapon in the wrong hands.Eraser has some great special effects, some cool weapons and of course plenty of action. The plot is very basic and it does try to be more involved than it inevitably is, but all in all this is still a fun film and will certainly please the Arnie fan in all of us.6/10 "},{"Title":"A Well Made Action Film","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Eraser shows that an action film can have some connection to real people and still be exciting. Schwarzenegger plays a special agent for the witness protection program. Vanessa Williams takes part in a botched FBI sting operation which results in her life being in great danger. The scenes that follow, gradually become more like a James Bond movie but never become absurd. For instance our heroes can be hurt badly which creates a sense of danger. Also, there was something that is often lacking in an action film, suspense, such as when they access a high security computer. As for the few humorous moments, they are never allowed to overpower Eraser's gritty mood. For these reasons, this is a Schwarzenegger film I would recommend to someone who does not usually like his movies. The film makers including, director Chuck Russell, do a good job in building the story naturally to well shot action scenes. Vanessa Williams, James Caan and James Coburn are effective. Schwarzenegger's physical acting is pretty good while his accent continues to be difficult to understand. There is humor from Mafia types being used to help our hero which feels natural and lightens things up a bit. The special effects showing an energy weapon were interesting in a sci-fi sort of way.The national security conspiracy story with the big bang ending is pretty basic with a few plot twists. There is no romance like in The Bodyguard which might have given the film more depth. Some action fans may be disappointed that Eraser wasn't more outrageous but this is why I liked it better than True Lies. Eraser has real characters in real world situations but still had plenty of excitement and for that alone I would recommend it.  "},{"Title":"Decent Action Flick","Date":"4 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A Witness Protection specialist (Arnold Schwarzenegger) becomes suspicious of his co-workers when dealing with a case involving high-tech weapons.Apparently, this film had some production problems, plenty of rewrites (including from the legendary Frank Darabont) and went over schedule and budget. I have to give credit to Chuck Russell (known to horror fans for The Blob, among others) for pulling it all together and making a better than average action film.Some is a bit extreme and hard to swallow (the parachute scene in particular) and the plot is completely impossible. But, you know, this is an Arnold film, and you have to expect some of the outrageous. "},{"Title":"Arnie, big guns, and crocodiles highly enjoyable no-brain action nonsense.","Date":"10 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The plot for Eraser is riddled with more holes than one of its bad guys after Arnie has unloaded a clip or two into them, and the cartoonish violence is mightily dumb at times, but although this film is undeniably a step down from it's star's previous two action films (James Cameron's True Lies and T2), it still proves to be a very enjoyable piece of slam-bang popcorn nonsense.Directed by Chuck Russell, the man who gave us Dream Warriors (the best Elm Street movie), the excellent remake of The Blob, and the hilariously warped Jim Carrey vehicle The Mask, this movie is slick, mindless fun full of great stunts, impressive special effects, and highly-improbable-yet-still-awesomely-entertaining set-pieces.As U.S. Marshal John 'The Eraser' Kruger, whose job is to provide new identities for people in the Witness Protection scheme, Arnie is required to flex everything except his acting muscles, and does so with his usual aplomb, throwing his enemies through the air with ease, effortlessly toting two massive rail-guns to lay waste to everything in sight, and generally causing a whole lot of pain and destruction. Meanwhile, Vanessa Williams simply looks ravishing and vulnerable as 'woman in peril', whilst James Caan chews up the scenery as 'treacherous boss'.Of course, It's all gets very silly at times, particularly towards the end, our hero seemingly impervious to pain and capable of superhuman strength, the bad guys being impossibly Machiavellian, and the jingoism even going so far as to depict the Russian Mafia as evil incarnate but the US's very own Italian Mafia as a bunch of lovable jokers, but with Arnie squaring off against a jet aircraft, giant crocs rampaging through New York Zoo's reptile house, and a through the roof body count, this still qualifies as one of the star's more enjoyable efforts.7.5 out or 10, rounded up to 8 for IMDb. "},{"Title":"Lights, Camera, Speed, Action, Action, Action....n.","Date":"31 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" You can't beat acting and dialog like this. A U. S. Marshal has just save the life of a witness who was betrayed by the organization.I was stupid.You twusted dhem. Dhat's all.In this outing, Arnold is a lone operator within the Justice Department's Witness Protection Program. His assignment Prevent the delectable Vanessa Williams from miscreants because she has discovered a high-level plot in her defense-contractor employer to sell super-ray guns to the enemy. As it turns out, there's a lot of money changing hands around here. And, as we all know, money corrupts and absolute money corrupts absolutely. (Okay, that's not exactly what he said.) One of those corrupted is a highly placed colleague in the Witness Protection Program -- James Caan by name.Well, all of this fol de rol doesn't amount to much more than an excuse for Arnold and Vanessa to run full tilt through cavernous offices and airplanes and secret facilities and docks on which ships are being loaded with those X-ray rifles.You have rarely seen so much action before. Vanessa is beautiful, resourceful, but vulnerable. Schwarzenegger is simply made of steel. His best stunt is this. An emergency parachute has been thrown from a crippled airplane. Arnold exchanges a few more shots with his enemies. (He rarely misses; they almost always do.) Then he plunges out of the open door to chase the parachute towards earth. Overtaking it in mid-air, he slips into it the way you or I might slip into a windbreaker. The errant airplane, trailing smoke, manages to foul his chute. No matter; he tears it off and opens another chute that we didn't know he had, just soon enough to land with a crash on top of a clunker in an automobile graveyard. Unhurt, of course. Unfazed, even. A second later he's cracking jokes with a couple of black tots.The most interesting thing about these movies is the kind of villains they come up with. Germans are always a good stand-by. Never forgiven them for World War II. And then Russians are also good. The Cold War. The Mafia also made splendid heavies, but not so much since The Godfather. Then there were Latino members of the cartel. Latterly, a few swarthy Arabs have been sneaked in. But this film transcends such simple-mindedness. Get this, now. Aside from the corrupt individuals in the Justice Department, the heavies are the Mafia okay -- but the Russian Mafia this time! THEY'RE the ones who have paid for the ex-ectoplasmic-X-ray guns and intend to run off with thirty thousand of them. And who are they going to sell them to? The terrorists. How's that for permutations? Russian Mafia Terrorists. As a matter of fact, Arnold cashes in some IOUs and the Italian Mafia are on OUR side during the shoot out -- mostly for comic effect.I can't recommend it and I can't NOT recommend it. It's not an affront to God's plan. You've just seen it all before in one or another version. If you like this sort of thing, well, then, you'll like it. It's just more of the same. "}{"Title":"Silly&#133;even for an Arnie flick (spoilers)","Date":"6 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The first half of Eraser is quite a gritty and enjoyable action flick. There are some decent set pieces and a potentially interesting story about corporate greed and government corruption. But then on a scene in a plane the film switches gears and becomes a ridiculous orgy of preposterous violence.Now I fully admit that it's somewhat stupid to moan about an Arnie flick being preposterous, but there's a fine line between being enjoyably silly (Commando) and just being dull. For example, in Commando you have Arnie annihilating an entire army in someone's garden; it's hilarious. But in Eraser he does the same with silly science-fiction laser phalluses; it just ain't the same.But like I say, the film starts off well enough. It opens with an ex-gangster being beaten up by the people he ratted out &#150; the ex-gangster is in the witness protection scheme. Arnie then turns up and kills the gangsters swiftly and efficiently. It's a nice little scene. And then after that we have another enjoyable action scene where Arnie protects a witness who's going to give evidence against a corrupt arms manufacturer. He turns up at the woman's house, gets a nail in the hand (which he pulls out &#150; nice!) and then blows her home to smithereens, killing the bad guy's in the process. It's not bad.However, in that action scene, the first warning sign of the impending crapness manifests itself. And it manifests itself in the form of the 'Rail Gun'. It's meant to be a hi-tech piece of weaponry but it looks like an over-sized Super Soaker (if you want real phallic guns, just watch Aliens). And things get worse when the rescued witness tells Arnie the technology behind them. Apparently they fire aluminium rounds almost at the speed of light. Come on, I'm no scientist, but at least give me some credit. And she also says that they work through EMP. She then explains what EMP is. But because I've heard EMP explained about a million times before in Bond films, I was almost nodding off.But there was one thing that I absolutely loved in the action scene in the house. The female witness is using her computer to try to access some information she's stolen from the arms manufacturer. Tension builds as it's hinted that someone else is in the house. However, it turns out to be her ex-boyfriend. The boyfriend gets about two lines of dialogue before he's zapped by a round fired (almost) at the speed of light. Then after Arnie rescues the woman, and as they're driving away from her exploded house, she briefly voices some remorse that her boyfriend got killed. But a second later she's over it and the boyfriend doesn't get another mention. You've got to love cannon fodder.Another good scene is where Arnie and James Caan go to the house of a witness whose whereabouts may have been compromised. You think the two men are working as a team, but while Arnie stabs bad guys through doors and kicks them out of windows, Caan shoots the witness. And to make it even more perverse, when Arnie enters the room, Caan pretends to give mouth to mouth. Then when Arnie leaves he sucks the life out of her. I enjoyed that a great deal.But after this there's a scene on a plane and everything begins to unravel. Caan drugs Arnie, tries to persuade him to join the dark side and Arnie then manages to kill a couple of people before opening the plane door. Then he blows up a jet engine, loses a parachute, flies out the plane and catches up to the parachute Moonraker-style and puts it on. Ah, but it doesn't end there. Caan gets the pilot to aim the plane at Arnie. For a few moments it appears that Arnie is going to get splattered but he pulls out his gun, fires at the plane and gets the plane to sail over him. And then because of that Arnie gets tangled in the parachute and has a nasty landing on top of a van in a junk yard where he's greeted by a couple of comedy children. Where am I? Earth. Welcome. I can only shake my head. Again, I can accept Arnie sailing through a shopping centre Tarzan-style in Commando, but I just can't get my head around a man accurately firing at the pilot of a jet plane while falling to Earth with a parachute. I guess it could have been enjoyably silly had the effects work been better, the stunt double less obvious and the children less annoying (or completely removed), but it just doesn't work as a sequence.Neither does the scene with the alligators. They waddle like they've got piles and the animation curiously looks like it was done with stop-motion even though it's CGI. However, the scene is almost made worthwhile by the legendary pun that is, You're luggage. But let's face it, it's not as good as Arnie stabbing a Freddie Mercury look-a-like with a pipe and then uttering, Let off some steam, Bennett. And that reminds me, in Eraser Arnie visits a gay bar. That's just too self-aware for a Schwarzenegger flick. I much prefer the latent gayness of Eighties Arnie to the nodding and winking of the post-modern Nineties Arnie.But the final action scene is where the film becomes absolutely terrible. You have comedy Italian gangsters, phallic light-speed gun shoot-outs and about a million explosions. Plus Arnie gets shot and then has the strength to climb on top of a shipping container and beat up James Caan. I know Arnie's indestructible, but there's only so far you can push it, especially when the film takes itself somewhat seriously. "},{"Title":"Typical Schwarzenegger flick","Date":"7 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Arnold Schwarzenegger has a wide fan base. The reason he has it, is because of the way his typical action movie formula appeals to just about every man who likes to watch action movies; big guns, one-liners and plenty of action. The reason most Schwarzenegger films have an audience is because we all know that Arnold rarely deviates from this formula, so we can always expect him to kick ass, dispense one-liners and carry guns that are so big that one who doesn't know much about him might think he is overcompensating. In this, he doesn't deviate much from the formula, but I found it somewhat interesting that he did actually get hurt in this one. Normally we never see him get hit, kind of like James Bond(only more raw and less of a sex-addict), but in this, he was injured at least twice. He also has fewer one-liners than usual, and some of the action is less raw and violent than usual, for a Schwarzenegger film. The plot is pretty good, and less far-fetched than many of his other films. The pace is decent, but the film could(and should) have been shorter, because by the time the showdown comes around, you've grown tired of the film and merely want it to end soon. The action is pretty good. The (apparently) famous short sequence in which Arnold brandishes two huge EMP rifles isn't terribly overrated(it definitely looks cool) but it's not all it's cracked up to be. The acting is decent, a few of the actors are (read Caan is) great. The characters are somewhat well-written and credible. All in all, a pretty typical, decent Arnold flick, only really for fans of him. I recommend it to fans of Arnold Schwarzenegger, and not really anyone else. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Even the poor UK version cannot disguise this turkey","Date":"5 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  First off lets clear one thing here, for reasons quite unfathomable there are over four minutes of pointless silly cuts (many badly done at that) in our UK Region 2 DVD and VHS versions.  Even worse, one of these cuts actually removes the end of the film and the bad guys final fate - how dumb is that?Even still allowing for the ludicrous scissors job, this film really is not that good!The usual features of an Arnie film are here, the one liners, the corny gags, the body count, Arnie taking on an entire army single handed (well almost).Sadly here the mix just doesn't work somehow.  Good parts have been found for James Caan and the woefully underused talents of James Coburn and James Cromwell.  Throw in some obvious stunt doubles, some rent-a-cliche Italian mobsters straight from a frozen pizza advert and some of the most woefull CGI (we are talking alligators here ladies and gents!) which where not needed in the first place and this all becomes somewhat of a mess.There was also I believe a passing reference to some cardboard Russian villain somewhere but that got lost somewhere in the confusion as well.Maybe this is better with the four minutes put back in but somehow I doubt it...... "},{"Title":"* * * OUT OF FIVE","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Arnold Schwarzenegger stars as John Krueger (No relation to Freddy, I imagine) a witness protection agent who grows suspicious of his superior's motives in this action packed thriller which contains wall to wall action without let up. Among the highlights include Schwarzenegger trying to find his parachute while in the air falling, as well as Schwarzenegger fending off hungry gators in the local zoo. Eraser may not be a perfect movie, but it's far more enjoyable then True Lies. "},{"Title":" fair action-suspense film","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  arnold schwarzenegger could have been better. vanessa williams was just not good enough. i almost laughed at every scene she was in. i have seen better villains than james caan. the action was good enough to keep me watching it but the acting almost made me want to turn it off. i would give eraser 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Erase this movie!","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  If you watch Eraser you'll notice something odd a gentle breeze emitting from your screen. Why?Because this movie blows.I saw it again last night and felt I had to mention a plot point so stupid and out of place that I was infuriated with myself for not noticing it before. *spoiler*      Why in the WORLD would Arnold take the time and risks to protect this witness? (beside the fact that Vanessa Williams is hot?) Remember the word witness.  She is to testify in federal court against the bad guys right? That was the point of the whole movie. Get that girl to court on time so she can put em away! So at the end of the film, the court date is set, the witness is alive and ready to do her thing and what happens?  Arnold simply murders the villains with a train. What is that?! "},{"Title":"We got a bad sid-oo-ashun heah!","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Arnold's career has never regained the heights it had before The Last Action Hero. This formulaic summer action movie has nothing memorable about it except the sequence where Arnold bails from the plane past the burning turbine engine to retrieve his parachute before shooting at the pilot of the plane as it's doubling back to get him. The talented James Caan showed up for the paycheck and Vanessa Williams was not a great damsel in distress. Average, 6/10. "},{"Title":"Very Lame","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I'd always watch this film because of Schwarzenegger but apart from that it doesn't have much to offer. It was always going to be hard to offer a picture as successful as Arnie's previous outing in True Lies and you would expect Eraser to be slightly less powerful, but in reality it's far from that. There are few adrenaline-filled scenes and despite the good special effects the movie is a flop. The plot lacks that little something that has always made Schwarzenegger films so special and the big man's talents were more or less wasted. Watch it for a bit of action but other than that you're wasting your time. I give it 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Not a bad film, but I was just waiting for Arnie to come with 'see you later alligator' when he finishes one off. Cheesy one liners, but that's what get with Arnie. I gave this film 5/10 "},{"Title":"Eraser","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Typical shoot em up Arnold flick with the superstar doing his usual array of stunts and goofy one liners. Williams makes a passable debut to film as a witness Arnold has to  protect.   "}{"Title":"Mediocre Schwarzenegger action vehicle","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" John Kruger, dubbed The Eraser, is an elite agent working for the witness protection program. His specialty is protecting important witnesses and changing their identities, often by killing them. His latest assignment has him protecting a woman who knows too much. And the bad guys are actually on both sides of the playing field.With a decent beginning and some good ideas for a balls out action movie with big guy like Schwarzenegger, the film starts promisingly. There are some nice set pieces and action scenes, like Arnold bailing out of a plane to get his parachute, but by then end the film seems tired and clichéd. All of the plot twists are actually quite inspired, if somewhat unpredictable. The action is decent, but the HUGE body count and continuously piling carnage - which includes ridiculously bad CGI alligators (I am not kidding) eating (yes, EATING) bad guys - makes this movie a real mixed bag.It in fact echoes Arnold's highly goofy film Commando - like in the end, when Arnie, sporting two high-tech guns, unleashes a merciless stream of destruction on unnamed hordes of bad guys. So, as a dumb action movie, it's all right - action and violence a plenty with high production values, but as a truly enjoyable and good action movie, sorry Arnold, not this time. 5/10Rated R for a lot of violence "},{"Title":"Color by the Numbers Action by Aunauld","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Take every action movie made by Arnold, put them in a blender, set for chop, put the pieces together when you're done and you have Eraser.  Now I'm not saying that Arnold makes the most intellectually challenging movies I've seen, but generally there's either a tenuous story or sense of humor to hold the whole thing together.  This movie has nothing to make you care about the bad guys or the good guys.  The action, while complete with lots of explosions and guns, is never very interesting.  What Showgirls did for nudity, Eraser does for action. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable but out of date","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  John Kruger works for the US Marshals within the witness protection programme.  He destroys all trace of witnesses and enables them to start totally fresh.  He is assigned to protect Dr Lee Cullen when she leaves her executive job at weapons development firm Cyrex Corporation with evidence of an illegal trade in high technology weapons.  Kruger is assigned to her but finds that the men behind this plot are still trying to kill her.  When John finds that one of these men is his friend and fellow Marshal Robert Deguerin it becomes personal.This film didn't make very much money (well &#150; comparatively!) and the reason for that is evident to all.  Simply the days where action films were like this stopped several years previously.  Arnold made a career out of the commando style action flicks of one man versus the world with kiss-off lines, big action scenes and OTT action but this genre had really tailed off in favour of the more `realistic' action of Die Hard and the like &#150; not realistic but one man versus smaller groups rather than whole armies!  So his attempt to have another big hit with this format was a little bit of a stretch.That said it's still pretty enjoyable despite a silly and predictable plot.  What saves the film is some solid if OTT action scenes and some good, if outdated tough guy stuff.  The stunts are all the `one man army' variety (witness Arnold versus a plane!) but still look great and are quite enjoyable.  The action lacks real tension but most is still enjoyable.  The final 20 minutes however are s**t &#150; suddenly everyone has high tech x-ray guns that shoot `green'!  The rest of the film is hardly realistic &#150; but this sci-fi ending is just plain daft and really spoils the solid action that had gone before.Schwarzenegger is OK and would have been spot on if he'd done this film 6 years earlier.  He delivers his trademark lines with ease &#150; even giving a line to an alligator!  Caan is OK but looks like he's slumming it &#150; as does Coburn, but they do add class.  Williams is pretty nondescript and really it's hard to care about her that much.  Faces like Cromwell and Maffia add the illusion of depth and everyone does OK with material that isn't exactley fresh.Overall it's enjoyable despite feeling like a 55 year old man going to a young club.  It isn't fresh and the genre has been fading for a while but the stunts are good for the most and it's solid if not brilliant. "},{"Title":"Erase It.","Date":"25 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Eraser (1996) Dir Chuck Russell / Cast Arnold Schwarzenegger, Vanessa Williams, James Caan, Robert Pasterelli, James Coburn Arnold Schwarzenegger plays an agent who helps victims erase their past by staging their death. Title doesn't work because the memory remains. He erases Vanessa Williams who possesses a disc. Director Chuck Russell previously made The Mask and he seems to have a flair for ideas that fail to translate. Opening sequence bares little importance and the structure deteriorates into graphic violence. Schwarzenegger uses nearly every cliché in the book and runs full steam after having a spike rammed through one shoulder. James Caan is typecast as the villain who seems like a replica of countless other villains he has played. Williams is the typical damsel protected by Schwarzenegger and on the run with information that is in her possession. Robert Pasterelli appears as a previous client whom is saved in the opening but the role is mere cardboard. James Coburn makes this one of his worst appearances, which is a set back considering what he is capable of. Graphic violence throughout including a scene where several thugs are mangled by crocodiles. Do the filmmakers deem this necessary or is it just for the sake of entertainment? Theme could have examined identity but its brutality and gore are the very elements that should have been erased. Score 3 / 10 "},{"Title":"Fraser's Got the Action...But the Writing? **1/2","Date":"23 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Action packed thriller with Arnold S., James Caan and Vanessa Williams.That CIA is always into something. Go know that an assistant secretary of state is working with some crooked CIA agents to sell ammunition to terrorists. What are they trying to create here?As is the case with most of these films, it's the action and constant violence that makes things interesting.Naturally, for a good deal of the film, rogue agent Caan, has everyone believing that good guy Arnold is really the enemy here.Good to see when you're depressed. The acting certainly doesn't win kudos here. "},{"Title":"Excuse me, but Arnold? *woosh!* Way over the head! You passed me up at Smile! You've just been erased!","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I don't get it. I liked the action, there was no problem with that. I didn't get the plot though. The acting? It was fine, I mean, we have two great actors Arnold and James. But who could understand the plot? I mean, everything was just going by too fast and going from one direction to the other. I felt like my arm was getting pulled to the left and one to the right. I'm sure that many can agree with me on that one. Over all, I love Arnold action, please nothing sexual, I mean movie wise. It's always terrific to watch and very exciting. But over all, this was a little too much. You kind of loose your head by the ending.6/10 "},{"Title":"Arnie returns to form?","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  As usual, Arnie exceeds himself in terms of his own sheer stupidity. He can't act, can't speak English and certainly hasn't retained any of the brute strength on show in his earlier movies. But Eraser was, along with many of Schwarzenegger's recent movies, strangely enjoyable despite the abundance of flaws. The SFX were appalling and Arnie cut back on his humorous puns (the best one here was when he shot a crocodile and proclaimed, You're luggage!), but he has always held his own in his movies, probably because of his sheer size. If you're looking for a plausible action movie, then this isn't for you. If, however, you like the clichéd way in which Arnie emerges from every explosion he undergoes wielding two turbo machine guns and yelling, I'll be back in his distinctive Austrian accent, you'd love it.  "},{"Title":"Funny, without meaning to be...","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Funny, without meaning to be...This is a very funny movie, without meaning to be. It has some pretty good special effects and action though. Arnold Schwarzenegger has his trademark grunt in this movie more than I can count. The dialogue was so bad that I had to chuckle half the time. It even looked like Arnold Schwarzenegger was laughing sometimes, even when he was saying something serious. Vanessa Williams was a terrible actress in this movie, although she wasn't given much in the way of writing. But good old Arnold Schwarzenegger is in this movie so what should I expect. If you want to rent a really good Arnold Schwarzenegger action movie head right for Predator which is a wonderful movie. But as for Eraser, it gets a 6/10. It wasn't that painful watching it because I knew what to expect from this movie. A decent rental if your in the mood for some Arnold Schwarzenegger action. But, as I said if you haven't seen Predator, see Predator first it's much better. Or if you have seen Predator see these movies before you see Eraser; Total Recall, the Teminator and Conan movies and True Lies isn't bad either.  "},{"Title":"Average Action Nonsense","Date":"9 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" From director Chuck Russell comes this average action nonsense, Eraser. Arnold Schwarzenegger, as U.S. Marshall John 'The Eraser' Kruger, does get to do a lot of stunts and he carries around some fearsome hardware. Femme fatale model Vanessa Williams gets to look cute and bare her claws. The plot is obvious, as are the villains, led by a cardboard James Caan (he has been infinitely better). Also stars James Coburn, James Cromwell and Robert Pastorelli.From the pens of Tony Puryear, Walon Green and Michael S. Chernuchin, this is pure throw away fodder for the action junkie.Saturday, July 22, 2000 - T.V. "},{"Title":"Erased from memory...","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Arnold Schwarzenegger stars as a witness protection agent who protects Vanessa Williams from James Caan and the usual goons who are looking to do her in due to what she has uncovered on the computer and such. (The movie is very vague on plot threads) You would think that any Schwarzenegger movie that featured him in his one man army form would be great and you would be wrong. Eraser is more Last Action Hero than Commando and it becomes quite obvious that we are watching a movie that thinks it is far more intelligent and interesting than it ever is. The movie has some action but it is generally so far outside logic and common sense (Arnold VS Gators?) that it just becomes apparent that we are watching an exercise in technology. This would have been all watchable had the movie contained some suspense but the movie doesn't and in the end we watch a one sided one man army grunt his way through a bunch of stunt-men extras. All of it as dull as a butter knife.* out of 4-(Bad) "}{"Title":"Schwarzenegger","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie has a good idea. You can't get bored with action-movie Eraser (1996) but result could of been lot better. Charles Russell ain't no James Cameron, not even Renny Harlin, well Harlin is very good. Arnold Schwarzenegger works for the coverment and his work his pretty interesting. When crooks want important witness of a crime to be dead, Iso Arska (Big Arnold) come sto the story, fake the death of the witness and help her to start a new life somewhere else.      The have to be woman is played by Vanessa Williams who needs Austrian Oak's protection.  James Caan is the crook who never gets the chance to steal the show.     Don't even try to find any sense from Eraser. It is brainless and violent action-movie, what can entertain you because of it's specialeffects and amazing stunt-scenes. The most exciting scene is in the flying airplane.     In this movie there is lot of dead bodies and couple of one line jokes. This movie could been lot better. 5 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"ERASER (DIDIER BECU)","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I doubt if Arnie himself will have good memories to that one as after all it's the kind of movie that was a start from a downhill career and it would only be after Terminator 3 that his star would rise again. Eraser isn't a surprise, it's your typical Arnie-nonsense (don't see it in a negative way as I am a big Arniefan after all) in where he is supposed to take care of witnesses (new private life, protecting them...), an all day job (well...) till Vanessa Williams got involved. Eraser itself isn't a bad movie, Arnie is as always funny but director Chuck Russell was trying too hard to make a sort of True lies-part 2 as some scenes (the airplane) might be spectacular, they also remind you of something you've seen before but in the hands of James Cameron it's just better and some other scenes better would have been...ahem...erased like the ones with the alligators as they were too fake. Not a bad movie itself but not the typical high standards of Arnie. "},{"Title":"Another Arnie house party","Date":"4 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Just another premium-budget action adventure with Arnold Schwarzenegger. It's not too shabby with a nice blend of wisecracks & one-liners, loony armaments & carefully choreographed gunfights and some super stunts and explosions. CGI hadn't been invented yet... that is to say it was still in its infancy so there's some comedy greenscreening as well as some interesting puppetry.Schwarzenegger has some good company in Jameses Coburn (gravitas) and Caan (ruthlessness). Vanessa Williams is a bit off-the-shelf, frankly. I think that, more than anything, this film should be remembered for inspiring one of the more memorable sequences of The Bourne Supremacy. I mean, who needs a toaster when you've got a thermostat? 4/10 "},{"Title":"Eraser","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film for me only used to be good for a few moments, but seeing it again I think its actually pretty good, in fact, the critics should possibly give it three stars out of five, not two. Anyway, basically U.S. Marshal John 'The Eraser' Kruger (Arnold Schwarzenegger) works for Witness Security or Witsec, responsible for relocating and protecting witnesses, including in the opening scenes with Johnny Casteleone (Robert Pastorelli). John's latest assignment is to protect Lee Cullen (Ugly Betty's Vanessa Williams), a high level executive with a U.S. weapons manufacturer, Cyrex Corporation, and she has come across illegal arms deals for the FBI. She at first refuses Johhn's help, but soon enough she along with John are under attack from men with these new weapons. After surviving the attack, Lee is now accepting her fake name and new address and will only hear from John again if the mission to find the mole in his organisation fails. The mole turns out to be one of his good friends, U.S. Marshal Robert Deguerin (Misery's James Caan), obviously in it for the money, and he has done well to cover his tracks and make John look the guilty one to his boss, WitSec Chief Beller (James Coburn). John now needs the help of Lee, as well as Johnny, to use the extra disc she copied to find out where a big weapon deal will take place, to stop it, and prove Deguerin's guilt. In the end, even after a court case Deguerin and fellow villain Undersecretary of Defense Daniel Harper (Andy Romano) are free to go, but don't worry, they get a great death when their limo stops in the middle of some tracks, and the blown by the on coming train. Also starring James Cromwell as William Donohue, Titanic's Danny Nucci as WitSec Deputy Monroe, Nick Chinlund as WitSec Agent Calderon, Michael Papajohn as WitSec Agent Schiffer, Joe Viterelli as Tony Two-Toes and Home Alone 3's Olek Krupa as Sergei Ivanovich Petrofsky. Filled with quite a lot of good gun shooting, a little bit of violence, and stunts, this isn't as bad as I though it used to be. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Sound Effects Editing. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"It is Schwarzenegger, so you know what you get.","Date":"5 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  You get an hour and a half of braindead i have to save the world action all the way, one liners and a woman somewhere in the equation. This time he plays a guy who help people in the witness protection program. to quote the cover of the movie. He erases their past to save their future. Woppi, this have to be cool ) I bet younger people will like it though but it is a little over the top for my taste. And the one liners are really something else, and i don't mean that in a good way. After killing a crocodile he manage to say. you're luggage If you are in the right mood you may enjoy the movie. And as far as braindead action go, this is not very bad. But almost before the movie starts you know exactly what is going to happen. But if you like these kind of movies, you will probably enjoy this one. I rate this movie 4 "},{"Title":"Why? lord, Why?","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Why do they keep making trash like this? because it makes money that's why. Eraser is not so much a film but a string of action set pieces strung together. It's well filmed but predictable and it's all been done before, only better. This is basically a Nineties version of 'Commando'. "},{"Title":"terrible action garbage","Date":"12 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" noise, crash, shooting, crash, noise..... oh yea, then its shooting again. iv basically just told you what happens in this film with them select words.Arnold Swarzenegger does star in some s**t films don't he. i actually think he's one of the best action heroes but this is terrible. id rather get STD's than watch this again. it was nominated for an Oscar as well, thats got to be one of the best jokes I've ever heard.I'm not even going to waste my time getting aching hands typing what this film is about because its a waste of my time and it'll be a waste of your time tooif anyone you know brings a copy of this film to your house make sure you have a good explanation for why you ain't letting them in your house. i don't care if its your mother, don't let them past the threshold until they burn it !!!!!! thanks for reading ha ha ha......... 1/10........j.d Seaton "},{"Title":"Goodbye To Arnie","Date":"24 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  !!!! MILD SPOILERS !!!!With the exception of THE TERMINATOR and TOTAL RECALL I don`t think Arnie`s action/adventure movies are up to much . They`re better than his comedies for sure but that`s hardly saying much . The problem I have with his all action blockbusters is that they`re overblown and lacking in any sort of morality Morality ? I mentioned in my review of TERMINATOR 2 the scene where good guy Terminator blows the kneecaps off the SWAT team . Are we to think that because the hero maims people doing their job instead of killing them we will admire him in someway ? This is the problem with ERASER , when James Cann`s character is revealed as a traitor within the US Marshal department Arnie`s character John Kruger goes on the run with a witness he`s protecting but in several later sequences Kruger kills a fairly large amount of marshals working with the villain . Are we take it they were all traitors too ? Surely many of them were honest men who were trying to stop Kruger because the bad guy told them Kruger was the traitor ? It`s a rather uneasy thought that Kruger killed several people who were trying to genuinely up hold the law Despite costing one hundred million dollars the special effects aren`t all that impressive . Look at the scene where Kruger lets go of the jet wing and scrambles to put on a parachute . It`s obvious as the action intercuts that it`s a stuntman who`s doing the free fall sequence while Arnie is in a studio in front of a blue screen . ERASER is also a film that has unnecessary CGI featuring killer alligators , not only unnecessary CGI but unconvincing CGI too . There`s also a few plot holes like in the opening scene involving a couple of witness protection people that the mob has caught up with . Kruger opens a car trunk and pulls out a couple of bodies and starts a fire thereby throwing the mob of the scent . Kruger is next seen rearranging the dental records via computer of the couple he`s saved . It would be logical to do this but would ALL the couples dental records be kept on computer ? Most importantly of all are we to believe the US Marshal department keep a freezer full of bodies for such events ?So they`re you go , a typical Arnie thriller long on unlikely set pieces and short on intelligence and it`s interesting to note that ERASER didn`t make much of a profit at the box office as the production costs almost outweighed a potential audience figure . After ERASER Arnie didn`t do much more business at the box office save for TERMINATOR 3  RISE OF THE MACHINES which was an event movie and it`ll be interesting to see if he`ll be remembered as a politician rather than a movie star    "},{"Title":"Very Poor, unsurprisingly from a man such as arnie!","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I did not enjoy the film Eraser whatsoever. It's awful acting, boring storyline and average special effects made this an annoying arnie film, as it had a mountain of potential. With other action films of the time Eraser fell very short!!! "},{"Title":"One of the ten worst movies through all times","Date":"24 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Ten years ago I really wanted to see this movie on the cinema. But I missed it, and then forgot about it. Oh boy, am I glad this movie didn't get to ruin my teenage eyes back then.I saw it yesterday, and seriously, this must be among the 10 worst movies ever made. And I'm talking about movies which has had too much attention, such as those wonderful trailers on TV, and too much money spent on actors and the making of the movie.The script sucks and the acting sucks even worse, do I need to say more?Please, Hollywood, NO MORE ARNOLD!! "}]