[{"Title":"The Po-Sly-don Adventure","Date":"13 July 2004","Score":"46 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Geez, that cab driver sure knows a lot about rescue procedures. Hey, he's Sylvester Stallone! Sly plays Kit Latura, a disgraced EMS hotshot who was fired for a major men-killing mistake (even though he's still clearly the #1 guy in this particular line of work) and happens upon some major trouble. A couple of thieving imbeciles inadvertently cause an explosion in a tunnel under New York's Hudson River, trapping a multi-culti band of survivors between a rock and an impossible place. Latura volunteers to shimmy into the proverbial hell and lead the bedraggled few to---say it with me---'Daylight'. Would he have been as gung ho if he'd known he'd get so wet?Label this one 'Die Hard' in a tunnel or 'The Po-Sly-don Adventure'. In fact, director Rob Cohen probably screened 'The Poseidon Adventure' a few times while prepping his film. That's my favourite of the absurd '70s catastrophe flicks and 'Daylight' strikes the same notes, often successfully. There's water and fire, rats and stereotypes, it's dank and dark, and you're never sure which mid-level movie star will die next. And credit where it's due, there's even plenty of pathos in the we all gotta work together vein and touching scenes of quiet humanity that stop an inch short of treacle. I was moved more than usual by a Stallone picture.The movie made squat at the box office back in December '96, but it's worth a DVD rental for its solid craftsmanship. The F/X and sound design are money. As for the acting, the lead characters (Stallone, Amy Brenneman, Viggo Mortensen) aren't especially memorable, but some of the lower-billed performers (Stan Shaw & Colin Fox, to name two) escape the movie with some dignity. The only real villain is human idiocy---people go where they're not supposed to go and do things they're not supposed to do. 'Daylight' is formulaic, but it's still better than most disaster crap I've seen.  "},{"Title":"Very much a genre movie with all the clichés and problems you'd expect but it is enjoyable enough to be worth seeing","Date":"28 June 2005","Score":"30 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Trucks loaded with toxic waste. A stolen car being pursued by the police. Separate events that come together in a New York city tunnel when the latter crashes into the former starting a chain reaction explosion that sends a fireball sweeping through the tunnel and sealing it at both ends. A handful of survivors are left trapped with burning toxic waste and only enough air to last a few hours. Only a few meters short of entering the tunnel himself, cab driver and disgraced former fire chief Kit Latura recognises a disaster when he sees one and, thanks to a drill he ran years ago, knows that the standard rescue methods will not work. When his replacement dies ignoring his advice, his former colleagues turn to him and he agrees to enter the tunnel and try to rescue the survivors.From the opening ten minutes we know just where we are. The brief pictures of characters does enough to set up their roles within the disaster genre and it is not long before one massive explosion and we are back in the disaster films that were so popular in the 1970's. To many this will be a bad thing because while meeting all the genre requirements this film also repeats all the old problems as well &#150; I guess it is about what you like, if you like the genre then you'll enjoy this. The plot is the basic stuff, focusing on one small group and throwing up one obstacle after another for them to get over. At each stage we'll have losses, tragic deaths, heroic sacrifice, emotional panic, headstrong jerks etc etc &#150; it does everything you would expect. Of course this also brings with it the problems of being rushed, the characters being cardboard cut outs, the drama being staged and never being able to stop without making things look bad and the fact that the film is a bit too close to being a cloying weepy for comfort.None of this stops it being exciting enough to be worth seeing though. The modern effects are impressive and the sets etc are convincingly real. The actors hardly have a lot to work with but they do well enough to make it work well. Stallone holds back from being an invincible action man and he is better for it, producing a good lead. The support all fill their genre roles but most of them do it well enough so that they are actually emotionally engaging rather than just being fodder. Hedaya, Sanders, Brenneman, Mortensen and others are all solid enough to make it work &#150; sure they are a bit corny at times but this is more to do with the genre writing than the acting.Overall this is a disaster movie very much in the genre mould set in the 1970's and it has all the weaknesses you would expect from the genre. The writing is where the clichés come in but these are almost carried by the solid acting and enjoyable special effects. A genre movie then but one that is enjoyable if you like that sort of thing &#150; just don't expect anything original or new and you'll be OK. "},{"Title":"Good watch all around...","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"27 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Reminiscent of the seventies disaster flicks, mostly of Poseidon Adventure, a group of people are stuck in a tunnel after a horrible explosion traps them underground; now its up to a washed up EMS worker to get them out alive before the mayor and rescue workers finally blow everything up assuming the survivors aren't alive.Though the story is very predictable and nothing new, this does make for an entertaining and interesting survival flick.Sylvester Stallone doesn't play a commando or soldier, but for once plays a regular guy who is really clueless at times when it comes to escape.We also get some great performances from excellent character actors including Dan Hedaya, Danielle Harris, Amy Brennamen, and the underused Viggo Mortensen before he became a household name in Lord of the Rings films.Though there is a lot of good stuff here, there's a lot of contrived plot twists and predictable storylines. We know who will be killed, who won't, we know the under developed people will be killed and the emphasized characters will survive.In spite of all that, this is one of Stallone's best before he began making bomb after bomb.(*** out of ****) "},{"Title":"One of Sly's best performances","Date":"17 September 2004","Score":"35 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Fasten your seatbelts and brace yourself for an non-stop thrill ride that will have you holding your breath from start to finish.Daylight is one of the most intense movies I have seen in a long time. Sylvester Stallone gives one of his best performances in Daylight leading a group of civilians to safety after a New York tunnel engulfs in flames. Stallone works his magic as a former EMS chief sent in to save these civilians.When I heard Stallone's name mentioned as part of the cast of Daylight, I knew it would be a non-stop thrill ride; however, what I didn't realize it would be a thriller that had depth mixed in with everything else. Daylight is a credit to Stallone's ability and this remains one of his best roles to date.Adding to this awesome film are Stallone's co-stars, which include Amy Brenneman, Viggo Mortensen, Jay O. Sanders and Stan Shaw. I enjoyed watching this ensemble work together because they seem to need no direction when on screen. It was as if they were really trapped in the tunnel. From the fear to the heroic actions they took, these actors were top notch.Despite most thrillers, Daylight stands out as being the finest assembled film. The casting works like magic, the special effects are magnificent and the script is perfect.I concede that Daylight is predictable. However, I disagree with those who say it hurts the film. My point is it doesn't matter whether a film is predictable, rather how it is presented. Daylight is presented with quite unique special effects, a plot with depth and endearing performances.In addition to the excellent performances, Daylight had some of the best special effects I have seen. The explosion at the beginning of the movie was a work of art. I was in awe of how well the special effects were pulled off because I don't believe that Daylight would have worked as well as it did if they were done with less than 100 percent effort.Daylight will keep you on the edge of your seat and have you holding your breath hoping these citizens come out alive.  "},{"Title":"Let this film into the light of day","Date":"12 March 2004","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Fasten your seatbelts and brace yourself for an non-stop thrill ride that will have you holding your breath from start to finish.Daylight is one of the most intense movies I have seen in a long time. Sylvester Stallone gives one of his best performances in Daylight leading a group of civilians to safety after a New York tunnel engulfs in flames. Stallone works his magic as a former EMS chief sent in to save these civilians.When I heard Stallone's name mentioned as part of the cast of Daylight, I knew it would be a non-stop thrill ride; however, what I didn't realize it would be a thriller that had depth mixed in with everything else. Daylight is a credit to Stallone's ability and this remains one of his best roles to date.Adding to this awesome film are Stallone's co-stars, which include Amy Brenneman, Viggo Mortensen, Jay O. Sanders and Stan Shaw. I enjoyed watching this ensemble work together because they seem to need no direction when on screen. It was as if they were really trapped in the tunnel. From the fear to the heroic actions they took, these actors were top notch.Despite most thrillers, Daylight stands out as being the finest assembled film. The casting works like magic, the special effects are magnificent and the script is perfect.I concede that Daylight is predictable. However, I disagree with those who say it hurts the film. My point is it doesn't matter whether a film is predictable, rather how it is presented. Daylight is presented with quite unique special effects, a plot with depth and endearing performances.In addition to the excellent performances, Daylight had some of the best special effects I have seen. The explosion at the beginning of the movie was a work of art. I was in awe of how well the special effects were pulled off because I don't believe that Daylight would have worked as well as it did if they were done with less than 100 percent effort.Daylight will keep you on the edge of your seat and have you holding your breath hoping these citizens come out alive.  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Sly Action Flick","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" An accidental explosion rips through a tunnel beneath the Hudson river, sealing off both ends trapping the survivors inside. In steps Stallone, a disgraced former emergency services chief, who hopes to save the day in usual hero style.Daylight has a good blend of interesting characters, suspense, drama, action and special effects that all add towards the entertainment of the movie.Overall it's good fun to watch, and it does refrain from becoming silly or over-sentimental.7/10 "},{"Title":"One Of Slys Better Ones","Date":"4 August 2006","Score":"21 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Daylight is hands down Slys best work of the 90's, and ranks in his top movies made. It ranks under Rocky and Rambo. Many people think Sly is one of the worst actors ever. But he really redeems himself in this film with above average acting. He plays Kit Latura, a taxi driver who used to work in search and rescue missions. Well, on one night, a truck with explosive toxins falls and explodes. Collapsing and destroying the New Jersey Tunnel. Leaving only a few people alive inside the death trap.Sticking to his favorite role, Sly wants to be the hero of the movie. Due to the cowardliness and pessimistic of the emergency and aid teams, its up to Sly to go in the tunnel and save the trapped civilians, and get them out of there safely. On this journey, you will encounter exciting thrills and suspense dealing with Stallone facing the toughest obstacles ever. Both physically and mentally.You really start to feel bad for Stallone with all the crap he deals with in this movie. I feel that they did a good job with character development on Kit Latura. The character development for the other survivors are bleak to very descriptive....it ranges. The film has a very effective music score and pertains to the scenes well. The Special effects is above average for a 1996 movie.Overall, this is a very entertaining film to watch. With explosive and hold your breath thrills. I totally recommend this films to Stallone fans, and i also recommend it to those who want a good hero, save the day, action/suspense movie. "},{"Title":"Action Hero Lite","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Stallone returned after a break from action movies to make Daylight.  Here he tried to make his character more three dimensional, a human with weaknesses and flaws rather than the mute and destruction minded heroes of some of his other movies.Making Latura as a human was a good idea, and you get to like him, although the rest of the movie doesn't quite hold up it's end.  It plays as some cross between the Poseidon Adventure and an Irwin Allen disaster film, with an uplifting musical score.  You know pretty quickly who's going to live and die, and even though Latura is a mere mortal, only he can save those lives.Still, Daylight makes a good diversion, and the good guy really is a good guy concept works for the most part.   "},{"Title":"Best Disaster Movie since the golden age","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  By 1996, no-one held out much hope for a Sylvester Stallone action movie.  Where Daylight scores is by bucking expectations and being a good old-fashioned disaster movie.  The opening scenes are spectacular, as we are introduced, one by one, to a couple of dozen protagonists, who all then enter a New York tunnel and get blown to smithereens.  The rest of the film concerns the survivors' efforts to get free, aided by Stallone.  It's a lot better than it has any right to be, and uses all the genre cliches to its advantage. "},{"Title":"Dissed No Longer","Date":"27 December 2006","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Good ole Sylvester Stallone plays the only good character in this entire movie. He plays Kit Latura described as the disgraced ex-chief of the city's Emergency Medical Service. You just kid of get the feeling Kit is going to erase that disgraced label. Yes, a little predictable. Everyone else in the movie is annoying, obnoxious, profane, blasphemous, you name it.....just plain unlikeable.Yet even with all those unlikeable characters, the movie was interesting enough for me to stick with it for the entire 115 minutes. I wouldn't watch it again, however.The fire scene where the tunnel first explodes is tremendous one of the best action scenes I had seen on film to that point (around 1998). This also was a good movie to play on a surround system. "}{"Title":"Fasten your seatbelts and brace yourself for an non-stop thrill ride","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Fasten your seatbelts and brace yourself for an non-stop thrill ride that will have you holding your breath from start to finish.Daylight is one of the most intense movies I have seen in a long time. Sylvester Stallone gives one of his best performances in Daylight leading a group of civilians to safety after a New York tunnel engulfs in flames. Stallone works his magic as a former EMS chief sent in to save these civilians.When I heard Stallone's name mentioned as part of the cast of Daylight, I knew it would be a non-stop thrill ride; however, what I didn't realize it would be a thriller that had depth mixed in with everything else. Daylight is a credit to Stallone's ability and this remains one of his best roles to date.Adding to this awesome film are Stallone's co-stars, which include Amy Brenneman, Viggo Mortensen, Jay O. Sanders and Stan Shaw. I enjoyed watching this ensemble work together because they seem to need no direction when on screen. It was as if they were really trapped in the tunnel. From the fear to the heroic actions they took, these actors were top notch.I concede that Daylight is predictable. However, I disagree with those who say it hurts the film. My point is it doesn't matter whether a film is predictable, rather how it is presented. Daylight is presented with quite unique special effects, a plot with depth and endearing performances.In addition to the excellent performances, Daylight had some of the best special effects I have seen. The explosion at the beginning of the movie was a work of art. I was in awe of how well the special effects were pulled off because I don't believe that Daylight would have worked as well as it did if they were done with less than 100 percent effort.Daylight will keep you on the edge of your seat from start to finish. "},{"Title":"Please let the tunnel collapse...","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Disaster movies that try to add a human element to the story must do so  carefully, for if they fail, all the movie is left with is a great chance to thin out the remaining cast members who have survived the initial disaster that lead to them all being trapped.  Daylight is a missfire of the human element in the biggest sense.  There was not one single person trapped in the tunnel that I wanted to see survive to the end of the movie.  Examples of making the characters unlikeable include...when Stallone first arrives in the tunnel, everyone is angry because he is the only one who came, instead of grateful that anyone came at all.  A teenage crook boldly declares I'm in charge just to make himself look big and bad.  A father who, despite not knowing anything about disaster zones or getting out of them, tells the knowledgeable hero because my daughter is here, you don't make any decisions without checking with me first!  By the end of the movie, I was almost crying...because so many of them made it out.  Oh well...on to the next disaster  "},{"Title":"Go watch The Poseidon Adventure instead","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  A tunnel to New Jersey collapses. People are trapped inside and surprise, surprise, Stallone has to rescue them. This is pretty run of the mill stuff, not bad, but not particularly good either. Sometimes it's tought to understand what's happening next because it's very hard to always comprehend what Stallone is saying, but what's new?The Italian Stallion said at the time that if this film was a flop it would be his last action flick ever, so Sly, I'm still waiting to see you in a new version of Hamlet. "},{"Title":"Spectacular special effects, pathetic acting and story","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  When it came to watching this movie I was another victim of opportunity.  It was raining out and it just came by on the dish.  I enjoy apocalyptic and engineering disaster movies but this one, save for the set and the great effects, was incredibly bad.We start with villains who, for reasons I must have missed in the first 10 minutes, are driving crazily into the Holland tunnel and crash into a truck carrying lots of brightly-colored drums of hazmat.  That is to say nothing of the fact that hazmat, especially on an open flatbed truck, would never have been allowed in the tunnel to begin with.  The explosion, fire, collapse, and total carnage that follows has to be seen to be enjoyed, if not believed.  Apparently this flatbed truck of flammables is able to create an explosion that not only runs to both lengths of the tunnel (and collapses the entrances and not the middle of the tunnel) it also destroys the main ventilator building, the service tunnel, and most of the other tube (how did that happen?)  The sheer volume of fire and destruction is mightily fun to watch, but it's completely unbelievable and impossible.  Even though the tunnel is filled with heavy traffic, somehow most of the vehicles aren't in the section of the tunnel most of the movie is set in.  Even stranger, the crispy corpses are nowhere to be found in the vehicles you can see.If you're a fan of computer-generated effects that will keep you guessing how'd they do that? you'll love this movie for that reason alone.  For example, the explosions that occur above water while Stallone and the fair maiden are below water are very impressive.  But, if you are the kind of viewer who questions even 1/10th of the questionable events in the movie, you will need to take your Valium.  I am still trying to understand how the walls of the tunnel were continuously on fire and shot regular fireballs into the tunnel for no apparent reason.  This movie is a strange cross between The Poseidon Adventure, The Towering Inferno, and Independence Day -- any of which you'd probably enjoy a lot more.Of course no NYC disaster movie can be complete without characterizing the city engineers as buffoons who care more about traffic than human lives, but I guess this movie needed more of an antagonist than the situation had presented in order to improve the bizarrely thought-out plot. "},{"Title":"That tunnel is an artery. The city is bleeding.","Date":"21 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Possibly the most insufferably tedious Sylvester Stallone movie ever made, which is no mean feat. The star made a dozen movies during the 90s, and if he was guilty of some bad decisions in the 1980s, then it was nothing compared to what came in the following decade.First we had Rocky inexplicably growing back his Philly accent in a fourth sequel that even Stallone now rejects; two comedies which, like Rocky V, are probably better than their rep but still quite weak; and the usual line of unchallenging action movies that are below his level. Out of them, from 1990-1996 only Demolition Man emerges with any credit; an action movie as mindless as the rest, but not one without a sense of fun or watchability.It's not that there's anything particularly wrong with mindless action movies, more that such roles only use one part of the acting spectrum. Fine for the likes of Van Damme and Swarzenegger, but when you're able to co-star with DeNiro and Harvey Kietel without disgracing yourself (as Stallone did just the following year in the underrated Cop Land) then it's something of a waste. Stallone saw out the decade with the rewarding animated feature Antz, delivering two of his best pictures back-to-back, just when it seemed all over for any qualitative worth. Immediately following this he fell back into dross, before resuscitating his career in the mid 2000s with decent Rocky and Rambo sequels. It seems the guy really doesn't know what's good for him.As for Daylight, then it does, to be fair to it, deliver on its promise. A disaster movie under a collapsed subway system, said disaster happens well within twenty minutes of the film's commencement, giving us another 90m to endure Stallone gurning around and lots of ciphers shouting at one another. Such a short pre-disaster time may suggest that the characters involved are severely underdeveloped and we never get to know or care about who they are. But just look at that title quote. Someone is called upon to actually say those words. You couldn't blame them if they were glad the dialogue was on the low side, could you? "},{"Title":"Yet another mid-90s disaster flick.","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  DAYLIGHT. A clichéd, tired mess of a movie starring Sylvester Stallone as a limo driver who gets caught with a bunch of other motorists in the Jersey tunnel when some trucks carrying toxic waste explode. It was pretty brainless although I was quite impressed with the sets - they had a somewhat archaic quality, especially those giant ventilation fans. That was about it, unfortunately. It was a very predictable movie which for the most part showed us things we've seen in countless other 90s disaster flicks. One and a half stars out of four. "},{"Title":"The Irwin Allen guide to recognising your disaster movies","Date":"27 August 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The 1970's the golden age of the disaster movie. Maybe. As for man made disasters there cannot be too many people who have not seen Poseidon or Towering Inferno at least once. But then the wheels did came off in the seventies - evidence Roller-coaster. Fast forward to the 1990's. You can picture the meeting were they agree that it is time for a big budget revamp with...........Stallone in the lead. Actually he isn't too bad in this alas the rest sucks. The movie starts with a series of small vignettes to introduce the lifestyles of some of the characters about to be trapped. The English language does not have an expletive free adjective strong enough to describe how irritating each of these characters are. Equally if not more diabolical are the characters in the control room. Of course every cliché in the book is wheeled out and although there are a couple of impressive set piece special effect sequences it takes way more than this to make an enjoyable film. After i watched this i only then became aware that Rob Cohen had directed and this came as no surprise as he has directed some of the worst movies i have ever seen. "},{"Title":"The Holland Tunnel Adventure!","Date":"11 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Once, behind the wheel, while being towed through the Holland Tunnel, there was a jolt, a clang, and Maeder's old Ford lost a wheel that rolled placidly down the left lane before wobbling and flopping to a halt. It must have held up traffic for half an hour, but that's nothing compared to what happens to the Holland Tunnel in this typical disaster flick.Boy, if things can go wrong they surely will. Fortunately there is always the short chance of a last-minute escape, light at the end of the tunnel, so to speak, and only a few dispensable characters must be left behind to pump up the sentiment quotient that the formula requires.Some hazardous material blows up in the middle of the tunnel that links New York City and New Jersey. A huge fireball whooshes out of both ends of the traffic conduit, killing everyone except the handful of survivors who Sly Stallone, in his magnanimity, volunteers to reach from the outside and lead to safety.You've met most of these trapped characters in one form or another. There is the beautiful young woman, terrified but still able to make wisecracks and perform improbable physical feats. There is the heroic black cop mortally injured while saving others and begs them to leave him behind and save themselves. There is the antagonist, usually dumb, who pipes up at every roadblock to castigate the only leader who can save them. This is IT? You told us you knew what you were doing! There's the endangered child. There's the elderly couple who don't think they can make it and the old lady doesn't. (Cf., The Poseidon Aventure, here and everywhere else.) The menace follows a predictable trajectory. First fire, then collapse, then monstrous rolling objects, then collapse, then water. At one point Stallone must slip through a series of three gargantuan exhaust fans, any one of which could slice and dice him if he doesn't get through it before his fourteen seconds run out. It's like playing a game in a video arcade.Still, it's diverting enough, if that's the sort of thing you're looking for. It's total lack of originality keeps it from being an Ideal Type, but so what? It's only a movie. "},{"Title":"Hypo what?","Date":"10 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Disgraced EMT chief-turned-cab driver Sylvester Stallone is trapped in the Hudson Tunnel after an explosion with an assortment of characters. He must lead them to safety before their air runs out. '90s version of a '70s disaster flick like The Poseidon Adventure. Nothing original but entertaining nonetheless. There are some laughable moments. One amusing part that stands out is when someone has to explain hypothermia to some dumb broad who apparently has never even heard of the word. Clearly they included this because they thought the audience was too stupid and illiterate to know what hypothermia is. The cast is good but, like those enjoyable '70s disaster flicks, there are some ridiculous characters. Vanessa Bell Calloway's Jamaican accent was laughable. That's one of those bits of business movies like this throw in that is totally unnecessary and just makes things goofier than they need to be. Viggo Mortensen's character seems like he's disposed of before they can do anything really interesting with him. It's a good movie, though, with some nice action and tension. One of Sly's better '90s movies. "},{"Title":"Best Disaster movie of the year","Date":"2 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" You wouldn't want to miss this disaster movie. This movie is basically excellent thats the reason why I voted 10. Stallone's performance in this movie was absolutely outstanding and along with all the other people and one dog.You people out there rent it, and see for yourself and you all will be thinking that at least I haven't spent my money on something rubbish, it was worth while.This movie will make you sit on the edge of your seats throughout the whole of this movie.RENT IT. OR YOU'LL REGRET. "}{"Title":"pure dross","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Can't believe I wasted two hours of my life watching this drivel. It simply failed on every level. And every time I see Viggo Mortensen's, ahem, less than stellar back catalog, I have to wonder what prompted Jackson to cast him in LOTR. The gamble sure paid off, he was a perfect Aragorn but as for his role in this, rarely have I seen an example of a character being completely pointless to a story's progression but then that's the trouble with this whole movie. There's very little point. The set up's poor, it never manages to get you emotionally evolved in the characters, so you're never that bothered that they're all in mortal danger and it's a singularly bad performance from Stallone. It leaves me to wonder why it ever saw daylight at all. My advice - give it a wide berth!!! "},{"Title":"A Non Stop Thrill Ride!, With An Fantastic Performance From Stallone!","Date":"26 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is a non stop thrill ride, with a fantastic performance from Stallone!. It's extremely thrilling and tense from start to finish, and the last 10 to 15 minutes are especially good!. i really liked all of the characters, and rooted for them all, it also had a creepy vibe to it, because the tunnel looked very creepy.The Special effects are amazing I can't believe this has gotten so many negative reviews, and only a 5.4 rating on IMDb!, in my opinion it's a fantastic movie,that i personally loved every minute of!. Sure it has flaws, but it's an action movie and a very damn good one at that!. It is kinda sad though, as quite a few sad things happen in this. The Direction is excellent!. Rob Cohen, does an excellent job here, keeping the movie tense and thrilling from start to finish, awesome camera angles, and some really cool camera tricks as well! awesome job. The Acting is AWESOME!. Sylvester Stallone is AMAZING as always, and gives a fantastic performance here, and is up there with one of his best, he is extremely likable, cared for all of the people, and as always was TONS of fun to watch! (Stallone Rules!).Amy Brenneman is very cute, and does fine here, i liked her a lot!. Jay O. Sanders, does what he has to do well as the father, and was pretty likable. Viggo Mortensen, is good and adds some charm to his short role here. Dan Hedaya, is decent in his limited role. Karen Young, is good here and had okay chemistry with Jay O. Sanders. Danielle Harris, is GORGEOUS!, and is fine here, and wish she had more screen time, but i really like her as an actress so it didn't bother me too much, great to see her again!. Claire Bloom, and Colin Fox are both good together and had good chemistry together. Sage Stallone is good here, and did what he had to do well. Stan Shaw is good here as the policeman and i felt sorry for him. Overall this a non stop thrill ride from start to finish and i say SEE it now! ***** out of 5 "},{"Title":"This is a failed film","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is another failed film primarily because everything seems to have been modified in order to enhance Stallone's character and performance. If all changes and cuts in the original script hadn't been that evident we could have witnessed a pretty good action film. Some of the characters such as the ones played by Jo Anderson and Viggo Mortensen have been dramatically amputated, mostly in the last case, after an impeccable introduction. In this particular case, such a portrayal of a character is rendered illogical and superfluous by its hasty and unexpected disappearance. Mortensen's character could have meant a very interesting counterpoint to the one played by Sly, however, all this seems to be sacrified for the one hero's sake. Conclusion another boring action movie full of flat types and topics... "},{"Title":"If you like disaster movies then this is a must see and for anyone else you could do a lot worse.","Date":"16 February 2005","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Like most films in this type it has quite a few trappings of a disaster movie genre, but that is not to say that this is a such a bad thing, just don't expect too many surprises. Also if you hate disaster films then give this one a wide berth. However unlike other films of this type though at least Rob Cohen decided to get stuck in on the action within the first ten minutes rather than wasting over half and hour with a complex background story that nobody cares about or are simply not interested in and the Daylight maintains a relatively fast pace from here to the end.Is also a good performance from Stallone who as the hero in this movie, surprisingly to some is not the most gung-ho character. That is left to Mortensen's gloriously over the top character instead! *Spoiler Alert*One thing I particularly liked about Daylight is that Latura (Stallone) does not set out to get the survivors out of the tunnel merely to asses the situation and stay with them until proper help arrives but events eventually conspire against both him and the survivors leaving him with little choice but to try and get them to safety. *End Spoiler Alert!*Also a mention needs to be made regarding the high quality of the special effects, which from starting with the terrific explosion and fireball at the beginning of the film follow throughout the film to ensure your are kept watching to the end as well as giving the tunnel itself a sort of character something I've not seen since Backdraft. In fact at one stage Latura even shouts Keep trying you b*stard.Overall a must see for all disaster flick fans and for any one else then you could do a lot worse than rent or buy this. "},{"Title":"Murky","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I've always thought that the progenitor of this Poseidon-adventure genre was Arthur C. Clarke's `A Fall of Moondust', published in 1961.  It's a pity that book was never filmed.  It could easily have been the best disaster/rescue film ever made, for Clarke at least thought things through, being aware, for instance, that people need oxygen in order to breathe.  The attitude `Daylight' has to oxygen is just bizarre.Clarke also observes the golden rule introduce us to the rag-tag bunch of survivors AFTER disaster strikes, not before.  `Daylight' breaks this rule and demonstrates why it should never be broken.  The characters have nothing in common apart from the fact that they will one day be thrown together by a freak accident - so when the film shows us their lives, one by one, we feel not so much like an audience following a story, as a class memorising stuff for a future exam.However, the one character we should have been introduced to before the explosion - the one played by Sylvester Stallone - we didn't meet until afterwards.  I don't get it.As it is Sylvester Stallone is just one of a dozen or so people who spend every minute of their lives, bellowing, shouting, screaming and belly-aching, at everyone else.  This constant high-decibel panic is ugly, dramatically enervating and, to be honest, not in the least bit realistic.  People trapped together in danger of their lives do NOT, as a rule, spend the entire time at each others' throats.  When the mayor of New York wanted to let the survivors die in order to keep the city's transport system alive, I, for one, was on her side.Then there are the flagrant violations of the laws of physics.  A giant fireball whips through a sealed tunnel and leaves ten people and a dog with enough oxygen to live on.  The pressure of the Hudson river compresses the air in the non-airtight tunnel so that its pressure is greater than that of the river that pressurised it.  It's like the way boulders behave in Road Runner cartoons.  (Except that in the cartoons it's a deliberate joke.)  A dog dives underwater (itself impossible) and not only doesn't die, but doesn't get wet.  With one bound, Sylvester Stallone is free.  That type of thing.Unless you want to dive to the very bottom of this genre, I wouldn't bother. "},{"Title":"This Film Should Never Have Seen Daylight.","Date":"4 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Daylight (1996) Dir Rob Cohen / Cast Sylvester Stallone, Amy Brenneman, Dan Hedaya, Jay O' Sanders, Claire Bloom Familiar disaster formula right down to the final guess. On the physical sense the title regards a subway tunnel but it also can reference hope, which is something that anyone expecting a decent film, can forget. Sylvester Stallone plays a former cop who puts his life on the line to rescue civilians trapped in a collapse subway tunnel. Directed by Rob Cohen who made Dragonheart the same year, but unlike that film, this contains nothing not even in its production values that we haven't seen many times before. The plot is completely recycled and totally dull. Stallone does all of the thinking because he is the hero, and everyone else is suppose to lay on their lazy asses while he does all the work. Amy Brenneman is involved in a stupid scene where she struggles with a live cable. She is suppose to be the hinted romantic interest, as if we care. The rest of the cast are hopeless onlookers who cannot think for themselves but they all make time to bitch at Stallone who is at least making an attempt to better the situation. Quite frankly, having that live cable inserted up my anal track might be more pleasant than watching this film. This is basically a filler film that should fill someone's garbage can. With that kind of ambition it is a wonder that the script saw daylight at all. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"Mediocre - Lacking depth","Date":"22 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" For a 1996 movie, the tunnel explosion special effects were unreal; besides this though, the story itself was rather ordinary. I tried to grow attached to characters, but the story wasn't really letting me. The key to making a good story is character development primarily. If you can get attached to characters, then it really bothers you when or if they lose their lives. In this case, I was not fussed. We learned nothing of these individuals, except that they all happened to be in a tunnel when an unfortunate event unfolded. One thing that bothered me about this film was that at the start of the movie a bunch of guys were loading some form of explosives via plastic drums into trucks which then later happened to be the trigger of the explosion after being hit by a rogue car; the film never veered back to those guys whom loaded the substances so we never found out what the drums actually contained or what their plans were going to be with them, so the movie just kind of end abruptly with many loose endings.I remember my brother talking about this movie a few years back mentioning that he enjoyed it, so I finally got around to watching it. I have to say, I was expecting more and was slightly disappointed. Average. 5/10. I would have scored lower but the movie did have its exciting moments. I just wish it had more depth and sense of intrigue. "},{"Title":"Sly's Best Movie In Years","Date":"1 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Continuing my plan to watch every Sly Stallone movie in order, I come to 1996's Daylight.Plot In A Paragraph When an explosion blocks New York's Hudson Tunnel at both ends, ex Emergency Medical Services Chief Kit Latura (Stallone) is the only one with the know- how and experience to save the day. Risking his own life to join the survivors in the tunnel. Can he put his own past tragedies behind him and lead this desperate group to daylight??Stallone was paid $17.5 million to appear in this film. He said at the time, this would be his last action film because he was getting too old for the genre. Despite another ridiculous name (Gabe Walker, John Spartan, Ray Quick, Robert Rath... Who comes up with these names??) this is Stallone's best movie since Lock Up in 1989 (7 years and 9 movies ago) but for some reason, it doesn't seem to be remembered by many people. OK it borrows heavily from other disaster flicks, and every cliché is hit inking the way. I remember reading somewhere at the time, that the original ending was changed after complaints that Sly's character died from test audiences (and the movie certainly seems to be building to that) however I can't find anything about it online. It would have been a good idea to have Sly go out, like the Gene Hackman character in Poseidon Adventure.Of the supporting cast Viggo Mortensen stands out, Dan Hedaya is as reliable as he always is, Trina McGee is fine as is Sly's son Sage Stallone. But it's Stan Shaw and Vanessa Bell Calloway who really stand out. Calloway's acting actually broke my heart at the end of the movie, as she is watching the survivors being rescued one by one. "},{"Title":"Formulatic but very entertaining action-disaster flick","Date":"12 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This was a pretty decent action-disaster movie. It watches sort of like the 'Poseidon Adventure' with the survivors here trying to get out of the Holland tunnel after a huge explosion/fireball/cave-in blocks both exits. The group must then make their way through multiple obstacles as they get picked off one by one along the way. Its one of those movies where it becomes a guessing game as to who's going to get out of the movie alive. Always fun.Sylvester Stallone is our hero, playing an anti 'Rambo' normal everyday guy sort of character (albeit a disgraced EMS rescue-city planner- never did quite figure out his job title) but he doubts himself, makes mistakes and shows fear as he scrambles to save a dozen people from flooding, fire, dangling electrics, metal debris, rubble and general stupidity.The cast is made up of the usual suspects older couple dog, young family with panicking mother, hero cop, some juvie criminals on their way to jail (sigh Sage Stallone) a rock climbing adrenaline junkie Viggo Mortensen (nice) and the love interest Amy Brenneman, a writer having a very bad day.'Daylight' is formulaic but its a fun watch and some of the stunts are pretty cool especially the one involving the fans (exhaust system) which was exciting. You could do worse. 12/22/15 "},{"Title":"Predictable , but enjoyable","Date":"22 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I usually don't like disaster movies. I find them to be boring and stupid. However , I did liked this one. It's nothing spectacular , it's pretty generic , it doesn't break new grounds. It knows what it is and what it wants to be and does it well.When it comes to disaster movies the main attraction are the special effects. They do seem a little dated now and the whole movie might look low budget compared to The day after tomorrow or 2012 , but still holds up pretty good. Daylight was nominated for Oscar for best sound effects and it shows. The music by Randy Edelman is quite cool. The movie is also nicely photographed with some cool camera angles. Director Rob Cohen does an adequate job here , much better than in his later movies like XXX or Fast and furious.Acting wise this is a decent movie. Viggo Mortensen (Lord of the rings) has a small role , just like Stallone's son Sage. Stallone himself isn't bad here , despite the Razzie nomination. There are some moments when he almost becomes annoying , because his character is such a martyr , but overall it's not a bad performance. Interesting thing - One reason Sylvester Stallone agreed to act in this movie was to help him overcome his fear of confined spaces. He'd agreed to appear in &#x84;Cliffhanger to help him overcome his fear of heights.The story is predictable and nothing new. There's a lot of contrived plot twists and predictable story lines. We know who will live and who will die. Somehow it doesn't annoy the viewer. I can't say I cared for most of the characters , but I did liked the heroic things that people were doing in this movie.People say  If you have seen one disaster movie from the 90's , you have seen them all. Well , if you have to pick one I recommend Daylight. No , it's nothing groundbreaking , but a decent crowd pleaser. No , this movie won't make you sit on the edge of your seat , but it's an enjoyable watch. You could do much worse with your free time. I give it 5/10. "}{"Title":"Geeky Randy's summary","Date":"14 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A so-very-'90s disaster film that's excellent at everything except the acting. After trucks carrying toxic waste explode in a tunnel under the Hudson River, former Emergency Medical Services chief Stallone has the instinct to put himself in danger and go down to rescue any potential survivors. The explosion alone is worth watching, and there are plenty of other SFX that hold up to this day. Unfortunately, there are just way too many obstacles to keep the intensity fresh on top of the pedestrian acting&#x97;it's hard to tell if it's the cast or the script that's to blame. The nostalgia of it all will give it some brownie-points for replay value.★★½ (out of four) "},{"Title":"Not as good as Cliffhanger","Date":"31 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Sylvester Stallone's career has had its fair share of ups and downs. However, 'Daylight' is one of those films that sort of sits in the middle of them all. He plays a... actually I never really figured out who Sly played. He's a New York taxi driver who just so happens to used to work for the local government, specialising in tunnels and how to escape them. Actually, I may have sort of exaggerated that, but it's not too far from the truth. Either way, when a massive underground tunnel collapses, killing hundreds of civilians and trapping others, he's the only guy to go in there and get them out.I suppose the reason 'Daylight' is never rated as highly as Rocky, or Cliffhanger, or any of Sly's other more successful films, is that it's a 'disaster movie' rather than an action movie. Normally we watch Stallone punch and shoot his way through hordes of bad guys. Here, the 'bad guy' is the situation. Nothing wrong with that and, in fact, Daylight is a pretty solid little disaster movie. But it's the type that you can go out and make a cup of tea in and you won't really miss too much when you get back.The supporting cast Sly's down there to rescue are all pretty forgettable and, dare I say it, a bit like a bus-load of clichés. There's a love interest for Sly crowbarred in just for the sake of it and the obligatory 'hard ass government worker' up above who wants to put profit over people's lives.If you like 'disaster movies' you can certainly do worse than this one (although you could probably also do better as well!). It's a very middle-of-the-road affair &#x96; the sort of movie you may find on TV one night and just sit through because there's nothing else on. It's no classic, but if you're not expecting anything too amazing you should quite enjoy it.It's also about a million times better than 'Volcano' if that helps at all! "},{"Title":"Satisfying action thriller - Stallone shines","Date":"30 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Daylight is a surprisingly good action/thriller movie. Stallone turns in a strong performance as the ex-head of an emergency service branch serving NY City. He's now driving a taxi, and ends up trapped in this tunnel connecting Manhattan and New Jersey.The acting and directing were both pretty good for a smaller budget film. The director manages to achieve a decent amount of tension, and Stallone is able to show enough acting ability to make you believe he really is one of these calm heroes in emergency services who knows what he's doing. The cast is interesting enough with a mixture of a family, an elderly couple, a young girl, an action hero (Vigo Mortenson), a cop, and several young convicts. The movie at times seems like Poseidon Adventure, except the ship is this tunnel. The water is seeping in, things explode, electricity shocks you, the survivors try to escape. All good stuff. Then the ending is Hollywoodian, but I expected nothing less - this is a Stallone film, so just go with it, and you'll enjoy this easy 100 minute crowd pleaser. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Simple movie...","Date":"10 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Daylight is an action movie in which after some explosions a tunnel of New York collapse and many people trapped. One of these people will be the hero of this movie and we watch his attempts to find a way to save them all.It's a nice action movie for your spare time but nothing more. When you decide to watch a movie like this you close your eyes on the interpretations of the cast and you simple watch a movie. About the effects now I have to say that it did not amaze me because it's an old movie so the competition was pretty unfair. For the time that it filmed it was pretty good.To sum up I believe that Daylight is a nice movie to watch but in my opinion it would not be my first option to watch if I would be among others to choose. "},{"Title":"Great Action movie ever made","Date":"16 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Well i think this is sly's best action movie i mean it really is it just keeps you thrilled from the start of the movie till the end although it is a bit too dramatic but apart from that the director did great work the special effects are also good according to the year in which its made.The story is also good.So adding all things its a completely packed movie with good directing,acting,editing etc.Its also a family movie so you can watch it with your family so this movie has got no flaws in no department.So i would really recommend this movie to all action lovers. The main thing that's good about the movie is its special effect it has got all the special effects in it that's available in 1997 and it also has that good acting that creates a kind of atmosphere and gets you deep into the movie. "},{"Title":"Daylight Hurts a Headache","Date":"27 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I first saw Daylight with a major migraine. I really did.My friend and I made initial plans to see this movie, but I had one of my rare migraines that date. Still we went. I held my head almost the entire two hours while I&#x85;enjoyed the heck out of this.After many years, decades even, I revisited this 1990s disaster flick and still I thoroughly enjoyed it. Man, they do not make action movies like they did back in the 1990s. And this one had a special twist no bad guys.With a serious of misfortunate events, two sides to a NYC/NJ tunnel are sealed shut, and a few survivors are lead by ex-chief, Kit (Stallone) who has a heart of gold, arms of a god and luck of an angel. I loved his character and would stand by his unrealistic, but charming savior attitude. He put himself into the center of the disaster to save just a few innocent (and some not so) lives.After event-after-event, these people band together to make it to the surface. Some might say if you've seen one 1990s disaster movie, you've seen them all&#x85;and they might be right. In this case, it's just a tad original here and there, but overall, it's what you'd expect.Does it mean it's any less entertaining? No, not at all. I loved it. It's clichéd yet fun. It's predictable, but enjoyable. And it has its charms in the right places while delivering heavy on the action and heroism.Not groundbreaking, no pun, but it's a tribute to a bygone decade &#x96; my personal favorite for REAL action films. It also helps that Stallone looked great back then (almost 20 years ago) and still looks great today. Gotta love him!* * * Final thoughts It's really sad that, just recently, like in the last year and a half, that Stallone's son, Sage, who had a bit role here, died of a heart attack at the very young age of 36 &#x96; and I'm just a tad older than when he passed. He wasn't the star here, nor stole every scene, but he was worthy of being on screen. "},{"Title":"I always make it.....","Date":"1 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" When an explosion blocks New York's Hudson Tunnel at both ends, ex Emergency Medical Services Chief Kit Latura is the only one with the know-how and experience to save the day. Risking his life to join the survivors in the tunnel; he finds a feisty writer, an elderly couple, a famous action-man, a quarrelling family, some young hoodlums, a security guard and even a dog. Can he put his own past tragedies behind him and bring this desperate group to safety?At the time of this movies release, Stallone was at a strange point in his career. He was still making decent action movies, but his star was falling, and people were not turning up for his movies, just like this one.Yes, Dredd wasn't the best movie, but Assassins and The Specialist were solid movie, just like he made in the eighties, but people wanted something different, and Stallone wouldn't have a bona-fide hit until ten years later, when it was cool to be retro.But the film in a while is not a bad effort. The opening is brilliant, the pyrotechnics and the choreography of the disaster sets the film up to be an awesome ride, but as all disaster movies go, you really have to care about the characters in order to have a care about the movie, and to be honest, many of the characters trapped, are so boorish and pretentious, I couldn't care less.And this is the films main problem.Stallone is wonderful, and the set pieces are spectacular, but other than Brenneman, Harris, and the dog, I want bothered about anyone else.And this is a shame, because if the makers had taken the time to consider the characters, as much as the spectacle, this would have been one of the best disaster movies ever.But, it's just a really good Stallone movie... "},{"Title":"Sly trapped in bad movie","Date":"10 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Truck filled with explosives accidentally explode collapsing a NY tunnel. This is a disaster movie. It's got all the stupidity that comes with it. But even by that standard, this isn't a good example of the genre.Sylvester Stallone is a some kind of disaster planner Kit Latura. Of course he charges in to help get everybody out. And everybody thinks little of him. For some reason, all the people in charge are always wrong.People are too annoying. Everybody is screaming yelling arguing. It's all testosterone. Instead of real emotions, we get overacting. Sly isn't much better. But all the ridiculous machismo really makes Sly almost tame and reasonable. "},{"Title":"High tension but ultimately downgrading","Date":"24 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Director Rob Cohen is considered by most critics to produce average to slightly above average films. Majority of these opinions are based on who's starring in them. The Fast and the Furious (2001), xXx (2002) & The Mummy Tomb of the Dragon Emperor (2008) all were popular at the box office at the time because of who the main lead was. This is no different here. It's no surprise that because Stallone is the main lead that many people decided to go see this movie at the time. In this disaster genre film, Sylvester Stallone plays an ordinary man, Kit Latura, who looks straight into the face of death in order to save some survivors when an explosion goes off in an underwater highway tunnel and ends up having both ends sealed off with no escape. Along with Stallone are a few other well-known actors like Chief Frank Kraft (Dan Hedaya) and wealthy businessman Roy Nord (Viggo Mortensen). Even Stallone's son, Sage, plays a smaller role as a convict. Do any of these characters stand out - no not much. If there's any character to really root for, it would be Mortensen's character. Mortensen gave his character a charm none of the others seemed to know how to make. Perhaps because Mortensen just looked at the situation in a whole different way. Compare that to Stallone's performance and it seems like Mortensen should have been the main lead.But if there's one thing that this movie got right, it was the tension. Holy cow was this movie packed with tension! There was not one moment where it felt that no one would make it out. Quite honestly, I don't blame the actors for half their reactions to this situation. If any of us viewers were in their shoes, the majority of us would be freaking out too. It really does feel like a lose-lose situation. Unfortunately, this is another reason why it doesn't entertain as good as it should though. The atmosphere was way too depressing. Not one character (except Viggo Mortensen's character) had one shred of a positive outlook. Not even Stallone's character had one, which kind of shocked me. I'm not sure if Stallone's character was written like that, to make him seem more human but you can still make a character human even if he faces adversity with a confident outlook. But that wasn't visible here. But I assume this is due to the screenwriter, Leslie Bohem, whom according to her pre-writings and post work display that her writing capabilities really need to be assessed more. On the side, Randy Edelman's score to the film was proficient in its work like most of his other productions. What amazed me though is that I enjoyed the music but I also didn't appreciate of how it didn't pick up in tone. It consistently felt depressing. I think Edelman put in a little too much emotion this time (even if it was effective).Finally, the special effects and set designs were probably the most astounding because of how real the situation felt and looked. The scene I was the most nervous about was when Stallone was going through a timed sequence of fan blades...yikes...talk about gut wrenching. But hey, according to Stallone, that's why he took on this project because he wanted to concur his fear of close quarters. Good for him, I'll assume many of us regular people and including myself would not be so eager to go jumping into such problems. As a whole, it works at increasing the tension to a high level along with effective music but sadly it also encourages the characters to be depressing and unlikable. It's close to start being a disaster. "},{"Title":"A rare 'shirt-on' Stallone success story. Oddly enjoyable.","Date":"20 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Most of the time the enjoyment value in a Sly Stallone film can be astutely judged by the trailer. If he appears with his shirt off (Rambo / Rocky / The Expendables) your juvenile entertainment value is all but assured. If he somehow manages to keep his shirt on (Judge Dredd / Rhinestone / Stop! Or my Mom will shoot etc) things generally don't go so well.In Daylight Stallone keeps his shirt on. Despite this though he manages to find a companion piece to Cop Land in the little known field of 'shirt-on successes'.^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ Some naughty guys manage to cause a massive explosion in the New York &#x96; New Jersey tunnel, simultaneously blocking both ends and leaving the precious few survivors cold, wet and rapidly running out of options. Unfortunately the explosion was 15 or so years too early to prevent the escape of the Jersey Shore and Jerseylicious idiots, but you can't have everything.(Nothing to do with the plot but the actual explosion and subsequent fireworks is awesomely pulled off, I'm not sure if it was miniatures or 90s CGI, I only know I wished for a Blu-Ray instead of the DVD I rented.) Enter Sly Stallone as Kit Latura, who until moments before was merely another New York Cab Driver who didn't speak English. Using skills gleaned from a previous career &#x96; that we hear of throughout the film &#x96; Kit manages to save many victims in the tunnel exterior before promptly deciding he is the only man capable saving those still trapped inside. And whaddya know he's right.After another tension filled scene Kit finds himself inside and meets the usual motley crew of huddled desperates, with the added spice being provided by the inclusion of a few hardened prisoners that were in transit before the explosion. Among the others are a middle class family, some retirees, a tunnel worker, a genuine high rolling thrill seeker, and of course even a damsel for Kit to save and bond with (Amy Brenneman).From here it is all Hollywood; Kit must cajole and caress the survivors through a series of ever-increasing dangers and perils, with new causes of premature death only seconds behind at all times. There is a direct correlation between how cocky / dangerous you are and your likelihood of living, and of course some good people must be sacrificed in the name of viewer empathy. There's even a dog and a kid for the more hardened viewers out there.Will this sneaky manipulative emotional blackmail ever end? These cumulative dozen or so people, all of who rely solely on Kit to save them from almost certain death by an ever-increasing range of threats, are alternately indignant, ungrateful, defeated, elated, helpful and supportive, depending on the needs of the film at the time.The strange thing is that we've seen it all before &#x96; many times &#x96; Outbreak came out the year before and tried all the same tricks. But with this film there are 25 examples of 'just when you think it can't get any worse&#x85;' and somehow they all work. Sure it ain't a Picasso, but strike me if it isn't a tension filled thrill ride (that's at least what the promo poster might say &#x96; but it is!).When I plugged in the DVD and settled back I was hoping for little more than a couple hours of time killing. While future viewings might deaden my support I quite enjoyed watching Daylight, which in itself guarantees there will at least be one more viewing at some point in the future.Having avoided Outbreak deliberately for a decade and a half I only wish I could say the same for that monkey-virus drivel.Final Rating &#x96; 7.5 / 10. Hollywood formula all the way&#x85; to the bank. The enjoyment bank. (Last The Simpsons joke rip-off for at least 24 hours, I promise.) "}{"Title":"What is the deal with all of the low ratings?","Date":"14 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I'm shocked that this movie got such low ratings. When I saw this movie on TV for the first time, I watched it from start to finish, which is very rare for me. But then, I even watched the encore presentation from start to finish, which I have never done! Everyone says that this movie has so many clichés in it, but I didn't see any if there were any there. The acting from Stallone was superb, the set and special effects were PHENOMENAL, and the idea of the whole movie put me on the edge of my seat the whole time! This movie is one of the best movies I've seen yet, and it should most definitely be in any action-lover's movie collection! So, bottom line? Let's just say that if I ever go to New York City, I won't be taking any commuter tunnels... "},{"Title":"Daylight was a thrilling Sylvester Stallone flick despite some clichés","Date":"12 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" My dad and I felt like staying up late and he wanted to watch a movie. He picked this one among many HD-DVD's he bought by mail. A throwback to the disaster movies from the '70s made by Irwin Allen (The Towering Inferno, The Poseidon Adventure) and Universal Studios (Earthquake, the Airport movies) which distributed this one as well, Daylight provides plenty of thrilling action, plenty of explosions, and many supporting characters that you may or not care about. I did like that black guard character and the way he managed to help the Sylvester Stallone lead hero even after he got injured by that vehicle that crushed him as he give Stallone instructions though I did half think it convenient that it was another black guy giving his life for the white guy cliché. It's the same feeling I had when it looked like that dog was going to drown but I knew in movies like this that he would eventually turn back alive since I personally think that no audience would stand to have a pet, especially a dog, die (it only worked in Old Yeller because that one was already rabid and had to be killed). And there were times that the Amy Brenneman character could get on ones nerves. Having said all that, Daylight was indeed well made and entertaining from beginning to end. Only really sad part about the final scene was the sight of the Twin Towers of the World Trade Center and the knowledge of what would happen to them and their inhabitants some five years later... "},{"Title":"Daylight wanna see daylight bonus","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Daylight is an entertaining action adventure movie from a time before theaters were flooded with computer animated family movies and cheaply made horror films.This is the code for something American Government related Thx read bareback ah ticked toys. As President Kennedy said America will never start a (Nuclear) War. Sylvester Stallones words are more clearly made out in this movie. Perhaps he has taken speech lessons.Viggo Mortenson was in this film before he became a household name. Both actors have movies worth watching. "},{"Title":"At the End of Every Tunnel, No Matter How Dark, Is Always Daylight!","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS        It started as a normal day in New York City. A team was going to transport some toxic waste to New Jersey by driving it on trucks through the Holland tunnel. By nightfall, they made it into the tunnel but did not count on a group of carjackers speeding through the tunnel in a car they stole. They drove way too fast and crashed into the trucks, causing a monstrous explosion as the entire tunnel was engulfed in flames that wiped out every car in its path. It also caused the Manhattan and Jersey entrances to be blocked shut. Outside, former emergency services chief Kit Latura did what he could to help the hurt people outside while down inside the tunnel, the survivors grouped. One woman, author Maddy Thompson helped trapped prisoners Kadeem, Vincent, Mikey and Latonya who were trapped on a prison bus and their guards were dead. Also, the Crighton family Steven, Sarah and daughter Ashley as well as Roger and Eleanor Trilling, advertising executive, Roy Nord and security guard George. Meanwhile on the surface, Kit entered the offices and told them what was up. The air down in the tunnel would only be good for another three hours so those people had to get out of there, but how? Kit volunteered to go down and help them. He would have to enter through the exhaust fan ports so they shut down the five fans and Kit began a perilous journey down because he cut the time of weaving between the fans so close, they started up again just as he slipped through one.        Finally, Kit comes to everyone's rescue. Roy found what he thought was a way out and began tunneling. Everybody else is anything but helpful to Kit. Kit tries to convince Roy that where he was wasn't the way out but he wouldn't listen. Suddenly, the cave collapses and kills Roy in the process. Poor Kadeem is also a casualty and what's more, water begins to pour into the tunnel. It wasn't drowning they had to worry about, but hypothermia! So they quickly climbed atop cars. Kit would use an explosive to seal off where the water was coming in and that would slow it down so with Maddy's help, they pulled it off. Now how to get out? Sarah and Steven Craighton totally did not help and just shouted at Kit, who had a checkered past. He was believed responsible for many deaths in a building accident. Suddenly, a truck falls on George but with teamwork, they manage to lift it off but poor George's neck was broken. All seemed lost until Kit remembered that when the tunnel was built during 1921, the workers had bunks down there. George told Kit where they were and he swam to inspect them. He returned for the others. George sacrificed himself so the others could escape safely.           They make it to a chapel that was by the bunks and all seemed well until millions of rats swam in! Meanwhile on the surface, a rescue team begins to try and dig them out which would ultimately make the tunnel collapse! Back in the chapel, Kit notices the rats find a way out so they follow them, except for poor Eleanor who dies of hypothermia. Roger didn't want to leave her but Kit convinced him. They find an old staircase leading upward so it looks as if they are home free, but unfortunately Kit and Maddy fell off. Kit ordered the rest to go on. They find the surface and are rescued. Kit devises a plan that would involve an explosive. It worked! Kit and Maddy are blasted to the surface and are soon brought in by rescue boats. So they all live happily ever after!        Great action film! Lot's of edge-or-your-seat thrills! Sylvester Stallone was very good! This movie also features Amy Brenneman, Viggo Mortensen, Dan Hedaya, Danielle Harris, Jay O. Sanders, and Karen Young. This movie sort of relates to The Poseidon Adventure of 1972. Pretty much the same story, only the people make their way through an over turned ship. It's also pretty good, but anyway, if you're a fan of Sly Stallone and you enjoy action films with lot's and lot's of action, Daylight is YOUR movie!! It'll make you think twice about taking tunnels!-- "},{"Title":"This disaster movie was a disaster of a movie...","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I have NEVER encountered a movie where I have cared less about the characters. My friends and I were actually HOPING people would die... How are you supposed to work up sympathy for someone who is killed because he's waiting to smash in someone's skull because he wouldn't let him be in charge?!?!? C'mon! This movie contained every hackneyed plot device, and executed them extremely poorly. I'm a big Sly Stallone fan, but even Rambo couldn't have saved this turkey&#133; "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Though Daylight (1996) doesn't make movie history, this is a positive surprise and an action film, which deserves better valuation. The genre is good old time catastrofy movie, which woke alive for a while in 1990's. The events get started, when in the state of New York under Hudson-river where is a tunnel happens an explotion. Tunnel is blocked-up in both exits and a group survivors stays under the ground like prisoners. Fortunately, one man is willing to save those people, who is ex-employee of rescue unit. He is Kit Latura. Sylvester Stallone acts very well as Kit Latura. The strongness of Daylight is it's credibility. This is not a superhero story, Stallone is just a human, but luckily professional. Even so staring into the dark tunnel is getting rather boring.7 out of 10. Also Sly's son Sage acts in this picture as Vincent. "},{"Title":"A low-wattage light at the end of a familiar tunnel","Date":"30 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I first saw Daylight on December 20th 1996, at a preview screening at a long since-demolished theater. It was an enjoyable experience at the time though I was let down at the numerous clichés the story bombarded us with. Now, over 14 years later, I am still impressed by the action the film has to offer, but the predictable nature of the narrative brings the overall quality of the film down.The opening scene introduces an illegal shipment of highly-volatile chemicals being smuggled through the Holland Tunnel (New York to New Jersey). A stolen car driven by eccentric diamond thieves (who look and act a lot like the Splatterpunks from RoboCop 3) crashes into the transport truck carrying said chemicals with a resulting explosion that incinerates almost every living thing in the tunnel before causing it to collapse at both ends. Disgraced EMS Chief Kit Latura (Stallone) witnesses the explosion and throws himself back into the game and into the tunnel to rescue the handful of trapped survivors.Daylight goes through all of the expected motions. It does make a strong effort to make us care about the characters but the real stars of the show are the in-camera stunts (very rare these days) and the Oscar-nominated sound effects (which lost to The Ghost and the Darkness). There's plenty of exciting set-pieces, the best of which is Kit's descent into the tunnel via a series of unstable ventilation fans. But the character drama moments are upset by inconsistent acting and questionable behavior. There's nothing exceptional about Daylight, but it's an entertaining, if relatively disappointing, action/disaster no-brainer. "},{"Title":"Daylight!","Date":"3 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Daylight is a great action film that has a great cast which includes Sylvester Stallone, Amy Brenneman, Viggo Mortensen, Dan Hedaya, Jay O. Sanders, Karen Young, Stan Shaw, Sage Stallone, Mark Rolston, and Nestor Serrano. The acting by all of these actors is very good. Sly Stallone is really excellent in this film. I thought that he performed good. The action is really good and some of it is incredible. The movie is filmed very good. The music is good by Randy Edelman. The film is very interesting and exciting and the movie really keeps you going until the last moment. This is a very good and thrilling film. If you like Sylvester Stallone, Amy Brenneman, Viggo Mortensen, Dan Hedaya, Jay O. Sanders, Karen Young, Stan Shaw, and the rest of the cast in the film, Action Thrillers, Dramas, and interesting films then I recommend this film! "},{"Title":"Predictable Overdramaization","Date":"7 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  If there is any sub genre of movies that is more predictable,more overly dramatic than these disaster movies with the hero things, then I am missing it.  Whether it is Poseidan, Towering Inferno, Airport or any of the others leading to this, they are the same Overly sensational, over acted and overly dramatic.  This is good for about 5 minutes, but wears thin quickly thereafter.  Someone nearly dies every time a piece of debris moves or a fly goes by (in concept).  We have typical screaming women, the obligatory kid, and the guy who just doesn't get it and spends more time screaming at the hero than doing anything remotely useful like trying to help get out of the tunnel. This movie is a typical disaster disaster movie.  "},{"Title":"A come together work together movie","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Daylight is a movie of somewhat actual events. During the late 1940's, a truck with toxic chemicals ran head on into traffic in the Holland Tunnel which the fire only sealed one end of the tunnel and not the other. This movie is pretty much a movie about courage and togetherness. Though most of the film was not filmed in New York, some of it was actually filmed in my home state of New Jersey, which everytime I watch it I get thrilled to see my own state. I like all the characters in the movie. The movie has somewhat of a New York style in it, and especially heavy on the accent. These are one of the movies that keep you on the edge. "}{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"28 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  An explosion traps victims in a tunnel, and it's up to Stallone to get them out. The direction is great and so is all the acting. Some of the best special effects too. This film is good for almost any Stallone fan. Definitely worth watching twice! "},{"Title":"The Poisiden Adventure in a Tunnel with Sly at the Helm","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Actually, you don't even get to SEE Sly until well into about 10 minutes or so of the movie. And then - THERE IT IS!! That close-up again! There's one in every Sly film! Usually more than one! (And why not?? The man knows he's got the look so many of us just love to eye!) Anyway, what's different about this film is the fact that Sly isn't the only one who 'saves' everyone. He has help. The film isn't all about him. There are other people here who have lots of air-time, too. BUT we do get to know that Sly knows how to take charge of a situation when the need arises. And the need sure arises in this film! Everytime I go in a tunnel, I hate it! I keep seeing those ugly yellow tiles coming apart, spewing forth polluted water! What escapes me though is why Amy Brennaman & Sly had to go all the way back another route when 'daylight' was right above them! I think the people shoulda went ahead, got help & somehow pulled Amy & Sly up to safety with them. The whole other way they 'blew themselves oughta the water' & up to the Bay just looked so impossible!BTW, nice choice to pick a no-nonsense girl like Amy Brenneman to play Sly's 'partner in slime' instead of a glamour queen type. Amy proves she's capable, responsible & pretty to boot, in a natural, no make-up needin' sorta way.  "},{"Title":"A film that should never have seen the LIGHT of DAY","Date":"11 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  It was bound to happen; it always does the (re)birth of a genre by one remarkable film.  Unfortunately, Daylight is not that film.  It falls into the category of let's think of every conceivable situation that can join the bandwagon and ride the coat tails of a successful film.Daylight is one of those films that makes me wish that Stallone had remained a screenwriter.  It also reaffirms why I seldom watch films in which he stars.  That being said, I really have no performances of his to compare this one to, but I can say that he was slightly more believable than the dog.  The dog, however, had a better delivery, was more likable, and had less screen time.  Plus, you expect to see a dog in a disaster film.I will admit that Stallone was not (entirely) responsible for this film's poor execution, which is the action you'll wish had been performed on the film prior to its release.  He is just about the only main 'name' in the film, so he is an easy target.  Daylight is a clear case of bad direction and equally bad writing.Compare the direction between the live action and special effects sequences. I'm not one who goes for films that are simple excuses for special effects, which this one is not, but in Daylight's case, I could learn to deal with it.  These sequences involved me more than any of the trite, convenient, and almost pathetic narrative/dramatic moments.  Plus, they (the special effects sequences) were more believable.I don't want to give away specifics, but all the deaths in this film are ill-timed, ill-placed, and very ill-conceived.  They serve no purpose--not that death ever really does--and they're not emotionally stirring (except for the laughter and/or confusion that's destined to follow).  So, as Forrest Gump so aptly put it, that's all I have to say about that.In a quasi-documentary about the film's creation, director Rob Cohen compares the whole world to his film tunnel (except that the world is bigger), saying that the survival of the human race will have to come from the community.  He also claims to have made Daylight as a tribute to all rescue personnel, a theme handled much better by The Towering Inferno. Neither message comes across in the film.My suggestion skip Daylight and watch The Poseidon Adventure instead. You'll get basically the same story (and dialogue) wrapped in a better plot with better actors...but without a dog. "},{"Title":"Hard to watch","Date":"6 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Right now, I'm suffering through this movie on AMC...but only as a personal challenge to see if I can make to the end. So far, I'm hoping they all die. Stallone isn't really the issue with this movie - the rest of the cast is obviously there just to yell at each other.UPDATE - the worthless survivors have just decided to work together! Damn. I'll bet some of them live.The cop/guard/whatever is trapped underwater, and breathing through a rubber hose. They should beat each other to death with it.How do I pad this thing out to ten lines? Maybe ask the writers of the movie how to fill time? "},{"Title":"A Claustrophobic Nightmare","Date":"7 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" ****SPOILERS***** A very believable and human Sylvester Stallone. In the movie he has doubts about his abilities makes mistakes and gets pushed around by armed robbery suspect Kadeen, Marcello Thedford, without belting him back, in this disaster movie in a tunnel under the Hudson River. A gang of carjackers speeding away from the police slams into a caravan of trucks carrying illegal toxic waste in the Lincoln Tunnel. This causes an explosion that kills scores of people driving through the the underwater tube during the late afternoon rush hour and trapping some dozen others as well as one of the trapped New Yorkers pet dog. Kit Latura, Sylvester Stallone, a limo driver and former EMS chief is on the scene of the disaster and takes charge when no one else in authority from the tunnel supervisor Norman Bassett, Barry Newman, on down would. Kit goes underground and into that flaming and suffocating hell to save the survivors still alive and trapped inside the tunnel.A much better movie with better all around acting that you would expect from a Stallone action-film in a race against time as well as the rising water level and depleting air supply. That as those who Kit went in the tunnel to save slowly suffocate. Kit isn't the only hero in the movie which makes him believable as well as very sympathetic. The guy for once is just an average Joe or in this case Kit. Kit finds the way out of the water filling and air exhausting tunnel with the help, of all people, hundreds of survival-instinct tunnel rats who lead him to the safety and daylight of the outside world. Here Stallone has far more dialog in this movie then he usually has in similar-like action-film. That makes him also very touching in some scenes where he's forced to leave a number of people in the tunnel behind to die. Saving them would only jeopardize the rest and in the end have everyone else killed. There was a very extremely moving scene with Kit and one of the survivors who was paralyzed from a broken neck George Tyrell played by Stan Shaw. George asked to be left behind and eventually dies in order to save the rest of the people with him knowing that his girlfriend Grace, Vanessa Bell Calloway, was in hysterics waiting for him up on the surface. It was equally moving and tragic to see when the survivors were pulled out of the tunnel alive one by one the reaction on Venessa's face, when see realized that George wasn't one of them. Very prophetic ending to this disaster film with the future tragic World Trade Center in the background in the very last scene of the movie. With Sly and Madelyne, Amy Brenneman, who did just as much heroics in the tunnel as Sly did, being pulled to safety from the Hudson River. "},{"Title":"This is, Without a Doubt, the Wost Movie Ever Made.","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Oh my god!  When I saw this movie in the theater, I was so enraged at how horrible it was I screamed about it for weeks and whenever someone gets me started on it now (three years later)  I lose it.Unoriginal in every sense of the word.  Cookie cutter characters (underdog fire man, convicts, family, struggling actress) , terrible lines, utterly implausible, and that damned dog.  There has to be dog in every one of these movies and the fact that it lived is probably the worst part about the whole movie except for maybe Let's take the bridge.There was too much prologue to the action.  I don't need to know every intimate detail to the lives of the minor characters who were responsible for the accident.I don't know what happenned to Sylvester Stallone.  The man has great potential but gets stuck in crap like this.The only reason you should see this movie is if you like to complain about bad movies.  This will give you plenty of material. "},{"Title":"The worst movie I have ever seen.","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is the movie where a car crash happens in a tunnel and a bunch of people are trapped inside the tunnel. Sly heads up the group to try and escape the tunnel..... I have just registered with IMDb and I was looking at the top 100 worst movies ever and I was surprised to see that this movie was not in there. With this vote I am trying to put this right. This movie contains a number of really cheesy lines, such as Together we can do anything.The action scene where Sly wrestles a live electric cord stands out as a rock bottom moment as well.Avoid this movie. "},{"Title":"Awesome special effects","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Just a regular day on the job for the tunnel workers who manage the underwater road tunnel that stretches from New York to New Jersey, Yeah Right. When an explosion occurs in the tunnel and the emergency chief is killed they call in Kit Latura (Stallone) to save those who may still be alive. Will Kit be able to forget his past and save the survivors or will they never see daylight again. Great movie. You will be stuck to your seat from beginning to end.  "},{"Title":"Sure it's predictable but it works!","Date":"6 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A bunch of people are trapped in a tunnel underwater when a toxic waste fire manages to block both ends! Good thing that Kit Latura (Sylvester Stallone) is there to help them.I don't disagree that this movie is utterly predictable. All the stock characters are in place (the elderly couple; the teenagers; the dysfunctional family; a policeman) and we have the square-jawed hero to save them. So I knew what was coming every step of the way...but I didn't care. It's VERY well-done! They have a good script that moves fast, top character actors in the minor roles (even Claire Bloom is there!), nonstop action, GREAT special effects, plenty of explosions and some incredible stunt work. Also (for once) the comedy in a film like this that is actually funny) This was just dismissed as just another stupid Stallone film which is too bad because it's very good. If you're an action film fan u have to see this. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Stallone Is A Miscast At Daylight","Date":"25 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Daylight is a disaster film that stars Sylvester Stallone together with Amy Brenneman, Viggo Mortensen, Dan Hedaya, and Danielle Harris.This echo of 1970s disaster flicks that tells a story of Kit Latura,a disgraced former head of New York City's Emergency Medical Services, a loser who is nevertheless a compulsive rescuer of people in danger.It was directed by Rob Cohen.A truck containing dangerous chemicals explodes in the Holland Tunnel, trapping those New Yorkers not killed in the explosion. Authorities know there are survivors, but cannot figure out what to do to save them. Ruptured water mains and leaks in the tunnel itself, which is beneath the Hudson River, will cause it to fill with water in a few hours. Of all the colorful characters trapped there, only Roy Nord, a mountain climber, has any ideas about what to do, but he quickly dies while attempting to save the others. However, Kit Latura is a former city Emergency Medical Services director who was in the area of the explosion, and he knows the tunnel's construction quirks. He quickly convinces city officials to let him wend his way through the tunnel's maze of exhaust fans to help the exhausted survivors confront the obstacles that await them.This has Stallone as a miscast who outrageously pushes the envelope of his martyr persona to near-religious levels. He throws himself, quite literally, into this part, and between that entertainment factor and the unnervingly convincing effects.Nevertheless,it is a pretty watchable film. "}{"Title":"Mediocre disaster movie with good actors","Date":"3 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I am not much into movies where people have to fight natural or man-caused accidents or animals, I prefer good against deliberate evil. Race with time to save people is high-minded, but there is no force to create or fulfill more obstacles. It may be exciting to watch ordinary people overcome themselves, but physical phenomena do not plan their consequences, things just happen due to laws of nature.Such a movie should undoubtedly have some fixed points, but Daylight has too many of them, resulting with less turning points and surprises and a number of unrealistic scenes and episodes. I do like e.g. John McLaine or Dirty Harry much more than Kit Latura. And I have become picky seeing cast representing all different genders-races-backgrounds-ages, moody survivors, moments of self-delusion, ordinary people becoming rescuing heroes... "},{"Title":"Daylight","Date":"14 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Stallone's one and only disaster film is perfect popcorn entertainment. Like the great disaster films of yore, there are fun parts in the supporting cast, regarding those trapped in a tunnel to New Jersey after a toxic explosion, with former EMS Chief Stallone trying to lead them out of harm's way as numerous hurdles present themselves causing one terrible situation after another, sacrifices made, courage needed by all if they are to survive. Sure the music telegraphs and manipulates the audience telling us when we are to gasp, to cry, to cheer, but Daylight really establishes just the kind of movie star Stallone is. Battling the elements, like cold water, collapsing debris from with inside the tunnel, constant explosions and quakes, heroism and suspense are in great supply. This movie is designed to toy with your emotions as most disaster movies, infighting and outbursts, death and the proposition of death, trying to find a way out when all hope seems lost, and the rescue of a trapped policeman, caught under a car, as well as, having to accept loss and regretting decisions made when no other options seemed available&#x97;Daylight provokes response from the viewer in a way disaster movies often do. Stallone has a demanding role, especially asking of his physicality, including scenes where he must incite belief from the bickering multitude of survivors to keep the faith even when events transpiring seem to indicate certain doom.Cast includes Amy Brenneman (who has a harrowing scene involving a loose cable shooting off electrical sparks), Viggo Mortensen (as a cocky climber celebrity who oozes charisma, but his confidence gets the best of him despite Stallone's warnings to leave a dangerous area certain to avalanche), Dan Hedaya (as Stallone's superior who triggered his firing), Jay O Sanders, Karen Young, and Danielle Harris (as a family under tumult), Claire Bloom (The Haunting) and Colin Fox (as an elderly couple still mourning the loss of their son), and Stan Shaw as George, the policeman who has a gut-wrenching emotional scene where his fate is sealed, causing Stallone to make a devastating choice. There are other characters like prisoners from a bus carrying them, and the various people involved in trying to find a way to get the trapped out of their predicament. Built as a roller-coaster, edge-of-your-seat entertainment, and succeeds, I believe. One of Stallone's more unappreciated 90s films, along with Cop Land and Assassins. As what occurs in other disaster pictures, there are casualties, not surprising considering the situation itself. "},{"Title":"Non-stop action with little lead in or lag, this is one of the best low budget (only $80 million to make) action films in the Stallone arsenal.","Date":"16 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Non-stop action with little lead in or lag, this is one of the best low budget (only $80 million to make) action films in the Stallone arsenal. The first 15 minutes of the film is lead in, and only as much character development as we need. Amy Brenneman (Judging Amy, Heat) is a disgruntled screen writer who has had it with New York. Jay O. Sanders and Karen Young, along with daughter Danielle Harris, are a dysfunctional family recovering from a separation. Throw in a bus load of Juvenile offenders in a Corrections bus (among them Sage Stallone and Renoly Santiago), a tunnel guard (Stan Shaw) with romantic attachments to a safety observer (Vanessa Bell Calloway), a hot shot extreme sports hero (Viggo Mortensen) trying to make a publicity coup out of the situation, and elderly couple with their dog, and you have the makings of a film with plenty of angst, drama, paranoia and panic. Stallone plays Kit Latura, formerly the head of the EMS division who was fired a few years back when he lost people in a tunnel explosion and collapse. He is a man of principles who immediately assumes personal responsibility for rescuing the survivors. He risks his life to reach them and works with difficulty to keep them together and alive. When the City Engineers begin to dig out the tunnel, allowing the pressure that is keeping the water from rising, he must find a way to keep them alive while trying to decide how to escape. Rated R for death and destruction, this edge of your seat drama has plenty of fine performances to keep the viewers interested. Collectible is a coin toss. If you are a Stallone fan or you like good action films, you might want this one on the shelf. "},{"Title":"Terrific action survival flick that shows Stallone's box office prowess","Date":"28 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I suppose I might be only slightly biased given that Sylvester Stallone is one of my favorite Hollywood stars. No one nails action like Stallone and this was during his prime to say the least. The thing I love about Daylight is that it isn't your run of the mill action flick because at its heart its really a disaster movie and all about survival with a group of very diverse and captivating people. Stallone is clearly the hero and he just draws you into the story. Many might say the man can't act but this film shows just how great his on screen charisma is.The special effects are terrific, the original disaster that seals the tunnel is breath taking and will put you on the edge of your seat. The films only shortcoming might be that it does not really bring anything new or unique to the disaster genre and often becomes predictable as well.The cast are all terrific and play terrific supporting characters to Stallone. Amy Brenneman is solid as the female lead in the film and her and Stallone actually have very good chemistry. Viggo Mortensen who is a terrific actor actually proves he can also be a supporting actor as well and he is great as the fearless adventurer. Colin Fox and Claire Bloom are outstanding as the senior couple fighting to survive. Character actor Jay Sanders is great as the father who will stop at nothing to save his family. Even Sage Stallone (Sly's real life son) does a great job playing opposite his Dad.Director Rob Cohen has been in the industry for decades and has written produced and directed and he clearly has a handle on what entertains. No one will ever tell you Daylight is a brilliant piece of film making, its not even the most entertaining thing you'll ever see but is it good? Yes! and does it entertain? Absolutely! Everyone can enjoy this film because it has a great story, and might seem typical for a disaster flick but if that's your genre then you won't want to miss this movie because this is a 90's classic!! 8/10 "},{"Title":"Not a  bad movie, though quite clichéd, as one would expect","Date":"21 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I guess this is one of those films where there is no real human (or alien) antagonist, but rather the antagonist is a natural disaster. I guess most people approach such movies not for their stories, but more for their special effects and excitement. Daylight is really no different. There is no real story behind it with the exception of the need to escape.A couple of thieves drive haphazardly through a New York Tunnel, crash into a truck containing toxic waste causing the entire tunnel to blow up and sealing numerous people inside. Stallone then comes onto the scene as an ex-emergency services worker (why are they always ex? Why not simply make them emergency services workers and dispense with what will amount to be a pointless subplot - all we are here to see is the action, not a well developed character, which generally doesn't come out all that well-developed anyway). He gets into the tunnel and then leads everybody out, picking up a girlfriend along the way.As I have just said, there isn't really all that much to the movie. I guess it simply is a disaster that could happen and then giving people the comfort that there will be some hero that will no doubt pop up and save them all. Really this is probably not going to happen, and the city is probably not going to be that nasty to people trapped in the tunnel. If people are trapped in the tunnel, then there would be an immense amount of public pressure to get them out safely. I guess when future generations watch this movie (and movies like it) they will probably believe that city officials are a bunch of evil creeps. Oh well, people believe that anyway. "},{"Title":"Great special effects, suspenseful","Date":"26 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" First of all, Stallone did a very good job. The special effects were breathtaking. But the dialog and a few of the supporting characters were too annoying. Amy Brenneman was abrasive. The scene where she kept saying that rats were nothing but s*** with feet couldn't have been in the script. The rest of the supporting cast was very good. Except for the talented Sage Stallone, the young prisoners who were freed from the county jail bus seemed like they were hired straight out of community college acting class. Very inept, especially the girl. The guy who played the injured cop was good, but the woman who played his Jamaican girlfriend got carried away with her over-the-top accent. Vigo Mortenson's characterization was very good - he played the cocky guy quite well. Still was a very good movie. "},{"Title":"The Daylight Poseidon Adventure.","Date":"15 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Lets face it, the film was never going to have much chance of being a smash with critics was it? It's in a genre that has been viewed with suspicion since Airport led the way in 1970, and it stars a leading man who was a year away from making the one film where critics liked his performance (Cop Land). Throw in the director of Dragon Heart and writer of Van Damme vehicle Nowhere to Run, and you would have to say it doesn't appear to have much going for it eh? Daylight is awash with all the implausibilities and clichés that come with the disaster based film. But that doesn't mean it isn't enjoyable. Sure only a lobotomised fool would not know that Sly Stallone's beefcake rescuer with a tainted past will wind up a hero. But there's much fun, major action explosiveness and no little tension along the way to make this a more than pleasant afternoon of no brain entertainment. Hey, there's even some interesting characters sketched into the drama too, and a dog, you got to have a dog you know! Some way short of the 70s best disaster entries, but miles better than the likes of Volcano. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Well Executed Thriller","Date":"5 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Highly fantastic yet well executed thriller concerning the collapse of New York's busy commuter tunnel that links New York City with the state of New Jersey. After a nasty collision, three trucks carrying highly explosive chemicals explode into fireballs that bring both ends of th tunnel down, and much of it in between.Stallone plays the hero trying to save the day, and exorcise the demons from his dark past at the same time. One is hard pressed to imagine another actor in this role, support such as Amy Brenneman and Viggo Mortenson do well to look overwhelmed and perspire a lot.It is the slick presentation and thrilling action that make Daylight the enjoyable fodder it is. All credit to our director and his team of f/x technicians.Thursday, October 29, 1998 - Video "},{"Title":"Daylight","Date":"13 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Kit Latura Keep trying you piece of sheet. Keep trying. You've killed everybody else. You know what, you haven't killed me. Kit Latura I have found your heart, and I'm gonna blow it right out of you.A runaway car hits a truck full of toxic waste causing an explosion that seals both exit of an underground tunnel between Manhattan and New Jersey. It's up to Kit Latura, disgraced ex-chief of the city's Emergency Medical Services, to find a way in and bring out the survivors before air runs out or the Hudson river runs in.Finally, a Rob Cohen film that didn't make me yawn or fall asleep to. What makes this film the more watchable is Sylvester Stallone's intensity as the lead role. I can watch this flick over and over again and not get tired of it. The film may be sugarcoated with a lot typical Hollywood clichés but it is enjoyable nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable enough disaster flick.","Date":"8 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Daylight is set in New York City & starts as several large trucks carrying barrels of highly explosive toxic waste materials enter the underground tunnel which connects Manhattan to New Jersey. At the same time a man carrying diamonds is robbed by some punks, they speed off but the police are on their tails & they also enter the tunnel where they lose control of the car & crash into the trucks which causes the waste to explode & both ends of the tunnel to collapse. The few people who manage to survive climb out of their wrecked cars & see the immense damage caused & realise they are trapped in the tunnel which could collapse at any moment. Ex New York City Medical Emergency Service all action hero Kit Latura (Sylvester Stallone) volunteers to go down into the tunnel through some air vents & try to save those down there, but with water from the river above starting to pour into the tunnel, toxic fumes from the waste & seemingly no way out there is little hope of the survivors making it out alive...Directed by Rob Cohen Daylight is a throwback to the disaster films of the early 70's like The Poseidon Adventure (1972), Earthquake (1974) & The Towering Inferno (1974) in that a diverse group of random character's are brought together &/or trapped by some sort of disaster be it natural as in Earthquake or man made like The Towering Inferno & most importantly have to come together to survive against all the odds. The script by Leslie Bohem is a by-the-numbers clone of that sort of 70's disaster flick, there's the build up where various unconnected people are seen going about their everyday lives which is where most of the personal drama & anguish comes from later in the film, they are all present when the disaster whatever it is strikes & find themselves working together & for each other to survive, there's always one or two who don't get on but by the end of the film they usually have mutual respect for each other, there's the hero who takes charge & keeps a clear head while others around him are losing theirs, there's sods law where the disaster is compounded by something else which makes it worse like the leaking water here & then there are the precarious set-pieces which the survivors have to negotiate. In fact all the clichés are here in Daylight which to be fair to it doesn't automatically make it a bad film, I would probably say that Daylight is actually a decent film that isn't anything particularly original but it entertains which is really all you can hope for & has it's moments. The character's are alright, the situation is a little hard to swallow (there's no way they could shut those fans down at all? Would they really let Stallone's character go down there? I mean he is a lowly taxi driver & isn't even a member of the NYEMS anymore!) but just about works all the same.Director Cohen does OK, the character driven build up at the start only lasts for about twenty minutes so it's not long before the main action kicks in & then it's fairly action packed until the end. There are some good looking explosions & the the special effects scene where the trucks explode is impressive. The film is a little slow going at times but still fairly watchable.With a supposed budget of about $80,000,000 that's a lot of money & is what ended up on screen really eighty million dollars worth? Having said that Stallone got paid $20,000,000 so maybe Daylight is only a $60,000,000 film? It flopped at the box-office with a mere ten million on it's opening weekend, the New York exterior shots were filmed on location in New York while all the tunnel scenes were filmed in studios in Rome in Italy. The acting is alright, Sylvester's son Sage Stallone has a small role as Vincent while despite near top billing Viggo Mortensen is barely in it & is killed off early on.Daylight as a big budget Hollywood disaster flick is not a disaster at all, it's not the best film out there but it's far from the worst. Certainly watchable enough & it sticks to the genre rules which should please fans of this type of film. "}{"Title":"My Hometown","Date":"3 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This was an awesome move the first time I saw it when it was released in '96. 11 Years later, I bought it for my collection. Particularly because of the mention of my Hometown. It is also a Raffaella De Laurentiis film and I am partial to her work. (I was casted in one of them in '89).Since the first time I saw the film, I have to figure out how the name of my Hometown was mentioned in the movie when character Latura (Sly) was talking to Madelyne (Brenneman) to calm her down and he asked, so where you from?. She replied, LaPorte, Indiana. Out of the blue everyone in my Hometown theater erupted in disbelief that we just heard that.Can anyone shed some light on this? "},{"Title":"Stallone and lots of little-known people","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Started off really well; pretty good disaster scenes, well shot and believable. People trapped in a tunnel - good characterisations, Stallone almost an anti-heroThen Hollywood schmaltz kicks in and it becomes yet another pointless, over-the-top, brainless disaster movie with a completely OTT and unrealistic finale  "},{"Title":"Better than I expected","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  When I saw that this movie was gonna be on USA one night, I decided to watch it. Although I had read quite a few reviews that said this movie was...well...pretty bad. But I watched it anyways, just because Danielle Harris is in it (Which is the only reason I watch so many movies)It was actually alot better than I woulda figured. The storyline was alright, despite how cliched it is. And the acting was pretty good too. It turned out to be one of those movies where I only recognize 3 or 4 names, but when I start seeing faces I realize I know alot of these actors from other movies.Good disaster flick, and not a bad way to spend a rainy day watching a movie or two. "},{"Title":"Stallone at his best","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Fasten your seatbelts and brace yourself for an non-stop thrill ride that will have you holding your breath from start to finish. Daylight is one of the most intense movies I have seen in a long time.Sylvester Stallone gives one of his best performances in Daylight leading a group of civilians to safety after a New York tunnel engulfs in flames. Stallone works his magic as a former EMS chief sent in to save these civilians.When I heard Stallone's name mentioned as part of the cast of Daylight, I knew it would be a non-stop thrill ride; however, what I didn't realize it would be a thriller that had depth mixed in with everything else. Daylight is a credit to Stallone's ability and this remains one of his best roles to date.Adding to this awesome film are Stallone's co-stars, which include Amy Brenneman, Viggo Mortensen, Jay O. Sanders and Stan Shaw. I enjoyed watching this ensemble work together because they seem to need no direction when on screen. It was as if they were really trapped in the tunnel. From the fear to the heroic actions they took, these actors were top notch.Despite most thrillers, Daylight stands out as being the finest assembled film. The casting works like magic, the special effects are magnificent and the script is perfect.I concede that Daylight is predictable. However, I disagree with those who say it hurts the film. My point is it doesn't matter whether a film is predictable, rather how it is presented. Daylight is presented with quite unique special effects, a plot with depth and endearing performances.In addition to the excellent performances, Daylight had some of the best special effects I have seen. The explosion at the beginning of the movie was a work of art. I was in awe of how well the special effects were pulled off because I don't believe that Daylight would have worked as well as it did if they were done with less than 100 percent effort.Daylight will keep you on the edge of your seat and have you holding your breath hoping these citizens come out alive. "},{"Title":"No Towering Inferno, but...","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  If you have not seen the movie don't read. Spoiler ahead.I love movies where you never know who's going to die. And plenty do.I prefer 70's disaster movies but this one works to.And I never miss a Stallone film. Good or bad.My only complaint of this movie is that Stallones character survived. I mean heroes do die and I think it would make the movie better "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"26 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I liked this movie, I Love Sylvester Stallone, he is my favorite Actor. I Like his son Sage Stallone also, he is a cutie. I liked how Sylvester's Character helped the people in this movie, and he would not give up. He saved them. Sylvester Stallone is an Extraordinary Actor, he is a damn good Actor and I think his Son will turn out to be a great Actor also.  "},{"Title":"Not that great","Date":"25 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I didn't particularly enjoy watching this movie. The plot is okay and the characters are alright, but it doesn't stand out as a great movie. In fact, this movie doesn't really do anything at all - it doesn't appear especially good or especially bad, it just sits in a pile with all of the other 'half-decent but not very good' movies. Sylvester Stallone tries very hard to make his character more human and mortal in this film but he really isn't a particularly good actor and certainly doesn't do anything to make the film better. Perhaps this film is just aimed at a different target audience but I certainly didn't enjoy watching this movie and wasn't entertained - and as the point of a movie is to entertain I wouldn't recommend this. "},{"Title":"NOT a let down","Date":"22 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie is one of the better disaster movies that are out there.  Stallon shows that he still has it as an action star although he does not have as many stunts as usual.  The acting was so so but in films where things are blowing up, Who Cares?  The film starts off good and keeps you watching till the end.  I need to buy this someday. "},{"Title":"Sylvester Stallone and Claire Bloom","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  An opportunity for a classical actress to work with Sylvester Stallone. The film was fairly mundane, unoriginal, a lot of physical activity on Stallone's part, but not exciting enough to be called good. If he struck gold in the 70's and 80's with the 'Rocky' films, he certainly became a cog in the Hollywood wheel during the mid-nineties. "},{"Title":"A good action/disaster movie.","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  When this movie first came out, I loved it. I even saw it twice in the theater. I saw it a lot on video and eventually bought it in Columbia House. It's about a group of survivors in the Holland Tunnel and they must fight there way out. I thought that sounded like a good movie. It was a lot like The Poseidon Adventure but it was still a good movie. It also had a type of sadness to it, which I like in disaster movies but I don't know why. I saw this movie so much that I started to get used to it and it got boring. It was my favorite movie but I just saw too much of it. I haven't seen it in a long time and the last time I saw it, I couldn't watch the whole thing. It was boring. Now I'm seeing the flaws and the good things about it. I do like this movie. It is a fun ride and it's Sylvester Stallone's best movie. He does a good job but no one else thought so. I liked him as a normal person just driving a cab. It has some really good effects and some very cool action sequences. The thing I don't like is the script and the cast. None of the actors are that big and they don't act good anyway. The script was too poorly written. If the script had better lines and there was a better cast, this would be my favorite movie. I'm thinking about buying the DVD. It has that music video on it. I kind of liked that song. The score in the movie was also good. All in all, I do like it but I'm not going to watch twice a day when I get the DVD. Daylight B+ "}{"Title":"Not as bad as everyone says it is.","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I know, this movie got a lot of bad reviews by critics and moviegoers, but I thought it was a damn good movie.  Sylvester Stallone, the most entertaining actor in America, stars as Kit Latura, an Emergency Medical Rescuer with a tragic past that must go into a collapsed tunnel and lead out the survivors. The movies is loaded with excitement and close calls.  I have to say this was a very entertaining movie.  "},{"Title":"Better Hold On!!!!!!","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  If a movie grabs me in the first 15 minutes, it's got me.  This movie grabbed me in the first couple of minutes.  Action started right away.  I was hooked.  Great movie.  I would rent it again and again.  "},{"Title":"Bad,badder, and baddest","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I don't usually write comments, but this movie was so bad, I had to. Spent most of the time with one finger on the FF button. The movie made no sense, and is filled with characters that come from every stereotype known to man, and that you don't ever really care about. A pure waste of time. "},{"Title":"Stallone's career woes see no daylight here...","Date":"15 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Disaster movie (in more ways than one) has Sylvester Stallone playing Kit Latura (!), rescue expert in N.Y.C. who was kicked off his own squad for being a lunkhead, heading up the rescue brigade for commuters trapped in the underground New Jersey tunnel. Seems carjacking teens started the whole mêlée, resulting in fiery explosions, cave-ins and car damage. What can you say about a movie in which most of the still-breathing victims are obnoxious and whining? Stallone's unofficial heroics are meant to render cheers, yet none of the characters he's helping are sympathetic or even specific (instead they are strictly generic, such as a sulky teen attached to her video-camera, or the brash single gal belting New York, New York--isn't that what all New Yorkers sing on a daily basis?). The pyrotechnics several minutes in are worth-seeing, but from there on it's all downhill. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"IQs over 50 will be bored","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie is unintentionally funny. Stallone is overracting again in one asinine scene after another. Pro wrestling is more believable than this dreck. Stallone should be banned from the screen, for the benefit of humanity.  "},{"Title":"daylight - something to see","Date":"18 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" As Bette Davis once famously said - it's going to be a bumpy ride. Daylight is waythehellabove bumpy, and the rides are incomplete. Before they can get through the Holland Tunnel all hell, and then some, breaks loose, for opening scenes that make most disaster movies pale by comparison. Rob Cohen headed a fantastic team of special effects masters (and mistresses - whoa not the right word) to put those scenes together.I was born and raised in NYC and made plenty of trips through the Holland (and Lincoln) tunnels, but they were never this exciting.If that scene doesn't keep you totally transfixed, nothing will. Cars, trucks, a prison bus all featuring folks with different stories (such pix requires that. It's in the rule book).The rest of the picture, obviously, is less thrilling, but as a whole it adds up to hotshot entertainment without, for a change, the f word, or a couple sexing it up in mid-disaster.So-o-o, if you are looking for thrills unequaled, look for Daylight.I thought Mr. Stallone and the rest of the cast acquitted themselves quite well. One note - kind of sad to see the lovely former leading lady, Claire Bloom, near the bottom of the cast list. "},{"Title":"The Disaster Film Comes Out In Daylight!","Date":"16 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Daylight proves that the Disaster Film of the 1970s is still a valid formula even today. You round up a bunch of actors, famous and not-so-famous, put them into various archetypal roles, bring them together as the result of some tremendous natural or unnatural disaster, and let the audience watch this troubled group work their way out. Of course, some of them have to die--who can forget Shelly Winters' brave finale in Poseidon Adventure?A major part of what made Disaster Films successful was their impressive special effects. There was Airport and its various sequels' aeronautic scenes, Poseidon Adventure's gripping shots of the ocean liner overturning, Earthquake's crumbling skyscrapers, and Towering Inferno's hellish walls of flame. Daylight continues that tradition with its traffic smash-up in the Jersey Tunnel, flooding, tunnel walls developing major cracks, and more.Still, special effects alone don't make a movie. Daylight has a fine cast filling the Disaster Film's archetypes. Stallone has never been taken seriously as an actor, but here he does a good job with the archetype of someone with a burdened conscience trying to rectify himself for that big mistake that cost others years ago. Amy Brenneman is the woman escaping New York City because she's failed to make a go of it there. Viggo Mortensen is the cocky sports product man who persuades the trapped group of commuters that he will find a way out. There's the young convict who shows some decency, the bickering family, and many other archetypes that will be familiar to those of us who have enjoyed Disaster Films. Even Stallone's kid Sage has a minor part! The performances are intense and sharp.Since Disaster Films don't get made anymore, enjoy Daylight the way you'd enjoy getting caught up with your old school pal at the class reunion. You'd find out where he lives nowadays, what kind of career he has, how he's changed, which college his kid goes to. You'd have some laughs, exchange farewells, and see each other again after another twenty-five years. "},{"Title":"sly proves he is more versatile","Date":"11 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is an adventure film far different from other movies of Sylvester Stallone. In this story he plays a rescue worker , a paramedic who strives hard to rescue a group of motorists trapped in an under water road tunnel in Hudson river new york ,new jersey. Such movies also carries some lessons what should u must do if u re caught in in such a desperate situation , and how to calm your nerves and work together if u want to see the daylight of another morning. As far Stallone is concerned , i think his critics should be silent now that he cant play roles other than being Rambo , rocky , cobra ,assassins , lockup and other action packed thrillers. Stallone is an action super star with a very different approach , his characters some time are more focused on story and acting rather action. I always liked him more than Arnold Schwarzenegger, jean Claude van damme, chuck norris and especially Steven seagal. This is one of the most best performance of Stallone and on the hand a very gripping , interesting kind of film. This film is made for all ages of people. "},{"Title":"I have found your heart, and I'm gonna blow it right out of you","Date":"8 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I always think of Sly Stallone when I see this flick, but having just watched Eastern promises, I wanted to watch it again for Viggo Mortensen's performance.It won an Oscar nomination for it's sound effects, and it earned a Razzie nomination for Stallone, on of his many.The sound effects were super, but the fire effects were spectacular. Viggo's ego got him into big trouble, and it was up to Sly to save the day.I don't care what the Razzie's say, this role was made for Stallone, and he did a good job.Good support from Stan Shaw, Dan Hedaya (Dick, The First Wives Club), and Vanessa Bell Calloway (Boston Public), and Amy Brenneman, who won a brilliant battle with a rat in her undie drawer. "},{"Title":"Sly last success","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Like a defeated hero, Sly's character goes to his last journey before get into an office. Rob Cohen did a great job this year, doing Daylight and Dragonheart in the same year, with awesome box office results. This one, is the most original disaster movie ever made. If they try to make a movie of people-trapped-in-a-tunnel-with-fire-and-water they will be in trouble, because people are going to point them saying you copied Daylight. Cohen has a lot of freedom doing this, so he get rid out of Viggo Mortensen (a wannabe hero) in the first 30 minutes of the movie, and turns Sly into the hero he only knows to be. Aimee Brehman maybe is not the bets choice, but she performs her tough girl role with a lot of braveness. And the rhythm is also very well done, you wont get sleep watching this movie, you are like about to eat your finger nails watching it. Who is going to die? Who will survive? Is the dog alive or what? The water is going up! Get out of there. The characters are not so original, they are all cliché. The old couple with dog, the teenagers about to be mates in the future, the broken family, the divorced woman, the black cop who has a girlfriend out of the disaster, all of them cliché. But hey, life is full of clichés. "}{"Title":"Sly's Nemesis","Date":"9 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" We haven't seen Sylvester Stallone in this much distress since Lock Up (1989) *deep sigh*, not least of all as he meets his arch-foe in this film. And it's not Donald Sutherland with a club. It's not Arnie, it's not some guy in a suit. Not David Carradine in a racing car, a man wearing boxing gloves, or even engaging children. Not a particularly difficult speech at an awards ceremony. It's a big, silly looking prop, which wouldn't have been out of place in the '60s Batman TV show. And it has a big, silly sounding introduction, establishing its reputation as something worthy of respect. Suffice to say, it tromps him, and it's all his character's fault for not treating it with enough respect. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is why this movie is worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Quick Reviews!!","Date":"7 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!Since everyone was making disaster movies in those days, and being trapped underground in the sewers wasn't a subject that had been tackled yet, Daylight was made.Stallone is an ex fire fighter, trapped with a group of people in a big tunnel, under threat from fire, water, and an imminent explosion which would destroy the section they are in. The film follows the reactions of the different characters, as they struggle with the loss of family members, of each other, with panic, and with the attempt to escape. The stunts and effects are pretty good, the script and plot are average, but the characters are likable enough so that we want to know who gets out and who dies. It's Stallone's movie, and he is okay in the role, Harris is excellent as always but has little to do, and Viggo is wildly different from his LOTR character, being a self interested false hero. A decent soundtrack help the movie, but it's just another attempted summer blockbuster. Not a bad film, and worth watching. 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"It wasn't THAT bad","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I think that the acting was as good as it could be for the people who were cast (Danielle Harris hasn't been good in ANYTHING that I have ever seen her in). There was someone who made a comment about how ungrateful the people where when Sly's character first went into rescue them... now think about it.. I think that the way they acted was insanely true to life. Most people in that situation would only be thinking about a way out of the tunnel. Granted the bickering lady that complained throughout the entire movie should have ended up a floating body in the water. For an action movie I give this movie 6/10 stars For script and acting it scores 5/10 but for overall enjoyment and the great SFX it scores 7/10NOT the worst two hours I've ever spent in front of my TV.  "},{"Title":"It proves Stalone is old!","Date":"29 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" You may get confused when you see this summary. Stalone was still powerful and straight in this action movie. Yes, I agree with that. But I believe you can see the tiredness in his face and in his whole body. He is no more a hard man of First Blood at all from this movie on.You can't deny this movie is not necessary to shot just like you can't deny that first blood is a classic.The story was simple and we may guess the ending at about 20 mins.So I don't want to mention anything about the script. In fact, the way to the ending was not bad, and sometimes you even got tense with the development of the script. Stalone acted well and so did the other actors. And we may look forward to the ending.But the ending made the whole movie a 5 stars rated instead of a 7 stars. The movie ended in a great hurry. When people were waiting for the great escape of the hero and the survivals, it ended suddenly. The director and screenwriter did not made it seriously. Very disappointed.You may choose see or not, I recommend not. "},{"Title":"Flopped at Oz box office","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie flopped in Australia because while Stallone's name appeared onscreen first, this was an ensamble movie and many throw away characters weren't thrown away...instead they were given too much dialogue.Stallone fans go to his movies for HIM not his co-stars. He worked well one on one with Brian Dennehey in First Blood but 30 speaking roles would have ruined that movie ....get my point?If you're going to pay ONE actor $15-20 million, then make it HIS show or else you've overpayed a small and unsatisfactory role. Stallone is capable of much better, has done much better, and I sincerely hope will again after learning to avoid turkeys like this one! "},{"Title":"DAYLIGHT","Date":"9 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  He is not the best actor ever as we all know but I easily can give you hundreds names of actors who do it badder (the whole cast from Daylight for instance) and that's why in movies like these, Sly makes it kind of watchable. Blame it on the scripts or choice of movies, Sly could have been much better cos after all he's more talented than Jean-Claude Van Damme or any other Steven Segal but in this movie he gives what he can but Daylight has a serious problem...it depends too much on using the same milked formula from oldfashioned disastermovies cos apart from some special effects it doesn't differ that much from The towering inferno or The poseidon adventure. I've never asked myself how it'd be if a tunnel gets on fire (we know it can happen) but the way Sylvester is choosing seems completely out of the question, but good this movie never pretended to be a survivaldocu it's just plain entertainment and if you forget the brains for two hours it's even a decent adventuremovie (that could have just been much better as there are too many cliches). "},{"Title":"Dumb but fun","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I have nothing really to add to what I said in the summary line above. This is a dumb but entertaining film. You don't have to use your brain!! -) But there's a dog in this film... I hate it when they have animals in movies like this, the makers of films really know what buttons to push, if you know what I mean. Hundreds of people can die, but when an animal as much as start to limp I get really upset (when it happens in films, I mean). 4/10 "},{"Title":"Great Idea Poorly Executed","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  After an explosion rips through a jammed commuter tunnel beneath the Hudson River between Manhattan and New Jersey it seals off both ends.A few people manage to survive the blast and are now trapped.Kit Latura(Sylvester Stallone) a disgraced former emergency medical service chief, is able to get into the tunnel to where the survivors are.Kit must lead the group through fire, noxious gases, explosions, collapsing walls, massive flooding and rats to get them to safety.Also in the cast is Danielle Harris, Amy Brenneman, Viggo Mortensen, Dan Hedaya, Jay O. Sanders, Karen Young, Claire Bloom, Barry Newman, Stan Shaw, Trina McGee-Davis and Sage StalloneThe Script from Leslie Bohem is rather lousy and Director Rob Cohen does a decent job.The Acting was solid with another awesome performance from Sly.The cast is able to make the best of the poor script and make the movie way better then it should be.The idea behind Daylight is great even with the poor script it could have been better if Rob Cohen could have created more atmosphere he didn't use anything to his advantage.Though when the Explosion first happens was really well done.Rob Cohen at times got it done right but not enough to make a classic movie.I give Daylight 6/10 "},{"Title":"See if anything else is on first.","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Think Poseidon Adventure in the Hudson Tunnel. Sylvester Stallone is Kit Latura, an ex-emergency medical chief. He is able to redeem himself when a bizarre traffic accident traps the usual bunch of formula characters in the Hudson Tunnel. One wonders what would happen if Bruce Willis or Steven Segal were among the people trapped. "}]