[{"Title":"Something You Can Sink Your Teeth Into","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"63 out of 80 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" I always found this to be an outstanding based-on a true story adventure film which holds your interest throughout. It features some great suspense and the story is fascinating. It's always been ranked among my top 50 movies. A good surround system doesn't hurt here, either.Stan Winston, one of the best special-effects men in the business, lent his talents to this film while Val Kilmer and Michael Douglas are more than adequate in the starring roles and the African with the freckles (sorry, I don't have his name) is really a likeble fellow.Except for the first one, the lion attack scenes are not gruesome and the filmmakers did a nice job a having just the right amount of action and lulls. Neither is overdone. This film has never been given much due but I've never shown it to anyone who didn't thoroughly enjoy it.This movie scared me so much I stopped hunting lions. It's just not fun anymore. "},{"Title":"These Lions . . . Don't Act Like Lions.","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"49 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" It is 1898 and charming, cretinous Captain of Industry Beaumont has hired Col. John Patterson,eminent engineer/bridge builder to complete a bridge spanning the river by Tsavo, Africa. Arriving in the continent he has dreamed of forever, Patterson meets his project. There are problems with it Competing French and German rivals, Ethnic hatred among the crews and, on Patterson's first day there, a worker is attacked by a lion. He goes to sort it out by shooting the beast with one shot; gaining the admiration of his crews, lifting spirits, adding motivation to complete the bridge, and unleashing a nightmareOnly weeks after the shooting the camp is suddenly besieged by a pair of giant man-eating lions. Their first kill is Mahina (Henry Cele), considered the strongest man in the camp. This serves to unnerve every man on the project, including Indian rabble-rouser Abdullah, who doesn't like Patterson from the start. Nerves jangle and fray as the lions repeatedly and relentlessly attack and attack and attack! They strike under the cover of night AND during the heat of day; They kill not for hunger, not for sport, but simply because they like it. Men are dragged from their beds and mauled to death in the tall grasses; the hospital becomes a blood-bathe; Laborers aren't safe as the beasts leap out and snatch them from their work. Everything is falling apart and Patterson is at his wit's end as Beaumont arrives to make matters worse. And still the lions attack and attack and attack.Enter Big Game Hunter Charles Remington who is as determined to destroy the lions as the lions seem determined to eat every man in camp.This is an under-appreciated, well made, well scripted nail biting adventure. It boasts solid artists on both sides of the lens William Goldman penned the script, Gail Anne Hurd and H. Kitman Ho are two of the producers who know how to spend the budget wisely, the great Vilmos Zigmond is responsible for the mesmerizing African cinematography. Stephen Hopkins directs with great vision and skill and the actors are uniformly solid and believable in their roles. Val Kilmer plays Patterson with an understated, simple and elegant performance; Tom Wilkerson is the charming snake of a boss Beaumont, Brian McCardie gains the viewers sympathy as a youthful, innocent, and doomed Angus Starling, John Jani is the stalwart Project Manager Samuel, Bernard Hill the irritable/irritating Dr. Hawthorne, Om Puri is the creepy, sarcastic Abdullah (You are white. You can do anything.) and Michael Douglas, also an Executive Producer &#150; he got the money &#150; plays hunter Charles Remington, removing the sweet edges of his Romancing the Stone role to create our renown hunter.Hopkins not only knows how to build tension, suspense, and terror, but when to let us relax and how to fill that time. The quiet moments are never dull. They let us empathize with these men, their characters get to develop and we bond with them and their nightmare. Zigmond (Close Encounter of the Third Kind) uses deep oranges and blacks for the African locale, except during a daylight lion hunt and cave exploration when he switches to bright sunlight, vibrant greens and sharp browns as if to show us that even a travelogue holds a nightmare. It is near Hitchcockian.Rolling underneath the film like summer thunder (or the breathy growl and snarling of our killer lions) is Jerry Goldsmith's pounding, tribal driven score, which accents the mood and gives further dimension to the narrative. Listen closely, you can hear him using tonal motifs he developed for Star Trek The Motion Picture.As the hysteria builds and the men frenzy, many explanations are offered for the appearance of these animals Are they the spirits of medicine men come to exact revenge; Or demons sent by the devil to keep Africa unsoiled; Or have they come to claim John Patterson? Is it to helplessly watch as they strip away the layers of security around him until he is exposed and defenseless against their teeth and claws? It is no coincidence that Kilmer is photographed at times slack- faced and full on and LOOKS like a lion himself.Once this film starts, I can guarantee you that you won't be able to take a snack break, bathroom break, or even think about dozing off. It is that good. And remember this You can see the preserved bodies of these two giant man-eaters at the Field Museum in Chicago, Illinois because this incredible story is TRUE. "},{"Title":"A tense, intense, and spooky hunt","Date":"3 October 1998","Score":"53 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  The Ghost and the Darkness is a marvellous movie, in the literal sense the lions come out of the long grass in the daylight or the groundfog in the darkness like the devils they are thought to be. No true motives are ascribed to them, as how could they be?, and that actually serves to make them more demonically terrifying. But whether they are the devils come to prevent Val Kilmer's Patterson from building his bridge, or merely (!) animals hunting for the pleasure of it, they provide more suspense, more terror, and more death than most high-tech cgi aliens. Michael Douglas's Remington, dispossessed of  home and family in the American civil war, is an interesting character, but it's Kilmer's British bridge-builder in a time where engineers had to know how to shoot tigers and manage Hindu-Muslim conflicts fully as much as how to put up their structures, who is the focus of the film, and rightly so. Kilmer's performance is quiet, almost understated, but one of the best I've seen him give; he's fully convincing, especially as he fights the belief that the lions are, in fact, out to get him personally. They are just lions, he says halfway through the movie, and you can hear how much he wants to believe it. John Kani also gives a good performance, contained mostly in small moments that are so true they almost hurt. The cinematography is beautiful, especially the of the lion attacks and their passages through the grass. Again, no cgi effects could convey so much beauty and lurking menace. This movie is beautiful, intense, and dramatic; I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":" A success in originality, story telling, and terror.","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"54 out of 82 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  The Ghost and the Darkness is an excellent film. It has the ingredients of a landmark movie. The story is based on fact. There was a bridge being built in Tsavo in 1898. There were two man-eating lions there who killed 130 people for no reason. And I believe there was something more behind the intentions of these lions. Evil can and does exist anywhere. Undoubtedly in humans, and, probably more than we'll ever know, in animals. The Ghost and the Darkness is a reminder how vulnerable we are to nature's fury, and that we should never under-estimate the potential of any animal.In closing, I'll say that this movie is perfectly directed, superbly scored, and beautifully filmed, and to the adventurous and open-minded viewer, a movie with lasting satisfying and chilling effects.  "},{"Title":"The most famous adventurous true story of Africa..","Date":"20 March 2007","Score":"27 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" ...Well according to Hollywood anyway, since The Ghost and the Darkness actually takes lots of liberties with its story, about the two man-eating lions of Tsavo. Quite odd since it presses in the beginning that everything you're about to see in this movie, no matter how unbelievable it seems, has truly occurred. Oh well, just a good and clever marketing trick, lets leave it to that. No way they can pull off a trick like this now days in the days of Internet, were with only a few clicks you can look up an historical event. Of course the biggest difference between the truth and fiction is the Remington (Michael Douglas) character, who never existed in real life and also the looks of the lions, who in real life were not maned. But oh well, are these movie changes bad or not believable? No, it strengthens the story and makes it all even more interesting to watch.I've always loved watching The Ghost and the Darkness. It's a great adventurous movie with action in it and some good characters, all set in a beautiful environment. The story is perfectly adventurous and action filled. It's all the more amazing knowing that the story has actually occurred in real life, over an hundred years ago already. The movie and its story is kept simple and allows its images and characters to tell the story.What I like about the movie is that it fully treats the 'Ghost' and the 'Darkness' (the nicknames of the two man-eating lions) as movie characters. It shows them as smart thinking creatures and not simply just as 'monsters', even though they kill for pleasure (at least in the movie they do). The movie is definitely helped by its environment and atmosphere. The beautiful African land serves as a perfect backdrop for the movie and also works quite claustrophobic, since the movie is for most part set at just this one location (the railroad and bridge building-site). Also the great Jerry Goldsmith musical score suits the environment and perfectly adds to the atmosphere of the entire movie, as does the cinematography from Vilmos Zsigmond. Michael Douglas plays a good role and actually shows with this movie how versatile he is as an actor, though his role is definitely smaller than he is credited for in the movie. As also the producer of this movie he obviously claimed to become the top-billing actor of the movie as well. In fact the main part of the movie is being played by Val Kilmer, who plays his character in a way like we're used of him; a humble way and he doesn't try too hard to impress in his role, which also leaves room for the other actors to shine and of course allows the story to be told best. Surprising to see that the movie also had actors in it, that would later turn into big well known names such as Bernard Hill and Tom Wilkinson, in some good roles. Also Om Puri gives a nice performance.A perfectly fun and simple adventurous action movie. This is high quality entertainment.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"decent adventure yarn","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"26 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  The Ghost & the Darkness is a very good adventure flick set in Africa in the late 19th century, and is based on a true incident. Kilmer plays an engineer sent to build a railroad bridge over the Tsavo river. Work is halted by attacks from two man-eating lions which terrorize the workers. Seems these lions are exhibiting behavior not seen in lions before, i.e. they appear to be hunting for sport ('the Ghost' and 'the Darkness' are the names given to the 2 lions by the native workers). Douglas plays a famous renegade American hunter, a tragically scarred Civil War veteran, hired by the railroad to kill the lions.Good adventure, well-paced, with stunning photography of the African countryside. The movie has an R rating which I can't figure out; perhaps because of the bloodiness of the lion dinner scenes (and lunch, and breakfast, and between-meal snacks....). I have seen many PG13's which have more blood & guts than this.I give it a straight A; my 10-year old son gave it an enthusiastic thumbs-up also). "},{"Title":"Man is the Prey","Date":"18 September 2007","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" (Some Spoilers) True story of the Tasvo Man-eaters who terrorized the workers working on the Kenya Ungandan Railway back in 1898 killing and devouring almost 140 of them in nine, March-December 1898, months. It's during that reign of terror the Tasvo Lions, weighing some 500 pounds each, lived or dined almost exclusively on human flesh.The film starts with Irish engineer Col. John Patterson, Val Kilmar, sent to Kenya by his British overseer, or boss, the pompous and all full of himself the future Sir, hoping that he'll be knighted by the Queen, Robert Beaumont, Tom Wilkerson. As soon as Col.Patterson arrives on the Dark Continent he's faced with a revolt by those workers that he's in charged of with them afraid to go out and build a bridge over the Tasvo River.These two man-eating lions have been snatching and devouring workers at will and it thought that they, the killer cats, aren't even lions but evil and murderous spirits preventing the bridge, that's being erected on sacred native ground, from being built. The killings go on unabated and it's when one of the local native leaders Mahina, Danny Cele, is dragged out of his tent and eaten by the lions the rail workers just refused to go back out and lay tracks, to build the bridge, over the Tasvo River.Being like phantoms more then lions the killer cats are immune to anything that Col. Patterson and his native guide Samuel, John Kani, can come up with in both trapping and killing the two giant felines. It's then out of sheer desperation that the I've never been wrong in all my life Robert Beaumont, it must have taken a lot out of his giant ego, hires big game hunter Charles Remington, Michael Douglas, to do the job, kill the Tasvo Man-eaters, that nobody including Col. Patterson can seem to do. ***SPOILER*** Remington who after failing to put down the killer cats with both Col. Patterson and Samuels' help goes out on his own, without Col. Patterson's knowledge, only to end up becoming the Tasvo Man-eaters next victim and meal.Far better then many of it's critics and detractors say it is Ghost and the Darkness does have it's share of shocks and thrills despite not having the benefit, like similar movies like Jaws, of having any real and state of the art special effects. There's only one scene where there's a mechanical or fake lion, like the shark in Jaws, in the movie and that was about the most ineffective scene in which the killer cats attacked in the entire film. The lions are seen mostly in close up when they do most of their damage, attacking and killing the rail workers. But the few scenes where the lions do fully expose themselves, like the dream-like attack on Col. Patterson's wife and son, are truly heart-stopping and as good as anything you'd see a like-wise animal attack film.P.S The notorious Tasvo Lions have been said to have become man-eaters because of an epidemic that killed off most of their food, gazelles zebra and wildebeests, in the area or their hunting grounds. This forced them to go for humans as prey since human beings were the only source of food, with all their normal prey dying out, left open to them. A far more interesting clue, in later checking out their skeletal remains, to the man-eating Tasvo Lions turning to prey on humans has to do with them having abscesses and infections in their teeth and gums. This had the lions suffer extreme and excruciation pain when they had to bite into the extremely thick and tough hides of their normal prey in order to kill and eat them. They turned to hunt kill and eat human beings only because their skin or hides weren't as tough and thus easier to penetrate and not cause the Tasvo Lions any terrible pains in doing so. "},{"Title":"One has to pray that the hunters don't become prey by that which is hunted.","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"23 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  The Ghost and the Darkness is based on an episode from the jungles of 1896 East Africa.  Various European countries are engaged in the process of establishing colonies in the wealthy lands of East Africa, and chief among those is Great Britain.Val Kilmer has been given a task--to build a bridge over a river in one of the British colonial ventures in East Africa.  When he arrives at the site, he learns that the task has been brought to a total halt by the presence of two man-eating lions the natives refer to as The Ghost and The Darkness.  These lions hunt as a team, and seem to have no fear of any outside force.  What's more, efforts to hunt them down have all ended in failure.  Kilmer enrolls the aid of an ardent big-game hunter, Remington, played by Michael Douglas.  Together, the two men set out to end the killing spree and thus allow the bridge to be built.The story is marked with violence, may be a bit squeamish for some, but the scenery and photography, coupled with a good story, makes it all worth while.  There is also a very unusual musical score, which adds to the background of the entire film.  On my own scale, a 9 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Fact, Fiction, and Somewhere Inbetween A Good Flick","Date":"11 July 2006","Score":"32 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" When I was in high school, my English teacher made us document all the differences we could spot between the Ronald Coleman movie version of A Tale of Two Cities and Dicken's novel. It's an exercise I find myself doing every time a movie comes out - especially when the movie is supposedly based on fact.When I saw The Ghost and the Darkness, I had already read the Man-Eating Lions of Tsavo and already seen the lions in the Field Museum. There really were two lions that killed well over 40 workers during the construction of a railroad in Africa in Tsavo, Kenya in the late 1800s. National Geographic also did an article about the aggressive Tsavo lions in 2002. I found the real story fascinating, and was really looking forward to the movie.I understand that the normally maneless lions found in Tsavo don't look quite right for us ignorant viewers (could have just explained it with a one liner from a native, but oh well), so they used lions with manes.I also realize that we as an audience today are too politically correct to cope with the way the white man treated natives back then, so the movie has been historically sanitized, with a few remarks sprinkled throughout on religious reformation from the doctor. I suppose we must continue to pretend certain behaviors in history didn't happen.Yet another key change I'm not clear why we needed another mighty hunter in the story. Patterson had the help of a district manager from time to time, but not another great white hunter. In Africa in that period, getting messages and arranging encounters wasn't easy - strangers of European race were apt to consider each other friends just because they were the same color upon encounter in that era - something the movie fails to get across - it's unlikely that another hunter could be reached easily. And certainly great star/hunter Val could carry a movie on his own. Fortunately the character Michael Douglas plays does not detract from the movie, and there is that extra emphasis on the Ghost/Darkness nomenclature from the (again, additional characters) Masai. Michael Douglas and Val Kilmer did play off each other well, although neither seemed able to fully adopt Southern/Irish (? did we need those?) accents respectively.I do think the hunting scenes in the movie captured well the constant effort to see something, staring into the darkness at nothing, that hunting at night can be like. Not to mention the cold sweat, stark fear, blinding pain, and sudden calm and desperation that a near death experience is.Which is why, in spite of the factual inconsistencies, I gave the movie the rating I did. Worth the watch, if only for that. If you really want to know about the Lions of Tsavo, read the story by Patterson - it's pamphlet #7, published in 1925 from the Field Museum in Chicago. "},{"Title":"The story of a fine man facing an adventure of his lifetime","Date":"15 January 2005","Score":"20 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" A story of Col. Patterson building a bridge over the river Tsavo in Africa, and fighting the couple of killer lions and builders scared to death. Firstly it's the views. Africa's all around with yellow, sun burnt, high grown grass moving in the wind (you can smell the scent almost) and the workers who can cast a threat to Patterson if he fails their expectations of killing the lions. Secondly Val Kilmer's performance. He's not acting, he's just there fighting the obstacles. Thirdly Mike Douglas's influential way of telling things. He's more convincing than in 'Basic Instinct' and sorry Oliver, 'The Wall Street'. His macho appearance doesn't interfere with the main plot but comes to be part of it. Last not least it's Jerry Goldsmith's music. I don't know how he did it but he made it perfect. You just have to sense it to feel it. One of my favourites. "}{"Title":"Authoritative and credible, but CHILLING-this will give you serious nightmares. Steel yourself before watching it. 10/10. Spoilers.","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Be afraid. Be very afraid. The 'Ghost' and the 'Darkness' were two cunning man-eating lions in 1898 (I even had a child's encyclopaedia that mentioned them). This is their story.We first meet Col. John Patterson (Val Kilmer), a bridge-building engineer-cum-adventurer, as he discovers that his new boss, the obnoxious Robert Beaumont (Tom Wilkinson from the Full Monty) is a ruthless, self-styled `monster'. `You build bridges, John. You have to go where the rivers are', his enormously understanding pregnant wife tells him, but Patterson's maturity and political nous worries and saddens him over his coming separation with Helena (Emily Mortimer) during her pregnancy; so he's determined to return to her before the birth. What a good husband.But what I like most about this film is its multicultural POV. Clearly the international bridge-building effort (much like Australia's famous Snowy Mountains hydro-electric scheme of the 1950s) provided a modern setting for a very accessible 1990s screenplay. Samuel (John Kani, in beautiful African garb), the camp's liaison officer and `the only man everyone trusts', gives the newly arriving Patterson a succinct overview of the culture clashes in the camp.Abdullah (Om Puri) is the recalcitrant/recidivist Indian foreman. I am disappointed in him for his awful line `Of course; you can do anything because you're white' (such defeatist sarcasm conversely also means that anyone who isn't white is incompetent). Thanks Abdullah-your racist attitudes are bad news for EVERYONE.David Hawthorne (Bernard Hill) is entertaining as the put-upon surgeon. He's coping with an outbreak of malaria, but also an evangelizing lackey of Beaumont's, Angus Starling (Brian McCardie), who is constantly trying to convert everyone to Christianity. The surgeon regularly loses patience with him, for Starling's habitual pestering of the sick (me too! I long for the day when there will be ethical and legal controls on evangelists). Hawthorne is cynical about the whole bridge-building exercise too `This is a sham, who needs it? ...It's only being built to protect the ivory trade'.Realistic thrillers are always more frightening than schlocky rubbish. The chills are begun in earnest by Samuel's accented narration (the accent hints at the added stressor of confusion). Our foreboding of dread is soon represented by waves of African grass, which may serve to hide a stalking lion. At 27mins we see our first devastating lion attack, upon the robust, well-respected African foreman Mahina (Henry Cele). Please steel yourself for the sudden strike as the men sleep in the tent. The scene never fails to shock me; and the terror just gets worse. Samuel's narration deepens our fear, giving us a hint of what the men working on that railroad in 1898 must have felt.Of course, Abdullah The B*st*rd tries to incite a riot, but he is revealed as a liar when, with a gun finally to his own head, he claims `I am a man of peace'. Ha, you're joking, right? Look, I don't mind the workers being fearful; in 3months the lions (the man-eaters don't behave/hunt like any other lions) have killed about 30 men. What I DO mind is some dullard whipping up prejudice and superstition, no doubt, NO DOUBT, for personal gain (whipping up prejudice has ALWAYS been the tool of megalomaniacs, to rally forces behind themselves at the front. You BET it's for personal gain). People like Abdullah belong in jail (what's the bet he already HAD a rap sheet as long as your arm?) ...Anyway, the man who has so cleverly diagnosed the problem is big-game hunter-for-hire, Remington (Michael Douglas). However, Douglas' establishing scene is highly self-serving, as usual the screenplay has him gaining our acceptance at the cost of the doctor's intelligence. Come on, EVERY African surgeon would know all too well the dangers of hospital decay as an irresistible attraction to lions. Those lines were written only for our foreigners', and Douglas' benefits- he was also Co-Exec Producer. Remington's been hired by the big boss to contain and quell any rumours of delay on the railroad.Remington is a pretty good hunter. He's wise enough to employ a rolling band of Masai warriors, and together, they act as the `fixers' of Africa. It's very exciting; I've never seen such a thing before. Unfortunately, every trap they set for the lions fails. When Patterson himself finally freezes during a head-to-head confrontation with one of them, even the Masai decide to leave because they have glimpsed the animals' intelligence, and declared them not lions, but `The Ghost' and `The Darkness'.So Remington and Patterson go out alone, tracking the lions back to their den. Foolishly entering a highly dangerous, enclosed situation, they discover an astonishing sight the lions' den is littered with dozens of old human skeletons. Upon seeing them, Remington declares that these lions hunt for `pleasure'. Well, actually, I say the lions killed people to make them dead, which is just domination. The lions are clever; they've figured out that they need to get rid of the people taking over what used to be theirs, the lions' territory. It's an interspecies pi**ing contest; and Remington is best when he doesn't underestimate his enemy. He likens the lions to two bullies of his childhood, who separately seemed beatable, `but together were lethal'. I agree; it's no good demonizing the animals. Sure, they were not to be underestimated, but had Remington and Patterson agreed with the Masai that `there was not enough blood in all the world that would make these demons stop drinking', they couldn't've stood up to the bullies. And I think that's always true between humans, too.I have to again commend Kilmer for his emotional range in the scene with his wife. I truly felt his elation and humility. He kisses her repeatedly for being clean and untouched by the vicious ugliness that's been his life since he entered Africa. His nightmare(s) about lions stalking his family will no doubt haunt him for a long, long time.I can't fault this movie. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Flawed but entertaining, and with a killer bite","Date":"28 April 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" True story, two lions killed a hundred railroad workers in east Africa in 1898. Col. Pattersson is sent from England to supervise the building of a bridge in Uganda across the Tsavo river. He ends up a bit over his head when the lions show up. He teams up with famed hunter Charles Remmington to bring down the cats from hell.It wasn't until I heard what other people had to say that I realized that The Ghost in the Darkness is half way to a Jaws rip-off. But of course this is a real story. I've even seen the hides of the two lions preserved in Chicago's natural history museum. They were actually maneless, but for obvious reasons this film gives its killer fuzzballs the hunk hair which makes Lions stand out from any other cat. I do know that cats are generally more aggressive than dogs towards people (because of their rogue personalities), but these lions are unnaturally ferocious. They are more monster than animal, which is the intended approach of course. Sometimes though it gets a little unbelievable. One scene in particular, involves the cats ambushing a dorm of about two dozen, all are killed. Regardless of their size or ferocity, are we supposed to believe that two lions can kill that many people in thirty seconds flat without one escaping. It's a tent for god sakes. There are a few other problems with The Ghost and the Darkness. Tom Wilkinson's performance is annoying. this is too lame a role for such a good actor. I didn't think Michael Douglas was that great either. He plays the role with too much Indiana Jones in him. A there are also a couple of scenes which are just playing goofy.In general though, The Ghost and the Darkness actually amounts to an entertaining monster movie. I'll give the most credit to the animal trainers, because these lions give great performances. I wouldn't call it a scary movie but it certainly has its grizzly parts which might shake you up some. The Ghost and the Darkness bridges the gap between Thriller, horror, and adventure, and I'm pretty sure it'll give you what you want (assuming this is your kind of movie) "},{"Title":"Awesome Movie, It's Like Jaws with Lions","Date":"25 June 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" This film is amazing a real gem. The scenery is spectacular, acting superb, great performances by the lions. A real masterpiece! Even better knowing it's a true story.The sound effects were fantastic, you really get a feel for what it must have been like being close to these dangerous monsters. Even the lions were afraid.On surround sound fairly loud, the roar and growls of the lions really makes an emotional impact. If you liked the film Jaws, you will definitely like this film.I was a bit worried about the killing of lions to be sad and depressing, because I really love lions. That's why it has taken me so long to see this film.However these lions really deserved it! They were nasty scary beasts and would make any vegetarian want to go back to eating meat. D Anyway great film, another must see before you die type movie. "},{"Title":"Absolutely terrific film, perfect despite imperfection","Date":"26 November 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" I usually don't like to write such reviews as I'm about to write, but I must say in my humble opinion, that -to me- this movie comes off perfect. Of course as with anything there are errors/imperfections scattered about. But with its imperfections included its still a perfect piece for anybody who enjoys movies about Africa, adventure, struggle, and triumph. I think that the imperfections of this movie are actually able to support the story by making it in no way appear scripted. A crazy animal hunt along with the main characters and others own frustrations... everything is meant to appear improvised, and does. It is hard to explain, but as for imperfections there are a very few and not particularly noticeable, but do add to the feel of the story. I suggest you watch it, and I hope you enjoy it as much as I do. "},{"Title":" There is nothing like the fear a man eater  brings. They own the night and kill so quickly ","Date":"23 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" In the year 1898 in the country of Kenya, near a town called Tsavo, arose a story so terrifying, it still elicits fear today. The entire incident was recorded in a book which was instrumental in becoming the factual basis for the movie. Two incredible large marauding lions, began stalking, attacking and devouring people working on a trans-African railroad bridge. So successful were these lions, that after killing over a hundred people, the Africans named them, 'The Ghost and the Darkness. A British royal engineer, one Col. John Henry Patterson was commissioned to construct a bridge over the Tsavo river. Unfazed by the lions, he began work, until the lions became a definite threat to his project. Halting his work Patterson set out to do battle with these two kings of the night. The film which was made depicting the true story, stars Val Kilmer as Col. John Henry Patterson and is so well done, it is surprisingly real. It is also interesting that Michael Douglas is in the film portraying Charles Remington, a great white hunter type, even though no such character was ever in the book. Tom Wilkinson, an exceptional character actor is Robert Beaumont and John Kani is Samuel. This movie has been slated for eventual status as a classic. But only time will tell. **** "},{"Title":"Good To Watch","Date":"4 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" Colonel J.H. Patterson, in late 1898, goes to British East Africa to build a bridge across the Tsavo river. Everything goes well until two man eating lions appear on the scene and attack the men, mostly Africans and Indians, drag their bodies out of the camps despite being surrounded by thorn fences and wires, and kill them. In order for more such killings to be stopped and to make sure that men are safe, Patterons requests for troops to be brought i in. But this is denied and he has no option but to take action himself.Based on the book by J.H. Pattereon, entitled, Man Eaters of Tsavo, the movie stars Val Kilmer as J.H. Patterson and Michael Douglas as Charles Remington. There are some errors in this movie. The movie depicts that possible three lions were attacking the camp at Tsavo at the time. This is not quite true as there were only two, which were killed by Patterson himself. And there's no such character as Charles Remington and it seems like that this was only created for the purpose of the film. There were something like 30,000 Indians brought in by the colonial authorities from the Indian subcontinent but we are shown only a few - in some cases hardly. Thirdly, there's only once scene of the river but the name of the river is never mentioned once in the movie. Lastly, the Masai shown jumping and drinking blood from a cow, it is a tradition which is well shown. However, the jumping of them is not really quite up to it as they are able to jump much higher then shown.Filmed in South Africa and not in Kenya, which was British East Africa, the movie depicts the building of the bridge across the Tsavo river and of the Uganda railway from the coastal town of Mombasa, in Kenya, right through to Uganda. The movie also stars Bollywood actor, who has worked in English movie before, East Is East, Om Puri. It also shows Kilmer in a more serious and in an adventure type role.For these who are interested in African adventures, this is one movie that should not be missed at anytime. "},{"Title":"Jaws of the Jungle","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Pretty good acting and cinematography, but this was virtually a remake of Jaws (set in Africa rather than the ocean).  There was even a moment when a lion was walking in the bush to strains of very Jaws-esque music.  The story was typically Hollywood, overly sappy in some points and extremely predictable throughout.   "},{"Title":"Hollywood Arrogance","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Dear oh dear , Hollywood decides to make a movie where everything is moving along nicely . Stephen Hopkins direction is good though hardly in the same class as David Lean , William Goldman has written a fairly good script though noit his best even if it does contain the line  God invented alcohol so the Irish wouldn`t rule the world  , we see a couple of British character actors like Tom Wilkinson and Bernard Hill lending weight to the proceedings and the audience are even shocked by Val Kilmar doing a passable Irish accent But then Hollywood decides this isn`t good enough for an international ( Read American ) audience and insert a completely made up character called Charles Remmington to save the natives from man eating lions . What`s worse Remmington is played by Michael Douglas who has more or less stepped out of the set from ROMANCING THE STONE where he played an American adventurer , and it`s impossible to believe Remmington is anything less than an OTT American adventurer inserted to appeal an American audience who couldn`t relate to non American characters . Oh by the way this is actually based on a true story which is what makes this tinkering of history so offensive . It`s like watching  a remake of ZULU where the 7th calvary turn up to rescue the red coats  "},{"Title":"Safari Thriller with Big Cats","Date":"8 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" Director Stephen Hopkins' safari saga The Ghost and the Darkness is based on a true incident. Two bloodthirsty lions feasted on 130 native railroad laborers in Africa in the late 1890s. But it's an adventure tale with more growl than grandeur. Val Kilmer bares a pearly smile in his starring role as idealistic bridge builder Lieutenant Colonel John Patterson. As Patterson, he is assigned by his racist British tycoon boss, Robert Beaumont (Tom Wilkinson) to bridge Africa's Tsavo River within five months. As we learn, the Swahili word for Tsavo translates as a place of slaughter. When Patterson arrives in Africa, his loyal African guide, Samuel (John Kani), warns him that nothing works in Tsavo. No sooner has work started than the lions strike. Patterson guns down one man-eater, but two more lions replace it. The natives call these savage cats The Ghost and the Darkness. Michael Douglas co-stars as savvy lion killer Charles Remington. He arrives on the scene to help save the day, but he doesn't make his appearance until nearly halfway into the action. William Goldman's script errs in not bringing Douglas into the fray much earlier. Although confined to a role that is little more than an over-long cameo, Douglas dominates The Ghost and the Darkness. Douglas' charismatic Remington easily upstages Kilmer's ponderous spit and polish Patterson. Compared to the elegant Patterson, Douglas resembles a shaggy villain from a 1970s era Italian western. Nevertheless, what distinguishes The Ghost and the Darkness are its cagey lions. These lions constantly elude and outwit our pair of heroes. If you saw the Robin Williams movie Jumanji, the special effects here are just as incredible. Director Stephen Hopkins deploys these fantastic digital effects to stage a truly realistic lion attack on a crowd. Many close-up shots of gaping jaws and dark, hypnotic eyes bolster the suspense.An exciting confrontation that sends Kilmer scrambling up a tree with a lion nipping at his heels should get the adrenalin singing in your veins. Altogether, The Ghost and the Darkness succeeds more as a horror movie. The action never strays far from the bridge site so the movie seems rather claustrophobic. When Ghost isn't frightening, it creeps along with one too many campfire scenes. Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid scenarist William Goldman literate script sticks closely to the events of this true-life tragedy. Nevertheless, you wonder how they made the mistakes that they made. Patterson, for example, swaps rifles the night before the big hunt. When he confronts a lion, his gun misfires. The death of one character occurs off-screen, forcing you to fill in the gap and deprive both the audience and the characters with a memorable death scene.You can almost guess which character will be chomped because the filmmakers cast a halo around the person's head. Meanwhile, Hopkins and Goldman devise one genuinely shocking scene but cannot sustain this kind of momentum when the lions are on-screen. Hopkins deserves credit for making these lion attacks fully vicious without emphasizing the blood and gore. "},{"Title":"If you lock eyes with them, you will be afraid.","Date":"6 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" Since the film was shot in South Africa, the scenery is exceptional. Like all docudramas, an amount of license was taken. Micheal Douglas' part in the film is fictional, but very well played and adds to the suspense of the movie. Val Kilmer gives a very quiet but determined air to the role and is supported by excellent performances by John Kani, Om Puri, and Henry Cele, all essential character actors who bring the proper balance of ethnicity and culture to the film. Tom Wilkinson plays Robert Beaumont, a man dedicated to advancing his position to the throne (I care about my Knighthood!), across the backs of the people he assigns the tasks. He is a self described Monster who can either make or break a career, and has no qualms about either. Overall the film is matter of fact and very ordinary, but what cannot be denied is that this happened. I have been to the Field Museum and seen the Lions of Tsavo. It is as the last line of the movie says. If you lock eyes with them, you will be afraid. Lots of gory scenes make this unsuitable for the children, but most teens have seen worse on their video games. Not necessarily collectible, but certainly worth a viewing, especially if you enjoy Kilmer and Douglas. "}{"Title":"Could have been great if... (possible spoilers)","Date":"16 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" ...This incredible true story could have been much, much better than it was, but choppy editing, inconsistent direction, less-than-great cinematography,and the questionable plot decision to add a fictional American big game hunter to help Patterson hunt the lions, made this movie less than it could have been. The fact is that, in real life, Patterson (SPOILER) killed both lions himself, and frankly I think it would have been a better movie if they had written the script to reflect that. The Remington character always seemed somewhat out of place to me, and when I realized he was just a device added by the writers, for reasons that I still can't fathom, I understood why. Maybe they were afraid Val Kilmer could not carry the movie on his own--frankly, I think he could have with no problem. Maybe it was because Michael Douglas was an executive producer on the film, and wanted to be in the movie. Whatever the reason, this movie goes on my list of missed opportunities to make a really great film. Eight stars, only because I love the story, and love what the movie could have been. "},{"Title":"Fairly Entertaining...","Date":"15 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" Stephen Hopkins 'The Ghost and the Darkness' is a Fairly Entertaining Flick, that manages some well-done moments in the first-hour. However, a not-so-convincing second-hour, pulls down it's potential, in totality. Set in 1898, 'The Ghost and the Darkness' is based on the true story of two lions in Africa that killed 130 people over a nine month period, while a bridge engineer and an experienced old hunter tried to kill them. Cinematically, this adventure flick begins really well and offers an engaging first hour. But, the second-hour, is not really convincing. Even the climax for that matter, isn't razor-sharp. William Goldman's Screenplay is fair. Stephen Hopkins Direction is good. Cinematography is striking. Editing is passable. Sound Editing, is indeed impressive. Performance-Wise Val Kilmer does well. Michael Douglas is adequate. Om Puri & Tom Wilkinson lend good support. Brian McCardie & Emily Mortimer appear in brief roles. On the whole, A One-Time Watch. "},{"Title":"The Ghost and the Darkness","Date":"20 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" I have heard some people say that this movie is a remake of Jaws. The only way this movie even comes close to Jaws is that it is an animal that is killing people. Other than that this movie is in no relation to Jaws. The story it's self is amazing, and true! I read the book written by James Patterson on his adventures in Africa. And except for Remington killing the first lion, and the lions having manes, the movie is very close to what really happened. I find this movie one of the most exciting and memorable movies I have ever seen. I first watched when I was about 10 years old, and I never forgot a second of it. In conclusion, I see this movie as Val Kilmer's best work and one of the best thriller movies ever. It is my favorite movie. "},{"Title":"At the end, I was shivering, not of fear, but the THRILL","Date":"17 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" When I heard the plot of the movie, I thought jokingly that how exciting will it be watching them killing lions, i.e. always heard of hunting etc... But the Movie takes this to an ultra high level which is extremely remarkable, for a movie its just Awesome. The Tsavo maneaters are the second lead and of-course, the background score was fantastic enough to be given an Oscar. Talking about it, the movie successes to make you realize the insanity of the Tsavo maneaters and lets you feel the thrill to enroll within the movie, to the instant i.e. the sequences when John and Remington were left alone at the site to hunt them makes you get your eyes searching every corner to the screen.Overall, The movie being from 1996 that is quite old enough time for now, still hits the mind when watched...So my view, definitely watch it... "},{"Title":"one of the better killer animal films","Date":"7 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" Ghost and the Darkness (1996)5 word summaryMan-eating Lions Terrorize African village The Ghost and the Darkness is very interesting movie. It's based on a true story, but really who ever knows how much of that story is true. The story of 2 lions attacking the workers of a rail road and the hunt for those lions by Patterson are both known true and not necessarily that exciting. However, how clever and seemingly hell bent on killing Patterson and the other men the lions are almost brings this movie into a Horror genre than just the adventure/thriller. Director Stephen Hopkins did a very good job at building tension and really making this a heart pounding thriller. The problem however with the film, and what knocked down the rating for me, was the acting. Val Kilmer, who can be good, and Michael Douglas, who can be amazing, both had mediocre performances at best. Kilmer didn't seem to care about the film or his character. Douglas almost over acted but it still was poor. With the acting aside it was a very enjoyable film. A real thrill ride. Its one of the best films I've seen about killer animals, besides Jaws of course. The fact that it's based on a true story brings a sense of terror not usually accompanied with similar films. Like I said its no Jaws, but it's better than Anaconda8/10 "},{"Title":"bad kitties with an attitude and on a rampage","Date":"30 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" Cats have very distinctive nature. Every kind of cat has predatory instinct. When you are up against some one big as a lion, the odds are very against you. In the late 1800 its a story based on actual event regarding 2 man eaters of tsavo in Africa, who made a havoc but a great terrifying ordeal among the hearts of African and Indian slaves working under the command of imperial British empire in there. This story reveals when they were constructing a railway line out there 2 adult grown male lions stalked and killed so many of them. The surprising part of the events is that its not only the hunger which drives them berserk. They are doing it for fun and sport. They have a passion for killing humans and than castrating and smashing their corpses. Moreover they knew what traps are awaiting them. Also they know which men are at their trail. They know how to avoid them and what time to openly go head on head with them. Val kilmer starred as Col Jhon Patterson the British officer and engineer in charge of railway line and Michael Douglas Starred as Remington , an adventurer hitch hiker and professional hunter. I believe it was an excellent combination both actors. Both of them are my favorites. Along with them the other combination was of the lions Bongo and Cesar , i really acknowledge their work as a team and co-operation for making of this film. I heard a quote from a movie , When a man and a beast taste each others blood they both become the same thing. Maybe it was the case of lion because the way they were so brutal , no beast can go to that extant. If you watch this film you see in the early minutes of the film that they were not the lions killing people around there. Before them there was a single one killed by col Patterson but he was not that much clever and aggressive , while the most strongest black man was killed by the lions the doctor in charge of the autopsy at 1st couldn't believe that it was a lion's job, he had experience of such fatalities before but not like this one. When Val kilmer and Micheal Douglas joined hands to end their killing spree , the lions changed their strategy of hunting. There fear was so much powerful nobody could even breath properly in that environment. The most terrifying parts are in the movie when they attack the camp in day light killing and half devouring a man also killing the British deputy of Patterson in self defense , than dodging both men and attacking the hospital where patients were being treated. If you watch the movie don't let yourself being hateful towards the big cats. As a matter of fact they have never threatened us so much as we have massacred them and destructed their habitats. Man has proved a far more greatest Nemesis to beasts and even its own kind. I always love and admire the cats of all kinds. I believe they must be protected and conserved as its their right. Well if the film is concerned its going to be classic. A real but wonderful wild life epic. "},{"Title":"A Hunters Movie, Truly Epic!","Date":"16 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" The Plot Michael Douglas and Val Kilmer star in this tense, terrific and true adventure set in 1896 East Africa. There, two lions on a man-eating rampage have shut down the construction of a railway. The beasts hunt together, showing no fear of man or fire. What's more, they're killing for sport rather than for food - and they have an almost supernatural knack for knowing what traps await them. Big-game hunter Remington (Douglas) and construction engineer Patterson (Kilmer) set out to stop these unstoppable monsters. But, in this astonishing tale of man against beast, the hunters become the hunted.My Spiel The Ghost and the Darkness Thrilling. This is a great movie. I watch this movie all the time. Only the most incredible parts of the story are true. I like both the main leads in this movie so it helps in the enjoyment factor. Also being a big fan of the Predator movie. I should love that this is a movie about hunters. Well in the movie (Douglas) character is ranked one of the best hunters in the world, and just happens to show up watch the movie and you will know why, but this is a terrific movie full of action, smarts, and the strengths of hunting a best that shows no fear, truly suspenseful and yet again THRILLING! A must watch for anyone! The Ghost and the Darkness (1996) Review 8/10 "},{"Title":"Graphic, riveting story. Highly Recommended","Date":"13 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" I have watched this movie around 4 times now and still find it riveting. It contains great wildlife panoramas/scenery and I think the story line is well developed and interesting.Being based on a true story gives it extra appeal. The acting is exceptional by all.I have one question though which maybe someone can answer. Is the character of Charles Remington (Michael Douglas) real or fictional ? I thought I had heard of Remington before but can find no information regarding him on the WWW. There is also no mention of Remington in all the info on the Field Museum (Chicago Illinois) site for the TSAVO man eaters. That site states that Patterson killed both lions (on two separate occasions).I am inclined to think that the info there is historical and true.Does anyone know anything about Charles Remington ?Great movie. I recommend it to all. "},{"Title":"Excellent. Nearly perfect.","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  The movie's atmosphere is really strong and intense and captures you, which is all I expect from a movie - I want to forget my everyday life for a modest amount of time ( 1.5 h ;-) )  What more could you ask for? "},{"Title":"Chills Galore from Two Bad Kitties","Date":"16 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" Exciting movie &#x96; well acted and brilliantly directed. The attention to detail going into this production is amazing. It seems modern day monsters have to be ridiculously strong; impossible to kill and horribly frightening. I guess a rule of thumb now-a-days would be, 'The scarier the CGI-ghoul, the bigger the shock value and bigger profits.' Nothing like that was used here - just a marriage of talent and skill. I have to say that this flick ended up being a nail-biting-tingle. Brilliant filming, directing and acting transformed two relatively timid lions into some scary hairy beasts (I - uh - guess they were already that.) In order to get a rise out of the audience when the two monster kitties made their approach, everything had to work perfectly. Well in this movie &#x96; everything did work flawlessly and the scare factor was outstanding. Without a doubt, Stephen Hopkins is a very talented director and skilled visionary. Of course it did not hurt having two terrifically talented stars such as&#x85;Val 'I'll Be Your Huckleberry' Kilmer and Michael Douglas. These two guys were really spot-on. The whole movie is a sight of beauty as well. I highly recommend anyone to watch. It does not have the flash and pace of the movies cranked out now-a-days, but it is still a pretty good ride. Even though the story is loosely based on actual occurrences&#x85;the idea is there&#x85;and pretty harrowing. "}{"Title":"Two Lions","Date":"4 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" Stephen Hopkins directed this adventure film that stars Val Kilmer as Col. John Henry Patterson, who, in 1898 Africa, is in charge of building a bridge, but work is halted because two lions have been killing workers, and the locals believe the lions to be avenging tribal spirits. To show them that they are ordinary lions, his government hires noted hunter Remington(played by Michael Douglas) to join Patterson to kill them, but even he admits to having never seen anything like these lions before... Exciting and tense film is nicely acted and directed, with a most interesting story that was based on fact, incredibly enough! "},{"Title":"A story of two demonic lions","Date":"16 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" This is one absolutely awesome movie. It is about two man eating lions that plague a construction site of a bridge in Africa. These lions are no ordinary lions, they are vicious man eaters that do not conform to what lions are like. The natives call them demons, and as this is claimed to be a true story, this is biblically possible. But before I go into the theology of this, I wish to look at the movie first.This move is set in Africa at the turn of the century. There is a race with the other European countries, namely Germany, to colonise Africa. A bridge must be built so that the British can move further inland. When Val Kilmer's character first looks at the river he is amazed. He says that the wonder of building bridges is to put land over water. The bridge is also seen as a chain, or a manacle for the river. An unbridged river is an obstacle but a bridge makes this obstacle no more. The bridge tames the land for the river can no longer block the progress of man. But here the land seems to fight back.Right at the beginning, the first lion attacks and is killed with one bullet. Thus Val Kilmer comes out as a hero. Soon after the two lions, the Ghost and the Darkness, come and cause havoc in the campsite. No matter what they do they cannot stop these lions. A great hunter, Remington (Michael Douglas) comes along to help get rid of these lions. He believes them to be simple lions, but when his tribe leaves, he suddenly realises what he is up against. There is a very interesting scene, but to tell you about it would give something away.These lions are considered demons by the natives, and in my mind this is possible. If we look in the Gospels of Matthew, Mark, and Luke, there is the story of the man possessed by the demon legion (he is called legion because he is many). The demon pleads with Christ not to send them back to hell so Christ sends them into a herd of swine. This shows us that demons can manifest themselves in animals as well as in humans. With this in mind, the animal kingdom is not as weak as we make it out to be. These lions were intelligent and would torment their enemies and then turn and indiscriminately kill. If you watch the hospital scene you will note that they kill everybody but do not take anybody away to eat. As Remington says, they do it for the pleasure of it. Even though they are demons, they are still lions, as the swine were still swine. Just because they were possessed did not mean they were unkillable. The soul cannot be destroyed but the body can. The swine ran into the lake and were drowned, the lions were also vulnerable in the same way.This movie comes out as a horror movie, but it is far more than that. There is not ghosts or demons running about, just two lions. The natives call them evil, and that they are, but the movie is real, or so it claims. This really happened and thus can happen to us. A horror movie comes across as being unreal. We can leave a horror movie at the end and be comforted that it is not real. This was. The only comfort we have is that the lions are dead. "},{"Title":"OK but something was missing","Date":"11 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" The Ghost and The Darkness tells the real story of Lt. Col. John Paterson (played by Val Kilmer) and his fight to build a railway bridge across a river in Africa in 1896 during the Imperialism but it's not only that. Besides the difficult of building this great project he must protect his employees and himself of two dangerous lions who are believed to have killed more than 100 men. The local residents call them as 'The Ghost' and 'The Darkness' because of their great abilities to appear and disappear fast into the woods after killing many of the bridge workers. Patterson is not alone on the hunt of these two lions; he is helped by a notorious American hunter (Michael Douglas) with notable skills on hunting. Both men are trapped in a risky mission and they must run fast because the time is running out and the bridge must be made because England wants to go ahead in the conquest of more African territories surpassing Germany and other European countries. And that bridge must be done no matter what it takes. It is said that this film is based on true events but I still find very difficult to believe in many of the things portrayed here (such as many of the lions attacks or Kilmer facing the lion without shooting and surviving after that). Douglas's character is fictional (read trivia section), created for dramatical purposes and that was great (although many people complain that he was the worst thing in the movie). He really made the movie more watchable than it is, added energy to a story that kept being boring and very slow at times. Considering that The Ghost and The Darkness was written by the great William Goldman I expected a more thrilling movie, with more character and story profundity. I mean, it's just two guys hunting two killing lions in the desert and....? Too much gratuitous and not so fantastic but enjoyable and watchable. The locations were amazing; the main theme score composed by Jerry Goldsmith was brilliant (a little bit wasted, could be used more here or in another film); some of the action scenes were great with the required amount of tension needed but other ones didn't worked at all (many of the attack scenes were unconvincible although real animals were used); the cinematography of Vilmos Zsigmond was good and bad (the day light scenes were very good, he captured great things, but the night scenes was just like the title, too much darkness). Acting is fine for a movie of this caliber, Kilmer was okay, Douglas was very interesting, and the movie also features good performances of Tom Wilkinson, Bernard Hill, John Kani (the leader of the tribe), Om Puri, Emily Mortimer and Brian McCardie.It is very entertaining, it doesn't shock the viewer, it doesn't scare the viewer, and it doesn't have a meaning towards anything. The qualities and defects depends of the viewer. 7/10 "},{"Title":"A Thrilling Adventure!","Date":"1 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" Maitland Edey of Time-Life Books wrote quite a lengthy story relating to the man-eating lions of Tsavo in the late 19th Century. This would be a worthwhile read to back up this exciting movie experience.Val Kilmer does an admirable job in his role as an Irish engineer who is building a bridge for the British Empire. The supporting cast is very good and the suspense is well developed throughout the film. The scenes with the lions are brutal, frightening and gory.Although this movie has an excellent cast, it is somewhat damaged by the sudden, awkward and embarrassing appearance of the Executive Producer of the film, Michael Douglas, who tries masquerading as a war-weary soldier-hunter, who is hell-bent on destroying these two man-eating lions. His acting does improve as the movie progresses but his appearance in the film is gratuitous.Douglas's acting leaves a lot to be desired but the movie picks back up, undamaged, as Val Kilmer resumes the lead role again in hunting down these devil-possessed lions. Sensitive and moving scenes juxtaposed against the savagery of the lion attacks add power to the sequences making this movie a true cinematic treat.Although it is gory and frightening in spots, this tale works well with the interesting narrative that accompanies it.A thrilling movie, one that should be seen. A great adventure! "},{"Title":"Based on real events about two lions whose attacks  stop the construction of the East  African Railroad","Date":"25 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" Thrilling as well as handsome adventure story set in 1896 , dealing with of two man-eating lions , hunting together for sport rather than food , as they killed 130 people and nearly derailed the building of the East African Railway . These Lions of Tsavo (prophetically means place of slaughter) were maneless, perhaps due to environmental variables, although maneless lions are not unique to Tsavo. Their taste for man may have been due to an outbreak of Rinderpest at the time, which may have depleted their normal prey. Engineer John Patterson (Val Kilmer) is sent by his chief (Tom Wilkinson) to build a bridge over the Tsavo river . Then the workers become convinced the lions , nicknamed The Ghost and the Darkness are actually demons carrying out a cruel carnage . John sets in pursuit the beasts but he has little luck killing the lions , though he gets to survive on a mixture of cunning and bravura . As the beasts contemptuously evade all traps set for them . After losing dozens of workers to the lions, the company brought in Remington, an American , to hunt them, but even his reputation for being the best could not prevent yet more massacre . There is eventually formed a team between the brave engineer and a famous white hunter (Michael Douglas ,despite having top billing, he doesn't appear on screen until 45 minutes into the movie) but the legendary lions survive to kill and kill again ; as they still seem to have advantage until a frenziedly breathtaking last reel . This nail-biting film packs thrills , chills , grisly events , slurping blood , quick cut edition is used to depict the lions' attacks and terror elements . Based on a true story well screen-written by the notorious writer William Goldman , he took the actual experiences by real Lt. Col. John Henry Patterson published a book about his adventures , titled The Man-Eaters of Tsavo ; however , Michael Douglas' character Remington as a 'great white hunter' is fictionalized , while Val Kilmer's character John Patterson killed both lions . Lt. Col. Patterson owned the skins and skulls of the two Tsavo man-eaters. After the lions were killed, their skins were used as rugs by Patterson. They were later sold In 1924, Patterson sold them to the Field Museum in Chicago for $5,000 . Because they were originally used as rugs with resulting deterioration of the hides, the lions are much smaller than they originally were . There is only one scene involving an animatronic lion , all the other shots were used using two real life lions named Bongo and Caeser ; the same lions also appeared in the film George of the jungle (1997). Very good acting from main cast , and nice support casting . As Val Kilmer is magnificent as an engineer in charge of building a bridge and turned into a relentless hunter . Michael Douglas is top-notch as a two-fisted as well as legendary game hunter with his complex mixture of bravado , toughness and calm . Impressive production design and art design from Stuart Wurtzel and Giles Masters , including wonderful outdoors and a lot of extras . The location where the bridge was built is now called Man-Eater's Junction, after the two lions. It is in Tsavo East National Park, Kenya, about 200 miles southeast of Nairobi . Support actors are frankly engaging such as Tom Wilkinson as Robert Beaumont , John Kani as Samuel , Bernard Hill as Dr. David Hawthorne , Brian McCardie as Angus Starling , Om Puri as Abdullah and Emily Mortimer as wife . Rousing as well as exciting musical score by maestro Jerry Goldsmith . The motion picture was compellingly filmed by Director Stephen Hopkins (Lost in space , Predator 2 , Under suspicion , Blown away) , he wanted his longtime collaborator Peter Levy to be the film's cinematographer, but he was overruled by the studio, who wanted to hire Vilmos Zsigmond who carries out a splendid and colorful cinematography . Rating  Above average . Well worth watching . "},{"Title":"The Man-Eaters Of Tsavo","Date":"6 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" This movie is a based on a true story about the man-eaters of Tsavo i like this movie very much i think story line was great and i think Val Kilmer and Michael Douglas did a great job its a great and 100 percent recommended if u haven't seen it yet go check it out guys its really one the best and have place on the list of my top 50 movies its really great some scenes are pretty scary man-eaters attacking the workers and dragged them out of their tents at night although Michael Douglas character was fictional but he did it very well and Val Kilmer the role Colonel John Patterson very its a great movie and i think best movie ever made about the man-eaters of Tsavo "},{"Title":"Powerful and Visceral... Utterly Unforgettable","Date":"1 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" Stephen Hopkins's The Ghost and the Darkness is a film that I knew, once I saw it, would stay with me for the rest of my life. A film that holds you tight in its embrace, and a film whose embrace you WANT to remain in. It's an intense, fascinating cinematic experience, one so exciting and oddly beautiful that I am finally ready to call it one of those movies I love most. Hopkins knew what he was doing, and this has to be one of his most underrated works. But then, the number of awards is not what speaks volume about a movie; it's the content, and The Ghost and the Darkness delivers it in volumes. Fourteen years on, only The Edge challenges it in the true fleshing out of terrifying animal personalities.In 1898, Irish Colonel John Patterson is sent to the river Tsavo, Africa, to construct a railroad bridge - forcing him to leave his pregnant wife behind in London. Upon arriving in Africa, Patterson learns of a rampant lion on the loose. He quickly manages to kill it, raising the morale of the workers. This, however, proves to be entirely deceptive. Soon after, two male lions start to prey on the workers - chillingly, they appear to kill for sport rather than food. All efforts to stop them are in vain until hunter Charles Remington arrives to help Patterson rid Tsavo, and the workers, of this threat. But the lions (called the Ghost and the Darkness by the workers) are smart, and disposing of them won't be easy even with Remington in league.This premise is based on a real-life account by John Patterson, and it was practically destined for a movie adaptation. While it is quite true that the movie differentiates on Patterson's account in many ways (Remington is entirely fictional), it's all for the benefit of this film. The actual lions were maneless, yet for the sake of the movie's aesthetics, the fully-maned lions (Bongo and Caesar) strike a more impressive image. The easiness with which the lions kill is also a tad exaggerated, but then, again, the film is all the more suspenseful for it.Quite frankly, I have never seen more beautiful filmwork on lions. The cinematography of this movie is fantastic. One of the scenes in particular - where we first truly see one of the lions kill and eat a worker before our very eyes - is fabulously staged and filmed. In fact, it's one of those movie moments that have edged themselves permanently into my memory - the most artistic, even beautiful piece of animal gore film-making you could find (nothing too queasy). The movie deservedly won an Oscar for Best Sound Editing (the lions's growls, roars and chomps send shivers down my spine for one), and the African-flavoured score by Jerry Goldsmith is wonderful.While it may not be as memorable as the aforementioned, the acting is more than acceptable. John Patterson may be Val Kilmer's most underrated and misunderstood performance; he delivers the role with an understatement that fits the brooding nature of the character. His very subtle Irish accent, possibly heavily affected by a long servitude of Britain, is another trait he gets across very well. Remington is endlessly entertaining and the two characters work together like magic. John Kani and Brian McCardie are both solid as faithful co-leader Samuel and missionary Angus Starling. Emily Mortimer's Helena Patterson cannot be overlooked, either; her few scenes are enough to demonstrate the strong relationship between her husband and her.It's the lions, though, who are the stars. It is about thirty minutes into the film when tG&tD really reels you in. One lion attacks and kills a workman in the middle of the day, in the middle of a group of working men. Patterson and his trusty associates rush to the scene, but by then it's too late. As they approach the lion, the lion is eating the man, viscerally and clearly, before our very eyes. This is a sequence that you would think would make you sick, but, frighteningly, it does the exact opposite. It is an intensely beautiful scene; the lion's roars, chomps and ecstatic growls make me tremble as I watch, glued in my seat. The sequence is hardly over a minute in length, and it's still incredibly strong. The visceral nature of the scene coupled with the lion's intense and undeniable beauty make him the undeniable attraction, even when you learn of the lions' more sinister nature later in the film, which even then is questionable. It's hard for the lions even to emerge as villains, and they remain enigmatic and frightening, yet somehow admirable. Few films have made me as torn about its characters as The Ghost and the Darkness. Starring as the lions are Bongo the lion (RIP) and Caesar, and they do it fantastically, the beautiful beasts they already are.If there is one thing I can criticise, it's the editing. Occasionally, quick shots are shared between two scenes at different points in the film. There are moments when the staging reveals itself to be flawed, in particular the hospital attack scene. The cutting disrupts the continuity and flow of the scene rather than supports it. Also, I think there were sometimes too many close-ups on the lions and not enough middle shots to make us really believe in their size and strength.Despite the savageness, the lions and their attacks are almost sophisticated to behold, and it's perhaps this that's the most thrilling aspect of the film. The Ghost and the Darkness is, on all accounts, a cool film - and there's nothing wrong with that. More than that, though, this is the best enactment of lion attacks you could find in a movie, and I myself have never seen more aesthetic filmwork on lions. Could be a little concrete, but definitely worth a view, for beauty as well as excitement. "},{"Title":"These lions have bite.","Date":"16 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" My Take Rip-snorting, old-fashioned thriller with fine performances and some neat thrills. Johnny Weissmuller would be proud! THE GHOST IN THE DARKNESS is an old-fashioned jungle adventure flick, the kind that's no longer being made today. It claims to be based on a true story, but even if it's not, THE GHOST AND THE DARKNESS is still a lot of fun. It's exciting, thrilling and often suspenseful. Fact or fiction, this movie is worth a price of admission.Val Kilmer plays Col. Patterson, a brave Englishman who is sent by his greedy investor (Tom Wilkinson) to the wilds of Africa to supervise a long-delayed railroad construction. When he arrives, he discovers the problem. Every night, the workers are attacked by a pair of lions who, unlike most, prefer killing for some sport. Every night, the lions kill a some two or more workers, which results to the lessening of workers. I'll sort it out! says Patterson, as he makes an attempt to stop the lions. After a series of failures, Patterson aids the help of fortune-seeking game hunter Charles Remington (Michael Douglas in top form) to stop the beasts in his old-fashioned but almost successful attempts.The film is simply a land-bound JAWS, complete with its characters and their attempts to stop the beast(/s). There are many of these kind of films, but THE GHOST AND THE DARKNESS are one of the better ones. As a matter of fact, it's actually quite suspenseful. Director Stephen Hopkins knows how to set things up, and delivers immensely. The performances, especially by the two leads are terrific. Somewhere in the film, Douglas' Remington character casts almost the same shadow as Robert Shaw's Quint in JAWS. The script has its dull spots, some are quite silly, but there all part of that grand tradition. The lion attacks could have been more convincing than rug-like things being waved at the camera though. Nevertheless, this is a good film and a taut and expertly handled old-fashioned adventure thriller.Rating **** out of 5. "},{"Title":"The devil has come to Tsavo.","Date":"21 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" Two lions and over 130 people dead. They were not killing for food, but for sport. They collected their prey in a cave.As unbelievable as it sounds, it is true. This exciting film which featured magnificent cinematography in the African jungle and sound that set your teeth on edge, was memorable from start to finish.Val Kilmer and Michael Douglas made a great team as they hunted the lions. The action was real as they did not seem to be a match for these Kings of the Jungle even with their firepower. It was a real rumble in the jungle that ended almost in a draw.Great movie. "},{"Title":"Silly but watchable story about lions going berserk.","Date":"21 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" First of all, I don't for a minute buy this story as being even close to anything that really happened. Hollywood has tried to con us for years with all sorts of bull*** premises based on true events. If I were to believe them then that would mean that I'd have to believe that Gandhi was a saint, and I'd have to believe all the other chewing-gum biographies this fairy-tale-factory Tinseltown has produced over the years.Now, I am no expert on lion behaviour, but I do know that male lions lie around all day and hunt only occasionally. In fact, most of the time their stomachs are so full that they touch the ground! Needless to say, they are lazy bastards (and the females hunt for them mostly), and prefer to take a long, long nap after their dinner is over. Sure, not all lions live in groups, so I am not questioning the reality of two males pairing up and hunting together. But even if we allow for a possibility that the two males are insane, I still find it difficult to believe that they would be willing to hunt every day, and be so super-intelligent and cunning that they get killed only after claiming as many as a hundred victims. This is preposterous; I can accept that they are insane, and I can even allow for the fact that they kill for fun, but they cannot possibly be THIS clever - they are just cats, for chrissakes.Also, this film plays with absurd coincidences a little too much, for my taste. First we have that absurd scene in which three Indians are unable to get a single bullet into a huge lion and at close range - every one of their bullets hits the rods between themselves and the lion. I mean, this is nonsense; it's mathematically possible, but so is winning the lottery three times in a row. Then we have the absurd coincidence that Kilmer's gun (that he switched with the doctor) fails him at just the moment when he is facing one of our invincible lions. To make things sillier, the lion just stands there like a museum piece, instead of immediately attacking Kilmer. Lion attack only dark-coloured people immediately. Lion not attack big superior white man. White man have more luck. White man master of universe and animal kingdom. Lion not sure if to kill white man. Let's also not forget the scene where Kilmer is distracted by an owl (of all things) and drops the gun, just as he is about to shoot the lion after hours of waiting. And to top everything, there is that scene at the end where Kilmer actually manages to outrun the lion and climb a tree - only to be followed by this tree-climbing lion! Lions climb trees?! Since when?? Oh, I forgot this was The Ghost... Or was it The Darkness? I'm not sure... Why the hell does Kilmer outrun the lion, when many before him didn't have any chance whatsoever? Oh, I think I know White man quicker than lion. Colored man slower than lion. Because white man superior in every way. Better hunter. Better shooter. Better runner. Forget coloured man winning sprints at Olympics. It's White man who faster. White man who smarter. Lion respect white man. Lion afraid to catch up with white man in race. Lion pee in pants. Lion afraid. I also don't like the more-or-less (unintentionally?) implied idea that the lives of dozens of people are worth sacrificing for a stupid bridge.Still, the film is never boring, lacks any signs of political correctness, and isn't bad overall. "}{"Title":"Good Movie... honestly it scares you when you realize its a true story","Date":"17 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" Nice story set in Africa based on a real life story about a construction site in the Tsavo region terrorized by two African lions The story is nice Val Kilmer acts perfect as Paterson and Michael Douglas as Remington is good too the movie is nice, edging and scary i mean, after all, i believe that after been eaten by a great white shark think about been killed by a lion must be the second scariest thing...Really nice movie and, like i said, think that this was actually a real story it scares you more because that happened which means that nature can be truly scary... real but scary...Watch it if ya can... "},{"Title":"Ghostly Lions.","Date":"16 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" The Ghost and the Darkness (1996) Dir Stephen Hopkins / Cast Val Kilmer, Michael Douglas, Tom Wilkinson, Bernard Hill, Emily Mortimer Century old story about a couple of lions that seemingly prevent a railway from being built in Africa. Locals call them the Ghost and the Darkness. That may symbolize the attacks that happen out of nowhere giving the creatures a sort of spiritual presence. Val Kilmer was transported to Africa to help build the railway but eventually lands many failed attempts to bag the cats. Michael Douglas shows up to assist in the hunt but nothing works. Tension rapidly builds as the lions seem to appear out of nowhere but it becomes repetitious with a shocking dream sequence. Directed by Stephen Hopkins with terrific African photography but that is about the height of enjoyment. Kilmer is the only effective casting. He arrives in Africa and becomes entangled in the battle against the cats. According to the incident for which this is based apparently the Kilmer character killed both lions. Douglas is unfortunately unnecessary as a game hunter brought in. When Douglas is found dead after a lion attack, everyone in the audience slaps their palms to their foreheads. True story or not, nobody needs this thrown on them. Tom Wilkinson and Bernard Hill are flat. Great African photography accompanies theme of unseen fear. Score 6  / 10 "},{"Title":"Morally bankrupt--something the NRA and Walter Palmer would praise","Date":"29 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" There's no question that this film was inspired by Jaws which morally speaking, was pretty feeble. A great white shark is doing what it does naturally-eat to survive, and humans are taking the fish and leaving it with no choice but to eat humans who leave their natural habitat and go in the water. Asking for it. We have a shark hunter Quint, whose mates were left to die by the US military, and instead of directing his anger at them-he directs it at sharks. This film is in the same vein. You have two lions who we now know were not being maniacs but just seeking to survive. Humans come along and build an unnatural structure-a railroad--which provides them with easy access to a food source.The movie shows some semblance of morality by not making Patterson into the old fashioned big game hunter--but that is what he was. Now let's look at reality. As of 2015, great white sharks are near extinction. Lions also, are dwindling thanks to hunters and loss of habitat. There are more lions in zoos and canned hunting ranches than in the wild.Who are the real monsters? The film presents the lions as if they have the malicious maniacal spirit of humans which is just slanderous and false--not to mention morally obscene given the state of the wilds.Another oddity is that the Muslim and hindu workers are not presented equally. The hindus are anonymous-and made subject of ridicule because of their sacred cow beliefs. The muslims are presented as the sensible ones. Obviously this wouldn't have survived the script stage after 2001. If you want to see real lions and how they are not like humans, check out the 1981 film Roar--which is far more entertaining. "},{"Title":"In the jungle, the mighty jungle","Date":"26 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" Well, Simba got a bit of an attitude in this one. I loved this film when I was a bit younger but now, I'd say I have mixed views about it.On the one hand, there are a few flaws; for one, the writing is not all that great and there are some very, very cheesy lines in there. Second, there are certain elements of the story that are just not believable if you are trying to sell this as a true story (e.g. the hospital scene) and I just wish they had stuck more to the book because there was (in my opinion) enough in there to sell as a film. Val Kilmer himself was not particularly interesting and I feel this was poor casting; this was more of a role for Mel Gibson or Kevin Costner.However, there still is a bit to like in the film, Michael Douglas was awesome in his scenery chewing role as the big game hunter and you can tell that she is really enjoying the role. John Kani was good in his role as Samuel and reminded me a bit of Rafiki from The Lion King in that wise adviser role/ comic relief. From a technical stand point, the cinematography was awesome, I know the film was shot in South Africa and they got some really amazing shots. The music (particularly for the intense scenes) was awesome, one of Jerry Goldsmith's best in my opinion.Overall, The Ghost and the Darkness is a mixed bag but overall if you enjoy films like say Jaws then you will probably enjoy this won OK, and that is my overall view of it. "},{"Title":"There's a great story in here . . . somewhere","Date":"26 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" I'm not sure where my disappointment lay with The Ghost and the Darkness. There's something definitely off with Val Kilmer, who feels like this is his first time at-bat (it's a lifeless performance, with a sometimes Irish accent). I've definitely seen better from the man. Michael Douglas ably takes the reins halfway in, and plays it larger than life, but he's melodramatic in comparison. The big scary lions at the center of this thing are filmed very conventionally, lots of closeups of gaping maw, snarling, but nothing unnatural. They're supposed to be possessed - evil, if you will - but it's two lions with bloody jaws, leaping through the air, etc. And screaming railroad workers. It's not all that convincing.Mostly, it's a tepid adventure movie. Two bi names stuck with two bloodthirsty kitty cats. I'm terrified of huge cats myself, so it's saying something that they came off less than threatening.5/10 "},{"Title":"I loved this true story of adventure!","Date":"24 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" This movie, based on the novel by Col. Patterson, caught my adoration for many reasons! The biggest was the choice of setting with was filmed in such a way as I felt I felt like I was truly there, or rather longed to be! The true story of Col. Patterson's adventure in Kenya and his battle with the Lions engrossed me completely! While it's true that certain liberties were taken with the story, like the introduction of Remington (in Patterson's true account, there was no Remington), it was done in such a way that I really didn't care. Douglas did a marvelous job as the character of Reminton, as did Kilmer as Col. Patterson and John Kani as Samuel who for me, stole the show!!! I love period adventure with stunning settings like Lawrence of Arabia (also a true story), and now, The Ghost and the Darkness! Well worth devoting every minute to! "},{"Title":"Doesn't Fail To Hit The Mark","Date":"18 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" Col. John Henry Patterson (Kilmer) has been assigned to build a bridge in Tsavo, Africa, but an already difficult task has been made even worse when lion attacks start happening within the main camp grounds not long after his arrival. Patterson kills a lion they think is responsible for the attacks and so work recommences. Unfortunately, the attacks continue but it soon comes to light that it's not just one lion who's attacking the workers, but two. It's here that a hunter, Charles Remington (Douglas), has been called upon to help track and kill the lions, and so, along with Patterson, the dangerous cat-and-mouse hunt to stop the attacks begin.This film is actually based on real-life events that happened in 1898, and sticks pretty close to the true events as well and the two lions that were responsible for the killings can be seen at the Field Museum of Natural History in Chicago. One of the few parts that isn't true is the character of Charles Remington as he was just written as a part for the movie.The film is actually a pretty enjoyable ride and it has a few good suspenseful moments throughout. Some of the action scenes with the lions do look a tiny bit dated now and you can tell that some of them are super-imposed images, but they are not bad at all and don't ruin the overall effect of the movie.Altogether, the way the lion attacks are done is pretty impressive as it does look as though these two lions are tearing through these people. Some of the scenes are a wee bit intense so a few of the more squeamish audience members may find them a wee bit hard to watch.There's a pretty good cast for the movie too and even though Michael Douglas is a wee bit over-the-top with some of his part, he does a good job, as does Val Kilmer (apart from his Irish accent that is). The movie does get a bit slow in places, but these are pretty few and far between.Overall, this is a very decent movie and even almost 20 years on, is still worth watching. "},{"Title":"They're not your average lions.","Date":"24 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" Horror&#x85; with a true twist (well kinda) to its based facts involving two killer lions terrorizing a rail construction in East Africa, 1896. These two male man eaters hunted together (which is a rarity), and seemed to be killing simply for the sport than hunger. However the creepy thing was that they seemed to have a supernatural ability, to see what traps were laid out for them and find a way around it. Very calculative. Well this is Hollywood's take on the story, as The Ghost and the Darkness (which the native workers labeled the two beasts) is a considerably haunting and hardy old-school colonial undertaking with excellent performances led by a competent Val Kilmer (who beams of respectable confidence as the construction engineer) and Michael Douglas (who pleasurably laps up the role as a scruffy big-game hunter with an memorable entrance).When I was a kid and first saw the movie trailer&#x85; it just stuck with me. I had to see it, and I received it for Christmas (I guess now is a good time to update my VHS copy). Every time I decided to watch it, something just seemed to linger. The hard to believe idea that something like this had happened (well sort of) was terrifying, but hypnotic. Sure they probably sensationalize and added certain elements (like Douglas' character) for the purpose of story-telling, but it's still the notion behind the reasoning that raises the hairs on the back of my neck.Director Stephen Hopkins does a boldly workman-like and laid-back job, not concentrating on stylish flashes (although some visuals of the lions hunting have a certain flair to it; like a hunt in the nighttime mist), but letting the beautiful, but devouring African backdrop open up (like the scenes of the waist high, dry grass fields blowing in the wind caught by dashingly scenic photography) and slowly letting the stalking (or waiting) game unfold with terrorizing pockets of unnerving fear and macabre tension. William Goldman's story falls a bit on the uneven side, tending to be drawn out and recycled, but streaming through the script is some likable humor and a brutally unforgiving imprint that kept me enthralled. The disturbing attacks scenes are blood-stained, with a vicious intensity of adrenaline and blood-thirst, as the hunters become the hunted in a suspenseful struggle. Brave or foolish is what comes to mind. The creature effects mixed with real footage (done by Stan Winston studios) is well pulled off (even with a few niggling inclusions), that just looking into the beast's eyes was unnerving and so were images and sounds of the crunching and tearing of flesh. Music composer Jerry Goldsmith orchestrates an adventurously majestic and soaring arrangement that goes down well. There's sufficient additional support by the likes of John Kani, Bernard Hill, Tom Wilkinson, Brian McCardie and Om Puri.An effectively tailored and transfixing adventure into the darkness of Africa. "},{"Title":"Thriller with bite.","Date":"27 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" Overall I liked this film a lot it had good casting , good acting ,good sound track, also well shot, most important it was believable however it does beg the question why the American character Remington had been added -to save the day and show Patterson how to do THE business, possibly the same reason Patterson was changed into an Irish gentleman when if I remember from reading the factual book account a few years ago he was an English Gentleman from I think Hampshire? -Hollywood revisionist history perhaps -does it matter -yes I think it does it reduces the achievement and bravery of Patterson and makes the general public .Minor errors with scenes and sounds filmed in America or South Africa instead of actual site do not over shadow the quality of the film. I recommend this film as well worth watching and re-watching. "},{"Title":"Hollywood Revision","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" The story of the maneaters of Tsavo has been well known for many years in big-game hunting circles and ranks with the stories of Jim Corbett about the man-eating tigers and leopards of India (all of which are also true). I had read several accounts of the Tsavo incidents and looked forward to the film dramatisation. Regretfully, the inclusion of fictional characters (the absurd Remington)and events and the re-shaping of Patterson (he was a sergeant at the time, not a colonel) to fit the Hollywood image obscured the real drama and terror of the story. Truth is often stranger than fiction, a fact that seems to elude scriptwriters who, it appears, cannot resist the temptation to improve on the original usually to the detriment of the tale. That was certainly the case with this movie. A potential great which ended up very ordinary.Update 2006 I seldom re-visit comments that I've made on various web-sites but the Ghost & The Darkness recently appeared on my local TV Channel and I was moved to revisit my comments on the IMDb. I was amused to read certain additional reviews from commentators who apparently believe that Hollywood's version of the events at Tsavo, during the latter half of the 19th. Century were/are accurate & true which, if nothing else, illustrates the power of Hollywood to change history. I still cherish the inane comments of one commentator who, apparently, believes that the Remington character really existed and that the (really insignificant) character played by Val (Some-Body-Or-Other) was wasn't really a Sergeant but was 'really' a Colonel (hey, in Hollywood's lexicon) - a Colonel trumps a Sergeant every time! Bottom line? When ignorance is bliss, it's folly to be wise! Reality is nothing! Virtual Reality Reigns! "}{"Title":"Based on a true story it unfortunately pales compared to the original","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I've had the pleasure many years ago of reading the original story which was called The Maneaters of Kuhoman (please excuse the spelling as I don't have the book in front of me.) The real story is so much more exciting and fast-paced that it seems strange the movie wasn't able to reproduce that excitement. While the story was exciting in parts I found it tended to draw out too much between interesting scenes. If anyone out there really has the patience to read a good book the original story will blow you away compared to this watered-down version. "},{"Title":"Hollywood man eating lions","Date":"12 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" I watched the Ghost and the Darkness last night. And I have mixed feelings about it. It evokes some powerful imagery and emotions. I lived in Tanzania, Africa recently, serving in the Peace Corps. So it brought back a few powerful memories of Africa. So here it is, the good, the bad, and the ugly.First the good. The imagery and scenery of Africa (Kenya)- although shot in South Africa. The tall grass, the river, a few giraffes, trees, an African village, surrounding mountains. The cinematography is mostly good. That it is based on a true story of the building of the railroad in colonial Africa is also interesting. That there were two ferocious man eating lions that terrorized the builders, and that the engineer was able to kill them is a fascinating story. And the hides can be seen in a Chicago museum.I thought Michael Douglas's role added a lot to the movie, even if his character didn't occur in real life. He just kind of appears out of nowhere with a bunch of Maasai who are ready to hunt the lion. Douglas looks like a wild bush white man. The movie would have been a lot duller without him. The role of the Maasai hunting the lion is fascinating. I lived near Maasai in Tanzania, and this movie portrays some of their rituals which is entertaining and adds some realism.The story of the colonial period, building railroads, Africans and other nationalities, and the dangers and harshness of Africa are intriguing. The story does have an emotional pull to it. The African character adds some sense of authenticity to the movie. There are snippets of the language of Swahili which I know.Now the bad. The movie, like another reviewer said, is filled with clichs. I thought Val Kilmer's character was too neat- too confident, too self assured. His first night in Africa, after doing a drive by of giraffes earlier in the day, and he is already up in a tree shooting a lion with his first shot. The lions, while being based on a real story of two ferocious lions that truly did kill a bunch of people, are portrayed in a Jaws like fashion. I'm an environmental/conservationist. The problem with a movie like Jaws is it falsely portrays all sharks as vicious killers. This movie portrays all lions that way. I read recently that more people are killed taking selfies of themselves than are killed by sharks each year. We all know that lions and sharks are being decimated every year by rampant poaching and killing. So for someone who is knowledgeable about animal biology, the film is mostly rubbish.You won't get much insight into African culture here. There are mostly stereotypes of heroic whites, scared/submissive Africans and Asians, and the portrayal of the nice colonial master is unrealistic. The dialogue is pretty weak, the storyline isn't great, acting OK.Still entertaining to see Africa and lions but not a great movie. "},{"Title":"Interesting story, well told","Date":"13 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" Not many people know this, but once upon a time, many years ago, Val Kilmer appeared in good movies. This is one of them. Interesting (true) story, well told. The tension is built and maintained well, and the movie is decently paced. Feels like Jaws on land.Good performance by Val Kilmer. However, one can't say the same for Michael Douglas (who produced the movie, so must bear a lot of the responsibility for casting himself). Over-the-top, hammy performance. The movie was pretty much perfect, until his character appeared.Solid supporting cast which includes Tom Wilkinson, John Kani and Emily Mortimer. "},{"Title":"Crushed under the weight of Douglas's ego","Date":"1 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" An adaptation of fact based novel The Man-Eaters of Tsavo, The Ghost and the Darkness starts out as a good 'ol fashioned thriller with beautiful cinematography by Vilmos Zigmond and a passable, but a bit too understated performance by Val Kilmer. The plot is wonderfully cinematic about the construction of the Uganda Railway through British East Africa and two huge lions that are tearing the workers to pieces. All good so far. Then around 45 minutes in, Michael Douglas enters from another movie or failed audition from a Crocodile Dundee sequel and sinks this film. William Goldman who wrote the script, not only called the film a failure, but blamed producer and star Michael Douglas for using his ego and power to expand his once small role into the hammy character it became. It's a vain decision to expand his role, which was specifically added to this film, as this fictitious character never existed in real life, but his performance is at such odds with the tone and every other actor that he never lets this film rise above mediocrity. The Ghost and the Darkness is well made and has enough good to make this worth a watch, but in the right hands and a restraining order against Michael Douglas it could have been a great film. "},{"Title":"Jaws in Africa","Date":"4 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" The story of how two man-eating lions delayed the construction of a railway bridge in Tsavo, Kenya in 1898, is one that fascinates me. The film is loosely based on the biographical account of Lt Col John Henry Patterson, played by Val Kilmer in the movie. Though the original story is decently written and very exciting to read, it is also clearly a work of its time, and some of the more racist undertones of the original short story has wisely been omitted from the film.Halfway through the story something very strange happens. Being at least reasonably true to Patterson's account until then, the movie transforms into a carbon copy of Jaws! Suddenly throwing aside Patterson's story and all ties to reality, fictitious character Remington is introduced, horribly portrayed by Michael Douglas. This legendary huntsman is clearly the equivalent of Jaws's Quint, but unfortunately Douglas OTT-acting doesn't even come close to matching Robert Shaw's performance.Despite the movie's obvious ambition to be a Jaws set in Africa (even down to the POV shots of the lions stalking their prey), I think lots of things work well. The ambition to emulate Jaws is at least partly successful, and the movie has some great suspenseful scenes. The extensive use of real lions Caesar and Bongo and very little animatronics means that the predator scenes look great, and I think the film benefits from being made in the mid-nineties with basically no CGI. The scenery (South Africa substituting for Kenya) looks stunning and the film is wonderfully shot, and together with the realistic animal this makes the movie look really good. The acting, apart from Douglas, is also solid with Kilmer being backed up by a strong supporting cast of Tom Wilkinson, Bernard Hill and Emily Mortimer to name a few.Overall, I have a soft spot for monster movies and even though this has many flaws I think it is really entertaining and well worth watching! "},{"Title":"Jaws in Africa","Date":"26 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" This adventure film based loosely on real events is set in 19th century Africa. It recounts the story of an engineer sent there to build a bridge while at the same time deal with a couple of man-eating lions who are preying on the workforce.The Ghost and the Darkness takes an interesting real story and injects an element of almost supernatural horror into it. These lions are not simply picking off the locals as a means of getting an easy meal; they are in fact killing for fun. Moreover, they live in a cave where they drag back the carcasses of their unfortunate victims. All of this is of course completely unnatural lion behaviour, so it does take the story out of the realms of reality somewhat and plays on the idea that these creatures are inherently evil. The old African myths in which the title of the movie is derived are in actual fact proved to have some basis in explaining the attacks by these mysterious and deadly big cats.The film itself is solid if unremarkable. It follows the basic plot trajectory of Jaws, i.e. unnaturally vicious creature(s) attack local people while an idealistic man tries his best to thwart the danger with the aid of a grizzled hunter. It's all strictly middle-of-the-road with the only real standout aspect to it being its spectacular African setting. Val Kilmer and Michael Douglas are OK but nothing great. The lions are the real stars of the show although even they are only fleetingly presented really. All-in-all this is a passable version of an undeniably interesting real-life horror story. "},{"Title":"Disappointed","Date":"3 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" I saw parts of this many years ago, and due to my re-found interest in animals, I decided to watch the whole thing.I didn't expect anything extraordinary, but still better than what I saw. The film is built on too many clichs. It just seems like with such a story behind it, it could have been so much more, easily. I could take the romantic display of Africa, but the rest of it just didn't pass the test. Michael Douglas, which I've learned to enjoy over the years, really doesn't fit his role in this. Val Kilmer, despite the Irish accent thing, is decent. The African sidekick, or whatever I should call him, is also a bit annoying. First of all the relationship between these three is too cute. Second, I just don't like the way he's supposed to be representative of Africans, with all the mystic bullshit surrounding it. I could go on about how the depiction of Africans and Asians is completely outdated. They all have one thing in common, which is stupidity and fear. With one or two exceptions.My biggest problem with the film is that it in a way asks questions about the actual history of the Tsavo killers without even trying to give an answer. The constant mysticism where the lions are seen as Evil is not impressive. Overall the details were not convincing from a realist point of view.I also missed a little bit of human RAGE in a story about lion massacre.But hey, it's a motion picture where lions are the beasts. Might as well watch it because they don't make too many of these. "},{"Title":"Watchable, unremarkable colonial adventure, which borrows liberally from Jaws.","Date":"10 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" Not really the sort of film one might have expected to find in cinemas in 1996, The Ghost And The Darkness is an old-fashioned adventure flick evocative of the stuff MGM was releasing in the 1950s and 1960s. Based very loosely on a true story about man-eating lions, the film exaggerates the reality of its source into an epic scale colonial adventure and, come the end no-one in the audience will buy into the theory that this is an accurate account of what actually happened. The historical time frame and the animals behind the killings might be different, but this is essentially yet another variant on the Jaws story. In fact, if you pay close attention you will notice that this film apes the very structure of Jaws with almost indecent closeness. For starters, imagine Robert Shaw in period big game-hunting attire&#133;. and you've got the Michael Douglas character! In 1898 in East Africa, railway engineer John Patterson (Val Kilmer) is working on the construction of an important rail track when his job is interrupted by some gruesome deaths. Seems that two Tsavo lions are, uncharacteristically, terrorising the local rail workers, attacking them with near pre-meditated intent and cunning, before dragging them off to their deaths. Superstitions run high amongst the workers, and the colonialists face the prospect that their rail-road might never be completed unless the lions are killed. But the lions prove difficult to hunt, escaping time after time, adding further fuel to the natives' theory that they are supernatural creatures. After further killings, a big game hunter, Charles Remington (Michael Douglas), arrives on the scene and announces his intention to shoot the lions. Patterson and Remington form an uneasy alliance in their quest to rid the area of the man-eating killers.You'd expect a lot more from a film written by William Goldman, although The Ghost And The Darkness is admittedly exciting in patches and has a certain photographic sweep that makes it continually pleasing to the eye. Goldman himself has commented numerous times that his story was tampered with at several points along the way, losing its original intentions until it becomes little more than a simple-minded, old-fashioned star vehicle for two Hollywood heavyweights. It probably doesn't help that Stephen Hopkins is the appointed director &#150; Hopkins is on surer ground with no-brainer action bonanzas (e.g. Predator 2, Blown Away), and it is as plain as day here that he is happiest during the action scenes. When the film branches into its historical and mystical moments, Hopkins and his cast can make neither head nor tail of what they're doing. Kilmer gets the more interesting role of the two leads and plays it quite well, while Douglas turns up absurdly late in the film and unbalances things somewhat with his loud, brash and frankly hammy display as Remington. As usual, Jerry Goldsmith turns in a sweeping score that adds considerably to the drama. On the whole, The Ghost And The Darkness is watchable (though never particularly original or invigorating) action/adventure fare. "},{"Title":"history refs","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" This film is very useful for teaching students of Global History about Imperialism in Africa. The movie has excellent historical resources that include Cultural conflicts in colonialism, the competition between the European imperialist- France and England and their rush to build the railroad for domination and ownership of the Ivory trade, and religious differences between the cultures. It is suspenseful and gory at moments. Val's performance is great, and there are many beautiful views of Val in various scenes. The cinematography is great and shows some beautiful views of Africa! With all the gore and horror, the overall film is beautiful! The only weakness of the movie was Michael Douglas who comes off as too cool and flat. His character spoke with absolutely zilch emotion. "},{"Title":"One terrifyingly scary movie that is based on fact.","Date":"1 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" You've seen a dozen movies about Africa, and you could never understand why hunting big game is such a big deal. After all, you've seen movie actors calmly stand their ground with rifles and easily shoot wild animals. Well, this movie shows why hunting game can be terrifying. It can be terrifying because the huge pair of lions in this movie are man-eaters who are smarter than the men who hunt them. The lions can move in daylight, can be very close, and yet, you can't see them. The lions give thunderous roars that so terrifies hunters that they freeze or wildly shoot their rifles but can't hit anything as the animals approach. The lions watch and know when a trap is being set for them. The lions don't see men as at the top of the food chain, but just another meal for them. The lions in this movie make the dinosaurs in the Jurassic movies look dumb. And, this movie is based on fact. A young engineer, Val Kilmer, is sent to Africa by a cruel railroad baron to extend a rail line quickly. He is brave, as is the great white hunter, played by Michael Douglas, but both are outwitted over and over again by the lions. "}{"Title":"Very good movie","Date":"28 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" I really like this movie,its so well done and they have some very memorable characters in the movie especially the Indian guy who tells Val Kilmer you are white you can do anything in a sarcastic sort of way.Micheal Douglas is good in this movie also but his character acts too macho at times proclaiming himself to be the devil.The true stars of the movie are the lions they just look magnificent on film,especially when they were caught in mid stride a couple of times,the lions just looked ferocious at times,its almost a shame they had to be the villains of the movie.Overall very good movie i give it a ten easily. "},{"Title":"Sillywood changes","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I'm a great fan of 19th and early 20th century safari narratives.  There are a bunch of classics, including The Man Eaters of Tsavo, currently in print under the Capstick label.  It's also reproduced many places on line, since there is no copyright on it at this point.While certainly based on the true story, The Ghost and the Darkness takes quite a few liberties with it.  In real life, the lions really were incredibly hard to catch and they did kill many people.  But Michael Douglas' character is wholly fictional, as are many events relating to him.  The first contact with the lion, where the big rifle malfunctions, is basically how it happened.  It was a double gun in real life, and Patterson forgot to fire the second barrel.  But I can see why that was left out! The killing of the first lion is overdramatized, but gets the basic idea across. But the events after the death of the first lion are almost all fictional.  I don't see why they had to have a silly fight on the bridge.  In real life, Patterson was sure he nailed #2 with two massive slugs, but after a few days quiet the dead lion came back to life and started killing again.  Patterson and Mahina finally finished it after much difficulty.  In the end they counted six bullet holes in the lion.The film left out the workers' mutiny and attempts to murder Patterson.  I'm not sure why, as it would have made the film more interesting. Overall, Ghost is worth watching, but it's a shame Sillywood had to interfere so much with the true story.  "},{"Title":"Very intense, scary movie with beautiful landscapes","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I really enjoyed this film, maybe because I have visited Africa. This film is not for anyone under 16. Kilmer heads for Africa to build a railroad bridge. The area is guarded by two super male lions who lunch on the laborers and kill some for the sake of killing. There are numerous closeups of how lions kill and eat the men. A white hunter, Douglas, arrives with a small army of Masaii to dispatch the lions. Soon the Masaii wisely run off, not wanting to be the next meal for the lions.Kilmer and Douglas have to fight the lions alone and this is very exciting. I saw the DVD, which is very good. "},{"Title":"this one had potential","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" Dramatization of the true account of two ferocious, man-eating lions who terrorized a group of African bridge builders in the late 1890s and were thought to be a caricature of The Devil himself. More specifically, the story focuses on a renowned British soldier (Kilmer) who must abandon his wife and unborn child to ensure the completion of the bridge. Eventually, he teams with a wandering American game hunter (Douglas) in an attempt to try and kill the beasts. Starts off with a bang, with an exciting setup, intense and violent action scenes, and edge of your seat suspense, but it unfortunately stops dead in its tracks and grows more tiresome and predictable as it goes along. ** "},{"Title":"Definitely Scary","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This movie is a terrifying thriller to begin with. When you realize that the whole story is true, it becomes even more scary. The mere fact that these animals would kill for fun, makes the viewer wonder if they were actually animals or works of the Devil. The story begins with a frustrated bridge designer (Val Kilmer) that is shipped to Africa to finish a bridge for a railroad in 5 months. But work is severely delayed as dozens of workers are being killed and eaten by two very large lions that don't seem to fear man or guns. (But seeing as nobody can seem to hit them, they don't really have reason to.) The creatures mostly hunt at night and are almost impossible to spot, which is why the natives nickname them the Ghosts of the Darkness. Coming to the rescue is Remington (Michael Douglas), a man that seems to know enough about hunting that he could kill these things in no time flat.... but that would just ruin the movie now wouldn't it? The tension can kill as the viewer waits to see who's the next meal. This movie is only for those that don't mind suspense or gore. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie - this one is based on a terrifying true story","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  An excellent story, based on the real-life experiences of Lt. Col J.H. Patterson written in 'The Man-Eaters of Tsavo', which chronicled his efforts to stop the 2 male lions who were killing his workmen.*Some spoilers may follow - I have tried to minimize them*Patterson (Val Kilmer) is a British Army Engineer who is sent by his boss, the arrogant, pompous Robert Beaumont (Tom Wilkinson) to build a railway bridge across the Tsavo river. There is a time deadline as the French and Germans are also building railways, and the British are just ahead. When he reaches Africa he is taken in by some of the most spectacular scenes of animals and landscapes - absolutely terrific cinematography. The building of the bridge begins but not without occasional sightings of a pair of lions creeping around the camps. Patterson manages to kill a lion the first night he spends there, and the workmen are relieved that Patterson has made their lives safer again. Unfortunately, one dead lion DID NOT end the terror. It began that night when Mahina, the foreman(Henry Cele) is pulled from his tent by a lion and dragged out. He is killed, dragged away and eaten. Another death occurs the following night after a man wanders out of his tent and the lion grabs him. Patterson has half the workmen start building thorn and tree-branch fences around the camps to keep the lions out while the other half go to the bridge. While Patterson is reading mail, several screams come up from the camp and Patterson heads towards them. He discovers a big male lion charging through the village, and it overpowers a workman before dragging him out of sight around a building. Patterson follows until he has the lion in sight, when a 2nd roar comes from above. Another big male lion dives down on them, fatally wounding one of his secretaries. The two lions glare menacingly at them (in a sequence that shows them as a pair of very beautiful, handsome creatures)and then disappear into the grass. A 'great white hunter' named Remington is sent to help Patterson, and one plan he has is to build a new hospital - one that should keep the smells of sickness and blood out of the lions attention. They seal up the old hospital as a trap, but the lions pass it by and hit the NEW one! After this, the workmen leave on the first train that passes through Tsavo. They come swarming out in their white robes, carrying their belongings in bags and riding anywhere they can - on top of box cars, clinging to doors, even on the front of the steam engine.Now Patterson and Remington must hunt for the lions alone and with Masai Tribesmen known to Remington. They corner one in a jungle thicket but Patterson's rifle fails and he cannot shoot. In a truly eerie sequence the lion moves toward him, and in the backgrounds are screams of Patterson's men who died at the lion's hands. Remington squeezes off a couple of shots, but the lion escapes. They employ a variety of night-hunting measures including a tall platform which Patterson sits on, but finds himself at the mercy of the approaching lion when an owl makes him lose his balance. After a quick game of cat-and-mouse, Remington kills the first one with a shot in the chest. Patterson wakes that night to see that Remington's tent has collapsed, the inside is a mess and there is blood on the floor. As he heads back to the half-finished bridge he starts shouting, I'm going to SORT IT OUT! I'm going to SORT IT OUT! while firing off his rifle. The lion's roars fall silent for a second, then it appears and a nail-biting chase starts on the bridge, with the lion determined to get its paws on the man who killed its companion.Altogether these lions were known to have killed about 130 people during the time they were killing Patterson's workmen. The movie follows very faithfully the storyline of the book, and recreates some of the workmen's tensions seen in the movie - this is why it seems a little dull for the 1st 30 min. or so. So be patient - it improves as the story carries on.I would highly recommend that people who have seen this read 'The Man-Eaters of Tsavo' by Lt. Col. J.H. Patterson. It was reprinted just after the movie's release so it may still be available. An excellent movie that outdoes most of the horror/suspense flicks today, and as the tagline suggests....'the most incredible parts of the story are true.' "},{"Title":"What a mess","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Hard to believe that this ridiculous story comes from William Goldman, talented author of Marathon Man and Butch Cassidy.  There is a claim at the beginning of the film that this is a true story.  I guess that is supposed to make this silliness easier to swallow.  Hey, I'll bet Jaws 3-D, The Revenge, which this film resembles, really took place, as well! Do yourself a favor and instead of this mess, rent White Hunter, Black Heart based on John Huston's experience shooting The African Queen and big game on the same African trip. "},{"Title":"Good old fashioned safari adventure","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Kilmer plays an architect sent to Africa to build a bridge, but the work is interrupted when the natives believe the devil has come to the village in the form of two man eating lions.  Inspired by a true story, the film has plenty of action, gore, some very effective suspense and solid performances by Val Kilmer and Michael Douglas.  Certainly one to rent if you want to be taken back to the days of Hemingway inspired safari pictures, but not for the squeamish.    "},{"Title":"Acting, screenplay, music, cinematography - all brilliant!","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  The Ghost and The Darkness was an excellent film about the true story of the building of a bridge being stopped by two man-eating lions. The movie captures everything so well. Although Kilmer's accent was abysmal, his portrayal of John Patterson was very well done. John Kani was perfect as the tribe chief and foreman, who is also a friend of John's, his slightly cynical dialogue added humour to the film.The plot continued quite smoothly and kept you on the edge of your seat. While the close up shots of the lions' eyes were incredibly chilling. I still remember them clearly. The wider shots of the African landscape were awe inspiring. Combine these with the attack scenes and the resulting cinematography is just brilliant.The soundtrack of the movie added to the African feel, especially with the African chants incorporated into it. All aspects came together to create a masterpiece that is definately worth seeing.You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Pure, griping, throttling, adrenaline rush excitement","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  A great thriller movie about one's character and how it builds through and ordeal. Ohh did I mention the story of two lions who kill dozens of labors who are trying to build a bridge over one of africa's major rivers. The engineer ( Kilmer) who is faced with a difficult task of killing the two lions or face termination and total embarassment and having his carreer ruined by his extremely high profile boss. The labors soon all leave waiting for the Kilmer to kill the lions so they can return or have Kilmer be killed. Kilmer is joined by a hired gun/professional hunter Remington ( Douglas ) who try to kill the lions, then the movie takes off and doesn't stop till the opening credits. Kilmer and Douglas are excellant, rent this one immediately. "}{"Title":"A stunning film","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I was so glad that I saw this when it was originally released.  This film is absolutely stunning.  It is not all-out horror film like some people might think.  It's better.  This is a great adventure story with well drawn-out characters.  Tom Wilkinson makes Beaumont so despicable that you just want to throw HIM to the lions and let them have at it.  Michael Douglas is also very good as Remington.  But the film belongs to Val Kilmer as Patterson, the Irishman who comes to build a bridge and finds himself being blamed for the lion attacks, and John Kani as Samuel, the tribal chief and Patterson's friend and foreman.  Jerry Goldsmith's brilliant score perfectly captures the essence of Africa (African chants are incorporated into the score).  Director of photography Vilmos Zsigmond demonstrates with this film that he is a master of the widescreen format, and his shots of the African landscape are breathtaking.  Then, of course, there are the lions themselves.  The attack scenes are VERY well done, and Zsigmond's shots of the lions' eyes are still stuck in my head.  Add to this some terrific sound effects and you have a real winner. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies to have ever been made!","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Well, the movie was all the more exciting because of the fact that the story is true. It led me to visit the site of the Field Museum of Chicago. The actual pictures taken more than a century ago were nothing short of fascinating. A definite watch for one and all. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, frightening, well-crafted","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Excellent directing, cinematography, effects, music, screenplay.  Good performances from Douglas, Kilmer and John Kani as native Samuel.  A beautiful and scary film.  Quite gory.  Definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Saturday B-Movie Fun","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I shied away from this film in the theater because of bad press, but now wish I had caught it at least a second-run theater.  While this is not by any means a great film, it reminded me of the kind of movies I got to see as a kid....a little action, exotic locale, some historical basis.  The story is very intriguing.  But, the casting of the film leaves a lot to be desired.  the film tries at times to advance a few racism problems but none of those issues ever are addressed fully.  The scenes with the lions are amazing pieces of editing.  In all, a good Saturday flick when you want a no-brainer to watch.The highlights are really in the cinematography and sound editing as well. All harder to appreciate on the small screen of a TV. "},{"Title":"Fine, eat them, like we care....","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  A fine idea for a good adventure film is ruined by some inept filmmaking.The film starts off on the wrong foot with an absolutely inane opening narration that tries to bodyslam the audience with some Everything you see here is true hype. Actually, the film is rife with factual errors and composite characters. The old standby of dramatic licence is played upon about as much as your average Hollywood film. Not that it would make any difference if the film was entertaining. But from the opening examples of eye poppingly bad dialogue You must go where the Rivers flow to Kilmer and Douglas giving the worst performances of their respective careers,  this movie is a bust.Director Stephan Hopkins completely lacks the skill to  infuse the characters of ANY of his films with people we care about and GATD is no exception.  Kilmer's John Patterson is a stiff necked bore of a boyscout with a highly dubious Irish accent. Douglas looks like he wanted to genetically fuse Dennis Hopper with Quint from Jaws and comes across as a pedantic loudmouth peddling the kind of philosophy you normally hear from the town drunk. Neither one had me caring about their fate for an instant and before the film was over I found myself rooting for the lions. Without characters to care about, all the scenes that are supposed to make me jump out of my seat merely incite yawns. The Lions are infused with the old Hollywood standby of near supernatural powers which allows the writers to thinly paint over some painfully obvious plot holes.Only 2 aspects of this film stand out positively. Veteran Composer Jerry Goldsmith delivers a solid musical score and Cinemantographer Vilmos Zsigmond makes good use of his lensing eye with the expansive natural beauty of Africa.Aside from that, forget it. Rent Bwana Devil instead.... "},{"Title":"Chilling film that could be classified as horror","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I rented this a long time ago and never finished it due to the fact that I had to go with some friends late at night and teepee. Not that it didn't draw me in. I really liked it but never finished it for some reason. Ever since then I've heard so many good things about it and remembered liking what I saw, so tonight I rented it. Whoa. The film is one of the creepiest and chilling films I've seen in a while. It could even be classified as horror. The menace of the lions wading through the thick, tall African grass, which are like shark-infested waters. They stalk the hundreds of people working on a bridge and pick them off one by one. Chilling. The scenes involving their massacres on people are seriously disturbing and jarring, and executed well by all filmmakers involved. I was emotionally involved through the whole thing, screaming at the tv or pulling at my hair. That's the sign of a really good film. Particularly one sequence involving Val Kilmer's wife visiting, which I won't divulge here for the sake of those of you curious but who have not yet seen the film. Nevertheless I was literally calling out to the tv. Movies that can draw you in like that and leave you breathless really leave a mark. This spooky, well executed film will stay with me for some time. Great script by William Goldman! "},{"Title":"A terrifyingly good thriller that will leave you breathless.","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  THE GHOST AND THE DARKNESS (1996) Rating 8/10The Ghost and the Darkness, an unexpected, dark, tantalising thriller is a total success. I didn't read much into this movie before viewing, but I came out really satisfied and although many critics disliked this movie, I thought it was highly entertaining, well executed and very scary. The film succeeds a lot thanks to the direction and visuals; the lions look truly fantastic! Wow! The other reason the movie really made me keep watching was for the atmosphere of the film. The camera angles, backgrounds, lions POV and stuff like that really gives the movie a real feeling. I personally felt like I was in Africa, running from the Ghost and the Darkness, experiencing the true terror of their roar. The film also gets high marks thanks to its very believable performances. Michael Douglas takes a surprising back seat, but it still a strong character in the film and plays out his tough character well. Val Kilmer is the star though. This is one of his best performances, he masters an Irish accent accurately, is a believable loving husband and a likeable bridge builder. The movie is not perfect however. I didn't really appreciate the voice-overs by the African friend and some of the lion attack sequences are cut too short. Despite that, the film is an atmospheric, amazingly true experience that &#150; if you're like me - will leave you shaking and breathless. "},{"Title":"not that horrible","Date":"12 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" In 1898 London, Robert Beaumont (Tom Wilkinson) has grand plans to build railroads to connect Africa. He hires Col. John Patterson (Val Kilmer) to build a bridge across river Tsavo in 5 months. The construction is behind schedule due to lion attacks. The camp includes supervisor Angus Starling (Brian McCardie), local liaison Samuel (John Kani) and cynical Dr. David Hawthorne (Bernard Hill). The workers are from conflicting groups of Africans and Indians. Nobody gets along. Patterson kills one lion but two large males attack later. The workers called them The Ghost and The Darkness. Beaumont loses confidence in Patterson and hires famed hunter Charles Remington (Michael Douglas) and his Masai warriors.I don't think it's as horrible as some critics claim it to be. There's no way Val Kilmer deserves to be nominated for the Razzie although it was for both this and 'The Island of Dr. Moreau'. I actually like the first half with the conflicting workers. It reminds me of 'Hell on Wheels' which I like a lot. Michael Douglas comes in at around 45 minutes and he seems to be an old style character. There is something about him that annoyed me. The lion hunting has its moments but sometimes it is really bad. The climax happens in a fog and loses any possible tension. There is a ridiculous scene where a lion is literally climbing a tree. The last half has too many problems. "},{"Title":"Not exactly factual but think Jaws set in the African plains","Date":"20 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" I'll forget facts for a moment about The Man-eaters of Tsalvo and focus on this entertaining story about two man-eater lions thirsting for blood on the African plains in the middle of a race to build the first African transcontinental railway system. I had watched this movie the year it came out in 1996. It looks as good now as it did when new since it was set in the late-1890s and looks like it. Gorgeous, magical cinematography. The setting is lush and very African-specific, as it should be. The main actors, background characters, and direction were perfectly executed. Magnificent actually. I had also read that William Goldman (screenwriter) had written this true story based on a 1910 book by the main character, Colonel John Patterson. It's scary, and this event really happened. Just not entirely as written for the screen...Basic story Col. Patterson (Val Kilmer) is a charismatic and visionary bridge builder who has a tight time-frame to build a railroad across a specific river in Africa to keep Great Britain ahead of the French and German railroads in a race for African dominance in the days of empires. If he succeeds, it's a knighthood. If he fails, his career is finished by his sadistic benefactor. Once he arrives, almost immediately workers start mysteriously disappearing. They realize a lion is attacking them. What they don't realize is this is no mere hungry lion. It's a man-eater. And there are two of them. Through a series of events, they hire a legendary hunter, Charles Remington (Michael Douglas), to track down and kill the blood-thirsty beasts. What transpires is a cat-and-mouse game (pun intended) where who is hunted and who is the prey is always in question until the very end.This is a good movie. Don't get me wrong. I watched it again last night for a reason. However, had this story not started with the narrator telling us, ...And no matter how outrageous it seems, all of it is true, it would have been easier to take. That part is not factual. For one --- there is no Michael Douglas character in real-life. When the cover of the poster and DVD cover shows two main characters -- and one of them isn't factual -- yet your narrator says everything we see really happened... You see where I'm going with this. Had they just stated, This is based on a very real, very scary story in the heart of Africa, I would have understood artistic license. Douglas was fascinating as the fictional Remington btw and well worth the addition to the script. Dramatically, the story was enhanced in some very keen ways. Unfortunately, that true story part keeps rearing it's ugly head. Oh well. Minor issues I guess.Overall, this is a very enjoyable movie adapted for the screen. Kilmer is terrific as Patterson (although his Irish (I think?) accent comes and goes at mysterious times). Douglas is mesmerizing as the mercurial Remington. The supporting natives and landscapes are breathtaking and fantastic. Just don't go in with expectations this is the entire true story of The Man-eaters of Tsalvo. You'll have to read the book for the facts. Watch this movie expecting to see a stunning African tale of overcoming terror in the jungle by an unstoppable force of nature and you will be rewarded with a first-class production. Think Jaws in the African plains. It's that terrifying for the natives. 8.5 out of 10 from that perspective. But I rate it a 7 out of 10 simply because it lauds the facts openly and proudly but ignores them for the production. Pretend this is an original, well-written, FICTIONAL screenplay that could possibly happen in real-life (because it did) and enjoy the show. Worth watching for sure. "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews...","Date":"17 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" The Ghost and The DarknessThe only time it's acceptable to kill a lion is if it's dressed like a cow, chicken or pig.Mind you, the most consumed animal in this action movie is man.Sent to Kenya by his boss (Tom Wilkinson) to expedite work on his railroad, military engineer Col. John Henry Patterson (Val Kilmer) is advised by the project supervisors (Brian McCardie, John Kani) that two man-eating lions have been holding up progress.When he fails to slay the stealthy predators, Patterson's boss hires an experienced hunter (Michael Douglas) to eliminate the threat for good.But even the famed huntsman can't kill the cunning cats, and he soon finds himself on their dinner menu.Based on Patterson's book, this adaptation of his harrowing account is as frightening as it is fascinating, with the lions serving as truly menacing antagonists.But to fair, big game hunters should have to dress as injured gazelle.Green Lightvidiotreviews.blogspot.ca "}{"Title":"Beautiful-Looking Film","Date":"16 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" Set in 1898, this movie is based on the true story of two lions in Africa that killed thirty-five people over a nine month period, while a bridge engineer (Val Kilmer) and an experienced old hunter (Michael Douglas) tried to kill them.I only recently (2015) became aware of the story of the two lions, who I believe are now housed at the Field Museum of Natural History in Chicago. I had no idea this film was about them, which is not surprising given that I did not know they existed. I recall the picture coming out in 1996 and not having much interest. Maybe I should have.We have some really good performances (Kilmer in his prime, and Michael Douglas who is always good). But more so, a very rich color palette for the cinematography. Impressive, and it looks wonderful, far above and beyond the typical 1990s movie. "},{"Title":"The Ghost and the Darkness","Date":"20 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" The Ghost and the Darkness.In 1898 Tom Wilkinson (Sir Robert Beaumont) who had a project of building a railroad in Tsavo, Kenya is irate. The project is running behind due to the fears of the Locals and Indians workforce who were attacked and killed by two lions. Val Kilmer (Colonel John Henry Patterson), dashing and brilliant engineer, moved to Africa for a delicate mission overseeing the construction of a railway line from Mombasa to Lake Victoria. Once, Val Kilmer (Colonel John Patterson) arrived, he was welcomed by John Kani (Samuel) who explained him that in general man-eaters never always hunter solitary. On the work site, Patterson is immediately meeting his men killing one bullet a marauding lion. But a few days later, a worker is attacked and torn apart by another cat. This is the beginning of a bloodbath, Om Puri leader of the Indian worker's community asked his members to leave the work site. Two lions, especially cunning, in a few months will kill some thirty workers. The movie contained three different themes The first theme showed a wealth British railroad owner Sir Robert Beaumont who cannot afford his project miss the expected deadline. He threatened to destroy John Patterson reputation if he did accept his proposition to finish the bridge in five months. The second theme is about a young and brilliant Irish engineer John Patterson who tried who all the levels of skills he had to overcome the lion's dilemma. However, he faced some supernatural realities that he never expected to face in his hosted land. The third theme is more relevant about show some mystic beliefs of Africans. When the fighting of the lions took long, they called the Masai warriors recognized for their skills to hunt the animals. During the hunting, John Patterson tried to shoot a lion but his gun misfired without being able to explain the reason that happened. The action of the film implied that the lions were not normal animal but they were external forces. It was difficult to explain to Western citizens that they were not hunting singular animals. The film lighting is mixed of natural and artificial light associated with darkness. This can explained that it was mainly produced in an opened land called savanna where the lions live. The camera provides a low-angle with closed-up shots of the main characters to provide a better view of the characters mood and feelings. Most of the character's costumes are duty and torn by the sunbeams. For the soundtrack it is mixed of Western music, African warrior music like Johannesburg choir or Indian song with the group Jungal Bahar (The Prey Song). The Ghost and the Darkness is a true movie and tells more about the deepness of the African beliefs and its realities than any other film or documentary. There are many unrevealed secrets of African tradition that covered in the movie that people who belong to that community can understand. I watch that movie three times to explore all its aspects. Overall, it is a very good movie to watch. "},{"Title":"The most thrilling true story based film I've seen.","Date":"28 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" This film is most definitely the most enthralling true story based film I have ever seen. Even though not all the content is real, the idea as a whole is just shocking, and makes you question reality.The film tells a fictionalized account about the two lions that attacked and killed workers at Tsavo, Kenya during the building of the Uganda-Mombasa Railway in East Africa in 1898. It is put in the perspective of the real life Henry Patterson (who later made a book based on the event) and the fictional Charles Remington, (Michael Douglas).Even though the film is just basically land Jaws, it has a much darker and edgier touch than Jaws. It builds up seeing the lions just as well, though it's quite a bit more gruesome than Jaws, going balls to the wall with gore occasionally. Val Kilmer and Michael Douglas make a great pair, even though Val Kilmer isn't at his best, and Michael Douglas is just playing himself, they're a load of fun to watch.It's a little strangely edited, not badly edited just strangely, like El Mariachi almost. Though I will say it takes a while for the story to get going. He goes to Africa, get acquainted, fiddles around a little. It isn't until half way through the film when Michael Douglas shows up, and that, to me, is when the story really get going, but for a retold story I suppose it gets by. The screenplay by William Goldman mostly works, though some parts felt really out of place, (the lion bully metaphor).I think the lions being called Ghost and Darkness and building them up like supernatural beings was absolutely genius. You really feel the edge when they sneak through the fog like they're invisible. It makes the idea of it being a true story all the more thrilling. At first I forgot that it was a true story because of how well shot the scenes were. You see the lions in the perspective of fear in the eyes of the characters, which probably is because most of the screenplay is based on Henry Patterson's account.It really is a thrill ride. It's way edgier than I thought it was going to be. If you're looking for a survival thriller with a slightly supernatural edge, then look no further, this is one you will never forget! "},{"Title":"In love with this picture","Date":"10 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" Greetings from Lithuania.The Ghost and the Darkness (1996) i a true gem. I fell in love with this picture in 1998, at only at 13 years old. This film was everything you want, a good central character, great, amazing settings, absolutely great supporting character by no else than Michael Douglas himself - a great villains, you can't ask for more. The story is very good, based on true events. The story is very good, if like these kind of pictures, not to serious, not dumb, you will fall for this picture.Overall, 10/10 for The Ghost and the Darkness - superb setting, good story, mesmerizing anti hero played by always delivering Michael Douglas - you can ask for more. "},{"Title":"Lion in Wait","Date":"27 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" Here I am again, reviewing yet another man vs. nature movie. This time, we've got two seemingly demon possessed lions murdering railroad workers in turn of the century Uganda. Our hero is John Patterson (Val Kilmer), a contractor hired by a wealthy (and ruthless) tycoon to oversee construction of a bridge that will bolster commerce in the region. When the murderous lions in question begin terrorizing&#x97;and maiming&#x97;John's workers, something's got to be done (especially when they all flee at the suspicion that he's brought about a curse on the area). Cue the entrance of Charles Remington (Michael Douglas), a world- renowned hunter who's the embodiment of the old-school, no-holds-barred, shotgun-toting, Hemingway-esque man's man.Director Stephen Hopkins decides the go the route of Jaws, as it's rare that we're given a clean, full frame shot of the monsters. This turns out to be a great decision, as it adds to the suspense when we see a silhouette (or think we see one) moving stealthily among the rippling, waist high savanna. In that regard, there's no denying that The Ghost and the Darkness delivers the goods in the suspense department.Unfortunately, the film does have its problems. First and foremost is the entirely too abrupt conclusion, which, quite honestly, feels sloppy and rushed. After all we've been through with Patterson and Remington, one would expect a grand finale that heightens the tension to unbearable levels. Instead we get something like a watered down version of the velociraptor kitchen scene in Jurassic Park.There's also the lack of satisfaction that could have been delivered if the one person we truly despise in the story got what he had coming to him. Spontenaity is a good thing, but all I could think about as the final act unfolded was how badly I hoped that the greedy businessman would finally come in contact with a beast infinitely more malicious than himself.Then there's the music, which alternates between stirring and grating. Particularly annoying is the decision to work some sort of elephant/hyena noise into what would be an otherwise memorable score.If it weren't for the final half hour and the previously mentioned sub- par musical renderings, it'd be safe to call The Ghost and the Darkness an underrated thriller. Instead it fizzles into a flabby shadow of its former self, much like a long coveted balloon that's held on until there's simply nothing left. "},{"Title":"Why Create Remington?","Date":"18 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" This movie isn't bad. It's often quite exciting, offering very graphic and frightening depictions of some of the lion attacks that occur, and offering a bit of a glimpse at conditions in Africa at the turn of the century, and especially some of the racial divisions that existed between whites, blacks and Indians. There's some nice scenery featuring African landscapes and wildlife shots, and there's an extended period near the beginning of the movie that seems to be little more than a survey of African wildlife, with information about the different animals being offered in almost narrative format by Patterson. Mind you, there are also some extended periods in the movie when nothing much happens. It tries to draw the viewer in right from the beginning by claiming that everything that's depicted actually happens - except that if you've done any research on the history of the Tsavo lion attacks, you know that big parts of that claim are simply untrue - the biggest bit of creative licence being the creation of the Remington character - an American big game hunter played by Michael Douglas.There was no Remington - so why create him? The character didn't appeal to me all that much, so I wasn't at all sure why writer William Goldman decided to add him to the story. The history itself is interesting enough. Patterson was real, and he really was an engineer building a bridge over the Tsavo River in Kenya. There really were a number of the workers who were killed by a pair of man-eating lions, who really did have to be hunted down, and who really are now on display at the Field Musem in Chicago. In real life, though, Patterson (played in the movie by Val Kilmer) did the hunting. No famous big-game hunter was brought in; the character of Remington was a total fabrication - and, frankly, an unnecessary one that really detracts from the overall credibility of the movie. The real story of the camp and the hunt by Patterson would have been exciting enough (and probably even more exciting than this, since it would have been much more firmly grounded in reality.) As far as I'm concerned, the presence of the Remington character throws this movie off completely. (6/10) "},{"Title":"hunts last forever","Date":"25 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" The Ghost and the Darkness mostly seems like an action movie, focusing on the true story of an Irish colonel (Val Kilmer) who got commissioned to oversee construction of a bridge in Kenya in 1898, only to come in conflict with two ferocious lions. Still, the movie does have some charm. Maybe its in the obvious cleverness of the lions, as though they're ten steps ahead of all the humans. Or maybe it's Michael Douglas's (fictional) hunter, who seems to be channeling Dirty Harry. Or, failing both of those, it's the fine look at the landscape.I have no doubt that the colonel exaggerated some -- or a lot -- of the events when he wrote the story. As can be expected, the colonizers are the main focus. But whatever the case, it's still a pretty fun movie. Also starring John Kani, Bernard Hill (Theoden in the Lord of the Rings movies), Tom Wilkinson and Emily Mortimer.So yes, the builders of the British Empire SHOULD be afraid of the local wildlife. "},{"Title":"Lack of common sense","Date":"31 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" I was amazed at the lack of common sense displayed in this movie. In American western movies horses or dogs are often the first to detect sneaking critters. Yet this movie had no dogs or horses. The cows were alerted in only one scene. Why not all scenes where the lions are approaching? Was it always necessary for a human to stand watch? Why was stupidity so flagrant? To accept an unfamiliar gun and not test it first was stupid. To perch yourself in a precarious position on a wooden frame without taking care to keep from falling off is stupid. To have unanimous ricochets off cage bars when shooting is hard to believe. "},{"Title":"That Was Some Lion!","Date":"14 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" I just returned from the Field Museum in Chicago where they have the two lions who are the stars of this film. They are stuffed and not very threatening in their their traditional natural history diorama. The gift shop sells plush toys of these creatures. So let me get this straight. These things ate an alarming number of unfortunate people, but have become cuddly toys that kids might sleep with at night. I guess time heals all.Anyway, back to the movie. I loved the visual being of this film. The shots of Africa are remarkable. An incredible sense of threat is wonderfully created. The camera is used masterfully. The acting is quite good and the jump factor is quite high (although it is overdone a bit). Since this is based on but not really true to the actual events, the people can be forgiven for being so damned stupid. I described this to a friend as Jaws with lions. These particular felines seem to have the dangerous movie animal syndrome. The are sentient, they are vengeful, they have motivations beyond their basic animal needs, and they are nearly supernatural. Despite the danger realized by the principal characters, these lions are able to wreak their havoc anyway. While the scene is impressive, the fact that they get into a hospital while people are at red alert is hard to swallow. Either that, or they never really take seriously what these creatures have become. I enjoyed it mostly. Remember, lions know that people are stupid. If that's the case, how about a meal. If you don't take this too seriously, enjoy the ride. It will keep you on the edge of your seat. "},{"Title":"Let's Go Hunting","Date":"17 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" A bit of big-budget hooey about two white men in Africa (Val Kilmer and Michael Douglas) who decide to go lion hunting.1996 was a huge year for big, successful action movies. Independence Day, The Rock, Twister. The Ghost and the Darkness isn't a great movie, but it at least rises above the pack of other films released in the same year. It's got more intelligence in one scene than Indpendence Day has in its entire running time, and Douglas and Kilmer are good enough actors to elevate the material to their level.I don't honestly remember this film very well and might be completely unimpressed with it now, but from what I do remember about it I would recommend it as at least worth seeing.Grade B "}{"Title":"Kilmer & Douglas work well in The Ghost & the Darkness","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" Val Kilmer(The Saint) & Michael Douglas(Fatal Attraction) star in this true story brought to the silver screen. Both actors combine to portray complimentary roles as railroad builder & big game hunter respectively. Supporting roles completed the film very well with Om Puri, Tom Wilkinson, Bernard Hill, & native African John Kani. The film takes place in Africa's Uganda, with the Tsavo River cutting through it. British Army Colonel & engineer John Henry Patterson(Kilmer)is called upon by nasty millionaire developer Robert Beaumont(Wilkinson) to build a bridge over the Tsavo River for the railroad. Patterson agrees & travels to Uganda to begin work. Patterson is greeted by native Ugandan guide & assistant Samuel(Kani) who helps him with the workers, etc.. The bridge & rail workers consist of Ugandans & East Indian men who along with coping with racial tension amongst each other but also must contend with a dangerous lion infiltrating the camp. Determined to keep his deadline, Patterson guns down the lion & gains the respect of his peers. All appears well when the attacks start again with grisly results. Workers are attacked both during the day & at night to Patterson's dismay. Patterson tries various methods to trap and/or kill the lion to no avail. Patterson soon discovers there is more than just a single lion; two very large & bloodthirsty lions are brothers & on the prowl. The ferocity & swiftness with which the lions demonstrate gain them the dub by locals as The Ghost & the Darkness. The killings go on with Patterson having both a worker strike & a reluctant visit from Beaumont. After surveying the situation, Beaumont calls in veteran big game hunter Charles Remington to kill the lions. Once arrived, Remington takes over the hunt with no success. Remington & Patterson become friends & collaborate to trap & kill the lions. A plan is made with Remington, Patterson, & a nervous Samuel prepared to do battle with the vicious lions. They are successful in killing one of the lions, with one left still to deal with. After an unsuccessful try, Remington & Patterson find the lions' lair which contains the bones of many, many past kills in a vast heap. These lions were not killing not for food but for sport or the thrill of killing. After a night of boozing & cavorting, Remington is attacked in his tent & savagely killed by the lone lion. Angry & desperate, Patterson goes after the killer lion. In the end, Patterson triumphs by shooting the lion while being charged. Patterson completes his mission with the bridge & railroad in place & rid the town of Tsavo of the dreaded Ghost & the Darkness.I enjoyed this film quite a bit & have no problem seeing it time & again. Kilmer & Douglas are great together with a surprise comedic relief from Jon Kani as Samuel. Definitely worth a look for all those who like a true story film with a more than adequate cast. A 7 out of ten with a thumbs up!!! "},{"Title":"Almost a Ten","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" Magnificent scenery, excellent, intelligent dialog, one of the three or four best movie scores (outside of a musical, of course) and wonderful performances by most of the outstanding cast all contribute to making this one of my favorite movies. The only blot in the copybook is the curious mis-casting of Michael Douglas, who is frankly embarrassing at times as the brooding, lethal white hunter. This is all the more curious because the character of Remington is, as far as I can tell, completely fictional. He is not mentioned in Patterson's book The Lions of Savo, nor does his name show up in any of the accounts I've read. It seems as though the makers had to find a role for Douglas and ending up shrugging their shoulders and, with a muttered what-the-hell, created Remington.There are many historical inaccuracies, including the painful fact that Patterson was really not a likable individual (in reality, he treated his wife abominably She ended her days in a mental institution) but I don't suppose that one goes to the movies to be educated. The entertainment is here, and it is of a high quality. The relationship between the four dissimilar men --Patterson, Samuel, Angus Starling and the doctor-- provides an intelligent undercurrent of tension to the main theme of the hunt, and the dialog often succeeds in being witty and pointed. Certainly, the action is exciting, novel and usually compelling.Despite its flaws, factual and other, this is a fine film that is worth seeing and re-seeing. William Goldman shows once again why he is a highly regarded screenwriter, and I have never understood why Val Kilmer, who consistently gives fine performances in a variety of roles, isn't among the top two or three screen leading men. "},{"Title":"Good but Disappointing","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Val Kilmer plays an engineer assigned to build a railroad bridge in Africa who finds his progress halted by two incredibly-intelligent, man-eating lions intent upon turning his work force into a smorgasbord.  I have long been fascinated by the true story of the lions of Tsavo, and I was excited to hear that a movie on the subject was being produced with an original script by William Goldman.  Sadly, the movie left me disappointed.  Don't get me wrong.  I enjoyed it, and I do recommend it, but I'm the first to admit that something's missing.  It has the all the right elements to be an epic, larger than life characters -- both human and animal alike, a beautiful and savage setting, and great themes.  What's missing?  William Goldman believes that Michael Douglas' request to beef up his role as the fictional character Remington, the great white hunter, threw the script out of balance.  I disagree.  Though I understand his point, I believe it did little damage to the film.  I think there were two far more pressing problems.  The first and most important one was a lack of true directorial vision.  Had John Ford or David Lean directed this film, it would have no doubt been a masterpiece.  The second problem was the subject matter itself.  People, myself included, tend to have too much sympathy for animals nowadays.  Part of me wanted the lions to win! "},{"Title":"Ghostman Goldman","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I think William Goldman is one of the greatest screenplayers of all time. I've bought his two marvellous books about Screen Trade, and there you can understand what works in this movie and what don't. Perhaps it isn't a great movie, perhaps Stephen Hopkins isn't Spielberg or Hawks or any of the best adventures' movies directors, but the three or four big moments that are in the movie (how many movies of the last decade would like to have just one of them) justify its existence and to go to rent it at your blockbuster or even buy it in DVD (let's forget video my godness!). If you give it an opportunity, next time you go to camping in desert fields, and after hear the sorrow of the grass moved by the wind, you'll put your hand to protect your throat from the crawls and teeth of darkness. And be sure that GhostGoldman has had the guilty.I give it 7 over 10 Sorry for my not very good english "},{"Title":"Why don't they just... shoot?","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Warning bit of a spoiler ahead.Acknowledgedly, lions are 300 kilo of ferocious carnivorous claw and muscle- something to be reckoned with even if you're carrying a gun.However, you've got to be of good ancestry to convince anyone that some twenty men armed with rifles would not be able to, like, hit it in the head after repeated tries. It takes some stretch of the imagination that, in fact, they get half a dozen opportunities to do so but just stand there paralysed- instead of bloody shooting the thing. Unless these are supernatural lions, of course.Then, at a time when only the Real Men are left to do it, they finally manage to take out one of their adversaries. They engage in an alcoholic celebration, fall asleep and -here she comes- *forget altogether what we've all known for the last hour of the film, namely that there's a second lion*. How thick can you be?Perhaps that wouldn't be too bad weren't it for the completely whackily shot lion attacks. Admittedly, it won't be easy to make a convincing scene of a lion plunging down on a human- but even Jumanji, a contemporary film, seems to have better CGI.The average Geographic Channel documentary on predators is more credible and worthy of an R rating.  "},{"Title":"Spectacular movie! Great acting,tense drama,beautiful scenery","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  One of the best movies around! Classic true story of a race to build a bridge across a gorge to East Africa at the turn of the century..and then..Kilmer and Douglas are outstanding. Well shot, lovely country. Not much romance,but this movie will be appreciated by men,women or kids (but perhaps not little ones, as it's intense at times). A heroic story.. You won't go wrong. "},{"Title":"Rather excellent, but a tad Hollywoodized...","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I've seen this movie twice now and my capsule summary would be that it's an excellent piece of work, beautifully filmed, with a great and atmospheric score, and well acted by all involved.  Still, it could have been better.  I know that someone pretty much inevitably says that about any film, but in this case it's the basic story that could have been better  and -- even though the screenplay was based on true incidents -- my contention is that the proceedings could have been improved through LESS  dramatization.My saying that the story could have been better feels just a tad sacrilegious -- after all, the great William Goldman wrote the screenplay.  Yea, the man is a veritable god among screenwriters, being the force behind several of the best films ever made (including the magnificent Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid), and he knows how to tell a compelling story, usually while keeping the progress of that story tight and focused.  Ghost and the Darkness is no exception, and is well-written, but in this case the actual events were arguably more compelling than the Hollywood version and would quite probably have made for a much better movie with only minor adjustments necessary to smooth the narrative.**Possible 'spoilers' follow**For one thing, there was no Remington.  Inclusion of Michael Douglas' character implies a rather liberal interpretation of just how closely this film is based on a true story (especially given John Kani's ominous voiceover attesting that the film's events are all true).  Yes, I think that Mr Douglas is a great actor and creative talent and probably quite a dude, but the Remington character was a somewhat jarring intrusion and even moreso when you know that there was no such man in reality.  The Remington role is more or less superfluous to the film, even, given that it's Patterson (a heroic name, of course) who really does all of the hero work when you come down to it.  I believe that the film would have been even more powerful had it been more completely along the lines of a vendetta between Patterson and the Simbas-from-Heck -- as it stands, there's an element of that but Remington kind of muddles the dynamic and makes for a far less streamlined progression of the story.  In other words, Remington's character was an unnecessary intrusion that detracted from the story's pacing, diluted the powerful Patterson-vs-demon-lion plot, and irrevocably distanced the story from being true to real events.On the other hand, Michael Douglas did a good job (though his American hero role seemed particularly jarring and perhaps even anachronistic in the context of the film's progression before hi arrival) and the dynamic between he and Kilmer was good, as was the fictionalized ending.  Still, it's a pity that Kilmer wasn't left to carry the film, as in reality, with his quieter and more introspective character providing a sort of everyman-who-does- what-he-has-to-do quality to the film.  I think that this approach would have been much more dramatic and effective, but I guess that someone felt it necessary to insert Michael Douglas' larger- than-life American to cater to the next-to-lowest common denominator.Other historical inaccuracies were fairly minor, relegated largely to telescoping of characters and time-shifting of actual events (e.g., the discovery of the lions' cave), though one of the most obvious was that the actual killer lions of Tsavo were maneless males, the maneless condition for some reason being endemic to many lions of that part of Kenya.  No big deal, really, especially given that the maned lion is far more fearsome-looking on screen.  Also, as far as I can tell, there's no mention in the film (or in pre-credits end text) of the lions having killed somewhere between about 130 and 140-plus railway workers, a pretty staggering figure that's basically instant shock value in itself (though a later maneater in India, the Champawat Tigress, was claimed to have killed 436 people before being shot by a famous hunter...now THERE is your Michael Douglas character).I rate the film highly as it is but it's a pity that the most excellent William Goldman didn't remain more true to reality.  Then again, the same's true to an even greater extent of his take on the Butch and Sundance story, but that didn't stop that film from being one of the very best ever made. (I love cats, by the way, but this film might make you look at your kitty in a slightly different way for a while...perhaps best not to let him or her watch it with you) "},{"Title":"Much better than I expected","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Before seeing this film, I had heard some pretty hard criticism and general bad vibes about it (only 1/5 in our TV guide!)  It just goes to show that with low expectations, you are much more likely to be pleasantly surprised.By no means does this film deserve a bashing.  It's well-directed and photographed throughout, with some stunning African sunsets and also a brilliantly stirring score from Jerry Goldsmith.Val Kilmer, I personally love the guy (maybe not for all the right reasons) but once again here he proved that he is a very fine actor.  Val has never looked better, and his Irish accent was, I believe, not at all bad.  He didn't over-do it which is why I think his performance so lifted the movie.  It's great to see Val able to give a character such depth and feeling which in most of his movies hasn't been possible.  It is a crime that Michael Douglas is billed first in the cast list - it seems however good Val is, he is never given credit for it.  As for Douglas, he was okay I guess, but I generally thought he ruined the dark tone of the movie after it was going so well (what was a would-be American cowboy doing in the African plains?)Perhaps 'The Ghost and the Darkness' is not so entirely original - for me it bears a slight resemblance to the 1990 film 'Mountains of the Moon' and sometimes even 'Zulu'.  Some characters, particularly Tom Wilkinson, are somewhat stereotyped - the mean, cowardly and unsympathetic English 'baddy' which we've seen so many times before.  The script is not great either, but this does not spoil the mood of the action.  After all, when stuck face-to-face with a roaring lion, you are unlikely to recite Shakespeare!  However, there was some typical-Douglas wishy-washy sentimental tosh in there which I thought was unnecessary.  Also, Val Kilmer and Emily Mortimer do not make a very believable couple.This aside, I found it a greatly enjoyable and moving film.  I recommend this to anyone who enjoys serious action-adventure and of course any fans of Val...  Perhaps animal-rights activists should stay clear though! 6/10 "},{"Title":"Grrrrrrrrrrreat!","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I remember seeing The Ghost and The Darkness when it hit UK Sky back in 1998 but decided to give it a second bash as it hits UK Terrestrial TV (ITV). The reason it was pretty amazing the first time round and I wanted to see how it fared the second.To be honest not as good - it loses a bit of its zing the second time you see it. However for first timers it is terrifying. You don't often get a picture like this that scares you without resorting to special effects or the supernatural genre.The scenery is great - the acting of Kani (as Samuel) and Val Kilmer (as the bridge builder) is great. Even Michael I'm the Exec Producer so I want a role in it otherwise I'll cry Douglas doesn't manage to bring this film down.It doesn't matter that the film was set on real events.. it doesn't need that to make you sit wide-eyed and rooted to the chair, it just helps for that bit of realism.I wish I could completely forget this film just so I can go back and watch it for the first time. It is a suspensful piece, slowly building up from the start, and very clever in places. A sure treat! "},{"Title":"starts off good","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This film starts off good and gives you that great sense of adventure, but then falters. There are some great thrills and lots of violent action, but it moves at a very slow pace. By the time it gets to the finale, you've lost most of your interest. Good performances though. 2/4 "}{"Title":"Great movie based on true events","Date":"5 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This movie has some great acting, sets, suspense and action scenes. The only flaw is that in typical 'hollywood' style the lions are vilified into some sort of evil beings with supernatural powers. Sure the superstitious native workers in the movie believe this, and on that level it works. However in reality a lot of workers died building the railways for the colonial powers, through disease, overwork etc.  Many of their corpses were merely flung into the nearby bushes...to become food for, guess what, lions. Once the lions got a taste for humans and figured out how easy it is to kill them...well then the killing started. Two male lions (each about 500 pounds) need to eat a lot. The lions were not evil, just smart and took advantage of some easy food. Still overall I like the movie and gave it an 8/10.  "},{"Title":"A beautifully photographed, well acted film...","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  One thing that stays in mind considering this film are the outstanding visuals.  The railroad, the construction site, the various sets and outdoor locations--and the lions, the terrible lions, moving through the billowing tall grass...    Very fine performance by Val Kilmer, who's always good, supporting actors generally superior... Some might fault the plot because the characters made the obvious mistakes, but they're obvious NOW, and we've all seen Jaws, and the fact is that the two very big kitties got to where they were grabbing workers off the train before someone was finally able to settle their kibble.I consider the film two hours of very superior entertainment. "},{"Title":"Exciter","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Brilliant movie. As it turns out director Stephen Hopkins probably reached his peak with this one - i'm wondering how can the same person make such a stupid movie like Lost in space. After first seeing The ghost and the darkness i thought Hopkins is a genius, but he proved me wrong. Anyhow, the film is absolutely fantastic and Tom Wilkinson is by far the best actor in it. By the way, how's it possible that he never even got nominated for an Oscar? "},{"Title":"Dark Adventure - no more, no less..","Date":"23 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  For starters - all the people who found the story unbelievable, just read up on it, then stop blathering.... Sometimes history makes up a story far weirder than anything some third-rate Hollywood author could  write up. Just the way it is, lets face it.The story gives adequate information for the reasons of the main characters to be there, their relevant motivations and the times they live in. No more, no less. Still, one should remember that this is a movie about the menace of two lions, not about planting coffee in Africa, an emotional drama before a beautiful backdrop or the exploration of the dark depths of the human character. If that's what you are looking for, sorry, its the wrong movie ! Go watch Woodie Allen pieces ( which have their place and time ) !As for the movie, great photography, impressive settings , adequate to great actors ( I am not a great Val Kilmer fan myself, but he fills the Col. Patterson part just fine )and a very good soundtrack. Actually, the sheer natural beauty and the exotic location make the unfolding horror of the lions stalking and butchering the railroad workers, sidekicks and protagonists alike even more menacing than it would be on sunny US-shores (as in Jaws ) - something dark, primal and unknown enters the story with their first killing, something that seems as much a natural part of the location as the incredible beauty of the land. It never gets explained with some bogus 'McGuffin', it just exists ( no radiation/toxic hazard, whatsoever nonsense ). Two maneating, clever and aberrant lions. Should do....Compared to 'Jaws', and its many terrible ripoffs, copycats and look-alikes, this is the far superior movie - better even than 'Jaws' ( which was innovative, though, and which I like ) due to its skillful crafting, building of a menacing presence and less reliance on sudden shocks to get the audience's interest. You always know the lions are stalking the camp, you just do not know where, how and when they will strike. There is no easy safety on shore , which I find much more entertaining and interesting than being 'shock-awakened' by some blaring soundeffects and sudden gore and splattering - actually much of the violence here is off-camera or alleged too, and while there is a lot of blood in some scenes, you rarely if ever see its actual shedding. While I like it, this might not appeal to the gore-hounds though , I presume.In the end 'The Ghost And The Darkness' combines two genres, the great adventure story, and the stalking monster plot, forging both into a greater, very engrossing whole. I give it 8,5 out of 10 for sheer entertainment value.  And as for many 'critics', I guess there were just not enough scantily clad, busty females (preferably helpless, blonde and screaming ) and too little predictability about the next victim in this movie for their taste..... "},{"Title":"lions are more devastating to India than Pakistan's bombs!","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This is the second adaption of the actual event which took place during the construction of railroads in much of Africa.  The first adaption was not very good, but this one just hit it off brilliantly.  There was a tremendous amount of suspense and humour involved and there was a lot of cultural traits portrayed.  You cannot help but like a movie like this.  The acting was top of the line, and the producers made sure they kept you on the edge of your seats.  I saw it in the cinemas so it was more intense there.  There are many historical events in History which are terrifyingly amazing.  And many of them have been turned into movies, and most of those movies turned into c**p.  For instance, in 1982 there was a real drought around the Kiliminjaro mountain in africa and the baboons began killing people to drink their blood since there was no water.  This was a real life event that could have been turned into a superb movie but it was turned into trash in the movie In the shadow of Kiliminjaro.  However, the guys who made this movie did not let that happen this time.  The 120 some people that died by those lions (120 reported deaths) were remembered by an excellent movie.  It is a movie for everyone.  I guarantee you all will enjoy it.  Watch it! "},{"Title":"Roooaaar!!!","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Don't be afraid.  It's only me.  What really held this movie together was the suspense and thrilling lion hunting scenes.  The tension level was high.  I believe the cinematographer missed an opportunity to really showcase the beauty of the surrounding area as we know how beautiful the African continent is.Michael Douglas as Remington was the actor in this movie that helped move it past the slow pace it had fallen into.  The first 60 minutes were rather boring even though there were a couple of interesting stunts in the lion attack scenes.  Beaumont (Tom Wilkinson), John Patterson's (Val Kilmer) boss, was a pompous but entertaining character throughout his scenes.  I was disappointed with Henry Cele's brief appearance in the movie.  I have always been impressed with his acting since his role in Shaka Zulu.  And John Kani (Samuel) was very endearing in his role as Samuel.  Val Kilmer was okay but did not impress me with a strong screen presence needed in the lead role.To be a railroad worker in 1898 Africa had to be an thankless job at best especially for those of African or Indian descent.  No doubt the conditions were probably less than tolerable compounded with the camp's lack of safety.  Overall, if you enjoy a good drama, especially movies that represent a snippet of history, this is a movie to watch.I give it a seven.  "},{"Title":"A Thrilling Thriller","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  The Ghost and the Darkness (The Rulers of the Savanna) is really an exciting and thrilling movie. Acting, plot and locations are great, and the movie manages to shock you in ways that few thriller-movies from the 90's do. The only thing to point the finger on is Michael Douglas. Douglas is a very good actor, but in this one he is really misplaced.(8 out of 10) "},{"Title":"An Incredible and Suspenseful Story","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie.  Val Kilmer and Michael Douglas gave wonderful portrayals of their characters.  I enjoyed the fact that this was based somewhat loosely, I believe on a true story.  Am I right about this? The plot line was remarkably well-written and flowed extremely well for the simplicity of story.  It was a bit eerie, especially when they were in the Lair, and I loved how I was kept in suspense most of the time.  The ONLY bad comment I have is that I KNEW they were going to  attack the hospital I have a knack for guessing movie plot-lines.  Also, it was very gory not that I have a problem with that and it was disgusting watching them eat. But, even then, they movie was exceptional.I am AMAZED at the smoothness of the movie.  Very suspenseful and quite fascinating.  Watch It!!!!!! "},{"Title":"An Original and Sound Movie","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This is a very original and sound movie.  The plot flows extremely smoothly and isn't predictable at one spot I predicted, but I have a knack for it. The performances of Val Kilmer and Michael Douglas are stunning.  It is a bit eerie and the fact that the story is true, only makes it more so.  It is also somewhat disturbing seeing the lions devour humans, but it makes a point about evil working here.  There is definately an element of it and the movie suggests several times that perhaps the lions aren't real, but are evil Spirits.  There is also somewhat of a battle between the men and lions and who will win in the struggle to survive.  It can remind you just how powerful nature is.Overall, this was a extraordinary movie.  Unlike many movies, it was original, not a carbon copy, and nearly flawless.  The special effects were stunning.  The acting and cinematography were superb as well.  The plot was undeniably smooth.  Definately one of my personal favorites. "},{"Title":"Could've been much better","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  The Ghost and the Darkness is not a great film, and that's a shame because the plot was so good.  The fact that this story is true immediately raises the intensity level, but a choppy script with too many lion-fodder characters left an unsatisfied feeling with me.  What is undeniable is that the cinematography, music, and lion fx were done very well.  Patterson's battle to kill the last lion was excellent.  The movie is not quite at the level of The Birds, but was much, much better than Jaws. "}{"Title":"These are not lions. They are The Ghost and The Darkness.","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I was another victim of those self apointed critics that were giving bad reviews about this movie. I believed it was not good, until out of curiosity I got it on video one of these days. Then I found what I'd been missing.It is a very good movie. It may not be the shocking terror that many expected, but the story is absorbing and it keeps you waiting for something to happen all the time. And the fact that many criticize about the incredibility of the story, is set aside by something even the characters say These are not lions. They are The Ghost and The Darness. Now is up to you, un-believers to understand.There is only one part that disapointed me about the movie the end.  "},{"Title":"Fun Trip makes no Good Movie","Date":"27 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" The construction of a railroad in meridional Africa is endangered by lions of supernatural characteristics. This movie ain't supernatural, that's sure, but we can highlight this1)It's filmed in Africa, a paradise always to see, visual banquet that makes me comfortable watching at all times. 2)Some implicit racist moment where lions feast upon African slaves, never to white Americans. 3)Some funny scenes that are prone to parody (althought it wasn't intended to be funny) 4)Thick colors, well sought tension moments.Besides that, the characters are flattened with empty performances, scraggy action and plot holes that make this a fun trip but one of the most forgettable movies ever since...well, I can't remember it. "},{"Title":"My favorite Val Kilmer movie","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Who called it unoriginal? Give me a break! What's more original than a documented historical account of diverse people who gather in a remote setting in Africa to build a bridge that would join nations and people groups?! This is much more than man against beast, and in my humble opinion, there aren't enough movies about man vs. animal anymore!  I'd like to see more!  Only the threatened and simple-minded would see it otherwise.If you're spiritual, consider looking for types and shadows of good vs. evil, God vs. devil, courage vs. weakness, unity vs. dissention. It's a good movie for illustrating these, and more.  Teens who could handle the fright, could benefit.My husband has gathered men together to watch and talk about character- building after.  Guys especially like this movie.Fantastic, if you didn't see it in the theatres, rent it today! "},{"Title":"It's very hard to NOT get into this movie!","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Based on a true story, Kilmer is an English engineer in the early 1900's, who has six months to get a railroad trestle built across a river in Africa. After about a month, a lion starts getting bold and drags his men right out of the camp.  Nothing he does either stops or impedes their advancement. By the time he tells his boss why he is so far behind schedule a total of forty men have disappeared.Enter Douglas, a rough neck American who is known widely for his hunting skills.  Kilmer, himself, fancies himself a hunter, (in fact, he killed a lion earlier in the movie with just one shot) but I got the impression right from the first time that they met that Kilmer knew what Douglas was all about and let him call all the shots.The one thing I did not understand was why Douglas got top billing in this film.  He did not enter the picture for almost the first hour of it and then, the story still seemed to focus on Kilmer's character and his problems.As far as theatrical value goes, this is an excellent movie!  The characters meshed with each other in a way that kept you in the story.  And even though you might not have understood why things were done the way they were, the plot seemed, somehow, to find a way to explain it to the viewer.  It took a while for me to get over Kilmer with an English accent, but, once I got past that (in the first ten minutes, or so), I thoroughly enjoyed this movie. I've always wanted to see it, but it seemed like I could never find the time to watch it or found something else to do.  It's one of those movies that I'm definitely going to add to my collection some day! "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"11 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This true story is very good.Val Kilmer and Michael Douglas and the rest of the cast is very good.The film is superb when it comes to the views of Africa and it is scary.There is one funny part too and I'll talk about that in a minute.To Me it was really wired why the Lions did what they did.The music by Jerryn Goldsmith is great!Now onto the funny part.I always laugh when Remington and Samuel were talking.It goes like this Charles RemingtonI'm always considerate. It's something my mother taught me.Samuel laughs.Charles RemingtonWhy do you laugh? You don't think I'm considerate?SamuelI don't believe you had a mother.  If you like spooky animal films and especially if there true then this is a great one to watch!     "},{"Title":"Great Idea, Lousy Movie","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  `The Ghost and the Darkness' is a movie overflowing with promise . . . but, ultimately, it fails to even remotely deliver on that promise.  Set in the late nineteenth century, it's the story Colonel John Henry Patterson (Val Kilmer) man hired to supervise the building of a bridge in British-colonial Africa.  Upon arriving in Africa, Patterson learns that the bridge must be built within five months &#150; his supervisor (and the man formerly in charge of building the bridge), Beaumont (Tom Wilkinson), has set this unreasonable deadline just so Patterson will fail. Undaunted by this challenge, Patterson pushes on, and actually enjoys a slight amount of success, until some native workers are mauled to death by a lion. The native workers believe that the lion is a spirit sent to punish the British, but Patterson believe that the lion is just an old male lion that has been kicked out of its pride, left to die of old age. To shut the natives, up, Patterson hires one of the greatest game hunters living in Africa, Charles Remington (Michael Douglas), to kill the beast.  Remington hunts down the lion, but finds that he's not after one decrepit old lion, but two young, vicious male lions that hunt as a team.  A game of hunter versus hunted ensues between Remington, Patterson, and the killer lions, and the twists and turns that ensue are often quite entertaining.Unfortunately, the movie is usually only interesting when the lions are present.  The first third of the movie, setting up the conflict between man and beast, drags along at a painfully slow rate. Val Kilmer is woefully miscast as Patterson, coming across as spoiled and ineffective instead of as a man desperately struggling against the odds. Michael Douglas' performance as Remington, while entertaining, was cartoonish and out of place with the rest of the film.  The character of Remington would've benefited greatly from either being toned down or from a reduction in screen time.Ultimately, the lions are the true stars of the film.  The scenes where they attack, or where Remington and Patterson are forced to prepare for an attack, are gritty and suspenseful.  The animatronic lions created by Stan Winston are unbelievably good &#150; watching their eyes focus on their prey in the African twilight is chilling, to say the least.  Also, once the lions had been established as a real threat, they could be used to create menace in a scene without even being there.  But the lions are supposed to be the villains, not the whole movie, and as such `The Ghost and the Darkness' fails miserably.There's a few scenes that are fantastic, but for the most part, this film's a boring mess.  If you're going to watch it, get the DVD, so you can skip ahead to the good scenes and save yourself from a good hour of terminal boredom.  C-  "},{"Title":"One of the Biggest Flops of the Decade","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  The Ghost and the Darkness is a loud, visual mess that just gets more stupid and ridiculous as it progresses.  The film deals with a British army engineer (Val Kilmer) who is trying to complete a railroad bridge in East Africa in the early-1900s.  However, the progress is impeded by two ferocious lions that are smarter than any character in the film.  A wise white hunter (Michael Douglas) tries to lend insight, but he is disposed of almost immediately.  The screenplay tries to justify its silliness by conveying to the audience that this film is based on a true story.  So what?  Regardless of what this film was based on it is a pure trial to sit through.  Val Kilmer tries hard, but ultimately fails with the weak material.  Michael Douglas's token appearance just adds to the lack of a solid screenplay.  To say the least, do not waste your time with this sorry film.  2 out of 5 stars.   "},{"Title":"Effective but unoriginal .","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Fairly well-made and effective horror-adventure epic maintains interest and is smashingly photographed. But how many times can we possibly sit through another variation on this type of story (man vs. animal) before getting fed up? Based on true incidents but painfully short on originality, the script is essentially one more rehash of the Jaws formula, and all the movie's positive qualities (including strong performances by the leads) can't make us ignore that problem. "},{"Title":"Not half as bad as they say","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This film has been greeted with a great deal of criticism is Sweden, and I can't imagine why. It's not half as bad as they say here, and although I felt it lacked momentum and, it was just a film about building a bridge and getting rid of two lions.But there is one really outrageous detail that irritated me a great deal Val Kilmer was so awful at faking an Irish accent that I almost laughed every time he spoke.And Michael Douglas is just really badly cast as the genius hunter brought in to kill the lions.Well, that's that. Ditch the main actors, and back to square one... "},{"Title":"Some things kill for the pleasure","Date":"22 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  A stark look at the ways of hunter and hunted.  This movie addresses the dichotomy of the world- where some animals kill for food and some for fun. Kilmer is passable, and Douglas shows a dark side - as to why man will hunt an animal he has no intention of eating... Who is worse? that's an ethical question that this film addresses.  "}{"Title":"Lions making Jeffrey Dahmer look like a nanny.","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This film claims to be based on a true story, but the only true thing about this one seems to be that it's a pretty boring job to build bridges. The lions acts like a couple of serial killers without anything better to do than to hunt down innocent bridge builders. The Ghost and the darkness fails on any level to be horrifying, exciting or even funny. Instead it's horrifyingly bad, and some of the actions by the main characters are just stupid. For instance, when Johnny (Kilmer) decides to build a wooden hunting place high up to fool the lions since they have gotten used to Kilmer hiding in trees. Hello?? Wouldn't it be wiser NOT to make it so similar to a tree then? All in all The ghost and the darkness takes too many shortcuts that it makes unbelievable.  "},{"Title":"The story of the Tsavo man-eaters is so fundamentally primal it deserves a much better screen transition than this","Date":"23 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" In 1889, the five-year construction of the Kenya-Uganda Railroad was put in hiatus for nine months, during which reportedly more than 100 people were brutally slaughtered. The culprits responsible were a pair of man-eating Tsavo lions, supposedly no longer able to hunt their normal prey because of a Rinderpest epidemic, who began dragging off workers from their tents in the night. The Irish colonel/engineer in charge of the construction, John H. Patterson, took it under his wing to purge Tsavo of the man-eaters. Following his experiences in Africa, Patterson wrote a compelling book (I have read segments of it) that was later the basis for two movies. The first was Bwana Devil the first 3D movie, released in the 1950s. The latter was The Ghost and the Darkness and not only fails at being a good transfer from paper to screen, but also at being a delectable adventure story.The Ghost and the Darkness, from start to finish, has a list of problems the length of Michael Douglas's hair in the film. I will touch on a great many of the problems and qualms that I had during my review. But here is the core mistake that screenwriter William Goldman and director Stephan Hopkins made. The movie is written and directed with the intention of being brutal, sober, and solemn. Yet the way its highly fictionalized plot is constructed, it generates the impression of a silly satire. Why? Because there are so many darn implausible moments and plot holes that not even a great director could mask from the audience. As a result, The Ghost and the Darkness seems very confused as to what it's doing and where it's trying to go. It almost comes across as affronting to one's own logic.I think that was the attitude that the movie's stars Val Kilmer and Michael Douglas were associated with during the making of this dissatisfying project. Kilmer, before so lively and enthusiastic, seems uncharacteristically morose and unhappy. He puts up a modest effort, but one can feel his feeling of being out-of-place in a hack screenplay. He's forced to say things like Hippos fart through their mouths. I guess they don't kiss very much. I know, it was intended by Mr. Goldman to be funny, but Kilmer seemed to realize while muttering it that it would not fly with the audience. Michael Douglas seems even more out of place and unconvincing as a legendary big game hunter (completely fictional, not associated with the true story) whose character is yet another hack-job rip-off of Robert Shaw's shark fisherman in Jaws. Furthermore, Douglas cannot pass as a game hunter, for he looks more like a deadbeat wearing ten-year-old clothes and who never heard of a shaving razor. There is no real conviction from their performances and that is because they realize there is no conviction in the way their parts are written. When any character comes and goes, the effect is nonexistent.When the movie opens, we're treated with some unintentional laughs because of the cornball dialogue. Now one would expect one of two things to happen with the lion attacks. Either they would ante the movie, or make it even funnier than it already is. No. This adds again to the picture's identity crisis. The convincing attacks are so preposterous and over-the-top that they sort of drag the movie down even further. Funny as it sounds, the movie might have actually benefited if there had been no lions in it at all, for they detract from the picture, not add to it. The attack sequences are poorly constructed, oftentimes with a silhouetted lion just running past the camera in front of a victim and then having close-ups of a phony lion head with its jaws locked around the actor's torso. There are some commendable shots with a real lion, but overall, these attacks are ludicrous in a bad way. Regarding the climaxes, they are essentially just carbon copies with a few changes, like coffee stains and holes. The holes are key shots which are apparently missing, leaving the audience feeling rather restless and unsatisfied.In fact, the whole movie is ludicrous in a bad way. For the way it asks you accept one preposterous moment after another is almost insulting to your mind's capacity. Take for example, this situation. If you were to come upon the den of these two ferocious man-eaters, how would you respond? You have two choices. You can either wait outside the cave entrance with your rifles pointed ahead, or you can stupidly wander into the darkness-cloaked cave. What would you do? What do the characters end up doing? You do the math. Could you honestly expect to construct a (lion-proof) hospital big enough for fifty people in a twenty-four-hour period? And I don't know who in the heck talked a hunter into constructing a twenty-foot-high platform where the only thing keeping you from falling is a slat of wood the width of your crotch. I'm almost tempted to give away the denouement of this sequence. All I will tell you is that it involves a lion, a baboon, and a bird. Also that if I'd seen this particular sequence alone, I would have laughed my head off. But having to watch it with movie in front and after it, this sequence is groan-inducing.Now the story of the Tsavo man-eaters is so fundamentally compelling and primal that it deserves to be told on-screen. But one will find more entertainment reading Patterson's book than watching The Ghost and the Darkness. It is slapstick disguised as a serious African adventure yarn. Sure, there are a few moments of wonder when we first see the continent and some laugh-worthy moments, but over all this is a rather cheap and unforgivable production. And the late Jerry Goldsmith accomplished here what I thought was impossible for him an unmemorable and sometimes unpleasant musical score. "},{"Title":"Outstanding Movie","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" The film is by far one of the most exciting I've seen. Val's performance is quite outstanding, Micheal Douglas's roll might be out of place but not a spoiler.For those who think its too trivial (such as the view that lion was begging to be killed) please visit a live lion (in a zoo please!). Samuel's character is as realistic as real people under such extreme circumstances.I don't believe its a real life story though, more like jazzed up true storyThe film location is excellent as well as the music. All in all I still think that the Ghost and the Darkness is an excellent film "},{"Title":"Some Lions, Coward Villagers and a Brave Boy!!","Date":"16 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" This title suits the movie well. A predictive and very childish kind of storyline, somewhat like bedtime stories to make children brave, which could have been done by a short 5 minutes story.Directed by Stephen Hopkins and Written By William Godman, this film is all about a character John Patterson an engineer, a bridge builder to be specific, who is the protagonist of the story, who takes a challenge of building a bridge in Africa, very confidently and with his wife pregnant and delivering a baby in six months. The job was assigned by a very rude and demotivating boss. The story moves around building of the bridge and some man-eater lions which created fear in the mind of people working there. And at the end of the movie, as one can predict, the hero killed the lions and thank god, the movie was over!!Despite a bad story, the direction is good. The background music is so real, that it creates such a superb horror effect in the mind of people that even if the movie was over you will feel the lions coming after you!! All the characters acted well, especially the hero.The best part of the movie which i liked the most was; cultural relations have been very beautiful shown in this movie, i.e. how to live and co-operate with people who are not like you.So the final verdict of the movie goes as, it's better to watch 'Man verses wild' on National Geographical than to waste time as well money in cinema hall. "},{"Title":"Quick reviews!!","Date":"4 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" In Colonial Africa Col. Patterson is trying to build a large bridge for the British Railway, leading a large group of Africans and Indians. He has a strict deadline, but is known for always getting the job done. However, the attack of two lions in the area puts great fear into the workers, and over 100 are killed. Patterson comes up with several plans to catch and kill the lions so that he can continue with his work, as the locals are planning to leave, believing the lions to be pure evil, calling them the ghost and the darkness according to a legend. They begin to lose confidence in Patterson as they only attacked when he arrived. The lions seem unusually clever and vicious, and Patterson is out of his league. Enter Remington, straight out of a Haggard novel, an aging hunter who his renowned for his ability. Along with a friend Samuel, they go hunting.The film deliberately tries to move at a slower pace than films of this type, but unfortunately it does not work. No real tension is created, and Kilmer's Patterson always seems to have a smile on his face in spite of the death around him. For a cast of good actors, no-one particularly performs well, Kilmer is guilty of an awful accent, and Douglas is basically the same character as he played in Romancing the Stone, but without the wise-cracks. Until Douglas appears, there is little excitement, and the banter between characters, obviously trying to recall Jaws, is vastly inferior to Spielberg's hit. However, there are a few decent moments, even if everything is immediately predictable, and at least the lions have not totally been butchered by Mr. CGI. The final hunt scenes are pretty good, but the film should have been shorter to increase their impact. Based on a true story with the usual changes to suit the 'modern' audience, which hardly harm the story, The Ghost and the Darkness is worth watching if there is nothing on TV, but I would not recommend going out of your way to buy or see it.6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"True story of a pair of man eaters","Date":"20 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" And I don't mean Paris Hilton and Nicole Richie. The Ghost and the Darkness is based on a factual account of how a bridge building project in the Transvaal was brought to a halt by two man eating lions who killed over 120 people (although figures vary).I had known and was fascinated by the story beforehand and because of that I really enjoyed this film. Of course being an adaptation some things are changed. For one the real lions were maneless males, here they are regular maned lions. Also, and most glaringly, Micheal Douglass's character Remmington never existed. These are easy to ignore when the film is as interesting as this however. I can actually see why his character was included - one of the big impact moments in the film concern him (you'll know what it is when you see it).I'm Irish myself and I didn't even know Val Kilmer was trying an irish accent until I read it here. Take from that what you will.For fans of the story, or anyone who enjoys a good monster film I'd recommend they see this. The setting is breathtaking, the pacing perfect and the scenes involving the lion attacks are very well done. Someone mentioned it was a blatant plagiarism of Jaws? Unless Jaws was filmed pre 1898 that argument is pretty baseless my friend ;) Overall a very enjoyable creature filled adventure romp. "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"28 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" I liked this film. Good story, some good characterisation and very good cinematography and location filming. But why does it have to be so Hollywood? Michael Douglas overacts and is unconvincing as the all American hero who comes to save everyone (perhaps someone told him he was playing Wyatt Earp in a western). The English are always portrayed as the bad guys or get the unattractive characters. Did you see that guys haircut at the end ? (he looked like a cross between Oliver Hardy and Adolf Hitler). Maybe one day we can have an English actor playing an appealing English character rather than a fat, arrogant, colonialist (Beaumonts character was way over the top). Val Kilmer is not too bad, but if the character is Irish why can't we have an Irish actor. Then maybe the accent will be right. Sounds like I hated this film, I didn't - it was good but it could have been great. "},{"Title":"all right, but not good enough - more like average","Date":"3 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This is all right movie but it wasn't great as it should have been. Val Kilmer did a bad performance, not only that but the character is British, he isn't Irish. I've read the book which was the account of the true events that did happen written by Patterson himself. The book was more horrifying, bloody, and of course better. I think they should have stayed by being true to the book, besides it was written by Patterson himself, he should be the one to know what happened. But the movie was all right, regardless of Val Kilmer's performance and the fast pacing, the film had great cinematography and music that went well throughout the film that really made feel that you were in Africa.  "},{"Title":"Entertaining Man Vs. Nature Flick...","Date":"28 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  An entertaining man vs. nature flick in which two men (Val Kilmer and Michael Douglas) try to fight off a lion killing people in Africa. Some tense moments heighten the fun and though it has been done before, this film has some very strong leads and the photography is excellent.4/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Much better than I expected","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Before seeing this film, I had heard some pretty hard criticism and general bad vibes about it (only 1/5 in our TV guide!)  It just goes to show that with low expectations, you are much more likely to be pleasantly surprised.By no means does this film deserve a bashing.  It's well-directed and photographed throughout, with some stunning African sunsets and also a brilliantly stirring score from Jerry Goldsmith.Val Kilmer, I personally love the guy (maybe not for all the right reasons) but once again here he proved that he is a very fine actor.  Val has never looked better, and his Irish accent was, I believe, not at all bad.  He didn't over-do it which is why I think his performance so lifted the movie.  It's great to see Val able to give a character such depth and feeling which in most of his movies hasn't been possible.  It is a crime that Michael Douglas is billed first in the cast list - it seems however good Val is, he is never given credit for it.  As for Douglas, he was okay I guess, but I generally thought he ruined the dark tone of the movie after it was going so well (what was a would-be American cowboy doing in the African plains?)Perhaps 'The Ghost and the Darkness' is not so entirely original - for me it bears a slight resemblance to the 1960 film 'Mountains of the Moon' and sometimes even 'Zulu'.  Some characters, particularly Tom Wilkinson, are somewhat stereotyped - the mean, cowardly and unsympathetic English 'baddy' which we've seen so many times before.  The script is not great either, but this does not spoil the mood of the action.  After all, when stuck face-to-face with a roaring lion, you are unlikely to recite Shakespeare!  However, there was some typical-Douglas wishy-washy sentimental tosh in there which I thought was unnecessary.  Also, Val Kilmer and Emily Mortimer do not make a very believable couple.This aside, I found it a greatly enjoyable and moving film.  I recommend this to anyone who enjoys serious action-adventure and of course any fans of Val...  Perhaps animal-rights activists should stay clear though! 6/10 "}{"Title":"The BEST movie of all time.","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This movie rocked!! Great directing, great cast (Kilmer, Douglas etc.) and overall great plot. It`s hard to fathom that this is a true story, but it is. The main storyline is that a railroad is being built and an engineer is brought in to make a bridge despite a pair of man eating lions...I was so into it I almost thought I was there with them. And the idea of those lions killing 130 people in 6 months is almost unimaginable. i urge every Val Kilmer fan to see this movie! You won`t regret it! "},{"Title":"good movie","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Ghost in the darkness is an excellent movie. The acting was good , the scenery of Africa was beautiful. It kept me in suspense. I like the action in the movie. I recommend this movie to anyone. It was that good of a movie. "},{"Title":"Not too Shabby","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Good movie, plot, acting , and suspense. The only thing I do not like is Val I know he's a good actor and all but he's a jerk. No offense Val.  Good movie just find another good actor to play his part. Or at least let Val get viciously attacked a couple times then maybe I could live with it .9/10 good movie. "},{"Title":"Did the advertising department see this film??","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  As with many of those who have commented on this film, I was dreadfully misled by the advertising and missed it in the theater. The score and cinematography alone are enough to recommend the film. At times the scenery was so breath-taking that I felt I was walking through an art gallery. I expected a standard action/adventure flick and only saw it because a friend brought the video by for me to watch. While it's not a great movie, it is a solid drama which was unfairly blasted by many critics. (Perhaps they too were expecting all action.) Give it a 7.5 and see it one evening when you feel like letting go of reality and being swept away by the exotic visuals and the mystic feeling that maybe The Ghost and The Darkness are not really lions, but the spirit of the land. "},{"Title":"The Ghost and the Darkness is a very good movie that keeps you on the edge of your seats.","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This movie is my personal favorite. It is a new age thriller. The fact that the story is true makes the movie even more intense. You can actually go to a museum in Chicago and see the skins of these massive beasts. The Ghost and the Darkness has an outstanding cast. This is one of Val Kilmer's best roles. The effects of the movie were superb. I didn't see one flaw in the movie. The story line and plot was excellent. "},{"Title":"An absolute Thrill","Date":"31 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  An awesome show of effects and spine tingling story line.  Val Kilmer is so cool as the bridge builder- turned- hero, and Michael Douglas really stretches his acting muscle with this not- so- clean- cut character.  The visuals of the African Savanna are stunning.  Gets better every time you see it! "},{"Title":"A rollercoaster ride of passion, fury and fear","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  The Ghost and the Darkness brought originality to the big screen which very few films have. It did not receive the recognition that it deserved. This film could easily be mistaken for a crude Disney film between two men and two animals but deep down it shows the struggle between good and evil that is posessed in the heart of every living animal. Even though it was set over 100 years ago themes are still very relevant.I recommend this film to anyone who wishes to watch a well directed movie with hard hitting themes. "},{"Title":"Scared me outta my gourd","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This is one of the most fantastic films I have ever seen.  To start off, the score by Jerry Goldsmith was one of his best works ever (but aren't they all?), and added a distinct and unique mood to the movie -- a mood that completely freaked me out.  The opening monologue did a wonderful job of setting the stage for the absolute terror that was about to begin, and the characters were wonderfully scripted, and extremely well acted -- the actors seemed to actually become their characters, which is how movies should be anyway.  This movie was just so damn good, I bought the letterbox copy the day it came out, and a CD copy of the score the day it came out.  Score 10 out 10 "},{"Title":"O-oh here they come &#x85; They're the man-eaters!","Date":"13 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" During the mid-90's, Hollywood was still squeezing the success of Jaws like a lemon. Even the novel The Man-Eaters of Tsavo, which was originally written in 1907 by its protagonist J.H. Patterson, completely gets re-styled and altered to fit the successful Jaws formula. Basically this means there are quite a bit of chaotic and allegedly menacing POV-shots and a bunch of dreadful stereotypes amongst the characters; like the ruthless capitalist (Tom Wilkinson) and the indifferent cowboy-like hunter (Michael Douglas). By that I certainly don't intend to say that The Ghost and the Darkness is a bad movie. On the contrary, it's one of the better 90's action/adventure movies out there, with multiple moments of genuine tension and some of the most astonishing wildlife footage ever shown in an American produced film. The successful young engineer John Patterson is sent to Tsavo in Kenya (although back then it wasn't yet known as Kenya yet) to design and build a railroad bridge, so that the British remain ahead of the French and Dutch in their colonial progress. The project quickly becomes stalled when two enormous lions decide to prowl the area and attack the workers. The animals, referred to by the superstitious construction workers as the Ghost and the Darkness, behave very much unlike lions normally behave, however. They work in pair, they attack in broad daylight and they seemingly kill for pleasure! Since this part of the plot is reportedly based on true events, that's indeed quite remarkable and deeply disturbing! The body count soon mounts up to over a hundred, and Patterson receives the help of the notorious and slightly eccentric hunter Charles Remington. The Ghost and the Darkness is an overall worthwhile popcorn flick in which the dull moments and clichd situations get sufficiently compensated with beautiful images and thrilling action stunts. Jerry Goldsmith's music is phenomenal and Vilmos Zsigmond's camera-work is terrific. In fact, these two gentlemen are the true real stars of the film. Michael Douglas obviously enjoyed playing the cool Remington character and there are good supporting performances for Tom Wilkinson, Bernard Hill and Om Puri. "},{"Title":"Two Stars; Two Lions; Two Heros; Too True","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" Starring Val Kilmer and Michael Douglas makes this a hit to begin with. Excellent direction, music, and scenery make this movie especially worth watching.The crux of the movie was how they handled the lion scenes - in short, brilliantly. Not once did I feel safe while the lions were attacking. If anything it brought home the power and terror of lions... to the very end.Great movie 9/10.-LD_____________________________my faith http//www.angelfire.com/ny5/jbc33/ "}{"Title":"Excellent. Nearly perfect.","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  The movie's atmosphere is really strong and intense and captures you, which is all I expect from a movie - I want to forget my everyday life for a modest amount of time ( 1.5 h ;-) )  What more could you ask for? "},{"Title":"Uninteresting plagiarism of 'Jaws'","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" I watched this movie when it was released, knowing very little of it but appalled by the names of Michael DOUGLAS and Val KILMER, and by the flavor of XIXth century adventure in mysterious Africa.At first you may think you will have a real good time with nice shooting, good music (Jerry Goldsmith), good actors, but then I was very quickly disappointed by the fact that the movie only focuses on the struggle with the lions. OK this is was the real subject of the film (clear - I went to watch it but had not read any review about it).But the script is mere copy/paste of 'Jaws' script!! > Identical narrative progression, with Val Kilmer in the part of Roy Schreider and Michael Douglas as the hard-boiled adventurer who has seen everything (the fisherman in Jaws). > The lions lurking in the bush are shot the same way the shark was in 'Jaws' subjective camera with the music score recalling 'Jaws'This movie is absolute plagiarism!! "},{"Title":"Sorry, Im no film critic...I just tell the truth as I see it.","Date":"20 December 2010","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" I'm not going to pretend to be a great judge of films, nor am I going to write some poetic critique about this one. I am easily entertained, and have a long list of favorites...this is not one of them. This movie is bad in the way that so many before and after it have been bad. They try entirely way to hard to make the villain worthy of being a villain. How do the lions get on the roof? How do they throw/drag people around like it's nothing? How do 3 guys miss a lion which is 4 feet away from them with several shots each? I almost threw my remote at the television at that point. The film is illogical, and the plot is lacking in every way. Michael Douglas and Tom Wilkinson's characters are over the top, and Val Kilmer is just OK. Had this film received a cumulative 1-4, I wouldn't care. The fact that people are calling it a 7 out of 10 makes me feel really sad. I'm sorry. This movie is bad.That's my peace. To finish, I am a big fan of Val Kilmer, Michael Douglas and Tom Wilkinson. I wanted to like it, it's unfortunate I couldn't. "},{"Title":"The builders of the British Empire are afraid to do their job because of a few minor difficulties with the local wildlife? Average at best.","Date":"18 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" The Ghost and the Darkness starts in 'London 1898' where Robert Beaumont (Tom Wilkinson) hires Irish engineer John Patterson (Val Kilmer) to go to Tsavo in Africa to design & build a bridge for his railway. Upon arrival Patterson is greeted by his assistant Angus Starling (Brian McCardie) who takes him to the construction site to meet the tribal workers foremen Samuel (John Kani) & Abdullah (Om Puri) plus Dr. Hawthorne (Bernard Hill) at the site hospital who shows him a man who was attacked by a lion earlier in the day. Patterson says he will sort it out & that night kills what he thinks is the lion responsible. It's now 'Seven Weeks Later' & the bridge is coming along fine until one night a worker is taken & killed by a lion, the workers call the lion 'the ghost and the darkness' & consider them evil spirits. As more workers are taken & killed all attempts to kill the lion fails, it soon becomes clear that there are in fact two lions & before long over 40 men have fallen prey to them. To try & kill the lions world famous big game hunter Charles Remington (Michael Douglas) is hired to put an end to their killing spree for good...Directed by Stephen Hopkins I thought The Ghost and the Darkness was an OK time waster at best, dull Hollywood nonsense at worst. The script by William Goldman is apparently based on a true story of which I have no doubt but what I do doubt is how accurate this adaptation actually is, I wouldn't be surprised if a bit of exaggeration went on if you know what I mean. The Ghost and the Darkness almost exclusively concentrates on the lion aspect of the story & completely ignores the bridge building part except when the workers start to get scared & leave. It's a relatively slow film, the lion attacks had little impact as far as I was concerned because of director Hopkins use of annoying quick cuts which I think just end up looking like a jumbled up mess of unrecognisable imagery. None of the attacks are graphic & the majority of The Ghost and the Drakness focuses on Pattersons attempts to kill the lions with various plans which becomes boring, Remington isn't introduced until past the 40 minute mark & brings little to the film except instead of one person hunting the lions there's now two. Having said that the film provides a fair amount of entertainment & I wasn't too bored but at the same time I wasn't particularly gripped either, at least it kept me watching & fairly interested for 110 odd minutes. With a large budget of about $55,000,000 The Ghost and the Darkness is a bit of a disappointment, I would suspect a large amount of that money went on Kilmer & Douglas's wages, another sizable chunk on the location filming in Africa, the period setting & the dozens of extras used. Personally I found the look of the film really dull & all that detail in costumes & location sets had little impact on me, I found The Ghost and the Darkness a visually bland & unexciting film. The acting was OK but nothing special, the normally likable Douglas looks uninterested & makes what is really a glorified cameo despite his top-billing in the credits. Overall The Ghost and the Darkness is a decent watch but don't expect an action packed film or one that will stay with you very long. Average at best & I wonder just how much of this actually happened in reality all those years ago & how much was made up? "},{"Title":"Jaws meets...uh... something really dull & boring","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  William Goldman wrote this mess?  He must have needed money for his mother's gallbladder surgery or something, since this has the feel of a script churned out in a weekend after watching Jaws on channel 62 at 3AM.  Let's see, they did sharks 4 times, pirahnas (twice), alligators (twice), killer whales, apes, saint bernards, squids, giant ants, giant spiders, dinosaurs, snakes, frogs... I know!  They haven't done lions!  And off he went to rewrite Jaws but with lions instead.  I have seen people here claim this is an original story.  I suppose it is if you haven't seen Jaws 1-4, Alien, Jurassic Park, Alligator, Orca, Beast, In the Shadow of Killamanjaro or any other man vs. killer animal movie ever made.There are few scares, and the lions here are present as almost supernatural- far more intelligent than any of the human characters and with a deliberate maliciousness.  This of course is necesary, in order to make the lions evil and thus a worthy villan for the mighty hunter.Ultimately, while this movie is well shot and looks gorgeous, it is empty, vacuous filmmaking.  Go rent low budget gems like Pirahna or Alligator if you want to watch a *good* jaws rip-off. "},{"Title":"Abysmal","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I was amazed when I learned that William Goldman had written the screenplay for The Ghost and the Darkness, because it was a pointless movie where nearly every scene lacked even a minimum of intelligence.  Val Kilmer goes to Africa to supervise building a bridge.  His work camp is tormented by man-eating and apparently supernatural lions, which seem to be invulnerable to bullets and manage to eat hundreds of men.  The rest of the movie tries to be a thriller like Jaws, with a supermonster terrorizing the locals, and this idea seems promising, but in the end they're apparently just two lions after all.  Oh.  There are three great supporting actors, and while they're each wonderful, they're all wasted.  The great Indian actor Om Puri manages to imbue some really dumb lines with enough spirit so that they make sense. Brian McCardi is delightful as a missionary, but unfortunately he's killed off after only a few lines.  And the tribal chief, who is the most noble character in the whole show, is given some truly awful lines and seems to be the only one aware of what a travesty the film is.  I hate to trash a movie because I can usually find something of value in anything.  But at the end of this one I was just annoyed at the waste of talent and resources.  No theme, nothing to make you think, not even anything to admire in the filmmaking. Just infuriatingly bad dialogue and plot events that make you shake your head in disbelief at their stupidity. Oh well. "},{"Title":"Jaws... with lions","Date":"14 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" Let me start by saying 'The Ghost and the Darkness' a remake of the 1975 classic 'Jaws' with lions and a bigger body count. I watched this yesterday on TV and thought I'd entertain the film for a short while to see a)how bad Val Kilmer's acting was going to be and b)because I quite like Michael Douglas who doesn't tend to put his name to that many bad films. I was pleasantly surprised.The opening few scenes with Kilmer are pretty bad, the acting is so wooden and stilted it's like watching children in a nativity play. However once the action moves to Africa things get much better. The premise is Kilmer is charged with overseeing the construction of a railway crossing in East Africa in the late 19th Century, his reputation is that of efficiency and vows to complete the task on time and on budget to make it back in time to see the birth of his first child. What really hooked me was the first lion attack (of which there are many), which is really scary and takes you by surprise at how vivid it is. From there on in the film pretty much follows the same path as Spielburg's shark classic, with individuals slowly being picked off as we gradually find out more about the two Lions on the killing spree. Hell, they even use music similar to the 'dur dum' of the watery shark shocker.Douglas doesn't appear until someway into the film and plays the great white hunter character. Looking not dissimilar to how he does in the 'Romancing the Stone' movies he plays the part of Robert Shaw in Jaws - the gnarly seen it all before sailor or in this case hunter. Kilmer is of course playing the role of Roy Scheider, the reluctant hero trying to protect his family and his workers. The climax too is straight out of Jaws, although instead of sailing off to find the shark everyone working on the rail-crossing flees in fear leaving just Kilmer, Douglas and Kilmer's right hand man for the final face-off. I swear I was half expecting Kilmer to say at one point we're gonna need a bigger cow (as bait).This movie was surprisingly good and after a shaky start picks up and becomes a decent watchable movie. It shocks and it scares but more over it's entertaining and gripping until the very end. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This is a good movie.This is a great movie.I really liked this movie.If you can tell.It has great actors and a great story.I love how the say that only the most incredible things about this movie are true.I have this movie and tell all of you adventure fans to go see it. "},{"Title":"This movie was terrible.","Date":"6 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" I was forced to watch this piece of garbage in English class and I did not find anything about it enjoyable. It is heavy on the violence and gore which I do not think is acceptable for a high school English course. I do not appreciate being forced to watch something that greatly disturbs me for a course that is mandatory. This movie was filled with lots of historical inaccuracies. Some of the people in this film, such as Remington, didn't even exist! The film just felt like a cheap slasher trying to be something it's not. If you are truly interested in this event, I recommend reading Patterson's book.In short, skip this piece of garbage. It's not worth your time. "},{"Title":"Fun movie.","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I had read a lot of negative reviews of this film so I didn't catch it until video. I regret not seeing it on the big screen now. This movie is a lot of fun and very exciting.  "}{"Title":"Don't worry about the actors.","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":"  The story is there and also the production values. It just seems the two leads are out off place. Maybe it was Kilmer's Irish accent and Douglas' macho image... I don't really know. But at least the thrills are delivered between all those gory bits. "},{"Title":"Nice Kitty...","Date":"15 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" This may have been a true story but as with all films coming out of Hollywood these days it is over-hyped and filled with stocked clich' one sided characters. So two male lions attacked a village in Africa over the course of a few months or whatever and killed lots of people. OK it is tragic but life on the plains of Africa never have been easy, and since this movie takes place at a time when man was really starting to develop the land and push the animals out of their territory you can understand why something like this may have happened. This could have been done a lot better and way more intelligent approaching it from an angle of what is being done to the landscape and how animals are being forced out. Instead it played out like some stupid western with Michael Douglas playing the part of a man who hunts big game and goes by the name of Remmington. Please!! Do you really think there was a guy who called himself that when this was going on? I would say no. The Africans in this movie are not portrayed in a positive light. They seem like the way Hollywood used to portray minorities in the early days of film. In any case not a good movie and not Douglas and Kilmers finest moment. "},{"Title":"Horrible political views in this film","Date":"24 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Horror","Review":" The fact that this film is based on a true story is not enough to justify its shortcomings and political views. A remake of JAWS in a savanna setting, it pictures white men saving savages from a threat of nature, in a typical assertion of white supremacist belief. Michael Douglas co-produced this film.No doubt historical facts imply that some elements of the plot are true, but those who laughed when the shark jumps onto the boat and shows director-willed knowledge of the plans made to kill it will enjoy the broken wood, the not-close-to-impossible action scenes, the super-human knowledge of animals... Hysterically funny.The ideological and political stand is much more disturbing. We only saw worse with fascist and pro-colonisation Tarzan (featuring the natural ability of white men to lead and bring order and civilisation as was the idea of Edgar Rice Burroughs and so many of his contemporaries back before WWI and WWII).There is no bitterness or questioning in the characters, triumphant WASPS whose reason, courage and belief in their supremacy are eventually portrayed against the weakness of blacks, Muslims, and Indians and helps build THE BRIDGE, symbol of European civilization... Do you have a white hood hidden somewhere under your bed Mr Douglas ? "}]