[{"Title":"Not to be missed","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"100 out of 118 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Part of the genius of Branagh's interpretation of Hamlet is in the use of the techniques of the cinema to enhance the production. Branagh has not condensed the acts like some mass market soup, as was done in Olivier's 1948 Oscar-winning production, or in, say, Zeffirelli's 1989 Hamlet lite starring Mel Gibson (both excellent, though, within their scope), but has kept every word while directing our understanding so that even those only casually familiar with the play might follow the intent and purpose with discernment. Recall that for Shakespeare--the ultimate actor's playwright who wrote with precious few stage directions--interpretation was left to the direction and the actors, an open invitation that Branagh rightly accepts.The use of flashback scenes of things implied, such as the amorous union of Ophelia and her Lord Hamlet abed, or of a vast expanse of snow darkened with distant soldiers to represent the threat of Fortinbras' army from without, and especially the vivid remembrance in the mind's eye of the new king's dastardly deed of murder most foul, helps us all to more keenly appreciate just what it is that torments Hamlet's soul. I also liked the intense closeups. How they would have bemused and delighted an Elizabethan audience.Branagh's ambitious Hamlet is also one of the most accessible and entertaining, yet without the faintest hint of any dumbing down or abbreviation. A play is to divert, to entertain, to allow us to identify with others who trials and tribulations are so like our own. And so first the playwright seeks to engage his audience, and only then, by happenstance and indirection, to inspire and to inform. Shakespeare did this unconsciously, we might say. He wrote for the popular audience of his time, a broad audience, it should be noted, that included kings and queens as well as knaves and beggars, and he reached them, one and all. We are much removed from those times, and yet, this play, this singular achievement in theatre, still has the power to transcend mere entertainment, to fuse poetry and story, as well as the high and the low, and speak once again to a new audience twenty generations removed.Branagh himself is a wonderful Hamlet, perhaps a bit of a ham at times (as I think was Shakespeare's intent), a prince who is the friend of itinerant players. He also lacks somewhat in statute (as we conceive our great heroes); nonetheless his interpretation of the great prince's torment and his singular obsession to avenge his father's murder speaks strongly to us all. Branagh, more than any other Hamlet, makes us understand the distracted, anguished and tortured prince, and guides us to not only an appreciation of his actions, wild and crazy as they sometimes are, but to an identification and an understanding of why (the eternal query) Hamlet is so long in assuming the name of action. In Branagh's production, this old quibble with Hamlet's character dissolves itself into a dew, and we realize that he was acting strongly, purposely all the while. He had to know the truth without doubt so that he might act in concert with it.I was also very much impressed with Derek Jacobi's Claudius. One recalls that Jacobi played Hamlet in the only other full cinematic production of the play that I know of, produced in 1980 by the BBC with Claire Bloom as Gertrude; and he was an excellent Hamlet, although perhaps like Branagh something less than a massive presence. His Claudius combines second son ambition with a Machiavellian heart, whose words go up but whose thoughts remind below, as is the way of villains everywhere.Kate Winslet is a remarkable Ophelia, lending an unusual strength to the role (strength of character is part of what Kate Winslet brings to any role), but with the poor, sweet girl's vulnerability intact. She does the mad scene with Claudius as well as I have seen it done, and of course her personal charisma and beauty embellish the production.Richard Briers as Polonius, proves that that officious fool is indeed that, and yet something more so that we can see why he was a counselor to the king. The famous speech he gives to Laertes as his son departs for France, is really ancient wisdom even though it comes from a fool.Julie Christie was a delight as the besmirched and wretched queen. In the bedroom scene with Hamlet she becomes transparent to not only her son, but to us all, and we feel that the camera is reaching into her soul. She is outstanding.The bit players had their time upon the stage and did middling well to very good. I liked Charlton Heston's player king (although I think he and John Gielgud might have switched roles to good effect) and Billy Crystal's gravedigger was finely etched. Only Jack Lemon's Marcellus really disappointed, but I think that was mainly because he was so poorly cast in such a role. Not once was he able to flash the Jack Lemon grin that we have come to know so well.The idea of doing a Shakespearean play with nineteenth century dress in the late twentieth century worked wonderfully well, but I know not why. Perhaps the place and dress are just enough removed from our lives that they are somewhat strange but recognizable in a pleasing way. And perhaps it is just another tribute to the timeless nature of Shakespeare's play.There is so much more to say about this wonderful cinematic production. It is, all things considered, one of the best Hamlets ever done. Perhaps it is the best. See it, by all means, see it for yourself.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"Brilliant version","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"75 out of 89 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I must say that, looking at Hamlet from the perspective of a student, Brannagh's version of Hamlet is by far the best. His dedication to stay true to the original text should be applauded. It helps the play come to life on screen, and makes it easier for people holding the text while watching, as we did while studying it, to follow and analyze the text.One of the things I have heard criticized many times is the casting of major Hollywood names in the play. I find that this helps viewers recognize the characters easier, as opposed to having actors that all look and sound the same that aid in the confusion normally associated with Shakespeare.Also, his flashbacks help to clear up many ambiguities in the text. Such as how far the relationship between Hamlet and Ophelia really went and why Fortinbras just happened to be at the castle at the end. All in all, not only does this version contain some brilliant performances by actors both familiar and not familiar with Shakespeare. It is presented in a way that one does not have to be an English Literature Ph.D to understand and enjoy it. "},{"Title":"P-E-R-F-E-C-T-I-O-N","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"58 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's hard to say anything about a movie like this because there isn't enough words to give this magnificent, stylish and unique film the veneration it unquestionably deserves. They should make this the official and only true real Hamlet -movie because all the previous films out of the same immortal spectacle are being overshadowed by Kenneth Branagh's Hamlet.It's a perfect, complete version of the play, potent, massive, earthshaking first-class masterpiece Shakespeare would have been proud of. They've packed over a dozen of world-famous top actors in the same film and everyone of them is having one of the greatest performances of their career. Every moving and charming sequence leaves behind a comprehensive sense of satisfaction.The cameras embrace gracefully the enchanting coulisses. Branagh is phenomenal in the leading role. His sharp, irresistible performance is the only one of it's kind and will be permanently part of the glorious movie history. Every second in this presentation is feast for the movie lover from beginning to the very end. Branagh's version of Hamlet is among the ten best motion pictures ever. "},{"Title":"Branagh triumphant.","Date":"4 June 1999","Score":"56 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What an ambitious project Kenneth Branagh undertook here and how well it was realized! This is the first filmed version of 'Hamlet' to use the full text of Shakespeare's play, but Branagh didn't do it just because it was there. His intention, I believe, was to make the play accessible and understandable to the general viewer without dumbing it down, so to speak. In return he asks viewers to put in a little work themselves, a fair enough proposition and one that's a bargain.The setting is a generic 19th century European one and this does more than work well, it keeps a modern or ancient look from possibly distracting from the work itself. The production design and cinematography and both outstanding, which helps immensely when you're watching a four-hour movie. Branagh's casting once again is inspired and the acting is likewise. The direction accomplishes the heavy task of making this a movie rather than a deluxe version of a play. Since so much of 'Hamlet' is based on interior monologue and there are relatively few duels, battles, etc., this can be a daunting task. But everything Branagh tries to do seems to work.Branagh has always been one of the most interesting actor/writer/directors, if not always the best, since he made his big splash with 'Henry V.' One quibble I had with him was what I saw as a tendency to ham it up at times. In his portrayal of Hamlet here he might be accused of that again, but there is a method at work. Let's face it, 'Hamlet' is not an easy work for the average person to understand and if one has never seen it performed before, he or she needs help even if they've read the play. Hamlet has the most lines of any Shakespearian character and Branagh makes sure that his viewers know what this man is thinking and feeling throughout the film, even if you don't know the literal meaning of every arcane word. This performance by Branagh was at the very least worthy of an Oscar nomination.There are so many other outstanding performances here they're almost too numerous to mention, but some of them must be acknowledged. Derek Jacobi as Claudius is superb but even he takes a back seat to Kate Winslet when it comes to handing out praise. Her portrayal of Ophelia is awesome in its depth of feeling, made only more outstanding by the knowledge that she was only about 20 years old at the time! She looks to me like the finest young actress around. Other super performers in no particular order are Richard Briers, Nicholas Farrell, Michael Maloney, and Reece Dinsdale and Timothy Spall as Guildenstern and Rosencrantz, respectively. Honorable mention goes to Julie Christie, Charlton Heston, and Robin Williams, who manages to do his thing here successfully. Even Billy Crystal as a gravedigger works. The one cast member who doesn't, inexplicably, is Jack Lemmon. In the very opening scene he appears, and while the other three actors do a great job at setting the tense mood, Lemmon sounds like he is just running lines in rehearsal as a favor. You know this must have been a real dilemma for Branagh, since everything else about the movies screams out that it's the work of a perfectionist.Not to be facetious when speaking of a four-hour movie, but it does seem just a tad too long. Some monologues and conversations do tend to go on a bit, if I may be so bold, and a little bit of judicious pruning would be welcome.Did I forget anything, other than Patrick Doyle's score? No doubt I did. I'll just sum up by saying that Kenneth Branagh may have made the definitive film version of 'Hamlet,' and it will be a truly monumental production that tops this one.  "},{"Title":"One of Branagh's best","Date":"22 September 2004","Score":"51 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Olivier, Kosentsev, Richardson, Coranado, Zefferelli, and Almerayeda have all directed Hamlet but Branagh's the only one who got it right.This is the only film of Hamlet that contains the full four hours of William Shakespeare's masterpiece and gives a unique feel to the whole story.Not many directors could pull this off without boring their audience but Branagh's skillful use of bravora film style and stunt casting allows people to see the importance of the scenes that are usually cut out.Examples of this include Gerarde Depardue as Ranyaldo whos entire purpose in the film was to simply say yes my lord as Polonius asks him to spy on Leartes. This also included Billy Crystal as the grave digger, Robin Williams as Osric, Jack Lemmon as Marcellous, and Charlton Heston as the actor.Branagh's performance of the Act 4 scene 4 soliloquy (Which again is usually cut out) is nothing short of c cinematic marvel as the camera slowly pulls back as the intensity grows. It is a scene that literally made me want to jump out of my chair and start applauding.Branagh is the only film maker that understood the importance of every scene in this film and knew how to convey that importance to the general audience.This is a must see for everyone who enjoy's good story telling, brilliant acting,and incredible direction. All of these part of William Shakespeares greatest triumph.  "},{"Title":"Two Palettes Film and Mind","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"61 out of 85 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  As a play, Hamlet is an anchor of civilization, and even moderately successful films are worth seeing. But in making the translation to film, the artist has two challenges.The first concerns the work as drama. This is Shakespeare's most ambitious vision, one he tinkered with and enlarged both conceptually and literally. The purest choice, the only choice which can encompass the full weave of the work, is to include everything -- and that's what Branagh has done. Consequently, this work has extra dimensions of life. In doing so, he's included some nice touches--gone are superficial hints of mother-lust in the closet scene. These were never in the text.--we are reminded that Hamlet's initial and sustaining anger is because his uncle jumped into the line of succession--we see the hints that Hamlet was a student of Bruno in the book on witchcraft he consults after seeing the ghost. Also his book on `matters' (often thought to be Bruno's) is actually given to Ophelia. Nice. Shows deep research.--Polonius is treated humanely, as more than a dottering fool. This makes Ophelia's loss (and earlier obedience) believable.The second challenge is cinematic. The play was written for sparse settings; it translates naturally to audio tape and unnaturally to film. So the filmmaker has an open palette. Branagh makes some interesting choices. Many work extremely well, in particular the mirrors in the `to be' and Ophelia sequence. Others are strange--he introduces recognizable actors in secondary roles to jar us into the realization that this is a play. (One of these is really funny. How do you portray an actor among actors playing non-actors. Well, you get a noticeably BAD actor. I wonder if Heston knows he'll be goofed on for this for many decades as this film outlives his sandled perorations.)--he introduces some almost satirical film reflections a cheesy ghost, an Errol Flynn chandelier swing...--he provides visual overlays for some of the images implied in the text Hamlet's lovemaking, considerations in Norway, reflections of the players. This ruins a few of the important ambiguities but we do have a wealth to spend after all.--in perhaps the worst loss of ambiguity, he makes Fortinbras an invader. This is done only to allow for some cinematic sweep at the end. Okay, I'll reluctantly buy it since the alternative is extended mugging in the death scenes.I think Branagh and collaborators meet the first challenge nearly perfectly. As to the second challenge, this is our very best film version, in part because of extending the US tradition of playing the characters as real people (versus the UK tradition of characters as speechifiers). So far as the cinematic challenge, there are some great, really great visions here, but there are also some big cinematic misses which keeps this far from perfect. Until Greenaway attempts it, this is the best film Hamlet we have, and that simply makes it one of the best, most rewarding films ever. I'll bet Branagh tries again before he dies. "},{"Title":"Not What I was Expecting...","Date":"6 October 2004","Score":"38 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Still being of school age, and having to learn Shakespeare almost constantly for the last four years (which is very off-putting of any writer, no matter how good), I didn't really expect to enjoy this film when my English teacher put it on; I thought it'd be the typical English lesson movie bad acting, awfully shot, badly edited and the dreaded awful old dialog, so, as you can tell, I was all but ready to go into a coma from the go. However, I watched and, much to my disturbance, found myself not only paying attention, but actually enjoying the movie too. This production of Hamlet is possibly one of the best drama movies I have seen in a long time- and it really brings to life what I expect Shakespeare wanted his plays to be like (well, with the difference that this is cinema) much better than my English teacher harking over the text ever possibly could. The story is good, the dialog seems to flow with an unexpected grace that is far from boring (though a little hard to keep up with if you aren't used to Shakespeare's language) and even the smallest parts are performed with a skill you wouldn't expect; mainly, perhaps, due to the staggering number of cameos this movie has. Brian Blessed and Charlton Heston are as great as you'd expect these two veterans to be, even in such small parts, but it is Robin Williams as Osric and Billy Crystal as the Gravedigger who really stand out, giving such minor parts an unexpected zest, as well as offering some comic relief amidst the tragedy.The main stars, of course, are also wonderful. Kenneth Branagh excels as Hamlet, bringing not only the confusion and pain required to the roll, but also a sort of sardonic air which plays beautifully in the comic scenes, making the movie as a whole much more watchable. The other major players are also good, but it is Kenneth Branagh who stands head and shoulders above the rest in the title role.The set pieces, too, are often quite stunning, giving a refreshing change to the danky old castle corridors we're used to seeing in Shakespeare productions, as well as a real sense of the country around them.Of course, the movie, taken as a movie in its own right, is not without faults, but no major ones (the pacing is the only real problem I can think of offhand, as well as the prose for anyone not used to, as I said, Shakesperean language) and, especially when compared to the sort of Shakespeare productions I'm used to seeing in class, it really is quite brilliant. It's even made me rethink my previous typical teenager stance on Shakespeare, that his plays are boring (I came to the conclusion it's not the plays that are boring, merely the teachers who recite them in class). If only they made all of his plays into movies such as this one, English students in schools everywhere might have a higher opinion of the Bard.Overall 7/10  "},{"Title":"Branagh really raised the bar with this version","Date":"3 February 2008","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" seen one you've seen them all, right? wrong! I still like the sombre Olivier version and Gibson did well, but this is in a class of its own.I finally realized with this expanded production set 200 years closer to the present the full message that Shakespeare cleverly concealed with the more prominent aspect of Hamlet's quandary, and that is he, Hamlet, is driven to distraction by the awareness its the insidiousness of human nature that created the conditions that saw his father murdered.looking at the play with this insight you can see numerous scenes where this notion is there in the background. and by changing the era, Branagh shows yet again the astonishing applicability of that truth. all you need is to read a newspaper, something 'included' in this production.thank god for British stage actors raised on Shakespeare.a very rewarding viewing. "},{"Title":"My favorite movie; at last a Hamlet that CAN make his mind )","Date":"20 October 2004","Score":"19 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The actors play wonderfully, especially Kenneth Branagh himself. It's good that Robin Williams got the comedy role of Osiric, otherwise it could be a bit strange to see him in such a production. It is really great that Kenneth decided to use the fullest version of the text, this happens definitely not too often... Thanks to that the viewers can see the whole, not the chosen - by the director - parts. Also - thank God that the film is in a classical form; NO to surrealistic fanfaberies ! Although Tytus Andronicus was impressive nevertheless, but still Hamlet is a different story, at least that's my point of view. "},{"Title":"Its virtues outweigh its defects","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"23 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" First, what I didn't like. The acting was not really up to the Hamlet standard. Branagh was really over-the-top, doing a lot of yelling mostly. In my opinion, those actors who were not big-name celebrities generally did a better job; though I would except Billy Crystal and Robin Williams. (And Charlton Heston, too, but I wasn't sure if he was playing at being a hack.) A lot of the ambiguities in the play were clearly resolved one way in the flashbacks.What I think speaks very much in this play's favor is that it is accessible. Shakespeare is hard to understand for the vast majority of people nowadays; many people are not even inclined to try, because of its reputation as Serious Literature and its archaic English. If they see this film they will understand clearly at least one man's interpretation of the play. They will be seeing it more as Shakespeare's audiences saw it a play with sword fights and battles, and mighty kings and nobles, murder and incest and evil schemes and ghosts--and great art, if one cares to look for it, but in Shakespeare's day most didn't, any more than most people do now. Branagh's overacting, and his forcing of his interpretation of the story on the viewer, may detract from Shakespeare's art somewhat, but it is better that modern audiences get a piece of it, rather than nothing.I've got to say one more thing though. Some people are complaining that it's set in the 19th century and that wasn't Shakespeare's time. Well, in Shakespeare's time their costume and scenery was that of their own day for all of their plays. Shakespeare may have SAID it's in the days of ancient Rome or medieval Denmark or whatever, but he didn't dress his characters up like they were, he used the costumes of his own time. For the same reason his plays are full of anachronisms. For example, in King John the English and French have cannons--in Robin Hood's day. In Julius Caesar they talk of chimneys, which wouldn't be invented for another thousand years, and in Henry IV they talk about Machiavelli, who wasn't even born yet then. So I think this objection is silly--you might as well complain that the play isn't in Danish (after all they live in Denmark don't they?). "}{"Title":"Great Moments With Mr. Hamlet","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"24 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This ludicrous and inept film is certainly the most misguided version of Hamlet to ever reach the screen. Branagh's approach to the material can only be described as vulgar; going to such lengths as depicting Ophelia in a straight jacket, having Fortinbras' army appear suddenly on the horizon (looking very much like the climax of Monty Python and the Holy Grail) when the palace is apparently guarded only by Francisco (who shouts the very un-Shakespearean cry of ataaaaaaaaaaaaaaaack before being gunned down), and multitudes of star cameos that harken back to the days of Jimmy Cagney's Bottom and Mary Pickford's Kate.Branagh chose to set his film in an Edwardian setting but at the same time decided to employ an almost uncut text, so that frequently the dialogue that is firmly rooted in Elizabethan mentality makes no sense in the context that it is being performed. And Branagh does not concern himself with such textural subtleties as the ambiguous nature of Hamlet and Olphelia's relationship, treating the audience to a vulgar nude sex scene between the couple that tosses any ambiguity right out the stained glass window.The uncut text does allow Branagh to indulge in his favorite cinematic pastime more footage of Kenneth Branagh. This is never so apparent as in the How All Occasions Inform Against Me speech that ends the first half of the nineteen hour film (at least that's how it feels), which attempts to play to a dramatic crescendo along the lines of Gone With The Wind's I'll never be hungry again. This may serve Branagh's ego, but it does not serve Shakespeare or the speech when I saw the film in the theater, I leaned over to my companion and snickered Great Moments With Mr. Hamlet. Branagh saves the funniest and most tasteless moment for last, when he attempts to out-do the Olivier film and its justly celebrated death of Claudius by having Hamlet jump from off a high tower onto the monarch, impaling him with a sword. Branagh's Dane does in the king by heroically throwing an apparently magic rapier from across the palace to run through Claudius' heart with a super hero's bulls eye. The only thing that saved the moment from being unbearably maddening was that it was so off-the-wall funny.While this film has been praised in some quarters as a serious depiction of the tragedy, it is in fact nothing but a star-studded display of a once-talented filmmaker being overtaken by his own narcissism. The Emperor has no clothes, and this Hamlet has nothing to offer but a few unintended laughs and the appalling sight of one man's ego out of control. "},{"Title":"A forgettable Hamlet","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"17 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I consider Hamlet a very bad movie. The acting style is dreadful the actors shoot bursts of words in a machine-gun way. The beauty of Shakespeare's verses is utterly spoiled poetry needs a reasonable time to be enjoyed. What about playing Beethoven's last quartets at the tempo of a Tarantella Napoletana? I cannot stand the mania in recent British movies of representing Shakespeare's works in 19th century costumes. Yes, I know that in Elizabethan times the actors were dressed in contemporary robes. Indeed, I am deeply convinced that such habits were due to economical, or legal, by no means artistic reasons. As a matter of fact, feminine roles were played by boys, why not doing the same today? In any case, the film was made in the 20th century, not in the 19th.I don't see the point of the huge number of cameos by famous actors. In particular, the great but very old Jack Lemmon as the soldier is definitely ridiculous (alas!). I was amazed in checking that Branagh was just thirty-six when the movie was made he looks considerably older, too old to be Hamlet. The photography is straightforward and the setting into an actual Danish royal palace is clumsy and grinding.By no means the sex scenes between Hamlet and Ophelia could be forgiven. They are preposterous for a film which boasts strict fidelity to Shakespeare's work in the tragedy it is (almost) openly stated that Ophelia is virgin (and that she would like to change her status). And the very idea the fiancee of a prince be non-chaste was so totally inconceivable in the 16th (and 19th) century, that these sex scenes are even more grotesque than coarse and inappropriate. "},{"Title":"4 Hours Later...","Date":"9 April 2013","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This was long. 4 hours of uncondensed Shakespeare and I must say I enjoyed it. Kenneth Branagh is perhaps the Laurence Oliver of our times. A great actor obsessed with the work of Shakespeare. And this is his masterpiece, Hamlet (1996), a free uncondensed version with every line of what Shakespeare has written, on the last movie ,besides The Master, filmed on 70mm film. If you've graduated high school, you probably know the story of Hamlet. Hamlet is visited by the ghost of his father, who request the he kills his uncle, the new king of Denmark, because he murdered Hamlet's father. What I love about this adaptation is the things Kenneth Branagh does because he's using the medium of film. The use of Flashbacks in events is a great use that the stage adaptations could never do, same with the scenery. Elsinore Castle comes alive. It was genius for him to set the story in the 19th century. It gives a beautiful touch to the movie and costumes and set design were appropriate. THe final thing he does great is how he plays Hamlet. My English teacher taught him more as a mopey Dane, but he plays him as a cunning but indecisive genius which I believe is more interesting. His soliloquies have great touch to them, using visual elements and artful expression to make them interesting instead if Rambling. The cast is great too. No weak link in the acting, and everyone holds their own. The guest appearances of famous actors, Charlton Heston, Robin Williams and Billy Crystal add moments of freshness to secondary characters. The Cinematography shows off the world well and fits most scenes, same with the music.The problem is the length. It drags in places and with trimming could've been a masterful movie. Overall great adaptation (better than the Mel Gibson one) and shows off to a new generation the beauty and power of something written 400 years ago. If you have the time, check it out. 8/10 "},{"Title":"A great adaption to a great show!","Date":"3 December 2007","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I admit I've only seen about three of Shakespeare's plays (Romeo & Juliet, Macbeth, & of course Hamlet) one I liked, the other I found so-so (Macbeth), and Hamlet I just found a masterpiece. I'm pleased to tell you that this adaptation is every bit as good as the intense and dramatic play. The acting is extremely strong (With a cast that features Kenneth Branagh, Robin Williams, and Billy Crystal how can you lose?) and the change in time period (Looks like somewhere between the 17 and 1800's) plays off beautifully as the characters move about and say their infamous lines straight from the script itself that any fan of the Shakespearean play will get chills from. If you're into this popular drama I highly urge you to watch this powerful 1996 adaptation from Shakespearean admirer Kenneth Branagh. "},{"Title":"Indulgent","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Branagh claims to present the only complete, uncut movie version of Hamlet, and his version is indeed much longer than anyone else's.  However, it is not, as Branagh would have us believe, Hamlet as Shakespeare intended it to be.  The complete text of Hamlet is really an amalgamation of three extant texts, and there is no evidence to suggest that these texts were ever performed together in their entirety in Shakespeare's day.  While we don't know how long these plays were when originally performed--though the prologue of Romeo and Juliet mentions the two hour's traffic of our stage--we can be fairly certain that Shakespeare's company never indulged themselves asIndulgence is the name of the game in Branagh's Hamlet.  What else could explain the movie's excessive length, its lavish opulence, and its absurd number of torso shots?  Why else would Branagh ask Gerard Depardieu, one of the greatest living French actors, to speak only five lines of text (none of them memorable)?  Why else would he get Judi Dench to play a role that doesn't even appear in Shakespeare's text?  Why (mis-)cast Jack Lemmon in a role that would have been played more effectively by a much younger actor? Though certainly a great actor and a fine director, Branagh's self-indulgence threatens to overwhelm this movie at every turn.  Perhaps the problem stems from his desire to make the definitive version of a text so endlessly resonant that it resists any definitive version.That said, there is much to praise in this movie.  Branagh's Hamlet is aggressive, moody, brilliant, robust--more appealing than Olivier's brooding dreamer.  The larger roles are all played admirably, particularly Jacobi's charismatic Claudius.  Finally, there are some scenes in the film that are as great as anything Branagh has ever done.  The To be or not to be soliloquy, set in a hall of two-way mirrors with Claudius and Polonius lying in wait behind one, approaches cinematic genius.--Ben "},{"Title":"Kenneth Puts the Ham in Hamlet","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"24 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw this film on its release, and have watched it 3 or 4 more times, including last week. I regret I have to be a voice of dissension with regard to Mr. Branagh's performance.This is really a glorious, sumptuous film, to say nothing of ambitious at over 4 hours long - beautifully shot and designed. Derek Jacobi, Julie Christie, Kate Winslet, Richard Briers, and many others do fine jobs. Then there's Kenneth Branagh. If ever there was a vanity project for an actor, this is it, and Mr. Branagh spares nothing in putting the ham in Hamlet. From the stunt casting (which gives us the worst performance ever by the woefully miscast Jack Lemmon), to the bits of distracting business thrown in to infuse a sense of naturalness, to his own performance which runs the gamut from throwing away the single most famous soliloquy in all of literature to screaming every line of others. His performance confirms that, while he may come across better on stage where bigger is necessary, he has never been a great film actor. The scenery budget could be charged to catering, Mr. Branagh eats so much of it. His performance is a perfect example of why people don't go to see Shakespeare - full of sound and fury, signifying nothing. And if there is fault to his direction, it is that he keeps the camera firmly glued on his overblown performance.No matter what theories people may posit on the Bard, he was, after all is said and done, a playwright. The brilliance of his plays rest in the fact that his themes are universal and timeless. Although there is no right way to play his plays, there is most certainly great acting, good acting and bad acting. Shakespeare himself gives instructions to the players in the text of Hamlet itself. It amazes me how Mr. Branagh mouthed it, but did not hear it. It was an example of spending too much time working out how he's going to say something, and too little figuring out WHAT he's saying.While Mr. Branagh has certainly done a wonderful job in mounting some entertaining productions, he would be wise to stay behind the camera and allow those who know the art of acting to practice it. His direction has always been better than his acting. I still give him immense credit for resurrecting interest in filming Shakespeare. He set a great template for other productions. And, it would be interesting to see him onstage, from about 20 rows back. But, I do hope he chooses to direct more and act less.Is it worth seeing? Certainly. There are many little joys to be found in the film. But, it's a long, long movie and, by the end, one may feel less that they enjoyed than survived it. "},{"Title":"Full of sound and fury, signifying nothing.","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Watching this version of Hamlet was physically wearing--and not because it is four hours long.  Throughout the movie, there's clear indication that the director has no understanding of Shakespeare in general, of this play in particular, or even of his target audience.  The cinematography gyrates wildly in every direction--with bad steadicam and quick cuts more reminiscent of a music video, interspersed with long, ponderous, heavily formal scenes that do nothing to move the story.  It's too formal for teens and twentysomethings, but too capricious and modernized for Shakespeare enthusiasts.  The 19th-century interpretation could have been brilliant, but falls flat instead.  Rarely is Shakespeare's own lyrical language allowed center stage--despite the Elizabethan tendency toward TELLING, the director seems determined to SHOW his audience, and show in a heavy-handed way, whenever possible.  Example Hamlet's relationship with Ophelia is all but spelled out, and in a way wildly inconsistent with the play's text.And who on earth got the idea to cast Jack Lemmon?  Watching him in a bit role here is just embarrassing... he's been good in so many other things, but he simply doesn't work here.  "},{"Title":"What a play it is!","Date":"10 November 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This play is the only uncut version ever seen or heard. Hamlet-what a play it is, that consists of a 4 hour but the only uncut movie ever. It is starred by Keneath Barangh, Kate Winslet, Charlton Heston and Robin Williams. It is also directed by Barangh himself.The Plot is about a prince of Denmark who was suspicious of his father's death, until he meets the father's ghost his revenge on his uncle made him feigning his madness.The acting is brilliantly crafted and the 'picturization' of Denmark is unique. Some people cannot enjoy the movie the movie due to its lengthy time. The story is faithful to the play and what I enjoyed in the movie is Hamlet's madness, and comical situations created by other characters. In that movie, the annoying moment was Ophelia's madness but emotional at the same time who expressed her internal behavior meaninglessly. Yet, it is also implied that Hamlet also loves Ophelia in a platonic manner. The emotional part of the play was the moment while the ghost of King Hamlet leaves while the young Hamlet confronts his mother. The background music comes seldom but much more dramatically that we feel the intensity of the movie.The acting portrays the justice of the play in a much more uncut and intense manner. Some people may feel bored if they think about something entertaining. Overall, I think this film is brilliant as if we are watching the original play. We all have the characteristics of Hamlet. The set design is speechless but the only flaw is that it should get more essence but the acting foreshadowed it. The camera angle, I think it's a masterpiece. If you see it in theaters, you can get something of a different experience in the History of the Hollywood cinema. This play's brilliant and its essence are also brilliant. I am speechless overall. "},{"Title":"Branaugh's passion shows","Date":"25 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kenneth Branaugh's 'Hamlet' is the first film version of Shakepeare's play to have been filmed with all of the content put back in. At 234 minutes it is never boring but shows the work of a director in love with this classic play.What we get from this longer version (the first in which not a single line has been trimmed) is that the characters motives become that much clearer. Studying Hamlet in school I had a hard time understanding how Hamlet's girl Ophelia went mad. Here the motivation is not only clearer but we see her in the process of her madness.We get from this version a wonderful performance by Kenneth Branaugh as the young prince who gets a visit from his father's ghost to inform him that it was his uncle that murdered him and now occupies the throne and the bed chamber of Hamlet's mother. But how to accuse the king of murder without making everyone think that you've gone completely mad? Most of the versions of this play have trimmed the fat and only given us the bare bones. This film is able to explain a few things and more, to help me understand motivations the play's message of mortality.I have never been able to understand how Claudius was able to convince sister-in-law Gertrude to marry him so soon after the king's death. Derek Jacobi brings such charm to the role that it's not only clear how he charmed he new wife but how he masterminded his brother's death as well. Much to our surprise and dismay, we sort of begin to understand why he did it. Key pieces of dialogue have been restored that flesh out the characters even more.Branaugh knows that the dialogue is key to the characters but also understands that the atmosphere of the castle plays a key role as well. The production design by Tim Harvey and Desmond Crowe are breathtaking suggesting a court of infinite secrets, not just a medieval castle of horrors. The opening scenes at the wedding of Claudius and Gertrude is a sight to behold with a hall that seems to stretch back and back and back into infinity. The throne room with it's wall of mirrors, some of which are passageways, leads to one of the most original scenes &#x96; Hamlet's To be or Not to be soliloquy spoken to a mirror with people hiding behind it. Is he talking to them or his own reflection? Are his questions in the reflection coming back at him? Then something else happens that I've never seen before in any version of Hamlet &#x96; a flashback of Yorich. During his scene in the graveyard he begins questioning the skull of the king's favorite buck-toothed clown. We flash back to the time when he played horsey with the young Hamlet. Then a close-up and a dissolve to the skull in Hamlet's hands with the buck-teeth still in it. The question of mortality remains but in Kenneth Branaugh's hands it hits home.Branaugh's performance as Hamlet is never morbid or redundant. He lashes out, overplays and uses wild gestures as he masterminds a plan to bring his uncle's guilt to the surface without making everyone think that the prince himself has gone off his rocker. This is key because making Hamlet into a pitiful slump distracts from what he does later in the play. He wonders about the matters of life and death, both physical and spiritual but Branaugh does it with curiosity not misery.I have never been so entertained by a filmed version of Shakespeare. Branaugh throws away the stogy, stagy elements that turn many people off of Shakespeare. But he really brings this film to life, not just the words but the actions. This is a man completely in love with this masterful play, he knows it we sense and I for one am grateful to have witnessed it. "},{"Title":"Great adaptation","Date":"20 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" With his film Hamlet, actor/director Kenneth Branagh became the first film-maker to adapt the entirety of Shakespeare's play to film. It's no mean feat that he managed to do this in a way that truly makes the material seem cinematic without losing any of the essence of the work as it was originally created.Although most films don't have anywhere near the amount of dialogue that Hamlet does, the film doesn't suffer as much as it could have from an overabundance of words. The film is full of sumptuous visuals, particularly in the multitude of interior shots of the castle which called to mind the elegant interiors of Luchino Visconti's classic film The Leopard. It's true that the images might have been even more powerful if they had been allowed time to sink in without the distraction of the dialogue, but Branagh as a director does an excellent job of pacing the shots to get the best effect. Another way that he manages to avoid the pitfall of staginess is through judicious editing, particularly with the use of brief flashbacks to represent Hamlet's memories in one key scene. Between the great lines by Shakespeare and the great images by Branagh, this film's four hour runtime fairly whizzed by.Although Branagh was a bit older than I imagine Hamlet to be, he still manages to pull off his eponymous role quite well. The supporting cast is also good, particularly Billy Crystal in a brief but memorable role as a wisecracking gravedigger. Cameos by Jack Lemmon, Gerard Depardieu, Charlton Heston, and Robin Williams are also successful to varying degrees but welcome nonetheless as they tend to add some much needed levity to the seriously tragic proceedings.I don't think this is the space to attempt to get into thematic material of Shakespeare's work but I will say that there really isn't much that has been lost in the adaptation process. Not only does this help enrich studies of the original text, it also is as successful in its own right as any straightforward Shakespeare adaptation I've seen. There's really very little to quibble about in this excellent film. "}{"Title":"An ambitious but imperfect adaptation","Date":"9 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 'Hamlet' has never looked finer. Bragnagh has brought the most out of Shakespeare's most beloved play. We truly get the complete story brought out in grand scale. The cast is probably the finest a Shakesparean film has ever received. The sets and camera work are epic in every sense of the word. However I feel Bragnagh's 'Hamlet' falls short of truly being a masterpiece. I really truly wonder if 'Hamlet' cries out to be an epic. It is a psychological drama and a character study. At the worst moments of Bragnagh's opus this is forgotten.I really don't know if I consider 'Hamlet' to be the greatest Shakespearean play. In terms of plot it is somewhat anti-climatic. I do however think that Hamlet is the greatest character I've ever read. To read Hamlet is like dissecting the psyche. Shakespeare's monologues and soliloquies in 'Hamlet' are brilliant dissections of the soul. If anything I want 'Hamlet' to be smaller and more intimate for a greater appreciation of this brilliant character and Shakespeare's language. Bragnagh's film sometimes looses sight of this. While I respect Bragnagh's ambition I somewhat don't understand why the epic scope is so necessary. There are brilliant shots of the Mountains, and charges of soldiers but really what have they to do with Hamlet's inner turmoil? The film is at it's best when it is smaller. I was nearly breathless when Hamlet listens to Claudius' confession, or the classic 'To Be Or Not to Be' soliloquy. Those moments are golden but Hamlet's epic duel with Laertes or the over done build up to the production seem muffled.Bragnagh is a fine Hamlet. Oddly though I feel that he doesn't savor the language. There are moments in the film where Bragnagh rushes through the speeches and dialogue as if it were some sort of race. I love Shakespeare and one of the great pleasures of acting in Shakespearean piece is savoring the language. How often will you utter words of such brilliance and poignancy? Taking your time also allows more clarity for the audience.Again, I respect every choice Bragnagh made and applaud him for it. My only question is are these appropriate for 'Hamlet'? I think the film looks wonderful and has tremendously passionate performances. I love the entire ensemble including Robin Williams, Jack Lemmon, and Billy Crystal. I just think that some of the choices don't allow for the greatest understanding and appreciation of Hamlet. On the contrary Bragnagh's Henry V married epics and intimacy perfectly. "},{"Title":"moderately cloying","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed this film immensely when it came out, going to it five times while it was still in theatres. A much better way to spend an evening than watching the retread scifi thriller material out at the time.I have to admit though that after seeing it again a few times on video it doesn't have the same attraction for me that it originally did. As film, it's solid. The settings are wonderful, and I admire the desire to produce the entire play unedited.I don't enjoy the acting as much as I first did. In the case of Branagh, that may be merely a matter of personal taste. I would prefer a less garrulous Hamlet. Obviously, since all actors of Hamlet are working from the same script, unless edited, this is dependent entirely on the manner in which they portray the character. I find Branagh's performance a bit cloying, and far too over the top in some cases.In addition, some of the cameos are distracting. Heston and Crystal I enjoy, but Williams, and particularly Lemmon, are annoying. The others, Attenborough et al, are fine.While I can't give Hamlet a whole-hearted recommendation, I have to say that it far surpasses the trite commercialism of all the new greatest films of all time which have come out over the last few years. That's a phrase being used far too often now, revealing a lack of familiarity with the great films of the past. In that sense, I admire Mr. Branagh's desire to bring great drama to the screen, and hope that he meets with continued success in the future. "},{"Title":"Branagh puts the Ham back in Hamlet","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  All too often these days (and not just in Shakespeare's plays) the actors seem so intent on feeling their characters' internal conflicts that they fail to communicate anything to the audience. Branagh takes us back to an earlier style of acting, where performances (especially Shakespearean performances) were larger than life. In doing so he runs the risk of being labeled a scenery chewing ham, which for some reason is considered a negative thing. To my ears, however, there's nothing more exciting than listening to a good actor rip through a speech full of fire and fury, reminding us of the sheer beauty of the English language, and that's one of Branagh's great strengths. Remember his Once more into the breach from Henry V, for example, or the St Crispin's day speech which had me ready to go out and kill some Frenchmen for him. Hamlet is full of such electrifying moments from the whole cast (except for Jack Lemmon, who sounded almost as though he had learned his lines phonetically) The sumptuous production, Patrick Doyle's rousing score and a great cast add up to four hours of cinematic magic. So, if you're a fan of conspicuous acting rather than Method mumbling, Hamlet is four hours of bliss. "},{"Title":"Just to put something right ...","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  (Sorry for my faulty language, i am no native speaker ...)Yes, this is a movie that almost demands an overwhelming reaction. Personally i agree upon all those superlatives that are around. But i won't use this rather sematically void way myself to describe the movie here. Because those perfect! the one-and-only! best-ever!-reviews make some people turn away (including me).So if you are looking for another 'Hamlet' that has the potential to rival with many theatrical and all cinematic ones - Then don't miss this one, if you happen to find it anywhere. (Unfortunately not too many people will have any chance to see it. It seems there is no DVD out there, and the German language version - which is quite well done - is not available in any format.)Just in case you decide to get a copy Spare out that cut down two hours (or so) version of this movie. It is no use and no fun, and gives a wrong impression of a movie, that deals in an interesting way with flow and architecture. And its also crippled down to 43 aspect ratio.Greetings from Germany, F.L. "},{"Title":"Almost Too Painful to Watch","Date":"4 April 2007","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There are films one watches simply because there are a lot of famous people in it. There are films we watch because the story is a classic, and we like to compare it previous versions.If you're watching it for the former reason, you won't be at a loss for finding famous faces. If the latter reason compels you, don't bother.This long, heinous exercise in ego masturbation is one example of how one actor can take himself too seriously. Kenneth Brannagh, a highly regarded British darling, stars as Hamlet, a role far too young for a man of KB's age to play. His over-the-top portrayal of the Prince of Denmark would probably have been perfect for a huge stage production, but seems ridiculously hammy, even in this lavish setting.If you want a good laugh, watch Gerard Depardieu's cameo scene. Utilizing this beloved French actor in a scene that clearly displays his lack of English skills, it's hilarious to watch him him repeat over and over Aye, my Lord and Yes, my Lord, especially since he obviously doesn't understand what Hamlet is saying to him.I hate to admit this, but even Mel Gibson's Hamlet surpasses this one, if only for the fact that it's more to the point and easier for younger students of Shakespeare to comprehend.If you want to see Shakepeare works done well, watch Ian McKellan in Richard III. Do your best to skip this film entirely, unless you want to make a drinking game of it. "},{"Title":"This Hamlet is not worth the effort.","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"16 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As usual, Kenneth Branagh has substituted all-star casting and shtick for real, in-depth, meaningful interpretation of Shakespeare -- only this time he's done it to one of the greatest icons of Western culture Shakespeare's complex revenge tragedy, _Hamlet_.Under the guise of an uncut version of the play (a term that requires interpretation in itself since we don't know exactly how Shakespeare's original was performed; the earliest versions are quite different from one another), Branagh has presented an often miscast, self-indulgent, periodically unclear mess of a film (why is it set in the 19th century?). His choice of actors is often puzzling. For example, the late, great Jack Lemmon is a wonderful actor, but as a mid-70 year old castle guard, he is out of place. So is Gerard Depardieu, who, wonderful though he is, cannot be justified as the spy, Reynaldo (where did a Danish spy acquire a French accent). Finally, Charlton Heston is downright poor as the First Player. Branagh, himself, is a dull and muddy-mettled Hamlet to be sure. His interpretations as both actor and director smack of One from column A and one from column B thinking.The film is helped only slightly by the fine performances of Richard Briers (Polonius) and Derek Jacobi (an unusually sympathetic Claudius) and the interesting, though poorly directed and photographed Ghost of Brian Blessed.Skip this one and go directly to the Burton stage performance, the BBC version with Derek Jacobi as Hamlet, or the classic Olivier film -- cuts and all; all three are far superior. "},{"Title":"A beautiful adaptation","Date":"1 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kenneth Branagh makes (or at least used to make) beautiful Shakespeare adaptations. Henry V was a powerful adaptation but i would say that this full, four-hour adaptation of Hamlet is even better. Everything is done with such great eloquence.Hamlet of course is an adaptation of William Shakespeare's play about Hamlet, the prince of Denmark (played by Branagh) who believes that his uncle Claudius (Derek Jacobi) murdered his father to become king. Hamlet starts to make plots to get his guilty uncle to confess his foul act while Claudius starts to plot the murder of Hamlet.The thing that i loved about the fact that this film was the full version of Hamlet is that this way all the nuances and social statements weren't left on the cutting room floor. In for example Olivier's version of the story all this is left off and the film feels like a lamer, less powerful version of the story no matter how beautiful that film looks. The dialog is of course Shakespeare's original words and those words feel as powerful and meaningful as ever.And maybe a part of that power in the words is because the lines are performed so well. Kenneth Branagh plays the role of Hamlet with such power and calmness. He reads the lines so beautifully. Derek Jacobi's Claudius feels like an actual character in stead of being a two- dimensional character like in some of the other film adaptations (another advantage of the full four-hour version). Other good performances include ones by Julie Christie, a young Kate Winslet, Richard Briers and Michael Maloney.As good as Branagh's performances is i think the way he directs the film is even more amazing. For a four-hour adaptation of a 16th century play the film is incredibly cinematic. Every single scene is directed with such intensity and power. His attention to detail with the technical aspects of the film is phenomenal. The production design is beautiful as are the costumes. The score is really good and is another one of things i liked about the film.One might ask after all this praise why am i not giving it a 10/10. I'm not sure. Pretty much all the aspects of the film work really well. But i just wasn't perhaps blown away by it enough to give it the highest rating. But it still is a phenomenal film that i recommend very much. It's especially a must see for Shakespeare fans. "},{"Title":"Shakespeare by Branagh","Date":"22 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Of all the adaptations that Branagh has done of Shakespeare novels, including all the films in which he has been director, Hamlet meets the best of all and it's for many elements the most beautiful. This not only because it achieved a faithful adaptation of this English classic drama, but also gives a majesty and elegance that make up the more stylized version of this tragedy. Here photography but especially the art design make up the strongest pillars to recreate a superb Danish castle that turns out to be another cast member. It is also interesting the casting that Branagh chose to interpret secondary roles, then we see a gallery of big players that have small roles and give a freshness to the density of a film that lasts more than four hours. Robin Williams, Richard Attenborough, Billy Crrystal, Judy Dench and even Charlton Heston make up characters that strengthen the good interpretations of Julie Christie, Kate Winslet and Derek Jacobi, not that well for Branagh that for my taste is a very over acting Hamlet. Yet the result is for me one of the best adaptations of this English playwright and a good film that brings us closer to knowing more about the most beautiful drama of history. "},{"Title":"Branagh's Hamlet","Date":"19 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" What impressed me most about this version of Hamlet is not only the full-length, complete version of the play but also the choices Branagh made in his characterization of the character. Every other version of the play I've seen--live or on film--has Hamlet as a vacillating, nervous, unsure young man...and as an English major, I saw quite a few. Branagh makes clear from the very beginning that his Hamlet is aware of the treachery that has been perpetrated, was a fairly clear plan about what to do, and has minimal if any self-doubt. In fact, he manipulates many of the other characters around him. I've never seen such a motivated, confident Hamlet. What an unusual--and successful--re-imagining of the character! It was a pleasure to watch, even though I had to go to the theater by myself. "},{"Title":"To thine own source material be true","Date":"3 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Out of all of William Shakespeare's most beloved and well known plays, few works have been adapted, either for the stage or, more recently, in cinematic form. The majority of such productions are known for taking significant liberties with the work, mainly in terms of length and editing. And such is the main selling point for director/star Kenneth Branagh's incarnation of the tragic prince of Denmark the work is presented unabridged and unashamed of it, and as such, is one of the most unquestionably faithful Shakespearian cinematic adaptations as of yet. Considered by many to be the definitive film version of the play, Branagh's Hamlet is by no means a flawless film, but a powerful and faithful enough work to merit a viewing. Branagh's passion and keep grasp on his source material is evident, as is the astute evidence paid to even the most minute details of the sprawling work. To take a four hour long (the sheer length in itself will unquestionably be enough to deter some viewers either from taking in the film or watching it in a single sitting) Shakespearian play and infuse it with enough zest and energy to keep it interesting for a contemporary audience is no small feat indeed, but to his credit, Branagh performs such a task admirably. The film's mostly strong, but somewhat uneven pacing, including some quintessential contextual flashback sequences, intriguing cinematography and Patrick Doyle's rousing (if slightly overdone) musical score are engaging, and benefit the film immensely. The period adaptation, to 1890s civil war era works surprisingly well, considering the many less than favourable attempts to adapt Shakespearian dramas into a contemporary time period, (Baz Luhrman's Romeo and Juliet comes disconcertingly to mind...) and the vibrant and expansive period sets and costumes are visually delightful, adding a sense of epic splendour to the production. However, considering Branagh's considerable talent and directorial attentiveness, it is a shame indeed that the production still feels like it is missing something, or falling tantalisingly short of the emotional depth and breadth one might hope for in one of Shakespeare's more emotional works. A disappointing number of the film's key emotional moments either come across as disappointingly flat or toeing the line of melodramatic hysteria, though for the most part, Branagh keeps the emotional tension to an appropriate simmer. Also, for such a dialogue intensive work, many of the actors' delivery feels overly stagey, frequently drawing the audience out of the emotional intensity of the moment. However, despite such complaints, on the whole the film performs admirably - it is only a slight disappointment that there is a consistent feel of the full (admittably vast) potential not quite being filled. In such a dramatic work as Hamlet, the performances are key, and thankfully, Branagh has played his cards right by assembling a stellar cast to bring his vision to life. As the title character himself, Branagh manages a precisely poised balance between the brooding, flamboyant and lethal aspects of the character. His careful research and preparation show through his deliberately crafted performance (even his forays into the melodramatic tend to infuse the often imbalanced character with a fitting unusual edge) - it would be difficult to imagine an overall more satisfying Hamlet. Kate Winslet is easily one of the film's strongest points, typically powerful, charismatic and tremendously impressive as the harried Ophelia, Hamlet's love interest. Derek Jacobi gives a strong performance as the Machiavellian King Claudius, infusing the role with the necessary depth to make Claudius a troubled and lamenting character rather than a one dimensional antagonist. As Hamlet's troubled mother Gertrude, Julie Christie, years after her initial call to fame, demonstrates her ability to still craft elegant, credible and tremendously powerful performances. Richard Briers makes for an excellent Polonius, but unfortunately Nicholas Farrell and Michael Maloney prove miscast with little charisma and tendencies to overact as Horatio and Laertes respectively. Branagh also makes use of a supporting cast chock full of famous faces to both keep viewers interested and instill intrinsic value into characters that might otherwise be considered inconsequential. Billy Crystal is perfectly cast as the comic relief Gravedigger, and Robin Williams and Jack Lemmon are put to good use in minuscule yet nonetheless amusing roles as Osric and Marcellus. Brian Blessed is a formidable presence as the Ghost of Hamlet's father, and Charlton Heston and Rosemary Harris are endearing in the Player interlude. Also, unseen in the abridged cut of the production are entertaining cameos from Gerard Dpardieu, Richard Attenborough and Judi Dench.Shakespeare aficionados will have much to appreciate, as Branagh's passion for his source material and distinct directorial touch help carry the film through its regrettable weaker moments and occasional lapses in emotional poignancy and acting. While the staggering running time and period dialogue will doubtlessly prove too daunting for those unaccustomed to the works of Shakespeare, those willing to make the investment will find Branagh's work to be among the most faithful and entertaining film adaptations of the Bard's works. Considering the tremendous ambition of the task, Branagh's film, while by no means perfect, should still be considered nothing less than a laudable success. -8/10 "}{"Title":"One Word Brilliant...","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Hamlet is by far my favorite of Shakespeare's work, and definitely the most well suited to film adaption.  However, it was not until this, the absolutely definitive version of Hamlet, was released, that Shakespeare's masterwork was given the treatment on celluloid it deserved.Branagh definitely takes liberties with the work, the most notable being the setting, which he changed to what appears to be a post-Napoleonic Europe. However, this alteration is not only tolerable, but does the story a great deal of justice, allowing the full drama to be played out wonderfully loyal to Shakespeare's writing in a setting as grand as the story's themes, with towering columns, sleek attire, and an attitude perfect for the characters.Branagh's portrayal of Hamlet may be his crowning achievement to date, perhaps the zenith of an otherwise already impressive career.  His Hamlet, perched on the verge of absolute madness, all the while attempting to fool those around him into believing him mad, yet still torn and driven by desires, ambitions, and emotions true to us all, is absolutely brilliant, a flawless job.  This portrayal is also balanced by a phenomenal ensemble cast which brings together many of our time's greatest and most respected actors.Too say much more would be to belittle the film, by leaps and bounds the best adaption of Hamlet, possibly the best adaption of any Shakespeare, to date.  To Kenneth Branagh, I applaud you; and to the viewer, sit back and prepare yourself for a terrifying, mysterious, and at times hilariously played out ride through the best work ever written for the English language. "},{"Title":"The definitive Hamlet?","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I decided to watch Kenneth Branagh's version of Hamlet because I had heard that it should be considered the definitive Hamlet, the one that Shakespeare would have been proud of.  I'd seen the 1969 version with Nicol Williamson as Hamlet and considered that a good interpretation, so I was interested to see what Branagh would bring to the play.If definitive means used the entire play and didn't cut anything out, then this is absolutely the definitive Hamlet.  There's nothing worse than Hollywood getting its hands on a good play or novel and cutting it into something unrecognizable (poor, poor Dune.)  Although sometimes the four hours seemed to drag a little, the knowledge that these were truly Shakespeare's words, and not some editor's, made the time worth spending on one movie.Despite the faithfulness to the play, I would not call this the definitive Hamlet.  I enjoyed it very much, and there were certain elements which I think were wonderful, but there are also elements that keep me from calling this the best version of Hamlet.  The main problem I have with the movie is Branagh himself.  He is an extremely talented actor, and it was clear that he had given much thought and dedication to his work.  However, during all of his soliloquies, I kept expecting him to pause in the middle and say Wait, are you sure you're getting my good side?  There are many stars capable of directing and starring in a movie without any signs of vanity or ego.  For example, when I saw Braveheart, Mel Gibson's acting so impressed me, I completely forgot he also directed it.  However, it was always clear that Kenneth Branagh was the director.  Also, Hamlet is the melancholy Dane.  He is depressed about his father's death, about Claudius taking his place in the line of succession, about his mother's obvious fickleness.  Not only that, but the character of Hamlet seems to be very thoughtful and introspective.  Branagh's Hamlet was, first and foremost, angry.  He screamed and raged when I would have expected mourning or pensiveness.  Depression and anger are two very different emotions.  However, there were times when Branagh's portrayal of Hamlet seemed inspired.  In any scene where hysteria or madness was called for (for example, when the players performed for the king) he was perfect.  His performance just left me wanting to see more of a tormented soul and less of rage.  Also, did the ghost have to whisper the whole time?  It got really annoying after awhile.However, there was much in this film that was wonderful.  Derek Jacobi really made Claudius three-dimensional.  I actually found myself feeling sorry for him a few times.  The scenery was amazing; the lightness of the castle really contrasted with Hamlet in all black.  The to be or not to be speech, as well as the get thee to a nunnery scene in the hall of mirrors was incredible.  In my opinion, the crowning glory of this film was Kate Winslet as Ophelia.  She was heartbreaking.  Also, the relationship between Hamlet and Ophelia was potrayed perfectly.  Some people have a problem with the intimate scenes in the film, but I think they add to the relationship.  In the 1969 version especially, Ophelia seems almost indifferent to Hamlet.  In this film, it was obvious that Ophelia loved Hamlet deeply.  That, and the hesitating way she thought I will obey when ordered by her father to stop seeing him, make her insanity much more believable.  She had lost the love of her life already; the death of Polonius was the last straw.I enjoyed this film very much, and I plan on buying it for my collection in the future.  It was, overall, an excellent interpretation of Hamlet.  Is it the best one?  I don't believe so, but by all means see it and decide for yourself.  Four hours is a long time to give to a movie, but it's worth it. "},{"Title":"A fantastic story","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When I first saw the film, I was amazed by the wonderful acting. It was truly a gripping version that I fell in love with again. It was superb. It is absolutely a movie that you have to see more than once. I would surely see it over again myself as I have seen it more than once. Branagh is a great actor as he was in Much Ado About Nothing and Othello. He is one of the best Shakespearean actors of our time. A must see! "},{"Title":"If you haven't seen this movie yet, go and see it!!!","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I loved watching this movie. I never thought I would enjoy watching a four hours movie, but I really did. Kenneth Branagh is really a fantastic actor and he's very good looking!!!! I have always loved Shakespeare's work and Kenneth made me love it more. He just played Hamlet's part so real and I loved it when he said he? Really quickly when Hamlet was angry. I don't think anybody else could have played and could have made Hamlet better!!! -XXX- CASEY  "},{"Title":"Buy it, you'll like it!","Date":"25 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is worth owning both because of Branagh's acting which is very slightly over the top he's a great actor but a superb director. Both are at their best when they are not simultaneous. This movie, however, is a keeper not just for the superb direction but also because it is full text. All of it. And it is made sense of. I prefer this to Zefferelli's Hamlet even though I think that Gibson's portrayal was much better than Branagh's. (They were trying to do different things with the characters however.) Nonetheless, Zefferelli's direction loses the insights that Shakespeare offers us. Here Branagh does capture the very best of Shakespeare's intent. "},{"Title":"A fine film","Date":"9 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As far as Branagh's Shakespeare film adaptations go, this is one of the better ones. I personally preferred Much Ado About Nothing(1993), but Hamlet is one fine film.My only gripes are some of the cameos. Charlton Heston is good, but while it was nice to see Jack Lemmon he was too old I agree and Billy Crystal and Robin Williams come across as too modern and silly. Michael Maloney is okay but doesn't quite work appearance wise.Gripes aside, visually it is very striking. The settings are gorgeous, the costumes are equally exquisite and the cinematography is very skillful. The music score is a score of haunting, rousing and melancholic beauty, and enhances the film so well. The dialogue is still wonderful, and the story still has its emotional punch.The cast do a great job together. Kenneth Branagh directs with real vigour and does a fine job as Hamlet. Julie Christie is very good as Gertrude, Richard Briers is a good Polonious and Kate Winslet is a beautiful and poignant Orphelia. As the scheming villainous Claudius though, Derek Jacobi comes off best, his performance is brilliant.In conclusion, a fine adaptation and one of Branagh's better overall films. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"The Bard would be proud","Date":"7 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The image of movie studios being financially-driven instead of creatively is not without truth (in fact, it's more true than false). This begs the question why Castle Rock Entertainment allowed Kenneth Branagh to create a full-length, uncut version of Hamlet with his complete creative control among other things. Of course, Branagh had to agree to some concessions (a star-studded cast, and a 2.5 hour version for wider release), but why would the film studio allow Branagh to spend money on a 4 hour version that they knew few would see? Could they have, at least in this case, had enough respect for the material and Branagh's vision to create something for only a few people? That is not a question that I can answer. Whatever the reason, this is a glorious vision for those who are willing to spend four hours watching Hamlet. Everyone knows the story, so I will not spend much time on that. However, unlike other productions of the play, stage included, this is a completely uncut production, which has never been done before. According to some, Shakespeare never intended for the play to be produced uncut, leaving the decision of what to include to the director's discretion. That being said, I have no doubt that had he been able to see it, the Bard would have been overjoyed with Branagh's production.The film is top-heavy with film stars, although most have mere bit parts. All play their parts equally well. I would have thought Branagh too old to play the part of Hamlet, and while he still may be, his performance more than makes up for it. Hamlet is a complex part, displaying every emotion from grief to anger, happiness to madness, and everything in between. Branagh nailed it. Derek Jacobi is terrific as the wily Claudius, whose deception and treachery sets all these things in motion; his unique voice is perfect for the role. Julie Christie is also very good as Gertrude, Hamlet's caring mother who doesn't realize what is going on until late in the game.The classical actors are cast in bit parts (Judi Dench is on for all of 60 seconds and has no lines), but at least they're in it. Surprisingly, no one takes this to heart; everyone gives it their all, and it shows. Special mention has to go to Jack Lemmon and Billy Crystal, who are excellent. Robin Williams is a little too silly, but he's not bad (his part is pretty small anyway).Yet, this is undeniably Branagh's show. He adapted one of the most famous plays in history, and in so doing, he took on a whale of a project; it's impressive that he got it done, but the fact that the film is this good is a monumental achievement. What I really liked about this film is that you don't have to be a Shakespeare scholar to enjoy it. As most people know, Shakespeare is difficult to digest, but Branagh and his cast understand this. Hamlet is still immensely enjoyable to just sit and listen to the actors deliver the brilliant dialogue and excellent acting.This is a must see for anyone and everyone. It may be four hours long, but it's definitely worth it. "},{"Title":"Purposeful, impacting film is an epic and a half","Date":"3 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Grand epic as it is, Kenneth Branagh's monumental rendering of what is perhaps William Shakespeare's most popular tragedy suffers under the weight of its four hour playing time and certainly takes some real staying power. Two entirely separate sittings would most likely be better in order to fully appreciate what is certainly high class film making. While I absolutely acknowledge this masterpiece as such, I must confess to a lack of enthusiasm for the old bards flamboyance, his rhetoric (and he sends himself up so well) and his many flourishes. Thus Hamlet loses its impact as it loses its grip.From Patrick Doyle's music to Alex Thomson's cinematography to Tim Harvey's exquisite sets, the movie is a feast of visual and aural delights, which compliments a fine cast. Branagh has taken on three huge mantels, adapting, directing and playing. His adaptation is superb, his direction strong, but by the time he got to the role of Hamlet, the strain seemed to be showing; yet still he does a fine job in what is an incredibly taxing role. Derek Jacobi gobbles up the sinister Claudius with glee, and Julie Christie is most dramatic as his queen, Gertrude. Richard Briers is marvellous as Polonius, and Charlton Heston is once again a strong screen influence as the player King. Many others drop by, including Jack Lemmon (superb in a very small role), Billy Crystal, Dame Judi Dench, Sir John Mills, Sir John Gielgud, Sir Richard Attenborough and Gerard Depardieu. The acting prize though must go to one of the great thespian discoveries of recent years, Kate Winslet. Hers is a moving portrayal of the most tragic figure in this whole affair, Ophelia.To finish (before this review goes on longer than the film), I must say it is the length that really tests the viewer in this movie. Branagh has directed with purpose, giving many important, impacting scenes. Too many of them outstay their welcome. Watching this film holds a fantastic reminder of the many pearls of wisdom we have garnered from it. Neither a lender nor a borrower be or Be true to thyself. And of course To be or not to be.The opening two hours does take some perseverance, but if you do manage to stay tuned you are sure to be treated to a rousing finale which gathers momentum from the tragic funeral onward.Monday, June 8, 1998 - Hoyts Croydon "},{"Title":"Outstanding, sweeping Hamlepic","Date":"11 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In a way it's difficult to do justice to this grand conception in a few words. So much of the film is done on a vast scale using the full panaromas afforded by Blenheim Palace and shot, unusually, on 70mm.Branagh's opulence is an illusion though. Rather like the huge dishes used in modern radio wave telescopes, it's all about focusing the drama. Watch carefully and the whole film is just another staged play. At the centre of it is Branagh's frenetic, peroxide-mopped Hamlet; I liked (and wasn't expecting) the conscious transition to 'normality' that occurs between Yorick and 'there's special providence in the fall of a sparrow'. I'm not an automatic fan of Branagh despite his intellectual weight and facility with the text but this performance is irresistible.He's gathered one hell of a cast around him too. Kate Winslet's Ophelia is brilliant, loving then mad, job done. Nicholas Farrell's Horatio, Jacobi's Claudius and Richard Brier's Polonius are definitive. Julie Chrisite is inspired casting as Gertrude, all things to all interpretations - woman, lover, mother but not quite iced over to the spectre of her own guilt. The second tier of Hollywood heavyweights are all good, no one out of place. I remember being especially moved by the pathos in Robin Williams small cameo as disaster engulfs the palace.Yet this film is still not as good as Zeffirelli's. It can't seem to sit at ease with the natural vernacular of cinema. This is a tricky conclusion to come to as it often looks so good on screen - I also found myself thinking that Kubrick would have been delighted to have achieved such a series of wonderfully framed and arranged shots full of light and symmetry. This styling is not the same as amalgamating the performance, story and scene though and one can't shift the feeling of the whole event being no more than a first class intellectual exercise. 7/10 "},{"Title":"70mm brilliance","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If ever a film shows how much is missing in modern film making it is this  brilliant version of Hamlet.Branagh brings scope and depth to one of the greatest work of English literature though his own performance and the exceptional cast he brings together for this film.As a platform to show off 70mm it is stunning. Avoid the VHS cassette ...see this at a cinema in proper 70mm. It will take your breath away ....you can feel the velvet of Julie Christie's costume!It shows how grainy and flat Super 35/anamorphic or 70mm blowups of 35mm  films really are.I challenge director's to try 70mm!And why hasn't this film been released on DVD????   "}{"Title":"White Elephant","Date":"16 January 2012","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Sad to say, this is a very bad Hamlet and a very bad film badly-directed, badly-designed, badly-shot, badly-staged, and worst of all badly-acted. Branagh is a ranting child, Derek Jacobi effete and spinsterish, Horatio a pill, Laertes an unsightly runt, Charlton Heston inappropriately granitic (the First Player is supposed to be an emotive actor, remember?), Polonius neither funny nor formidable, Jack Lemmon an embarrassment, Billy Crystal ditto, Kate Winslet all gush and baby-fat, Julie Christie merely decorative, etc., etc. The obvious under-budgeting doesn't help the sets are tacky (that graveyard!), the process shots appalling, and much of the action is confined to a Hall of Mirrors, probably the single most inflexible set ever designed for a production of Hamlet. As director, Branagh uses every trick in the book to hold our presumably flagging attentions pointlessly swirling camera movements, equally pointless flashbacks and insets (Priam and Hecuba?), playing Patrick Doyle's oppressive score almost constantly over the dialogue. As actor, his performance is trivial when it isn't grating. Deficient in physical presence, intellectual heft and emotional complexity, he races through his lines till their sense becomes garbled and sometimes resorts to a screaming mode for which he hasn't the voice. In brief, he plays Hamlet as an ordinary young man who's gotten in a little over his head, which is a poor description of Hamlet but a spot-on description of Branagh. "},{"Title":"A Hamlet Devoid of Poetry","Date":"19 November 2007","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A warped and bloated production that bears little resemblance to the Bard's masterpiece. The production seems to be the result of a hodgepodge of influences and designs. One imagines Branagh chatting with his associates about potential gimmicks to incorporate in the film and then willy-nilly including them all with no overarching vision to guide his choices.One much-vaunted advantage of this production is that it is virtually uncut from Shakespeare's original. Given the length of the barely adapted script, the characters are forced to speak at a fast clip that robs the lines of their power and sometimes of their sense. To compensate, the unpoetic Branagh films explanatory scenes to intersperse with their machine-gun fire speeches. He thus unpoetically replaces rich, lyrical ambiguity with defined, visual sequences---a travesty.He takes this unpoetic principle to incredible extremes. Branagh's Hamlet doesn't love Ophelia with a despairing passion betrayed only by a few, haunted words. Branagh destroys any mystery or sexual tension in the relationship by filming the pair actually having sex. As drama professors are wont to say, Shakespeare knows well that nothing destroys sexual tension as quickly as a view of the actual sex act. We don't fall in love with Romeo because he manipulates his sex organs on the stage; it is the fiery passion of his words that seduces us, but Branagh-the-director has no affinity for words.There are many fine actors in this production but their performances are small orphans in the middle of a riotous crowd. Talented as they are, they cannot compensate for the director's lack of vision, lack of affinity for the text and confusion of dramatic devices.Other nontraditional adaptations work very well, indeed. The inventive Campbell Scott version filmed for television (on a much smaller budget) employs a largely American cast and a relatively modern setting but the anachronisms in no way detract from the drama. In the Scott version the music, sets and costumes retain the somber mood one associates with the play, without overwhelming the actors and still leaving room for humor. In the Branagh version the garish sets, overdone lighting and inappropriate music are so intrusive and distracting that there is very little room for the beauty of Shakespeare's poetry. Moreover, the scenes jump raggedly from one mood to another with no coherence of effect. It feels as if one has wandered into an expensive Hollywood psych ward in which the characters one encounters have a fixation on Shakespeare's words but need another dose of medication before their mouthings become intelligible. Again, this is not the actors' fault---the fault lies with the director.Indeed, one sees flashes of real talent in Branagh's acting, but Branagh-the-director reduces Branagh-the-actor (along with all the other actors) to insignificance. "},{"Title":"Victorian update--BAD IDEA","Date":"26 June 1999","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The redeeming quality to this version of Hamlet (in my eyes)is the fact that it stays true to the original length and order of the play by Shakespeare. More filmmakers should try this, especially with Shakespeare (who is one of the obvious geniuses of the millennium). It would make sense, since Branagh supposedly cares about staying true to the original, to set it in the time it was meant to be set in, NOT the Victorian era, which Shakespeare never even saw.  It is garish and much too bright, especially when the overacting and needless action is added. The dialogue should take center stage in many scenes (especially the last one).Because of this, I prefer both the Laurence Olivier and the Zeffirelli version of Hamlet, which takes advantage of dark and spare castle rooms and the countryside where Ophelia spends her last hours.   "},{"Title":"Great Adaptation","Date":"20 April 2004","Score":"13 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If there has ever been a more stunning achievement in direction then it is without Kenneth Branagh's Hamlet.  I read about it for a while in magazines before it was released and it looked like it was made for TV.  Obviously it wasn't and somehow without much debate from producers was four hours long.   I have seen three versions of Shakespeare Hamlet.  The first was starring Mel Gibson and the other was Ethan Hawke.   Ethan Hawke's version was none to good and tried to take on what Baz Lurmann did with Romeo and Juliet and failed but not without giving terrific performances.   The same goes for Mel Gibson's which is very dark with dark performances till Kenneth Branagh added his own wisdom to the on going play.I think everybody knew how good this was going to be  the cast is more stunning than any cast I have ever seen in film history.  You just have to look at it to see who stars.  You have Julie Christie, Derek Jacobi, Rufus Sewell, Billy Crystal, Robin Williams, Kate Winslet, Jack Lemmon and Charlton Heston and the list goes on even further than I care to remember.I was amazed by Romeo and Juliet in 97 and but more stunned by Hamlet.  For a film that wasn't received at the box office but what Shakespeare film has in the past but the sheer size of the movie is brave and courageous.   Kenneth Branagh plays Hamlet down to a tee and to also direct this lavish epic is a job not a lot of us would ever want but Branagh brings in all the parts that are needed in a film of this calibre and fails in not one part.  The whole epic is beyond great, it's a masterpiece of filmmaking.   Branagh's portrayal of Hamlet is more epic than the entire film as the vengeance runs through his blood and alienates everybody he comes across to get justice for the death of his father.   Kate  Winslet plays Hamlet's beloved Ophelia in what has to be Winslet's best performance of her career but the real star of the movie is Derek Jacobi as the lying guilt ridden uncle of Hamlet Claudius.  He plays him with such grace and power that he is more into character than you think.Nothing more can be said about this and nothing less can be said about how good it is.   Don't expect any Baz Lurmann camera shots and fashion, just expect something better and more outstanding. "},{"Title":"Ambitious disappointment","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"14 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Branagh's Hamlet--both character and film--suffers from the same tendency that destroyed his Frankenstein he simply goes overboard.  When he's reined in, Branagh can turn in a fine performance, but too often he overacts, overdirects, overdoes generally, as here.  I eagerly anticipated this Hamlet both as a reader and as a teacher, but discovered an overblown spectacle full of Hollywood-style excess, souped-up sex and violence, overpowering (and distracting) music, and performances that substitute volume for emotion.Branagh himself is the worst offender here, bellowing his how all occasions do inform against me soliloquy as if in competition with the soundtrack, hardly even pausing for breath, let alone for a glimpse of feeling.  The most crushing disappointment is the crucial to be or not to be speech, again devoid of any sense of reflection or self-awareness, delivered in a hasty monotone for all the world as if Branagh was trying to spit it out quickly before he forgot it.  This is not the world-class acting the text deserves; if not for the sheer spectacle and the impressive (i.e. famous) cast, this film would surely not be ranked as highly.Even the purportedly authentic screenplay makes several crucial interpretive choices for the viewer and completely rewrites the nature of Fortinbras's final entrance into Elsinore.  The only bright points are Derek Jacobi, who offers some emotional complexity as Claudius, and a Gertrude who finally seems to have a backbone.  The absence of the Oedipal interpretation is welcome, but this alone cannot place this disastrous film above the Mel Gibson version, which remains its superior.  The volume of laudatory reviews for this foolish film depresses me--but at least it may bring some new readers to the play itself, which _does_ deserve this kind of admiration. "},{"Title":"A Great Update.","Date":"21 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Hamlet (1996) Dir Kenneth Branaugh / Cast Kenneth Branaugh, Charlton Heston, Julie Christie, Kate Winslet, Billy Crystal Remarkable film featuring stunning art direction. Kenneth Branaugh does an excellent job as director but he also takes to the screen portraying Hamlet himself. He previously directed Mary Shelley's Frankenstein and Much to Do About Nothing but this film features a most impressive art direction. The film is filled with splendid supporting roles including Charlton Heston in scene stealing comic moments. As we know from the play, Hamlet's father was poisoned by his brother and his ghostly figure appears to him. Hamlet wants revenge but unable to take action but unsettles others in despair. Ultimately a revenge does not suffice in a duel to the death. Julie Christie is set to marry the villain. Kate Winslet is strong as Hamlet's romantic interest. Billy Crystal is cast in the small but famous role as grave digger who throws off his thoughts and advice with a touch of humour. The film will appeal to those who have studied the Shakespearian play but its remarkable production is a delight to the eye and will appeal to a broader audience. It also arrives the same year as the updated version of Romeo and Juliet. That film was aimed as a modern update that never reaches the heights that Branaugh so gorgeously applies so artistically to this update. Score 9 / 10 "},{"Title":"Prince of Denmark","Date":"20 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kenneth Branagh's epic Hamlet which was a full adaptation of the whole text and clocks in at 4 hours. It is not for the faint hearted and it took me 17 years to finally unwrap my video of Hamlet and put in on the solitary video player I still have in the house.As a viewer you need stamina for one of Shakespeare's most popular tragedy. Branagh as director and adapter has brought the play forward to the 19th century and got a cast of American and British actors with cameos from Jack Lemmon, Charlton Heston, Robin Williams and Billy Crystal.He brings together the cream of British acting with Richard Attenborough, John Gielgud, Julie Christie, Derek Jacobi and some Branagh regulars.Branagh himself gives a muscular performance in the background of a baroque set design. He imbues a sense of rawness but maybe overdo's the moments when he is humorous when he should had a nifty lightness of touch.Kate Winslet as Ophelia brings a moving portrayal as a young woman in love with the brooding Hamlet and who has engaged in a full physical relationship with him.The text can be fast and furious and as your hear it those many familiar lines zip by but that is how Shakespeare is. Language that is natural of its time and has to be natural to the actors reciting it now.The film has flaws. There are stylistic clashes from its cosmopolitan cast. The full play is not always easy to follow and the great fortitude is required to watch the whole film. "},{"Title":"grand reinterpretation","Date":"9 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Prince of Denmark Hamlet (Kenneth Branagh) return home for his father's funeral and his mother (Julie Christie)'s quick wedding to his uncle (Derek Jacobi). He is haunted by the ghost of his father who his uncle was the murderer. Lord Chamberlain Polonius is suspicious of Hamlet. Hamlet kills him in a mistake. Polonius' daughter and Hamlet's love Ophelia (Kate Winslet) is driven mad.Kenneth Branagh has placed this classic Shakespearean play in the 19th century. There is a steam railroad train. The setting is grander than the usual drab rainy moody Denmark. It's all very well done. He plays Hamlet not quite as a moody dour personality. I prefer Hamlet maddenly depressed introvert. Branagh's a big time show man and this is a big showcase of big time actors. "},{"Title":"Branagh Doing What He Does","Date":"7 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Hamlet (Kenneth Branagh), Prince of Denmark, returns home to find his father murdered and his mother remarrying the murderer, his uncle. Meanwhile, war is brewing.The film received four Academy Award nominations for the 69th Academy Awards for Best Art Direction (Tim Harvey), Best Costume Design (Alexandra Byrne), Best Original Score (Patrick Doyle), and Best Writing (Adapted Screenplay) (Kenneth Branagh).However, it was not a box office success, grossing just under $5 million on a budget of $18 million. This is hardly surprising. The film is what might be called an achievement, and certainly the new, definitive version for scholars and fans of Shakespeare. But to get a general audience to a Shakespeare film is hard (unless you disguise it as 10 Things I Hate About You) and to sit for a daunting four hours is also a challenging task. "},{"Title":"Can't Give This a Perfect Score","Date":"27 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kenneth Branagh is one of the best actors on God's Green Earth. Hamlet is the best character of all time in William Shakespeare's best play. Put them together and you are sure to find great glory. This movie is nearly flawless. The set is magnificent, the casting is superb and this is the only Hamlet done in its entirety something rare.The story of Hamlet is about the Hamlet, Prince of Denmark who is angry and depressed that the recent death of his father is being ignored, especially by his uncle the current king who has married his mother. Hamlet is soon visited by a ghost that claims to be Hamlet's father, and says the king poisoned him and wishes for Hamlet to seek revenge. Hamlet's deadly plan soon turns into a complex issue that will cost many people their lives and nearly destroy the state of Denmark.Despite a star-studded cast, some of it did not work. Jack Lemmon is an all-time great, that does not do a good job as Marcellus. Despite this being the full play, word-for-word, some parts could easily be cut for time and boredom. I wasn't bored, but some people could be. Despite the sets being elaborate, they were, in some cases, distracting. Despite these flaws, I personally didn't think they were bad. Enough nit-picking on these, the main flaw I found was Kenneth Branagh. Branagh picked up where Laurence Olivier left off. But Branagh surpasses Olivier on screen as Olivier preferred the stage. I thought that Kenneth Branagh outdid Olivier in his 1989 production of Henry V. Then this comes along and I felt nothing. From somebody who has studied Hamlet and has done thorough research on the play, I was very unhappy Branagh's performance. One of Hamlet's key traits is that he is a likable character. Kenneth Branagh depicts him as a very unlikeable character. He plays him out like a high school student would who is trying to score a high mark in a drama class. Branagh shows him to be an overly angry, temperamental, greedy, chauvinistic, stubborn, mean, nut-case. Overall, very one-dimensional. Hamlet is actually a very philosophical, determined, witty, mysterious, sharp, genius, nervous, depressed-at-times, and angry-at-times. Overall, every human trait is shown through Hamlet many times throughout the play. It is only during the last hour that Hamlet finally becomes good in this. I actually found myself rooting for King Claudius in some parts. That is also bad, the evil King is too nice. I know that Hamlet displays some negativity and Hamlet can be done different ways, but Branagh leans him way too much toward one side for too much of the movie. Hamlet cannot be leaned too much toward one side. Honestly, I think that Branagh tried to make Hamlet an easy character for everybody to understand, for dramatic purposes. Somebody like Kenneth Branagh must know Hamlet's proper portrayal. I listened to when he played Hamlet in the 1992 stage version, and he was fantastic at every angle I could hear. But making him John Bender of The Breakfast Club 2.0 is a total disgrace. But I must admit, Branagh did a fine job acting. The portrayal was bad, but the acting was good. He was believable, feeling and delivered great intensity. So I was very impressed by that. If Branagh depicted Hamlet more like Laurence Olivier or Derek Jacobi did (which were much more accurate) I would have given this 10/10. Set 10/10 Filming 8/10 Acting 9/10 Portrayals 2/10 Overall 38/50 / 7.6.10 "}{"Title":"Hamlet","Date":"25 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It all started when Hamlet-The son of the King of Denmark had came home from England for his father King Hamlet funeral but he walked in on his mother and uncle(King Hamlet's brother) marriage. His father had only been dead for 2 months and Hamlet is very suspicious about whats going on. Hamlet best friend Hartio and the other soldiers seen this ghost whom was in armor like he was fighting in war and the believed that it was King Hamlet his self. While in war with Fortinbras Hamlet did not know that King Claudius was sending letters to Fortinbras about land. Hamlet is very sarcastic and very smart. Ophelia who is Hamlet girlfriend and Polonius daughter and Laertes sister. Polonius is Claudius right hand man and probably had something to do with King HAmlets death. "},{"Title":"Hamlet","Date":"25 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I gave this movie a 8 out of 10 because the actor Hamlet gave a played a convincing character. It has a lot of drama between other main characters,action,and romance involving Hamlet and Ophelia that kept me interested. The Elizabethian English was a struggle to code switch while watching the movie. Watching the movie gave me a better visual that reading it. Even though I didn't enjoy the ending because it happened all too fast. It was overall a good film. I would re watch it to catch anything that I may have missed during the end. If you enjoy this movie and Shakesphere than I would suggest reading some of his other famous books or watching the movie. Enjoy the movie! "},{"Title":"Hamlet","Date":"25 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I gave this movie Hamlet an 8 out of 10 rating because its a really good movie, it has a lot of drama filled activities going on. The only thing that could be a little different though would be the way that it ended. The ending wasn't that good because everything took place at once, and it was too fast to catch up with. But the overall movie was pretty good! I would watch it again any time. Anyone who's actually interested in Shakespearean novels or movies should really consider watching and/or reading hamlet. Shakespeare did some different did some different things throughout this movie which made it even better, but enjoy the movie if you watch it! "},{"Title":"Branagh's Hamlet","Date":"2 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Hamlet (1996) stars Kenneth Branagh, who directed himself in the title role. There is quite a bit to like in this Hamlet, but also quite a bit not to like.On the positive side, Branagh is a trained Shakespearean actor, and he is excellent in the role. (Of course, at age 36, he was too old for the part. However, he manages to carry it off.)Julie Christie makes a fine Gertrude. I wasn't impressed by Kate Winslet's Ophelia. At 21, her age was OK, but I just couldn't accept her as the innocent young woman who is forced into madness by the tragic events that surround her. (Apparently, Branagh didn't accept her innocence either. He kept cutting to scenes of Hamlet and Ophelia writhing in passion on a bed. Not implied in Shakespeare's text, in my opinion.)I definitely didn't accept Ophelia's mad scenes. (If you want to see the definitive Ophelia, watch Helena Bonham Carter in Mel Gibson's Hamlet.)Another real plus for Branagh's Hamlet is that he used every word of Shakespeare's text. The standard version of the movie lasts for four hours. (There's an intermission built in.) That's courageous, and saves the endless questions about What did the director choose to cut? On the negative side, Branagh has set the drama in Victorian times. Why? I can see a medieval Hamlet, a Renaissance Hamlet, a modern Hamlet, But not a 19th Century Hamlet. Here we have Victorian soldiers holding medieval pikes as their weapons. (OK for tourists to see in the Tower of London, but not in Victorian-era Denmark.)Branagh went on location to Blenheim Castle for the exterior scenes, but used a sound stage for the interiors. This let him set up a mirror-lined hall, which he utilized effectively. (Also, a convenient padded cell for Ophelia, which was ridiculous.)My biggest complaint about this production was that Branagh stayed with Shakespeare almost to the end, but then he gave up and turned the film into Die Hard Elsinore. During the critical dueling scene, when all the truths are being revealed, the Norwegian army, led by Fortinbras, storms the castle, crashing through windows, slitting the throats of sentries, etc. This invasion isn't called for in Shakespeare's text, and it undercuts the drama of the duel scene. This criticism may only find acceptance with older viewers. I'm auditing an undergraduate honors course entitled Shakespeare on Film. The students, who are very sophisticated about both Shakespeare and film, disagreed with me. They thought Bruce Willis (well, Fortinbras) added some much-needed excitement at the end of this very long movie. Obviously, Branagh agreed with them.This version of Hamlet is a must for anyone interested in movies and Shakespeare. We saw it on a large screen (well, a classroom-sized large screen.) It's probably better on a truly large screen, but it's definitely worth seeing in any format. Watch it and make your own decisions about what Branagh did right and and what he did wrong! "},{"Title":"Great adaptation of Hamlet with one glaringly obvious exception.","Date":"22 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One of the best things about this adaptation is that it uses the full text of the play, uncondensed, and unapologetically (...and Derek Jacobi). There are a few discrepancies between the setting and intended historical atmosphere between Kenneth Branagh's adap and the original, and some of the historical references about Wittenburg and the English tribute to Denmark thus lose significance, but Shakespeare had his own anachronistic style, and Branagh's isn't gapingly obvious here.The casting was superb for the most part. The only obvious exception was Jack Lemmon (much too old and senile to be Marcellus).If I have one bad thing to say about this movie, it'd have to be about the over-acted, incomprehensibly quirky, and obviously unbalanced interpretation of Hamlet himself by Branagh. The ideal Hamlet would be your typical bi-polar.. the mania would have to be weighed against some form of dejection. Branagh shows himself to be entirely incapable of the latter. He somehow finds a way to transform despair into anger, triumph, and other constructive attitudes every time--reversing the intention of the text and making himself seem ludicrous (very anti-climactic for the play as a whole). In his favor, he does seem to have great on-screen chemistry with Winslet (Ophelia).Derek Jacobi embodies King Claudius and makes up for Branagh entirely. Watch this movie if only for him. "},{"Title":"This is the real thing...","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" ...warts and all.  Whether it be called a film or a filmed play is questionable (the fact is that Hamlet is a long, somewhat ungainly, occasionally redundant play that is in some ways more suited to reading than to viewing all at once), but Branagh's uncut Hamlet does justice to Shakespeare.  The whole thing is here, and (mostly) very well acted to boot -- and the completeness of the text will render unwatchable such butchered, Shakespeare's greatest hits versions as the 1991 Zefferelli/Mel Gibson film.It is a travesty that Branagh was not at least nominated for an Oscar for his performance in the title role.  He approaches the scenes as a musician would approach a difficult passage -- controlling his instrument carefully, building up to climaxes upon certain words, deftly combining externalized gestures with inner emotion.  As Ebert has noted, Branagh dares to pull out all the stops in the big moments.  Compared to him, Olivier's respectable performance seems to me rather stiff and recital-like, while Gibson's is like a pop keyboardist tackling Rachmaninov's 3rd Concerto.Even better is Derek Jacobi's magnificent performance as Claudius.  It is the best piece of Shakespearean acting I've ever seen on film, and once of the best performances in any movie.  Watch his monologue in the chapel, or the inner agony he exhibits when asking Britain to bring about the present death of Hamlet.  Given the full text to work with, he restores Claudius from a two-dimensional bad-guy to one of literature's greatest and most complex villains. "},{"Title":"On the four-hour version ...","Date":"23 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" ... I mean, why bother watching the shorter one?It's a spectacular achievement, and if I concentrate too much on the several ways in which it falls a bit short, I hope you'll forgive me.Branagh (or someone working for him - I really should look this up) isn't sufficiently credited for the visual style of his films.  Everyone rabbits on about how great Coppola's `Dracula' looks, for instance; yet one hears very little about `Frankenstein', which makes `Dracula' look like the hideous, cheesy patchwork quilt that it is.  A similar injustice is done to `Much Ado About Nothing' and `In the Bleak Midwinter'.  `Hamlet', too, offers absorbing views well worth staring at (and that didn't cost nearly as much as they look as though they did).  The `get the to a nunnery' scene, in a hall of mirrors, is technically dazzling.  I gather it was a nightmare to shoot.But every so often the sure touch fails.  The scene in which Hamlet meets the ghost of his father is risible, unworthy of the big screen, certainly unworthy of most of the rest of the film.  And as much as I enjoyed the art direction at the time I now wonder about the basic idea.  `Hamlet' has been re-set in the nineteenth century.  Instead of a grim stone castle we have a glittering palace out of Hans Christian Andersen - the advantage being that the throne of Denmark now looks like something worth fighting for.  But surely the same effect could have been achieved without altering the setting?  When Branagh made `Much Ado About Nothing', for instance, he did not explicitly deny Shakespeare's setting; he simply resorted to fantasy whenever he wanted an effect would have been anachronistic had the setting been realistically represented.  Perhaps Branagh thought that too much fantasy is unbecoming a drama.  If so, he was wrong.Also, although Branagh's `nothing but the best for Shakespeare's finest play' approach results in something truly special and captivating (I can't stress this enough), I can't help but find the film a little soulless.  Having found nothing but the best Branagh doesn't seem to know quite what to do with it.  This may well be the definitive version of `Hamlet', but I was hoping, paradoxically, for something better than a definitive version.Still, why complain?  It's a treat.  To get the most out of this spectacular work you should (1) Watch the four hour version.  (2) Watch it in a cinema.  (3) Try to find one of those rare audiences that isn't scattered with people who insist on reciting the lines before the characters do, presumably to prove that they're familiar with the play.  I hate it when they do that. "},{"Title":"Brilliant.","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a highly intelligent, beautifully photographed retelling of arguably William Shakespeare's best work, 'Hamlet'. Branagh acts with panache as the bizarre, mysterious Hamlet, and he is supported by excellent bravura casting, including Jack Lemmon, Robin Williams, Billy Crystal and Derek Jacobi. Branagh also writes and directs this 4 hour epic.Denmark is just about to be taken over by assailing countries, and there is chaos inside the kingdom. Hamlet is the prince, son of the insidious, murderous king. He is disturbed by the fact that his father murdered his first mother, so in his heart burns flames of revenge. The story branches off into various sub-plots and is backed nicely by brilliantly choreographed marching and fighting scenes.The language is certainly not altered or abridged to suit the (putting it bluntly) dumber contemporary audience. It is kept pure, the way it should always be, and with the help of Branagh's masterful direction, it makes for a wonderful 4 hour sitting.Ten out of ten. "},{"Title":"So good, so long","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Brilliantly filmed--a gorgeously opulent fantasy.  By and large, the acting is quite good, but guest star turns are extremely variable and ultimately distracting.  However, I will insist to my dying day that, when filming Shakespeare, there is no need to capture every single line--even the immortal Bard could've used an editor. "},{"Title":"Excellent adaptation","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I had to read Hamlet in my world literature class.  I thought I would be bored stiff, but when we were done I found out I loved this play.  We watched the Mel Gibson version.  I thought it was pretty good, until I saw this version on TV the next day.  Don't get me wrong, I think Mel is a great actor, he makes great movies.  He made a good Hamlet, but the abridged version of the play didn't do him justice.  The four hour length is really nothing, the movie can keep your attention if you let it.  My very favorite part is Hamlet's speech as he holds the skull of the jester, it made me actually feel what Hamlet was feeling as he said it.  It is more modern than the play, but that's not necessarily a bad thing.  I liked the way the ghost scene went, with the earthquakes and fire, and the way the voice of the ghost echoed.  Kenneth makes a great Hamlet, and Kate Winslet looks pretty damn good.  Hamlet is the story that makes me want to read more Shakespeare. Romeo & Juliet (the play and the Leo movie) suck compared to this.  I plan to buy a copy of this movie and the play. "}{"Title":"Spectacular!","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Hamlet as told by Kenneth Branagh is a film that needs to be seen by everyone who loves film and Shakespeare.  The 70mm is amazingly powerful and the performances are top notch.  Branagh has assembled a fine cast to do justice to a piece of drama that has been with us for the past four hundred years, (give or take a few).  You want a good introduction to Shakespeare? Start off with Kenneth Branagh's spectacular version of William Shakespeare's Hamlet.  "},{"Title":"Worth the time...","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Yes it's long!!!! But it's great!!!!   How millions can sit through a dialog black hole like Titanic dozens of times and complain that The Bard was too long I'll never understand.Lavish, wonderfully acted, and worth the evening you will spend watching it. "},{"Title":"Great to look at","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Sure, the production design, costumes, acting, adaption, atmosphere etc. etc. are all damn near perfect but why did it have to be four hours long? Surely an abridged version would have made the movie more appealing. I've rented this film twice and although I want to, I've never made it the full four hours without switching off half way through or over-using the fast forward button. With a story this great and a cast this fantastic, why did it end up as a very long, and frequently frustrating experience?  "},{"Title":"Very satisfying","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Four hours? For many people this would seem an excessive amount of time to spend watching one film, but consider this the average performance of Hamlet on stage is 4/5 hours, and it has been Shakespeare's most successful stage and film work for the past 395 years. That sends a clear message. This version, adapted by Kenneth Branagh and updated to the 19th century, has a fair claim to be up there with the best of them. There are several reasons for this. Firstly there is Branagh's personal love of Shakespeare. Following on from Henry V, Much Ado About Nothing and Othello, Branagh remains extraordinarily true to the original text, using 95% of the actual lines of the play. Secondly, there is the overall appearance of the film which, although set 250 years after it should be, remains true to the story of the play and provides the cast with the opportunity of speaking the original lines in a way that doesn't seem difficult. (As a student of English lit., I know how great an achievement this is) Also, the musical soundtrack is perfectly matched to the action of the film - something which is comparatively rare in Shakespearean adaptations. Finally, and surely most importantly, the performances. Branagh as Hamlet and Jacobi as Polonius are, as one has come to expect, superb, but there isn't a single bad performance here. Kate Winslet's Ophelia is one of the most convincing I have seen. Special mention must go to the American cast members. It is often said that American actors shouldn't attempt Shakespeare as they don't have the right accent. This is absurd. Jack Lemmon's cameo is the best thing he's done since Glengarry Glenross, and Billy Crystal is excellent as the jovial gravedigger. It may be true that Branagh has as big an ego as James Cameron, but consider this he's a better director, and he can act and adapt as well.  "},{"Title":"The acting by Branagh, directing, cinematography, and sheer gallantry are brilliant.","Date":"6 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The acting of Kenneth Branagh as Hamlet excited my soul.  This man, as Branagh portrays him, lived passionately.  The directing allows the viewer not to lose track of the enmeshed interpersonal relationships.  The delivery of the lines is almost perfect, as the actors speak Shakespearean English as if it were their native tongue.  The cameos by Charlton Heston and Billy Crystal are near-perfect performances.  This movie is fun, provocative, and serves as a reminder of how much one man (Hamlet in this case) can alter the course of entire kingdoms. "},{"Title":"The definitive Dane","Date":"2 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" No doubt some would criticize Branagh's mammoth production of Hamlet for being over the top, but for me, it's a miracle the play could be adapted to film completely, especially with this many stars and such a large budget. It's a beautiful throwback to the mega-epics of the 1960s, the best of them like Lawrence of Arabia or Doctor Zhivago.While Olivier and Zeffirelli went for moody black-and-white and gloomy subdued color palates, Branagh paints the screen with luscious colors, giving us an opulent Elsinore court, heightening the sense of the political, moral, and sexual corruption therein. The entire cast is exceptional, but the highlight is certainly Branagh as Hamlet. He gives a truly multifaceted performance.God, it's hard to really analyze it right now; I'm still stunned. Though there will no doubt be great cinematic Hamlets to come, Branagh's going to be a hard one to top. "},{"Title":"One of the best films ever made","Date":"8 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" An absolute masterpiece from beginning to end which improves on Laurence Olivier's 1948 version, another masterpiece, in almost every respect. Kenneth Branagh utterly excels as both an actor and a director. While I preferred his quieter moments as the erratic, unstable, melancholy Dane, he was never less than entirely engrossing in the role. I recently watched an interview with Eartha Kitt from the 1980s where she said that a problem with the arts at the time - one which has gotten worse since - is that there were too few artists and too many people who were simply entertainers, singling out Olivier, Orson Welles and Edith Piaf as being fantastic artists. As far as actor-directors go, I think that Branagh is the finest living artist. His frequent use of very long takes, something which is seen in many of his films, was magnificent. One of the best parts in the film is the scene in which Hamlet encounters his father's spirit (Act 1, Scene 5 of the play). I loved the fact that Branagh used extreme close-ups of both himself and BRIAN BLESSED as I felt that it added greatly to the scene's intensity. The cinematography is excellent, the sets and costumes are gorgeous and the beautiful Blenheim Palace was a great choice for Elsinore Castle. It was an interesting choice to set the film in the 19th Century and one which I thought worked incredibly well.Branagh assembled a fantastic cast for the film, particularly Derek Jacobi as Claudius, Julie Christie as Gertrude, Richard Briers as Polonius, Nicholas Farrell as Horatio (perhaps the least interesting major character in the play), Michael Maloney as Laertes (who previously played Rosencrantz in Franco Zeffirelli's 1990 version) and BRIAN BLESSED as Hamlet's father (who, against type, never speaks above a whisper!). Kate Winslet was good but I thought that her Ophelia paled in comparison to Jean Simmons' in Olivier's version. The film also has great cameos from the likes of Charlton Heston (who is brilliant as the Player King), John Mills, John Gielgud, Judi Dench and Richard Attenborough. When I think of Shakespearean films, Jack Lemmon, Billy Crystal and Robin Williams are not the first names that spring to mind but all of them do surprisingly well, with Williams as the foppish Osric getting the funniest scene in the entire film. Lemmon appears in the first scene and I have to admit that it took me a while to accept him in the film as all I could think of were all those hilarious films that he made with Walter Matthau! I don't think that he was entirely comfortable doing Shakespeare but he acquitted himself well.The film was deservedly nominated for four Oscars (Best Art Direction, Best Costume Direction, Best Original Score and Best Adapted Screenplay) but was ignored in the more major categories. If I had my way, it would have received nominations for Best Actor (Branagh), Best Supporting Actor (Jacobi), Best Supporting Actress (Christie) and Best Picture and won them all too. For my money, it's one of the very best films of the 1990s and one of the best ever made. At a whopping three hours and 58 minutes, this is the second longest film that I have ever seen, after the extended version of The Lord of the Rings The Return of the King which runs about four minutes longer. Both of them are also among my absolute favourite films, with The Return of the King being No. 12 and this film being No. 13. Richard Attenborough seems to be my good luck charm as he's the only actor to appear in three films in my Top 20, the other two being The Great Escape (No. 5) and A Matter of Life and Death (No. 15). Of course, the writing's not half bad either, is it? "},{"Title":"Best Shakespeare's adaptation","Date":"30 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I loved this movie and I was very very surprised to see that the main actor is in fact the director too Kenneth Branagh (For me, he was just the inspector Wallander until I saw the movie and checked his filmography). He update the play in the 19th century and it was a good idea (why not ? Luhrmann did it with his great Romeo + Juliet). It's kinda sad that it wasn't a success at the box office. I'm not a cinema lover neither Cameron/Michael Bay's biggest fan but I really didn't expect to see such a masterpiece. The only moment that didn't respond to my expectations was the last part of the film when the duel with Hamlet and Laerte start their costume were too effeminate (it's an euphemism), even George Michael would be shocked, it was too extravagant(I'm just kidding about G.M.) a sleeveless shirt with overalls, why ? "},{"Title":"The most faithful and absorbing version of the most poignant  shakespearean tragedy","Date":"18 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Branagh's version of Hamlet is clearly the most successful screen adaptation of this immortal classic. While I can't absolutely compare Branagh's acting skills to the brilliant acting technique of Sir Laurence Olivier in his acclaimed version of Hamlet, it is clear that he managed to bring the wit,the critic to his society,the striking reflections on life and death,the projected madness and ultimately the melancholia of Prince Hamlet. Nevertheless Kenneth Branagh is the second best Hamlet ever seen in a film and he plays all the emotions attributed to Hamlet.Furthermore, his direction is visionary and original in every-way. The supporting cast is what made Hamlet unique compared to the previous adaptation. Julie Christie, Derek Jacobi and Kate Winslet are unattainable. Each of them gives the exact nature of their characters and plays their role with complete identification, expressing all the feelings and thoughts hidden in their troubled souls.The other actors in their minor roles play equally effectively. The set is visually striking and the music adds a sense of enormous tragedy. "},{"Title":"Unique and Excellent Adaptation","Date":"24 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw this adaptation of Hamlet in my English class. When I heard that it would be adapted for Edwardian times, I was very skeptical. I didn't know if the legendary tragedy could be made into a Twentieth-Century tale.Must I say that this is a wonderful and well-made version of Hamlet! Kenneth Branagh is outstanding as Hamlet; sometimes I wonder whether he is theatrically trained. Kate Winslet does a fine job as Ophelia; this is one of the movies that shows how great of an actress she is. The rest of the cast provides a good backbone to the story. I was surprised how many well-known actors are in this movie (Even the amazing Dame Judi Dench makes a cameo).I wouldn't say this is one of the best movies I've seen, but the film is very entertaining and very powerful. I highly recommend Hamlet to anyone who is interested in a different approach on Shakespeare. "}{"Title":"Would someone like this who is not a Shakespeare fan?","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Filming an unexpurgated Hamlet is a risk. Those who love Shakespeare will most likely have some critical observations and those for whom Shakespeare is intimidating will probably not give it a chance. At four hours in length watching this *is* a commitment.A person not well versed in Shakespeare is going to find that a good part of this movie will fly right over his head. All those strange words gyves, fust, reechy. shent, fellins, romage, clepe, cautel, eale, arabbing, chopine, and so on. And all those insights so elegantly expressed but often requiring more time to understand than you have. I found that reading the play before watching this movie was very helpful and was a rewarding effort, independent of seeing the play performed. You can savor the language and insights at your leisure.In any case there is enough here to engage anybody willing to pay attention. Such a person will get the main drift of the story and should be able to appreciate the opulence of the production. And there is enough cinematic goings on to keep things moving. The sets are stunning. Branagh has made a movie rather than filming a play.Some will find that this Hamlet pushes the envelope of excess, both in terms of Branagh's robust performance and the adventurous cinematography. I found the many 360 degree pans to be distracting. The final duel is impressively filmed, but Branagh could not seem to restrain himself, having Hamlet swing down to Caludius on a chandelier a la Errol Flynn. But, credit must be given for the novel concepts and pure spectacle of it all. The marriage scene of Claudius and Gertrude is unforgettable. The approach and ultimate invasion of Fortimbras and his army is dazzling and was quite beyond anything I pictured when reading the play. Ophelia's madness is deep - an inserted scene that has her being hosed down in an isolated room is painful to watch. Background scenes that accompany some of the monologues I found to be more disconcerting than helpful, like the scenes with Hecuba and Priam in the recitation of the first player, or shots of the old king of Norway receiving the message from Claudius.In spite of his tendency to overact, Branagh is a captivating presence. Derek Jacoby is a standout as Claudius; Kate Winslet as Ophelia and Julie Christie as Gertrude are fine. The casting of well known actors in cameos is a bit of a mixed bag. John Mills, Judy Dench, and John Gielgud appear to be in the cast simply for name recognition, since they are on screen for less than two minutes total among them. Jack Lemmon proves that he is simply not cut out to be a Shakespearean actor, no matter how minor the part. But Charlton Heston is surprisingly good and his scene with Rosemary Harris is memorable.Many scenes seem rushed, almost purposely so. Maybe Branagh was just trying to keep this thing at four hours. For example when Ophelia asks Hamlet about the prologue to the play within the play, Will he tell us what this show meant? and Hamlet responds, Ay, or any show that you'll show him; be not you ashamed to show, he'll not shame to tell you what it means, I defy anyone to repeat what he says on first viewing. I replayed this four times before I could tell that he was actually saying all the words. There are too many positives here not to give this film a high rating. Any serious production of Hamlet gives new insights and proves that the play offers an infinitude of interpretations. "},{"Title":"Mostly Excellent Version of Shakespeare's Classic","Date":"20 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" * * *  (out of four)In Denmark in what appears to be the late 19th century, the king is killed. His son, Hamlet (Kenneth Branaugh) is then visited by the ghost of his father, who tells him that his uncle, Claudius (Derek Jacobi), killed him in order to 1, take the thrown, 2, take his wife, Gertrude (Julie Christie), and 3, make the already edgy Hamlet go completely nuts (or so it seems&#133;). Okay, that last one probably wasn't the intent, but it certainly turns out to be the result, and Hamlet pushes his love, the fair Ophilia (Kate Winslet), completely away from him. Her father Polonius and brother Laertes both oppose any continuance of the romance, which pushes him further over the edge, and the march of the Norwegian armies, led by Fortinbras (Rufus Sewell), on Denmark throws him completely overboard. Kenneth Branaugh's version of Shakespeare's classic is the complete play. Practically every line of dialogue is uttered (except perhaps one or two here and there), resulting in a 4 hour film. Unfortunately, the film is kind of on and off, with some scenes managing to be absolutely brilliant and others rather boring. The first hour is so lumpy it's pretty off-putting other than a moment here and there&#133; but then Moses comes in to save the day. More or less. At this point, Charlton Heston comes in to do the role of the Player King. And, for the approximately five minutes he's on stage, he gives speeches so powerfully and emotionally that you are practically forced into the movie, and from then on, you're in, and the occasional lags never quite o'ercrow your spirits. The cast is a little too big, with everyone down to the gratuitous extras being someone you've heard of (I mean, honestly, you cast Judi Dench and John Gielgud in a Shakespeare movie only to let them appear for 2 seconds without a line of dialogue in a pointless shot anyway?). However, most of them are quite good. Branaugh is a little stagy at times, but most of the time, he's superb. But the good supporting performances are what really pull you through the slow spots Jacobi, Christie, Billy Crystal (as the gravedigger), whoever played Horatio, and especially Winslet are excellent, although none of them top Heston. All this excellence easily makes up for the rest of the cast, which is a mixture of fine but no more, barely adequate (Jack Lemmon), expressive but one-dimensional (such as Sewell), completely wooden, and Robin Williams, who's great to watch usually but annoying and pointless here. (on a similar note, I was surprised Crystal did such a good job in his role, but he was more than up to the challenge; Williams might have been if he wasn't so recognizable and his beard wasn't so fake) In addition, the film works because the scenes that are brilliant --- such as Hamlet and Ophilia's stunningly performed dialogue after To Be or Not to Be, the beautifully made grave scenes, and the climax --- make up for the lulls just as well as the cast. It's also neat to see some of the characters like Claudius really becoming a full character, although Zeffrilli's version, despite being 90 minutes shorter, did a better job with Hamlet and especially Laertes. Another plus to this film is Patrick Doyle's score, which isn't great, but it does a fine job and has some superb passages (especially the aforementioned grave scenes). The cinematography (filmed in 70mm) is also quite good. Anyway, this film is definitely a mixed bag, but enough of it is excellent that the movie works, even if on the whole it's slightly inferior to the Zeffrilli/Gibson version. "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"11 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A visually very interesting version of the famous Shakespearean play, thanks to a splendid set design and cinematography that gives the story magnificent flow. As the first version of the play to be filmed in its entirety, it is quite long and rather heavy going at times, but all this is sort of justified by the filmmakers' attempt to capture the whole play, even though it is a hefty price to pay, as the film cannot be endured in one straight go. But this is the only strikingly flaw in Branagh's take of the play. Overall, it is a magnificent production, with a fine ensemble cast, which includes in small supporting roles, Jack Lemmon, Robin Williams, Timothy Spall, Charlton Heston, Judi Dench, John Gielgud, Billy Crystal and others. "},{"Title":"A movie for the visual lovers","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie was amazing.  I had just graduated from high school and I had to read it.  I dont usually like old time books or plays for this fact. After reading the book I had passed the movie and said to myself that I may as well watch it since I read and I would be able to put the names with faces now and get a more visual aspect of the story.  Kenneth Branagh has always been an amazing actor.  However, I have never seen him direct a movie before.  The dircetion in this movie was amazing.  Had a very depressing gothic feel to it.  I for one have always been a fan of gothic directing since I saw BATMAN which was directed by Tim Burton.  I definately cannot show the similarities between these 2 directors because there are none. They are two different directors completely.  If Gore Verbinski, whon directed The Ring, was ever happen to direct such a slow movie as this, I believe the visions these 2 directors had on this film would be very close. The Ghost scenes in this movie, where Hamlet meets his dead father, are so amazing.  First, The eyes of the ghost are so impactful on what is going on and really makes you listen to what he is staying.  It is very hard for someone that is doing an excat replica of the play into movie, but Kenneth executed it beautifully with projecting quick images of things that could have happened behind the actual dialog.  All in all I give this movie 8 out of 10 stars. Amazing movie  "},{"Title":"four hours of Shakespeare","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The ghost of the father of Hamlet, the prince of Denmark, appears and tells Hamlet to kill his uncle, who murdered him.Kenneth Branagh directed and played the main part of Hamlet (1996).This movie is filled with great actors, such as Richard Attenborough, Kate Winslet, Billy Crystal, Judi Dench, Gerard Depardieu, Charlton Heston, Jack Lemmon and Robin Williams.There is passion, so much passion in the acting of every actors.This movie lasts about four hours but did I find myself bored.Not at all.The movie kept me interested from the beginning to the end.This is some great drama.And the words, oh the words.The words these people speak, the way they speak.It's just magical.William Shakespeare was an incredible writer and Branagh made a great movie from Shakespeare's text.You don't have to be asking yourself to watch or not to watch.Just watch it.This movie makes Shakespeare smile in his grave. "},{"Title":"Enduring greatness","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Any reaccquaintence with Shakespeare immediately reminds you of the reason for his greatness the wonderful language, poetic, subtle and (even for the most ignorant of modern audiences) incredibly familiar - I lost count of the number of times I was made to think 'so Shakespeare said that!'.  In Hamlet, he recycles many of the devices that characterise his work political intrigue; pompous, stupid officialdom; mockery of bad acting; moments of bawdiness; mistaken identity; overheard conversations; plus several flavours of insanity.  Chief among these is Hamlet's own mood, somewhere between madness, obsession and depression.  This is a story of stunning ambition.Of course, what is even more remarkable is that the texts are only the basis for a 'performance art', originally the theatre but now also cinema.  In any great stage adaptation, the deployment of the script is as important as the raw material.  This can create a problem for film directors, who are freed from the necessary narrative constraints on theatrical performances but who lack their immediacy in exchange.  But Baz Luhrmann's Romeo and Juliet stands as proof that it is possible to use the Bard's tales within a wholly cinematic edifice.Ken Branagh's Hamlet is a more conventional adaptation than that, basically a filmed version of the play.  In the few places where he takes advantage of the freedom derived from the fact he is making a film, the effects are unimaginative and proscriptive, with superfluous flashbacks and poor special effects.  Branagh's performance in the difficult title role is also hard to warm to his Hamlet is self-righteous, sanctimonious and even somewhat camp.  In conveying his madness and brilliance through verbal dexterity, Hamlet is almost like a prototype for David Thewlis' Johnny in Mike Leigh's Naked; but in this version, without the latter's menace and depth.Sympathy is therefore drawn to Hamlet's antagonist Claudius.  Derek Jacobi plays him with real humanity, a fully three-dimensional villain.  Also excellent are an unusually expressive Julie Christie, and Michael Maloney.Viewed purely as a piece of cinematography, this is not a stunning film; but it should be viewed as a brave attempt to bring a great, complex and (very) long play to the modern audience. It grows as it endures. "},{"Title":"Relax and enjoy...","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This uncut version of Hamlet may yield annoying cameos (except Billy Crystal) and pathetic special effects (do we really need the earth shaking when the dead appear?) but it also shows off where it truly counts. Also, keep in mind, no one would finance this, Branagh had to scrape just to pull it together.I saw this twice in two weeks on a 70mm print, and would have gone again had it still been playing!) Branagh's film is at first, visually stunning. Who cares what century it's in, this in not a story about time. It would matter if a WWII story was transposed to Vietnam, but really all you harsh reviewers and purist, lighten up!This play is the epicenter of the Shakespeare world, and unfortunately to sell the play Branagh allowed inferior Hollywood heavyweights slither into minor roles, ignore them there's three hours thirty minutes of film here without them!!!This is one of the most moving and beautiful productions I've ever seen, period. With all the grace and elegance of the Godfather films, this movie sucks you in if you just relax and allow yourself to be absorbed.I'm waiting, patiently for a DVD version (please Kenneth no 4 hour commentary!) hopefully they will fix the crappy effects via CGI, but until then the lousy, cropped, two videocassettes will have to do. If you haven't seen it, see it.This isn't the best Hamlet could be, but it's the best it's been done.  "},{"Title":"Timeless plot, wonderfully executed","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Branagh really pulled out all the stops for this version of Hamlet. Set in what seems to be the mid-19th century, the direction shines through, and the star-studded cast doesn't detract from the intense story. Branagh is by far the best actor here, and overall, the film (despite being extremely long) manages to convey both the plot, and the underlying themes, very clearly and not without sufficient action to give it a feel of continuous movement. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Riveting, although not for all tastes","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  1. I think it was a treat to for once see and hear the complete unabridged text as it was meant by the most famous bard in the world.2. The enormous amount of talent portraying the famous characters, Branagh as Hamlet (with bleached hair), Winslet as Ophelia (portraying her as if she is a veteran stage performer) for starters are absolutely enormous in their roles. The rest of the principal and supporting cast have transcended their past careers and have put in all of their best efforts to complete this as the masterpiece it has ultimately become. Combine this with point 1 and you get a very good movie.Combine 1 and 2 with the brilliant set building and cinematography and what do you get? A Kenneth Branagh adaptation of a Shakespeare play. As we have seen before with Much Ado About Nothing and Henry V this man knows Shakespeare by heart and is not afraid to give his own version of the tales and twists in these plays. In this version of Hamlet he portrays Hamlet as a bitter, egotistical self-absorbed person who is absolutely certain of his step-father's guilt and therefor feigns his own insanity which causes him to be blind to suffering he puts the people around him through. In the original piece as written by W.S. Hamlet is much more insecure. I don't say this is a bad thing, because as we have seen in the past the plays by W.S. are very much subject to interpretation and view (i.e. Romeo + Juliet, 1996), Branagh gave a very grim edge to the character which I liked.The fact the complete text, except for a few words altered, was used in chronological order, was a very bold step. Meaning that now the movie amounted to about 242 minutes, but if you watch this on your VCR in parts (2 or 3) you will be able to do it. Don't let the length discourage you. This is really worth your while.The set building was enormous, creating this 18th century castle in Denmark (not actually in Denmark) was fabulous as were the sets outside on the grounds of the castle. Ophelia's burial scene was very well executed and gave the story the amount of depth and understanding that one needs when you are not too familiar with the story which unfolds in such glamour in front of one's eyes.Truly a must for Shakespeare fans and a definite challenge for the people who are not too familiar with the bard's work. See this and be amazed (I don't condemn you if you don't manage to finish it). Repeated viewing is certainly mandatory with this masterpiece.9/10 "},{"Title":"Branagh or Shakespeare?","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of the greatest performances I ever saw.  But is it Shakespeare?Other commentators hint on Shakespeare's intentions.  The fact is there are none.  The text (as any Shakespeare text) does not give much more than sparse directions.  Most, if not all, is left to the director's fantasy. Is Hamlet a dark brooding character?  Shakespeare never said so, nor anything to the contrary.  It's all in the performer's mind, the viewer's mind, the reader's mind; in the end, it's all down to interpretation.  Over the years, Hamlet has been played as a stubborn ruler-to-be, a worrying youth, a psychological case, and so on.  There's no telling what Shakespeare intended, and there's no way, either, to know how he would have it performed.There are no stage directions.  Some authors produce more hints than lines, and Shakespeare is not among them.  Hamlet is set in Denmark, but it is a Denmark that never existed.  It might be a trick, to be able to comment on the actual England, or it might simply be any setting that would do. Again, there's no telling as Shakespeare himself never had anything to write on it (he might have had something to say, but nobody took the trouble to record it).  Hence, directors over time were at liberty.  And thus, Hamlet was performed at a medieval castle, any contemporary place of power, or simply a stage with nothing more than a few props.  Richard Loncraine set Richard III in a would-be pre-war fascist England, and never the worse for the dialogues.  We simply don't know what Shakespeare really wanted.What we do know is that Hamlet contains much of everything philosophy, action, wit, contemplation.  So does Branagh's adaptation.  There is criticism on the cameos.  Actually, it has been suggested that Polonius' line I did enact Julius Caesar (act III, scene 2) simply was written for the actor performing as the Roman general in an earlier stage production of the play by that name, as an in-joke for the contemporary public.  So much for Shakespeare.Seeing this film, I was never bored, I had laughs, and, actually, was moved at times.  Given that the actors kept to the original lines, there are not many plays that could achieve that, in any adaptation.  This one did. "}{"Title":"no more film Halmet's, oh wait, they already made another","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Yes, Hamlet is probably the finest piece of fictional literature ever.  It is cerebral and daring and exciting and beautiful, but like so many pieces of literature, films should not be made of it.  Frakenstein is very similiar but yet Kenneth (I use his first name for I am not comfortable with addressing him properly after watching this film) also made a film of that. In Frankenstein he was too interested in making it all look neat.  But Frankenstein was about the language, the concept, the plot, not the imagery.Hamlet cannot be made into any more movies because it is so personal. People feel connected to it like the memory of a departed loved one. Everyone has their own image of Hamlet and I feel very sorry for the poor fool who thinks of Hamlet and pictures Kenneth swinging on a chandelier and throwing rapiers like they were spears.  For me, Hamlet would be like The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari, expressionistic, symbolising inner struggle and possible madness, the prison of Denmark Hamlet can't get away from, but that's my vision and not anyone elses.  Kenneth had a vision, but it wasn't anybody else's.  His performance is at times too fast or too slow.  I never understood his Hamlet, I couldn't sympathize with him.  Without that, it's not Hamlet.  No, it's just some guy reciting Shakespeare while pretending to be a non-Dumas swashbuckler.Kudos to his Henry V, it's incredible, but this is candy. "},{"Title":"Is This the Greatest Movie Ever Made?","Date":"6 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" No. But it is good. And it was necessary. Someone had to perform a complete HAMLET for posterity, and Branagh had the sense to fill it full of actors worth listening to.Shakespeare's plays were meant to be performed, not read. For modern performances, the plays are usually hacked to bits and truncated to fit contemporary attention-spans. Even his better plays, while wonderful, are not particularly cinematic unless they are handled by imaginative directors and actors who understand what they are saying.Branagh's greatest mistake was trying for epic grandeur.One reason HAMLET is superior to other plays is that it stays put. HAMLET is tightly confined to one place. In other Shakespeare plays characters wander lonely heaths, they gallivant through forests, they storm battlefields, they travel recklessly from town to town. The denizens of HAMLET are stuck in Elsinore. People come and go, but the play's only departure from the castle is to a graveyard.Branagh opens the play out somewhat by setting exteriors at the home of the Duke of Marlborough. For the most part, however, the play remains stage-bound. The famous mirror set is impressive at first, but it grows tiresome. It's like being stuck for four hours in a gaudy waiting-room. A few other little rooms exist in small scenes (Polonius' bedroom) but even the castle's nuthouse appears to be in the great, mirrored hall.Apart from his valiant attempt to make an epic out of non-epic material, Branagh does a creditable job. As with all his previous Shakespearean outings (notably HENRY V) Branagh had the sense to cast the movie with actors worth watching.Stand-out performances are by Derek Jacobi as Claudius (his and Branagh's acting styles are so similar they could be father and son rather than Hamlet's uncle. How long had Claudius been playing footsie with Gertrude?) The ghost requires a strong player, and Branagh plugged in Brian Blessed -- who, unfortunately, appears little-used since the ghost's part is vital but brief). Richard Briers plays Polonius as a smooth operator who has blundered into territory out of his ken. Always-reliable Charlton Heston plants his flag as the player king. Rufus Sewell is the first Fortinbras I've ever seen who actually seems integral to the plot. Nicholas Farrell set a new high mark for future Horatios.Though their parts seem almost unimportant in a four-hour version, Timothy Spall and Reece Dinsdale make a good team as Rosencrantz and Guildenstern -- two pleasant young men caught in an untenable squeeze between their king and a madman who can out-think them at every turn.Some of the casting choices are less than notable. Jack Lemmon, for instance. Didn't he used to be an *actor*? Has he ever heard of Shakespeare? The gravedigger, one of Shakespeare's clowns with nothing funny to actually say, requires a comedian; Billy Crystal is good enough, if a bit Bronx for Denmark. But Robin Williams' Osric is too far over the top. Branagh should have chosen an actor he could rein in.I will not quibble with Branagh's choice for notable actors in teensy parts. If he's going to show Reynaldo, Priam and Hecuba, he needs memorable actors. Grard Depardieu can say Aye, my lord with the best of them. Ancient John Gielgud, unfortunately the last of the great actors of his generation (Olivier, Richardson, Redgrave, etc.) has no lines but he knows how to deliver a pratfall and die.As for Branagh himself, arguably the best actor of his generation, he twitches a little much. He seems to forget that, in film, less is more. His wonder at his father's ghost is a wee tad too pop-eyed, and all his other expressions are perhaps a trifle mannered. Like Fonda in Mister Roberts and Stewart in Harvey perhaps Branagh has played the part too many times to sustain any spontaneity. Still, he's a strong enough actor to hold one's attention for four hours, and the movie is dynamic so long as Branagh remains on-screen or only slightly off it.Where this movie fails is the curse suffered by every HAMLET. A ghostly murder story with intrigue within the castle and the threat of war from without, HAMLET the play builds to a frenzied climax -- and then Hamlet is packed off to England while the other characters carry on in Elsinore without him. Hamlet's departure knocks the play down and it never regains its energy. This is not Branagh's fault, but Shakespeare's. Not foreseeing movies, Shakespeare probably wrote this pause to give the actor playing Hamlet a well-earned breather.This means everything after Hamlet's confrontation with Claudius following The Mousetrap feels like denouement. The movie would have been better in two parts, HAMLET, and HAMLET II RETURN FOR VENGEANCE.In this HAMLET, Claudius slaps the prince. maybe Branagh should have altered the text to make Hamlet pull a shiv and dispatch Claudius there and then. It would have departed from fidelity to the play, but it would have improved the picture.If you're a fan of Shakespeare generally or HAMLET in particular, this movie is worth a viewing. If, like me, you are obsessed with HAMLET, it's a keeper you'll watch again and again. I'd like to say it's a movie where you'll discover something new every time you revisit it, but it's really a movie where you pretty much see everything worth seeing the first time around. Still, it's always lovely to hear so much Shakespeare recited by such a fine company of actors. Thank you, Kenneth, for making this possible. "},{"Title":"It's Worth Four Hours Of Your Time And Film","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is the greatest version of Hamlet I have ever seen!  You will of course need to take four uninterrupted hours to watch it.  But it is well worth the time.  I especially enjoy the more appropriate setting for Hamlet's soliloquy, in hall of mirrors instead of a crypt.  This is wonderful play that I hated until I saw Kenneth Branagh's production.  It's not boring anymore!-) "},{"Title":"Pure Cinematic Joy","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The best thing about this movie?  Mr. Branagh realizes that there is absolutely no reason to tamper with the text.  Simply let the cast revel in the marvelous words, as penned by William Shakespeare.  And the strictly A-list cast assembled by Mr. Branagh do nothing short of revel in the language that the Bard penned for them.  As for the direction, Mr. Branagh's interpretation is a happy disjuncture from Laurence Olivier's earlier vision, and it throws just enough of a hat to Ian McKellan's RICHARD III to work.  This film is a creature of utter joy, love, and a watermark in cinematic achievement. "},{"Title":"Shakespeare is GOD","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Branagh understands Shakespeare's brilliance. That is clear. If you want to know the true meaning of life watch this movi , at least try to watch it (and understand).This movie explains when something is ethical wrong/right. I always thought Shakespeare was a very smart but very BORING drama writer. I WAS WRONG. This is not just drama. "},{"Title":"Kenneth Branagh is a phenominal shakespearean actor.","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This production of Hamlet was wonderful. The acting, direction and music was phenominal. Kenneth Branagh's performance of Hamlet couldn't of been performed better. He made you laugh, cry, get made at others while at the same time feel sorry for him. This range of emotions can not be pulled off by many.I look forward to all of his other shakespearean movies, and I know that they will be just as good as this one. "},{"Title":"Branagh is brilliant","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I thought Olivier's Hamlet was the best. WRONG.. Branagh's portrayal as the doomed prince of Denmark is amazing! Now don't get me wrong, I love Olivier but Branagh was destined to play this part. He is one of the best Shakespearen actors I've ever seen. Also I think that everyone in this movie was wonderfully cast. Kate Winslet, Julie Christie and the rest are just amazing as well. If you're not a big Shakespeare fan, well just give it a try. I didnt think I'd like it either but it was really good! "},{"Title":"Hamlet","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Glorious adaptation of the finest play ever written with Branagh taking the helm once again as director and star of this massive four hour epic about lies, deception and treachery in Denmark. Splendid cinematography and a stand out performance by the great Jacobi as Claudius are the most striking elements of the film. But...Branagh's casting of familiar Hollywood faces forces me to coin this film as The Who's Who of Hollywood Stars Cast in Shakespeare...Who Can't Do Shakespeare! Obviously, the example that has been most pointed out is Jack Lemmon as Marcellus. First of all, he's not that horrible. Yes, he is not a Shakespearean actor and vocally, he struggled with the content of the text, but the physical presence of the Jack Lemmon that has been in motion pictures for four decades is there and I can see Branagh's reasons for the casting decision.  For die hard fans of the play, natrually they hate Lemmon's performance...although he's out of there after the first twenty minutes. My advice, if you dislike it that much...fastforward...but trust me, I've seen worse. (Check out the 1970 film version of Julius Caesar, with Charlton Heston, who incidentially has a small role as the Player King in Branagh's film.)  "},{"Title":"This was an excellent movie that shouldn't be missed.","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Kenneth Branagh shows off his excellent skill in both acting and writing in this deep and thought provoking interpretation of Shakespeare's most classic and well-written tragedy. Kenneth plays the role of Hamlet with such a distinct emotion that provokes tears. Kate Winslet's performance is also of great note. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies i've seen in a long time","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I had never read Shakespeare's Hamlet before watching it but I did have a Shakespeare book with me and could follow the dialogue through it.  My view on the movie may be partially biased since I had never read the play before, but I got pulled into this movie's grasp.  Shakespeare is undoubtedly one of the best writers ever to have lived and the story of Hamlet is definitely one of his best achievements.But now on to the movie...I found that all the actors in the movie had a firm grasp of what they were saying and thus, were able to articulate it quite well.  Leonardo in Romeo and Juliet is nothing compared to Kenneth Branagh and the King.  The thing I liked about this was that it worked very well as a MOVIE and not as a play you are studying.  You don't need to be affluent with Shakespeare to relate to all the Misery hamlet has to go through.  I would recommend this movie to a wide audience.That's my two cents.  "}{"Title":"4 Hours never passed so quickly","Date":"21 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  After the initial shock of realizing the guts of Mr Branagh to film this, I was literally shaking with the excitement of having this epic just ahead of me. I was not disappointed. So true to Shakespeare and yet so accessible. It blew my mind. I always enjoy seeing, or rather listening to, Branagh and it made me wonder...is this movie dubbed in other countries? That would be like painting a moustache on the Mona Lisa. "},{"Title":"an amazing achievement","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Why didn't this pick up a bag full of Oscars? It is an amazing interpretaion of an oft-filmed/performed piece. The visuals are breathtaking (especially in wide-screen...the pan & scan really kills this film's wonderful cinematography and sets). Every frame is a painting.  Astounding. The play is almost completely intact, and Branagh's passion for it is clear from the opening titles on. No Zefferelli here, just great storytelling the way only film can, but rarely does. Jacobi is especially perfect as Hamlet's murderous Uncle  he doesn't play him as a mustache- curling evil villian, but a charming politician, allowing us to see why only Hamlet suspects foul play. Branagh also nails the subtlety of the line between Hamlet's fake/real madness and the burning revenge inside him. And the many cameos come off quite well, everyone from Billy Crystal and Robin Williams to Gerard Depardeu and Charlton Heston, unobtrusive if you are sucked into Branagh's vision the way I was. A mesmerizing piece.   "},{"Title":"The best telling of Shakespeares greatest tragedy.","Date":"8 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have never observed four hours pass quite so quickly as when I saw this film. This film restores the power and art to Hamlet that it was always meant to have. Even those oh-so famous speeches are done in new and inventive ways. And the cast is incredible, Brannagh the brightest star. It is his charisma, power and command of the role that defines the movie. Making it a full and complete version fills so many holes and allows for new appreciation of the tragedy despite the length. Where one would expect the dark, gloomy cliched castle, we are treated to a sumptuous feast for the eyes. The only gloom comes from Hamlet himself, as it should. Well worth your time, all four hours of it. "},{"Title":"Please beget a temperance that may give it smoothness","Date":"25 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Hamlet Speak the speech, I pray you, but use all gently; for in the very torrent, tempest, and (as I may say) whirlwind of your passion, you must acquire and beget a temperance that may give it smoothness. O, it offends me to the soul to hear a robustious periwig-pated fellow tear a passion to tatters, to very rags. I would have such a fellow whipp'd for o'erdoing Termagant. Pray you avoid it. The really, really epically BAD Hearing Kenneth Branagh speak these lines as Hamlet to the player is an accidentally comical ironic turn; as what Hamlet would have a fellow whipped for is exactly what Branagh does. I had a strong appreciation for Branagh before seeing him as Hamlet; now I cannot shake the pomposity of this performance. This pomposity worked well when he played Professor Gilderoy Lockhart, in Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets, but for Hamlet...not so much. Branagh accelerates from zero to 300 miles per hour in a second in almost all of his dialog. WHEN Branagh remembers to take his time his restraint gives the dialog force and meaning. His instantaneous shift to screaming at 300 miles an hour shatters the beauty of the dialog. Hamlet beseeches, for in the very torrent,tempest, and whirlwind of your passion, you must acquire and beget a temperance that may give it smoothness. There is no temperance nor smoothness. Additionally, besides being far to old,Branagh's Hamlet seems like a spoiled brat. He doesn't seem like someone who could lead an army or rule a country. He certainly doesn't seem like someone one would bet on in a fencing dual. I'm no fighter, but I felt like I could kick is ass, and at times wanted to.From a directorial perspective, Branagh answering the question of did or did not Hamlet and Ophelia have sex totally ruined the complexity of that whole element of the play.The regular bad to mediocre Many of the other performances are mediocre or worse, but pale in comparison to Branagh. The set and setting seemed garish and far too bright. Wonderfully filmed; but as over the top as Branagh's performance. It often made the actors seem tiny. I am a fan of Brian Blessed, and think he did a fine job as the Ghost of Hamlet's Father, but when he first makes himself known to Hamlet and Hamlet is compelling Horatio and Marcellus to swear by his sword the ground is exploding around them. Also, Hamlet has a wimpy little sword that looks like a $10 toy, which he kisses at one point. Later, he is playing with letter opener that is supposed to be a dagger. Insert your own Shakespearian phallic jokes here. The Good Doing the whole play. The subtleties of the relationships and politics of the play require seeing at least most of it. Some suggest that the movie is too long. I think it should have been made longer by letting the actors take their time and give the dialog its due. If you are going to have a movie 4 hours long, you may as well go more than 4 hours to get it right. It would have likely required breaking the play into 2 movies, perhaps shot at once and released within 6 months or a year of each other. Sort of how the Lord of Rings trilogy was produced. I appreciate the difficulty of making a movie longer than 2 hours from a business point of view. I will watch this movie in the future, just so I can see the whole play.Derek Jacobi was amazing as Claudius; no other performance in this film compares. I never found Claudius an interesting character before this performance.Kate Winslet as Ophelia was very good. I loved Charlton Heston as the Player. Nicholas Farrell as Horatio was excellent. Timothy Spall and Reece Dinsdale did a nice job as Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.For reference I have read the play at least 6 times. I am not a big Mel Gibson fan, but I do wish Franco Zeffirelli would have made his 1990 version of Hamlet with Mel Gibson the compete play. Maybe release the version he did and a complete version; but alas it is not to be so. I have watched the Laurence Olivier version once, the Kenneth Branagh version 3 times, the Franco Zeffirelli version 5 or 6 times. I have watched the definitive version of Hamlet; which is Tom Stoppard's Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead dozens of times. "},{"Title":"One of the most remarkable adaptations of Shakespeare on screen","Date":"26 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This 1996 film, directed and adapted by Kenneth Branagh, is Hamlet re-imagined as a 1960s epic 4 hours long (complete with intermission), shot in 70mm widescreen and featuring star names in small roles. But whereas the 60s epics always looked to exotic climates, this remains anglo-centric in filling its panavision lens - shot at Shepperton Studios with some exteriors at Blenheim Place in Oxfordshire. Production designer Tim Harvey creates an Elsinore which is a huge and brightly lit 19th century palace with a central hall surrounded by mirrored doors and a chessboard floor. This isn't the usual darkly lit medieval castle of previous versions.The unabridged 4 hour text means this is often a very talkative film, but is also gives greater weight to supporting characters and Claudius's role is considerable larger than in either the 1948 or 1990 versions. And yet the film never feels over-long. Branagh is fine as Hamlet, supported by an excellent cast of English actors including Julie Christie as Gertrude, Kate Winslet as Ophelia, Derek Jacobi as Claudius and Richard Briers as Polonius. Jacobi is outstanding, speaking every line with crystal clarity.But what will attract most people to the movie is the all-star supporting cast in minor roles Jack Lemmon as a guard, Billy Crystal as the grave digger, Charlton Heston as the Player King, as well as Gerard Depardieu, Robin Williams and Judi Dench. There's even John Gielgud and Ken Dodd in non-speaking roles.A remarkable achievement and amongst the finest Shakespearian adaptations ever committed to film. "},{"Title":"The best version","Date":"10 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This has to be the best version ever made inspired in one of the greatest plays ever written Hamlet from William Shakespeare. Everything from this is perfect The script, the performances (Specially Kenneth Branagh, which makes a memorable role as Hamlet) the production design and the music. Kenneth Branagh gives this to his version from Hamlet the greatness that it deserves, portraying the story from an epic perspective. I absolutely loved it. If you love Shakespeare, but specially, if you love great films, you shouldn't miss this one. It must be the best adaptation to a Shakespeare play into a movie. I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"one not to be missed","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I would have to say that this is the best hamlet movie that I have ever seen. Olivier and gibson's versions were well done, but I really like the way that this movie was directed. The backflashes make the movie more interesting, and keeps your attention (for those non shakespeare people). For anyone studying film like myself, this is a movie that should be studied for the editing, cinematography, and lighting, especially the direction of the movie. 5 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"**** out of 4","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is absolutely brilliant. Kenneth Branagh turns in yet another amazing performance in a picture that seems to have been overlooked by some, but should be remembered for ages to come. It is a classic. The movie starts on a slow but intriguing journey that grasps your attention. The tragic story of Hamlet's (Kenneth Branagh) discovery of how exactly his father died, the betrayal of family, the lust of two lovers yearning to be together, yet everyone thinking Hamlet is insane destroys the chance of Ophelia (Kate Winslet) and Hamlet ever having a life together. For there are dark things going on between the family, revenge, murders being planned. The performances turned in are nothing less than perfect. Branagh is the perfect Hamlet, capturing his madness, insanity, and love for Ophelia marvelously. Winslet is the only person who could play Ophelia, (it's only a shame that she shall forever be known as 'the girl from 'Titanic', because she is an amazing actress). Julie Christie turns in another great performance making us hate her at times (like turning on her son), but love her always. Derek Jacobi as Claudius shows just how great of an actor he is by making us hate him, but does it so well. In addition, Nicholas Farrell gives a performance not to be forgotten as Horatio. The story unfolds beautifully. Branagh can really capture the beauty and sole of Shakespeare, like no other can. He brings these stories to a whole new generation, and that needs to be done. How he is able to turn these stunning plays in stunning pictures is anyone's guess; but however he does it, I hope he keeps it up. **** out of 4 "},{"Title":"a Masterpeice beyond all just word","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A shame indeed that this epic film of pure greatness was overshadowed by the half-assed Jerry Maguire when it came to the academy awards. By far the best telling of Shakespear's play since he himself directed it. Kenneth Branagh is now deemed a Genius in my book, this film was all it took. "},{"Title":"A reservation or two","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  While it impossible to fault Branagh's brilliant interpretation in any global sense, he does flaw the production, as perhaps it is impossible not to flaw such a thing, in a couple of ways.First, his casting of US stars has always been a problem.  Michael Keaton works brilliantly as the gravedigger.  Charlton Heston, who somehow spite of his inadequacies is right for Shakespeare (he did Antony in a movie once and was great), is fantastic as the player king.  But Jack Lemmon as Marcellus leaves a bad taste with his high-pitched voice and inappropriate delivery of his lines.  It's a good thing he disappears early in the play.  This is picky, but if you're going to do a once-in-a-lifetime production, it should be perfect.Alas, the almost fatal flaw is Branagh's decision to make it clear that Hamlet has slept with Ophelia (no, I don't think those flashbacks were intended to be imagination like the scene with the sword through Claudius' ear).  This is simply wrong.  It is another classic case of a brilliant but egotistical actor thinking he can not only interpret but improve on Shakespeare.  No one will ever be able to unravel the ambiguity of the get thee to a nunnery scene, but that doesn't mean that Hamlet and Ophelia had a physical affair.  It just doesn't work.And did anyone else notice that Julie Christie does not remotely resemble the star of Dr. Zhivago?  Though she is brilliant in this Hamlet. "}{"Title":"A true masterpiece by a true auteur.","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I would have to say this film blew me away. I thought it was deserving of consideration for best picture of the year. I was fortunate enough to see it in 70MM at a local arthouse theater and having read the play several times and seen every filmed version, it finally all made sense. The performances were spectacular all around and the cast was nonpareil. One is nearly in tears at the story within the story as told by Charleton Heston (one of the players) and acted by the great Sir John Gielgud. The movie looks outstanding sounds great and was triumph of filmmaking. We desperately need a anamorphic transfer of the 70MM print on a dual-sided dual-layered DVD. Criterion are you listening? "},{"Title":"The best version on screen!","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is far and away the best version of what is probably the most famous drama of all time(at least in the English language)  ever made for the screen.  It also is the fullest, and therefore a long film, but it's worth it.  I am not a big Shakespeare fan, but I still enjoyed it immensely. You don't have to love Shakespeare either to enjoy this film; what you do have to do is love great films and dramas.  The performances, costumes, and sets are all absolutely fantastic.  Not only is this the best version of Hamlet, but it is also one of the best films of the 1990s period, indeed one of the best ever, and it is the definitive work of Kenneth Branagh's career.   "},{"Title":"What a Hamlet this might have been . . .","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  You can't exactly BLAME Kenneth Branagh for not being content to only direct what is arguably Shakespeare's best drama.  He is an actor, after all, and a good one. His interpretation of Hamlet, however, is, well, not very involving; we know he wants to be king and resents his uncle, but not much else.  He's miles ahead of Mel Gibson's normal Hamlet, though. Gibson made a Hamlet for everyone who went to see Hamlet for the ACTION without all that TALK to spoil the fun. Whoever WANTED to SEE a normal Hamlet, anyway? If ever a character deserved to be neurotic and self-obsessed it's Hamlet (in all fairness, however, Gibson was only the 2nd worst Hamlet I ever saw; Nicol Williamson's whiney turn at it in 1968 made me physically ill, and his inexplainable contempt for the material shows in every frame).If only Branagh had cast Daniel Day Lewis in the lead!  What a Hamlet we might have had.  Complex, indulgent, dangerous, romantic AND tragic! Instead, we get a good Hamlet (and a flawed Hamlet), but neither is great.The conception of this Hamlet is an ice palace motif.  For some reason, I kept expecting Jack Nicholson to rush out with an axe.  But it works, as do many of the supporting players.  Why, though, does it appear Branagh was reluctant to cast good looking men?  If we get to bask at the beauty and tremendous talent of Julie Christie (where has she been?) and Kate Winslet (the finest Ophelia I ever saw), why do we have to have such unmemorable faces on the males in the cast?Still, we take well-produced Shakespeare where we get him, and the full four-hours goes by nicely. "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I agree that this film is divine, an absolute pleasure to watch, but I have notice a few things that Branagh has not accomplished. These may seem petty but they are important to the understanding of Hamlet. In Hamlet's first soliloquy Scene I, Act 2, he says A little month, or ere those shoes were old With which she Gertrude follow'd my poor father's body.. I think that Branagh should have made a close-up of his mother's shoes as she walked along a corridor (or something similar) to support this statement visually. But that is, as far as I can see, the only thing Branagh has missed. Otherwise it is as near to perfection as one may wish.  "},{"Title":"Branagh Once Agains Rewards Himself","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I,for one,fail to see anything particularly creative,innovative,and even especially entertaining about Branagh's works in interpreting Shakespeare.Oh,don't get me wrong;he's clever,and sometimes interesting,but my question is sometimes,WHY?He's given himself the title part of one of the best plays,and reminds me of a community theater director I knew in Cleveland,Ohio,who always gave himself the best roles,too.Some of the things going on-Rosencrantz and Guilderstern riding a toy train,Polonius giving instructions to Reynaldo almost immediatly following a casual sexual encounter-are fun and catch one's attention,but my question again is WHY?And we have a big bunch of stars appearing,I guess for box office draw,and they do get in the way.Lemmon,Williams,and Crystal,capable performers that they are,are Not Shakespeareans.Blessed,Briers,Gielgud,and Heston can all deliver the text(In the last case,it just emphasizes that you don't need a whole lot of brains to do Shakespeare,but I found their appearances in the picture to be  distracting.)Why this 1868 locale and setting?Did we get a good rate on Marlborough Castle?And everybody spoke much too quickly and much too loud(except for Blessed;he roared in a loud whisper.)And I don't think that Branagh's interpretation will ever replace Gielgud,Olivier,Richard Chamberlain,Williamson,or even Mel Gibson's. "},{"Title":"A good rendition, but lacking in mood.","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a very good rendition of the play Hamlet -- and there are no scenes or lines cut (rare, when Hollywood adapts Shakespeare). However, I found it less than perfect (a surprise, given Branagh's other Shakespearian successes). I've always envisioned Hamlet as a dark and dismal play, and it's clear that's what Shakespeare intended. I found the sets too light and airy for Hamlet, and in particular, I found the climactic ending scene to be far too chaotic. The dialog was buried under clouds of running around up and down stairs, throwing things, swinging on chandeliers, etc -- and this is not, in my opinion, what Hamlet is supposed to be. Thus, while the acting is superb and the directing is good for most scenes, I thought this version really ruined the mood you expect from Hamlet.  For all its flaws and cuts of the play, in my opinion, the Mel Gibson/Franco Zefferelli version of Hamlet is sets a much better mood than does this version. However, that said, the acting is absolutely top-rate, and the cast is wonderful. It's worth seeing; just don't expect the mood of it to be exactly what you anticipate from Hamlet. "},{"Title":"I wanted more","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Not more hours, though the missing scenes here are gratefully restored - some of them really are important!  Not more star cameos - they range from surprisingly appropriate (Heston) to slightly out-of-place (Crystal, Williams), to sad and painful (Dear Lord, that horribly awkward Marcellus is Jack Lemmon!).   Not more Fortinbras, though I've never trusted him. Marching through on his way to Poland?  Something's rotten...  Not more sex, though, hey, it's always welcome.  I just hoped for a more involved, a more charismatic, a more common, human, less elite, agressive, ambitious, antagonistic Hamlet from Kenneth Branagh, especially after watching his lighter adaptations of the comedies and Henry V.  I would love him anyway, but he's competing with Derek Jacobi's suave, soothing, loveable Claudius. Lecherous, treacherous, - but bloody? bawdy?  Better than most of the Hamlets out there, and it's wonderful to see the bits you've never seen before, but I think Zeffirelli's naturalistic, Oedipal, and chopped to ribbons Hamlet is a better movie.  "},{"Title":"What a piece of work is Hamlet.","Date":"2 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Sir Richard Burbage; Sir John Gielgud; Sir Laurence Olivier; Orson Welles; Sir Derek Jacobi; Mel Gibson; these famous actors all share a common role Hamlet, melancholy Prince of Denmark, the creation of William Shakespeare, the English language's greatest writer. To those names we can Kenneth Branagh, the icon of filmic Shakespeare.In 1996, fresh of the success of his own Henry V and Much Ado About Nothing, Branagh set out to adapt what is generally thought to be Shakespeare's magnum opus, Hamlet. Hamlet is Shakespeare's longest play, and Prince Hamlet his biggest role, and thus had never made it on screen fully intact. Every previous version, from Sir Laurence's to Mel's, had pared the story down to its essence, which could still be brilliant, but just wasn't the same. Branagh vowed not to sacrifice a word, while he brought the story out of Medieval times in the 19th century.Branagh assembled a truly astonishing cast, especially considering that many of them play totally throwaway parts; Sir John Gielgud and Dame Judi Dench, for example, have no lines at all, while Robin Williams, Lord Richard Attenborough, Billy Crystal, and Gerard Depardieu all have only a handful of lines. The main roles in the film are handled by a pre-Titanic Kate Winslet (Ophelia), Julie Christie (Gertrude), Sir Derek Jacobi (Claudius), Richard Briers (Polonius), Nicholas Farrell (Horatio), and Branagh himself (as the title character). Farrell, in particular, is a standout. His Horatio attains a depth of character that is absent in the pared-down versions of this story; the same can be said for other characters, especially Claudius.Hamlet is directed with real showmanship, and has first-rate art direction and scoring. That Kenneth is soon to return to the world of filmed Shakespeare with an adaptation of As You Like It pleases me to no end. A 10/10 for Hamlet, and let's see more. "},{"Title":"hamlet","Date":"25 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Gave this movie an 7 because is was kind of boring and I could barley understand it and also they talk a lot in this movie but then again it had some good parts in there some where action and interesting I enjoyed watching them parts. This movie was also a little good experience to learning code switching. Another thing I did not a lot this movie was the ending everything was UN fair I think there should have been an little more actions in there. the cheaters played in this good some where a little dumb but it was okay. this movie was way to long but they made it work they did a very good god talking in the Elizabethan "},{"Title":"Compare and Contrast with another version I just saw","Date":"1 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Keeping this brief, but I remember this version so fondly....and am a huge fan of actor/director/screenplay adapter Branagh. I am prompted to write because I haven't seen this one lately but yesterday saw Tony Richardson's Hamlet starring Nicol Williamson. How it made me appreciate THIS ONE. It is SO much better. There's almost no comparison. Branagh's Hamlet has more shades of color and complexity, more depth. He's the right age, and his mother and stepfather actually look older than he, which is not the case in the Hamlet with Williamson. Horatio is the right age to be his pal in Branagh's version-- is that too much to ask, a Horatio that does not look quite a bit older than Claudius?The play is not cut to ribbons, either, which is what we find in the Nicol Williamson version of Hamlet. In fact, it's the whole play, what a concept. Anyway I have not seen Branagh's Hamlet recently enough to give it a serious review, I only want to say that watching the truncated, miscast one from director Tony Richardson made me appreciate just how great this version is, how much it affected me when I saw it. "}{"Title":"Flawed but worthwhile","Date":"25 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A four-hour HAMLET would give any mortal director a chance to both illuminate the material and spoil it, and this film proves it. Branagh gives an uneven but occasionally brilliant performance, and not surprisingly his best moments come in scenes which are usually cut from abridged productions (such as his initial confrontation with Rosencrantz and Guildenstern - Were you sent for? and the well-staged sequence when the hapless duo are sent to fetch Hamlet after Polonius' death.) It's moments like these when you're grateful that Branagh decided to embark on such a massive project. Far less successful are moments when Branagh thinks he's remaking LAWRENCE OF ARABIA (How all occasions do inform against me with its overblown scoring and obvious blue-screen simply does... not... work.) Surprisingly, a good deal of the stunt casting really does work. The most disappointing supporting performance, alas, is Julie Christie as Gertrude, who plays the queen merely as a shallow, whiny aristocrat who seems more concerned about losing face with the Social Register than with any deeper moral twinges. If she were my mom I'd be depressed too. Derek Jacobi gives a good but not spectacular performance as Claudius (one keeps thinking back to his own performance as Hamlet in the 1980 BBC production, truly one of the most brilliant Hamlets of the modern era). Kate Winslet as Ophelia is very good, as are Richard Briers as Polonius and Michael Maloney as Laertes. Nick Farrell is a little over-the-top in the pivotal role of Horatio.And yes, some of the liberties Branagh takes with the text, in the form of intercut scenes without dialogue, are just over the top. I'm not a fan of his notion that Hamlet and Ophelia were doing the nasty totally uncalled-for. But other liberties do seem to work, particularly his decision to stress the idea of Denmark as a dying nation under foreign attack. (We forget that classical tragedy was not just about characters, but about royal characters whose fate was tied to the fate of nations.) When Fortinbras' men finally burst through the plate glass windows, it's rather shocking, if only because Tim Harvey's set design is totally brilliant and the most original thing about Branagh's film Elsinore as a baroque Germanic palace from the Bismarck era, with a hall of mirrors and a labyrinth of false bookcases, sliding doors, and secret rooms. Why he didn't win an Oscar for his production design is utterly beyond me. His Elsinore totally makes the movie. The huge size of the great hall of Elsinore makes for a staging of the final duel that allows both novel choices and somewhat silly ones. (I had a brief flashback to the Grand Guignol finale of DEAD AGAIN when Hamlet hurled his sword at Claudius and then sent a chandelier flying. However, would Shakespeare really have disapproved? The actual death of Claudius in the play is garish enough.) Usually Patrick Doyle is Branagh's most valuable artistic crew member but I have to give it to Tim Harvey here. Doyle's score is hit and miss, too insistent in places though properly subtle in others. It's not a particularly helpful score, however.At four hours long, there's plenty to praise and criticize in this film. It's no masterpiece, but hardly a waste of time. "},{"Title":"Good, but not perfect","Date":"11 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There are a number of things that make this movie worth watching, such as neat interpretations of certain scenes (the most creative was the to be speech), the general eye-candyness of the sets and costumes, the great acting from most of the cast and the cool cameos. I particularly enjoyed Kate Winslet's performance. Ophelia is one of my favorite characters, and Winslet's take on her is so different from Helena Bonham-Carter's interpretation in the Zefirelli version, but I think both presentations of Ophelia are valid and just shows how versatile Shakespeare can be.However, cool as this movie is, I do have a couple of gripes about it. I didn't like Kenneth Branagh's performance. There was something a little bit...un-Hamlet about him. It's most likely just me, since I have very limited exposure to his work and the role I most associate him with is Prof. Lockhart in the second Harry Potter movie. A most un-Hamlet role. Anyway, the general sense that he seemed un-Hamlet was enough to throw me off for much of the movie. I spent a lot of energy trying to figure out what was wrong with his performance instead of actually paying attention.The movie was much too long. Actually, it's not the length that bothers me, since long movies can be cool. But sometimes this movie would be good for pointing out why Shakespeare should be cut. Some of the scenes were much too long and much too boring. I dozed off so many times, and I didn't mean to, since I really was interested in this movie. I hear there's a short version...perhaps I should have watched that instead.I by no means want to discourage anyone from watching this movie; it still has its merits and is a somewhere between good and great interpretation of the play. I think this movie is not for everyone, but everyone should at least give it a try. "},{"Title":"I'm thankful for this production, regardless.","Date":"27 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The intricate beauty in the works of William Shakespeare- most especially his play `Hamlet'- forever fascinates me.  It may be because I am a student of the theater and I have been performing The Bard's work since the age of eight I bethinks. I must reveal that I am an American and I dismiss the idea that Shakespeare can only be palatable when delivered by the British tongue. I studied at The New School For Social Research whose teachings are based primarily in the Stanislavski tradition however after an exchange program in London I learned that the text is the star, not the actor.In viewing Branagh's `Hamlet' again after a few years I realize that the ends justify the means.  This film is a brilliant record of, in my opinion, the greatest play ever set to paper.  This film is the full text version, no cuts and obviously there had to be some concessions in its making.  This film is really a wonderful example of unusual producing. Incorporating such American celebrities as Robin Williams, Billy Crystal and the great Jack Lemmon, to whom the poetic flow of Shakespeare's thoughts did not shine brightly, is an inevitable byproduct in use of American loot- namely Castle Rock Entertainment. Kenneth Branagh's performance is what's to be judged here. At times he is devastating especially in those peculiarly emotional moments with Ophelia.  Yet, in general he follows his dialogue in apprehension how not like a God.  Branagh delivers certain renowned moments, namely the `To be or not to be' speech, with a cool, studied and most relaxed rhythm that rings false to poor Hamlet's plight.  It's an interesting acting choice but when Hamlet says `To be or not to be, that is the question' he is in question or discovery, to himself or God and Branagh delivers this speech with the precision and authority of a scholar and not a soul in desperation.I love the movie because it's rare.  You can't find the whole, uncut version of the play presented so gloriously in its scope anywhere else.  It's a gift. Yet, to view the performances by our American celebrities, it makes one stop and wonder just how good these men are to begin with.             "},{"Title":"Four Hours Long!!!!","Date":"11 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  After watching The Green Mile for three hours my attention turned to Hamlet which was FOUR HOURS LONG! i thought no a rubbish lengthy film. 242 minutes later i finished watching the movie with mixed results. Most of them good! Sometimes scenes drag on a bit which will make you bored as hell, and the use of old english used can be annoying at times as you cannot understand it. Overall, a pretty good movie. "},{"Title":"Four Hours Long!!!!","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  After watching The Green Mile for three hours my attention turned to Hamlet which was FOUR HOURS LONG! i thought no a rubbish lengthy film. 242 minutes later i finished watching the movie with mixed results. Most of them good! Sometimes scenes drag on a bit which will make you bored as hell, and the use of old english used can be annoying at times as you cannot understand it. Overall, a pretty good movie. "},{"Title":"A pleasant surprise","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Prior to my high school junior year, I had briefly perused Hamlet, but only recalled the most important details Hamlet, the ghost, and so on. Yet in my junior year, I found myself reading Hamlet yet again, and in so doing, viewing the Kenneth Branagh version of the film. As my teacher removed the box, and placed the first tape into our VCR, I found myself fascinated by the tremendous names that I saw listed there Kate Winslet, Billy Crystal, Robin Williams, Jack Lemmon, Julie Christie, and of course, Kenneth Branagh himself. From that moment, I was captivated by the film how could so many wonderful actors fail to produce at the very least a tolerable version of such a beautiful work?As the film progressed, I heard some of Shakespeare's most famous words There's something rotten in the state of Denmark. The lady doth protest too much, methinks. Alas, poor Yorick! I knew him, Horatio! Goodnight, sweet prince/And flights of angels sing thee to thy rest. and of course To be or not to be... Yet with each speaker, I felt as if these words were being spoken for the first time, not as if they were merely words on a page. Each actor, however brief or minor their role, captivated me, and made the text come alive; each role was brilliantly cast-with perhaps one exception. I agree with a previous comment that said Jack Lemmon was somewhat lacking; he is perhaps one of the only weak points in the film. Yet somehow he does not detract overly from the overall appeal; his acting is certainly not unbearable in any sense, but does not seem to fit the role he was chosen to portray. However, he is the only exception, despite some skepticism at the beginning; after all, to think that I would be watching Billy Crystal in a Shakespearean tragedy and not only approving, but enjoying, his characterizations surprises even me.I truly recommend this film to anyone who possesses any interest in Hamlet, and perhaps even more so to those that do not have any interest, those that scorn Hamlet as confusing or dull. Truly, it granted me a new appreciation for the play; I personally believe I enjoy the play more from having viewed the film.  "},{"Title":"A stunning rendition, if you ask me.","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  How can I begin commenting on one of the best Shakespearean film adaptations around? All I have to say is that Kenneth Branagh's 'Hamlet' is breathtaking. Visually, I have not seen a better Shakespearean film--especially concerning the hall in which a good majority of the play takes place. Branagh's use of mirrors was exquisite, and added more to the movie than one might think. The abundance of secret passageways provided a good visual image of the secrets being kept in the castle, and the general atmosphere was very cool. As for acting talent in 'Hamlet', Branagh and Derek Jacobi are absolutely amazing. Jacobi, who was equally good as the chorus in 'Henry V', put so much into his Claudius, made him so charming, that I sometimes felt myself pitying him. He made me *like* Claudius, which no other production of Hamlet has done. Kudos to Sir Derek Jacobi for putting forth an Oscar-worthy performance. I am in awe. I can't wait for the next Branagh adaptation to be released, but I am looking forward to Hamlet on DVD more than anything. "},{"Title":"Branagh's Masterpiece? No, but close.","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I first watched this in preparation for a graveyard shift, fully expecting to fall asleep; after all, at 4 hours long, is it really possible for such an intellectual film to maintain one's attention, especially at 3am? I was pleasantly surprised and found myself thoroughly absorbed by this adaptation. It's not his best (that would be Henry V), but it's still better than some other actor/directors' masterpieces. Some quibble about the stunt casting and the addition of intimate scenes between Hamlet and Ophelia, to which I respond that 1) some people won't even watch a movie unless it's got recognisable names in it, and 2) keep in mind that these scenes are rather ethereal; it's never made clear whether they actually happened or if they are mere fantasy (like similar scenes in The Last Temptation of Christ). Suffice it to say that Branagh has pulled off what some would consider impossible.This is a personal favourite, and I actually enjoyed Zeffirelli's adaptation! However, it doesn't hold a candle to this one if for only one reason; Branagh actually got Charlton Heston to act without doing any damage to the scenery! I'm waiting, rather impatiently for his next adaptation, as well as the DVD of this one. "},{"Title":"Although long, this version makes Hamlet easy to understand and enjoyable.","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I first saw this film on TV when I was flipping through the channels. Since I usually enjoy Shakespeare, and had not known the story of Hamlet, I decided to watch.What a fantastic trip it was!  The costumes were beautiful, and the Shakespearean language still fit the late 19th century time period. Branagh portrayed Hamlet perfectly.  His inflections made the language easy to understand.  I found myself laughing at Shakespeare's jokes, and tears were forming during Hamlet's first soliloquy.The rest of the cast was also highly commendable.  Kate Winslet's Ophelia was noble and easy to sympathize with, and her insanity scenes were amazing. Billy Crystal did a hilarious job as the grave-digger, and Derek Jacobi and Julie Christie personified their roles to a point beyond believability--you could imagine these people really existed.Branagh's Hamlet was so good, it was responsible for making me enthralled with Shakespeare.  I wrote a research paper comparing this version with Mel Gibson's Hamlet, and I can tell you now, this one was my top pick.  I highly recommend it to anyone--the story alone is great, but if you are going to see the movie, the Branagh version makes it even better. "},{"Title":"Beautiful translation...but.","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is an absolutely splendid movie. Great acting by Claudius, Ophelia, and Gertrude. Kenneth Branagh is mostly believable, although some instances catch him going over the top, almost overacting. This movie could have been portrayed very freely, because it is not limited to the theater, which gives Branagh plenty of artistic freedom, and it shows in his portrayal of some of the key monologues, sometimes questionable in efficiency and accuracy (i.e. Rosencrantz and Guilderstern's entrance, Hamlet's what piece of work is a man... A good movie overall, the set was perfect. "}{"Title":"Shakespeare's greatest story brought to life.","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What made this rendition of Shakespeare's Hamlet the best above all was Branagh's vision of recreating the entire play word for word. By doing this it stays true to Shakespeare's original work and pays homage.I also liked how it was created in a later time period which allowed Branagh to use props that weren't available in Shakespeare's time. I must add that I also like DiCapprio's Romeo and Juliet for the same reason. I feel that making Shakespeare's plays more contemporary it opens up younger audiences to his work. It gives the once boring works a new hip feel to it.I personally feel that this has been the greatest film adaptation of any Shakespearian play to date. I do wish someone makes a Macbeth like this Hamlet or Romeo and Juliet.I also recommend this to any high school student who has to read the play as a study aide. By watching it while reading you can understand the story a lot better but don't replace the written work, it's a classic. "},{"Title":"Fabulous, lavish production with an all-star cast. A feast for BranaghShakespeare fans.","Date":"10 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm not going to write a lot, other people have provided fantastic, rich comments on this film, so I'll be brief.Branagh has taken the entire script and transformed it to screen, with a leap forward in time for the setting he's chosen a grander time, which looks less bleak, but soon changes as the story unfolds.The cast is amazing, with quite unexpected actors\actresses popping up, they are nonetheless perfect in their roles. I've seen comments suggesting that Branagh has hammed it up too much, yet I can't see how that can be true in a story of this depth. He's fantastic in this role, and has proved his talents yet again as actor\director\writer.Sit on a comfy pillow and concentrate, watch it widescreen and enjoy the fantastic camera work and brilliant acting. "},{"Title":" A marvelous teaching tool","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This latest version of the greatest of Shakespeare's tragedies has proved to be a marvelous teaching tool.  For once, students are able to follow the dialogue word-for-word in their texts without getting lost.  What Branagh, as director, has added includes the flashbacks that help to fill in the background to the tale.  Of course, I'm not sure depicting Hamlet and Ophelia in bed together advances the cause of scholarship, but it seems an almost inevitable contemporary emendation.  The actors are uniformly good in the major roles, but Julie Christie comes in for particular commendation. She's just the right age to play Gertrude, and she brings a good deal of insight to a difficult role.  Speaking of age, however, I would like the next production of Hamlet to feature a younger actor.  It's getting harder and harder, even in these days of non-traditional students, to picture a man in his thirties or forties as having just come from his studies at Wittenberg.  Hamlet's mood swings are better suited to a young man in his twenties.  As Branagh has followed the tradition of casting a comparatively youthful Ophelia, the scenes in which he appears with Kate Winslett are abusive in the wrong sense. "},{"Title":"The best version","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This version of Hamlet is incredible, the best version I have ever seen hands down.  Kenneth has definitely brought to life Shakespeare's wonderful play in a brillant new life.  If you have seen this amazing film go do so now! the only bad thing I can say about it is that most video stores don't carry the widescreen edition and that's a real shame, I bought it on laserdisc, and you can certainly tell a difference in this film. If you can get the widescreen edition then please by all means do so. "},{"Title":"A feast for the eyes, but too drawn out","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Branagh does a wonderful job with Shakespeare's Hamlet, but in his own unique way. The change to a later time period and the setting of an indescribably luxurious castle are both very welcome changes that create an interestingly different mood. And Branagh's portrayal of Hamlet is excellent. Gone is the quiet and gloomy Hamlet; here we are presented with a loud, disruptive, scene-making madman. One minute he's sadly calm and the next he becomes sarcastically violent. However, on the down side, the movie is far too long. I expect that 90% of people will find it too difficult to finish. In addition there is a running theme of inappropriate cameos, most notably Jack Lemmon and Robin Williams. What are comedians doing in a tragedy? Lemmon's voice is totally out of place and Williams doesn't fit particularly because some of his best stand-up work involved making fun of Shakespeare. In short, this production is certainly a gem, but for most viewers 1990's Hamlet starring Mel Gibson is much more accessible. Neither one is better, they're just different, despite what artsy fartsy types may say. "},{"Title":"superb","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Had to stop and start viewing to savor viewed parts. Continuous stimulation nearly unbearable with so much to see and hear, then think about. Branagh production worth the first full nearly one hundred dollar price paid at amazon to my chagrin...next time I wait for price to be lower, but voting with money this way felt good to signal excellence appreciated. "},{"Title":"A perfect, timeless, masterpiece!","Date":"7 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have always enjoyed the works of Shakespeare.  Although I had not yet studied Hamlet in high school when I saw this movie, it held my attention and had me understanding the complex story without any difficulty.  The story is presented in a clear and understandable fashion, without losing any of its depth.  Kenneth Brannagh is a very talented man.  A wonderful actor, a beautiful writer, and an even better director.  This masterpiece has truly inspired me!  Every single scene of this epic film looks like it is a periodic painting sprung to life. I watched this film with my girlfriend, and I expected to fall asleep.  I could not be more wrong!  It held our attention through from the opening scenes to the tragic, tear-jerking finale.  It was the shortest and most enjoyable four hours of my life.  I have purchased the film and viewed it six times since. "},{"Title":"Despite moments of brilliance, it remains a performance","Date":"7 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The 1980 BBC Time-Life version of Hamlet stars Derek Jacobi as the sweet prince and the 1996 version is directed by Kenneth Branagh who plays the main character. Both versions have their strong points but fail to fully satisfy. Branagh is the only director who delivers a performance of the complete text and the film runs almost four hours. Set in the 19th century, the all-star cast includes Kate Winslet as Ophelia, Derek Jacobi as Claudius, Richard Briers as Polonius, Julie Christie as Gertrude, and cameo roles by John Gielgud, Billy Crystal, Gerard Depardieu, Charlton Heston, Robin Williams, and Judi Dench.The overall Branagh production is strong and far superior to the BBC Tome-Life version. It is bold, imaginative, engaging, entertaining, and easily accessible, yet full of showmanship that undermines the class of Shakespeare. To say that it is often over-the-top would not be far off the mark, especially in its use of flashbacks to resolve ambiguities in the script. Branagh, though robust and full of energy, seems too old for the role of a university student, a tanned, bleach blonde figure who looks more like one of the Beach Boys than the Prince of Denmark.Despite moments of brilliance, it remains a performance, an actor playing Hamlet rather than being Hamlet himself. He is too commanding a figure, too extroverted, and too firmly resolved to capture Hamlet's essential brooding nature, and his To be or not to be soliloquy contemplating suicide seems sudden and unmotivated. Likewise, Jacobi's performance does not quite hit the mark though he is more Hamlet than Branagh. Unfortunately, he lacks nobility or elegance, looking more like John Denver in tights than a 16th century prince.Hamlet is normally considered to be dated as being around 1600 since it was first entered in the Stationers' Register in 1602. The statement in the frontispiece, however, alludes to the fact that the play had been widely performed before the first publication and, as early as 1589, over a decade before the conventional dating, Thomas Nashe referred to an English Seneca who wrote whole Hamlets, and in 1596 Thomas Lodge made another allusion to Hamlet, so the exact date of composition remains a mystery with scholars having to conjure up an Ur-Hamlet to resolve the discrepancy. Conventional scholarship cannot conceive of the fact that William Shakespeare of Stratford could have written such a mature play before 1990 when he was 26.The author drew on the Norse legend of Amleth first written down by Danish historian Saxo Grammaticus in the 13th century and translated into French by Francois Belleforest in 1576. Copies of both Saxo Grammaticus (in Latin) and Belleforest (in French) were in the library of Lord Burghley, de Vere's father-in-law. The story is vastly different, however, from Shakespeare's version.Hamlet's character has been debated for generations and is still not fully understood. It is to Shakespeare's credit, however, that he invented in Hamlet the most complex dramatic character in all of literature, long before the concept of psychology had even been invented. Hamlet is a mass of contradictions. He rails against King Claudius as a drunken fool though no evidence is shown in the play to that effect. Using Ophelia to perpetuate his charade of insanity, he cruelly berates the young innocent girl seemingly without cause, driving her to insanity and death. He shows no remorse over killing Polonius or Rosencrantz and Guildenstern and is so cynical is his contempt for his uncle that he loses all his faith in humanity.On the other hand, he shows a tremendous amount of courage in following his father's ghost in Act 1 and in staging the play The Mousetrap designed to unravel the King. He engages in lofty and introspective soliloquies about death but they clash with his self-pitying adolescent demeanor. Hamlet's fatal flaw is normally seen as being indecision. On closer scrutiny, however, Hamlet feels more like a revenge tragedy, an example how revenge destroys both the innocent as well as the guilty. Hamlet's mistake is not in indecisively engaging in endless introspection but in too willingly following the demands of his father's ghost, an apparition just as likely to be a playful spirit, a so-called hungry ghost, as the true embodiment of his father's soul.Although Hamlet is changed when he returns from exile and realizes that it is his destiny to kill Claudius, he doesn't quite fully grasp that revenge will never solve his problem, only add to it as the conclusion depicts. Perhaps Hamlet's character might be more appreciated when it is seen as mirroring the resentment of a young Earl of Oxford who became a ward of the court at age 12 after his father died suddenly and his mother quickly remarried, with both mother and stepfather dying in a few years. Forced to marry Lord Burghley's daughter Anne Cecil who was 14 years old at the time, Oxford bore his resentment against Anne for most of his life, believing her to be unfaithful and abandoning the marriage after he returned from Italy in 1576 when he was still only 25 years old. This, however, only scratches the surface.As Hank Whittemore describes, Oxford had been stopped by pirates in the Channel and had talked his way out of a jam pretty much the same way Hamlet did; Oxford brought plays to Court the way Hamlet did; Oxford had married chief minister Burghley's daughter, reflecting Hamlet's relationship with Ophelia, daughter of chief minister Polonius; Horatio is Hamlet's great friend; Horatio Vere was Oxford's famous military cousin; Horatio and Francisco are on watch in the play; Horatio and his brother Francis were the fighting Veres and Oxford's close cousins. Nothing of the Polonius-Ophelia-Laertes subplot can be found in any of Shakespeare's known source material. Maybe if the correct playwright is identified, Hamlet's mixture of adolescent sarcasm and cruelty, bravery and recklessness, deep humanity, flights of poetic fancy, and problems with female sexuality might be better understood. "},{"Title":"Perhaps the greatest ever film of a Shakespeare tragedy","Date":"17 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This was the second of two filmed Hamlets in the nineties, the first being Franco Zeffirelli's, starring Mel Gibson, from 1990. Zeffirelli's version, like Laurence Olivier's from 1948, was based upon an abridged version of the play, with much of Shakespeare's original text being cut. (I have never seen Tony Richardson's 1969 version, but as that ran to less than two hours, shorter even than Zeffirelli's, I presume that was also abridged). Kenneth Branagh was attempting something much more ambitious- a film based on the complete text of the play, with a running time of around four hours.With his Henry V, Branagh claimed Olivier's crown as the cinema's leading Shakespearean, confirming his claim with his brilliant Much Ado about Nothing, a rare example of a great film based on a Shakespeare comedy. Hamlet was his third Shakespeare film as director (he also acted as Iago in Oliver Parker's 1995 Othello) and, as one might expect, it is very different to Much Ado&#133;.. The earlier film, shot in a villa in the hills of Tuscany and the beautiful surrounding countryside, is a joyous, summertime film about everything that makes life worth living.Hamlet, by contrast is set in the depths of winter. (The flowers in the description of Ophelia's death suggest that Shakespeare himself thought of the action happening in summer). The look of the film is particularly striking, both sumptuous and chilly. It was filmed at Blenheim Palace, possibly England's most grandiose stately home, but also a rather forbidding one. The snowy exterior scenes are cold and wintry; the interior ones formal and elaborate. The action is updated to the mid nineteenth century; the female characters wear the elaborate fashions of that era, while the principal male ones mostly wear splendid military uniforms. (There is a contrast here with Zeffirelli's film, where both the interiors and the costumes were deliberately subdued in tone). The play is dominated by images of corruption and decay; Branagh's intention may have been to contrast a splendid surface with the underlying something rotten in the state of Denmark.The film is notable for the large number of big-name actors, some of them in very minor roles. (Blink, and you might miss John Gieldgud or Judi Dench). Apparently, an all-star cast was required by the production company, who were nervous about a four-hour film. Some of the imported Hollywood stars, such as Robin Williams' Osric, did not really come off, but others, like Charlton Heston's Player King or Billy Crystal's First Gravedigger, played their parts very well. Yorick, normally only seen as a skull, is here seen in flashback, played by the British comedian Ken Dodd. Brian Blessed, who often plays jovial characters, is cast against type as the Ghost, and makes the scenes in which he appears genuinely frightening.Of the major characters, perhaps the weakest was Kate Winslet's Ophelia. Branagh's leading lady in his first two Shakespeare films was his then wife Emma Thompson, but their marriage ended in divorce in 1995. I did, however, find myself wishing that Thompson had been cast in the role; although Winslet came into her own in the Ophelia's mad scenes, she seemed weak in the earlier ones where her character is still sane. (I preferred Helena Bonham Carter in Zeffirelli's version). Richard Briers plays Polonius with a greater dignity than he is often given, a wise and experienced counsellor rather than a prating old fool. Julie Christie also brings dignity to the role of Gertrude; there is no attempt here, as there was with Gibson and Glenn Close in the Zeffirelli version, to suggest an incestuous attachment between her and Hamlet. (An interpretation which owes more to Freud than it does to Shakespeare). The age difference between Christie and Branagh is great enough for them to be credible as mother and son, which was certainly not the case with Close and Gibson. (Olivier's Gertrude, Eileen Herlie, was, bizarrely, thirteen years younger than him).Branagh stated that his intention in restoring those scenes which are often cut in cinematic versions was to reinforce the idea that the play is about a national as well as domestic tragedy. Much stress is placed upon the war with Norway and the Norwegian Prince Fortinbras- a subplot ignored altogether by Zeffirelli. This emphasis on national tragedy is perhaps best shown in the character of Claudius, sometimes played as a one-dimensional villain. There is something about Derek Jacobi's performance which suggests that Claudius could have been a good man under different circumstances, but that he allowed himself to be led astray by ambition and lust. He could have been a good and loyal servant to his brother, but chose to rule as a bad king. Although he is tormented by guilt, he can see no way to make amends for the evil he has done.Branagh, a wonderfully fluent speaker of Shakespeare's verse, is superb in the main role. Like Gibson, he has little time for the old concept of Hamlet as indecisive, passive and melancholy. His is an active, physical, energetic Hamlet, something best shown in his fatal duel with Laertes. His guiding principle is not world-weary despair, but an active disgust with evil and corruption.It was a gamble for Branagh to make a four-hour epic, and the film did not do well at the box office. It was, however, praised by many critics, James Berardinelli being particularly enthusiastic. My own opinion is that, whatever the financial returns may have been, Branagh's gamble paid off in artistic terms. By concentrating on the full text, he was able to bring out the full meaning and full emotional power of Shakespeare's most complex play. When I reviewed his Much Ado&#133;, I said it was the greatest ever film of a Shakespeare comedy. His Hamlet may just be the greatest ever film of a Shakespeare tragedy. 10/10 "},{"Title":"the best 'epic-length' English-language adaptation of the Bard","Date":"6 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Hamlet is nothing short than an epic work, of theater-literature-drama, and its quintessential story of revenge and love and the haunting sense of life and death always in the balance is unique unto itself. It's so repeated and ripped-off and homaged- not counting the actual film adaptations by Olivier and Zeferelli- it's hard to figure on a fresh take (even my once favorite animated Disney movie, the Lion King, wouldn't exist without it). Kenneth Branaugh has figured on an angle that works magnificently adapt the entire full-length play, including parts not included in the *original* released play until in the late 17th century, and fill it with an all-star cast of British thespians and some Americans, and film it in an accessible manner for a 1990's audience. It's almost flawless as performance, and nearly mind-blowing as an example of film-making prowess.Need I repeat the story? Hamlet's father dies- is killed, actually- and returns to him as a ghost, telling him that it was Claudius (now married to Hamlet's mother, Gertud) that killed his father, Claudius's own brother. Soon Hamlet is completely absorbed in a revenge plot, with nothing- not even ambivalent love Ofelia- stopping him in his path. This is a simplified explanation of what is often complex- psychologically, emotionally, politically- in substance as it is in performance, but Hamlet is such a dense work that you could watch it 10 times and not really soak in everything that's being spoken and reflected. There's poetry in the language, so much so that you'll occasionally need a decoder to decipher some of the turns of phrase (aside from those that have entered our language-lexicon), and bits of philosophy, from the obvious To be or not to be scene to Hamlet (also classically) reflecting on the court jester, holding his skull by an open grave.Keep this in mind - Branaugh's film is long, and there's even an intermission (likely where one was in the stage version). But first and foremost on Branaugh's mind as a director is to translate many scenes that could be too stagey with an eye for inter-cutting, suggesting and supplanting sights and visions during a scene of dialog (one of the ones he keeps going back to is Hamlet and Ofelia making love in bed) and for a limitless movement of the camera. His style is slick but not too slick, stylish but only to serve a scene that requires elegance or tension or darkness or anxiety, and on the level of pure atmosphere there's rarely a note or scene that's missing the proper theatricality or grandiosity necessary. It's no less epic than something like David Lean, except that there are a few more scenes of people sitting in rooms talking/yelling to/at one another.As Branaugh shows how good a director he can be on the front of the technical, with his actors it's just as amazing. Even actors like Billy Crystal and Robin Williams dig into their brief roles after what could have been simply goof bit parts. Derek Jacobi, Julie Christie, Kate Winslet, and Branaugh himself are about the best outside of an Olivier-headed cast, and in some cases even greater; Winslet especially gives the goods on what is a follow-up breakthrough performance after Heavenly Creatures as Ofelia. And least to forget smaller players like Charlton Heston, who bursts onto the screen so vividly in just two scenes that it marks as a real performance, not just a walk-on, and perhaps his last monumental performance at that. Meanwhile, Branaugh himself in the titular role is just about everything one would want in a screen Hamlet forceful, resonant, strong, and with some level of dark wit needed for a brooding character.Branaugh's Hamlet is handsome work with a disturbing edge to a lot of its scenes, and it's one of the definitive portrayals of Shakespeare, old or new. "}{"Title":"Brilliant Commentary on the DVD","Date":"19 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I just received the DVD yesterday (I pre-ordered it from Amazon back in the spring) and popped it into my computer. The movie still looks gorgeous and it's wonderful to be able to watch it without commercials and to take breaks. There aren't a whole lot of special features (not surprising given the budget for this kind of project), but the commentary by Branagh and consultant Russell Jackson, an English professor and Shakespeare specialist, is terrific. Be prepared for a short seminar on Shakespeare, acting, and film-making, especially the adaptation of plays into film. And if you're partial to dry British humor, you won't be disappointed.There's also an interesting introduction by Branagh filmed on the occasion of the release of the DVD and a short making-of feature. But the commentary's the thing.The DVD was worth the wait. "},{"Title":"HAMLET -- alone, or with three other Shakespeare DVDs.","Date":"16 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It has taken far too long for this Hamlet to turn up on DVD -- but the wait has paid off. It may not contain as many special features as one would like (especially after waiting all these years...). But one of them is a feature-length commentary by Branagh (sadly missing from Henry V).The 2-disc DVD is available by itself, or as part of a collection that includes Olivier's Othello (1965), the 1935 Warner Bros. version of Midsummer Night's Dream, and the 1936 MGM version of Romeo and Juliet. Romeo and Othello have no commentary, but the other two do. It's a great deal.(And for those of us who are Deaf or have a hearing loss, all of the films in the collection have English subtitles.) "},{"Title":"Great acting","Date":"8 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I thought Kenneth Branagh was amazing in this film. I thought he really understood the role and proved himself as an actor. I hate to say it but the only weak acting job was done by Jack Lemmon. I have seen many versions of this film and I felt that Branagh took it by the horns and ran with it. Even if your not a lover of Shakespeare, this movie handles the content beautifully. Great Music, great acting, good directing, nice cinematography. It pretty much has it all covered. I have seen the movie at least 4 times. I finally asked my 13 year old son to watch it with me. I thought he would find it boring, but he did not. He thought it was truly a great movie and he still talks about it. This movie moves, there is always something happening and you get sucked into this great story of Hamlet.The movie is finally coming out on DVD. I will certainly add it to my collection. "},{"Title":"I really loved it!!","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I thought that this was a very accurate representation of the original works. Nothing was cut out, making it very thorough and easy to understand. The thing that I found interesting was that even though it was quite long, this didn't take away from my enjoyment of the movie itself and in fact did just the opposite. The acting was of good quality which added a lot. I personally enjoyed Kate Winslet as Ophelia. There were times her antics actually had an eerie effect on me, and that is what they were meant to do. My only complaint would be to say that certain parts were hard to take seriously because, the lack of a proper and steady accent was too distracting. However, despite that, it was all in all a very good film that I would definitely recommend to any Shakespeare fan such as myself. "},{"Title":"A Classic Film!","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" William Shakespeare would be proud of Kenneth Branagh's work in this film adaptation. Granted the uncut version is long and tedious but it is visually stunning and extremely well directed by the star as well. Maybe KEnneth Branagh is not only Laurence Olivier but our Orson Welles of this generation. They spared no expense in casting the finest actors around for pivotal roles. Sir Derek Jacobi was casted as King Claudius and Julie Christie was casted as Queen Gertrude. I guess Judi Dench was busy. Kate Winslet was casted as Ophelia. I'm sorry but I never did care for her in this role or in any other role. Besides Derek Jacobi who is also Kenneth Branagh's mentor. He casted Richard Briers (The Good Life or Good Neighbors) as Polonius or Ophelia's father. He does a fabulous take on the supporting role. Besides Briers is often casted in Branagh's films and if you knew him, you would see why. He is one of the most popular chaps in this business. The costumes are colorful. The scenery is also magnificent as well as the art direction. I am sad that Kenneth Branagh did not get an Academy Award nomination for this role. It's one of the best film versions to date. His only weakness is that he does not appear to go mad enough like Nicol Williamson in an earlier version who was really going mad. I liked the fact that he casted American legend, Jack Lemmon, in a small role. Also American legendary actor, Charlton Heston is also unforgettable in this film as Fortinbras. And Robin Williams in a small role. It is nice that he chooses talented American actors like Jack, Charlton and Robin to play roles. He could have chose anybody else. It's probably one of Charlton's last grat performances since he is suffering from Alzheimers. If you can, please watch and treasure this film classic. "},{"Title":"Just to put something right ...","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  (Sorry for my faulty language, i am no native speaker ...)Yes, this is a movie that almost demands an overwhelming reaction. Personally i agree upon all those superlatives that are around. But i won't use this rather sematically void way myself to describe the movie here. Because those perfect! the one-and-only! best-ever!-reviews make some people turn away (including me).So if you are looking for another 'Hamlet' that has the potential to rival with many theatrical and all cinematic ones - Then don't miss this one, if you happen to find it anywhere. (Unfortunately not too many people will have any chance to see it. It seems there is no DVD out there, and the German language version - which is quite well done - is not available in any format.)Just in case you decide to get a copy Spare out that cut down two hours (or so) version of this movie. It is no use and no fun, and gives a wrong impression of a movie, that deals in an interesting way with flow and architecture. And its also crippled down to 43 aspect ratio.Greetings from Germany, F.L. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece?","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There may be SPOILERS ...I can totally picture this classic film as being Sunday afternoon matinee fodder fifty, sixty years down the line, in the way Ben-Hur is today.Ken Branagh doesn't do things by halves. Everything here is on an epic scale - the location, the cinematography, the all-star casting (which is quite fun - Hey, there's that guy from The Apartment! - and not all that distracting). He may have gone too far with his liberal peppering of flashbacks, but they are for the most part well-judged, particularly the infamous Hamlet&Ophelia ones.The flashbacks of the couple making love has come under fire from various corners, criticising Branagh's audacity, the Nobody will ever understand the nunnery scene! type of argument. But the point is, he's offering an interpretation, a concrete fact. Golden rule for directing Shakespeare you can never have subtlety or innuendo. It's confusing enough for the audience to deal with the language besides having to handle subtext. Consider Zeferelli's Hamlet could you really imagine Mel and Helena in love? No. You could imagine him stalking her, but that's about it. No, Ken has the right idea. The plot literally has to be spelled out to make it an enjoyable experience, so while the Yorick flashbacks might be annoying to the Shakespeare connoiseur, they fill in the blanks for the masses.Now. Performances. Derek Jacobi and Richard Briers were highlights for me, particularly Briers' not-at-all-idiotic, manipulative Polonius. Branagh's dynamic, smart, human Hamlet is the best I've seen (but then, I've only seen four). His direction (MIRRORS! SINGLE SHOT TAKES!) is the real triumph here, however.The one annoyance is the ending. If you thought Hamlet's dispatching of Claudius in the play was overkill, wait til you see this, where Hamlet drops a chandalier on him for good measure. Also, when Hamlet dies, Patrick Doyle's score keeps whining over it, so we never get to appreciate that, y'know, he's dead. A moment of silence would have been nice.All criticisms aside - and there's always going to be plenty in a production this big - I'd advise you just to enjoy it. Enjoy the costumes, the fencing, the nunnery scene, the after-the-play scene, the mirrors, the flashbacks, the whole thing. Because when you boil it down it's a really good, fun thriller. "},{"Title":"To watch or not to watch","Date":"19 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Watch, of course! I always admired Branagh's films but this one is the greatest. We all know the story, we remember the dialogues and we've seen wonderful Laurence Olivier playing Hamlet. But Kenneth's work is brilliant. Now I would like to see his vision of Macbeth. It could be even better than Polanski' Tragedy of Macbeth.  "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is the first time that the brilliance of Hamlet has found its way to the screen. The performances are breathtakingly good, and the direction is boldand brilliant. People who know the play well will be impressed, and people who do not know the play well will be astounded. The movie is four hours long, but not one minute in those four hours is boring or superfluous. Despite what others have said, Branagh does not overdue anything; he plays Hamlet the way therole was meant to be played. Kenneth Branagh is terrific! (Side note keep your ears astute or you'll miss `thus diest thou.' Finally, someone got it right.) "},{"Title":"The best Shakespeare film!","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" And I'm not kidding! Unlike other recent adaptations of Shakespearian plays where you get a bunch of nervous artist who look like they're trying to play Shakespeare; what we have here is a lot of top-class professionals who really strut their stuff. I once read a critic who said that Branagh performs Shakespeare like it's street-talk (and I think that's the best compliment you could pay an actor), and in this production he's finally managed to imbue that to his cast. So we get the likes of Derek Jacobi, Charlton Heston, Judi Dench, Nicholas Farrell, Kate Winslet, Brian Blessed, Rufus Sewell, Branagh regular Richard Briers, and of course Branagh himself who really make their characters chat.But particular mention should go to the comic performances of Robin Williams and Billy Crystal. Osric has always been one of my favourite Shakespearian characters, and one that I've personally dreamed of playing. I thought this even before I saw Robin Williams in the role, but he just confirms my interest in the guy; though I would prefer Osric to be a bit more foppish. I think it's great fun that Robin Williams is the only one who uses a corny Danish accent here.And what about Billy Crystal? This is the first time I've seen the gravedigger scene and actually laughed at the jokes! This shows that a) it takes an actor with a sense of comedy to play a comic character & scene; and b) the best comic actors can make even the oldest gags work.With HENRY V I thought Branagh was slightly behind the Laurence Olivier version (I liked the reproduction of the Globe theatre in Olivier's HENRY); but here I think Kenneth Branagh has finally surpassed Olivier. I've never forgiven Laurence Olivier for cutting Rosencrantz & Guildenstein out of his production.(Spoiler warning!)Perhaps having Claudius getting clobbered with a candelabra was going a tad over the top, but overall this is a magnificent production. Let us hope that this film is generally regarded as the definitive screen version of this famous play. "}{"Title":"Awesome, a worthy masterpiece...","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is the best rendition of Hamlet that I have ever seen. I know that the setting is slightly off (Renaissance rather than Medieval Denmark,) but I felt this did not detract from the film at all. The acting was amazing, Kenneth Branagh proves why he is a master in this film, the other actors where of course good as well, Kate Winslet did a wonderful job as Ophelia. All in all, an amazing film. I would recommend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"The definitive filmic version of the finest play in history.","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It is a measure of Branagh's brilliance as an actor that despite not being a typical Hamlet in most peoples' minds, he produces the greatest cinematic portrayal of the tormented Dane I have ever witnessed. It is a film that reminds one precisely why Shakespeare is rated so highly. The tragic introspective, philosophical speeches are so suffused with poetic magnificence as to border on the intoxicating.Shakespeare is in my opinion less succesful as a comic writer (I prefer Moliere), and Hamlet's witty speeches are somewhat cloying. All that cutesy-cutesy word play! But the tragic sections are mindboggling rich with literary genius. But let us not forget Branagh's magnificence as a director. He elicits a quite sublime performance from Kate Winslet as Ophelia...and this girl, barely out of her teens, evokes a sorrow so deep in the madness scene as to leave one breathless. She is a jewel, deep and magnetic beyond reason, given her extreme youth, and apparent angelic innocence. And there are other marvellous performances... by some of this country's most treasured actors Jacobi, Briers, Spall, all brilliant. And if ever there was any doubt that Julie Christie is a great English actress, her Gertrude will dispel it. Branagh's Hamlet is charismatic, but eminently unsympathetic. Sensitive and intelligent, with a tendency towards piety, he chooses nonetheless to obey his baser nature rather than seek a loftier form of justice, and yield to criminal brutality. If earlier films have glamorised Hamlet, Branagh's version sees him for what he is a potentially righteous man who throws it all away. One of an elite of cinematic masterpieces of the last twenty years, and one of the greatest artistic triumphs of the silver screen, demonstrating just how high an art the cinema can be, when it's in the hands of a master.................. "},{"Title":"Fantastic adaption!","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is certainly one well done version of (IMHO) Shakespeare's finest work. It's great to see the whole thing completely uncut, although watching in one sitting is a marathon of an experience at 4 1/2 hours. The acting is in general quite exceptional, especially from Branagh, Kate Winslet, and Julie Christie. Many of the big american actors, which basically plays as a novelty, are actually pretty good in their roles, especially Charlton Heston, who steals every scene he's in as the player king. Billy Crystal is surprisingly good as the Gravedigger, and Robin Williams is quite acceptable in as Osric, but Jack Lemmmon...I don't know. Anyway's i wish more than anything this film was on DVD, because it is THE Hamlet to own, which is saying a lot, because Olivier's verson is amazing as well. Possibly the best Shakespeare adaptation of any kind... "},{"Title":"Absolutely wonderful!","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Kenneth Branagh's Hamlet is a wonderful movie. A beautiful adaptation of Shakespeare's play, this movie is what movies are all about. Even though it is long(4 hours!!!), it is never boring. Visually, this movie is a real delight. The settings are breathtaking  and are captured on 70mm film.  I would never have suspected the impact it has on the quality of the picture. It is simply astonishing. I can't say anything wrong about William Shakespeare's fantastic play. It is a marvelous story. But I'm sure it can become boring if the director doesn't know what to do with such a text. This is not Branagh's case. While his passion for Shakespeare may seem like an obsession, the results are simply incredible. Branagh seems to have read Hamlet so many times he has become the man to understand it the most after The Bard himself. He delivers it in a form which suits the play incredibly well. Because of his directing and of his powerful performance as Hamlet. Energy seems to flow relentlessly in his body while he plays, with obvious pleasure, the Danish prince. But the rest of the cast his also excellent. Kate Winslet is magnificent as Orphelia. Derek Jacobi is perfect as Claudius. He is more than just the guy who killed the king and sleeps with the widow. He his a character which you hate, but also respect. Claudius is a character as interesting as Hamlet. Julie Christie is also perfectly cast as Gertrude, Hamlet's mother. Nicholas Farrell, an actor I had never heard of, was impressive as Horatio. Robin Williams had a small role as a shy soldier, the opposite of his usual characters. It was fun to see him being good in a different role. Billy Crystal was very funny as a gravedigger with a gift for playing with words. It is fun to see Grard Depardieu appear for 5 minutes. Even Jack Lemmon, which some fellow IMDb reviewers said was annoying as Marcellus, was, in my humble opinion, good. But of all the cameos, the most impressive was Charlton Heston as an actor. His voice is as powerful has back in the days of Ben-Hur, and his charisma is intact. Surprisingly, I only missed a few lines of the text. But an even bigger surprise was that this movie was not only fascinating, but also entertaining. The only negative thing I can say is that the beautiful score by Patrick Doyle is sometimes a bit too loud. This is actually the only problem I have found to this movie!!! So I think that it is obvious that I loved it.96% "},{"Title":"A Hamlet to rip your heart out","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Branagh has wisely included the whole text do not be put off by the four hour length, you will not notice it fly by. The sweet prince is explained as I have never understood him before faulted yes, but one of us, illuminating so much of human experience.If you only ever watch one film in your life, make it this one. See it and you will be changed, and will understand. "},{"Title":"Wonderful portrayal of a Shakespeare play","Date":"17 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I watched this movie in bits and parts when reading Hamlet in class.  It was the best of a variety of different productions of Hamlet.  An aesthetic movie that does not cut out any of the real play.  I recommend to anyone who enjoys Shakespeare, or just a good revenge play. "},{"Title":"a truly fantastic film","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" To say that this is a good Hamlet adaptation is to understate just how good a movie this is.  Kenneth Branagh truly flexes revolutionary filmmaking muscles with the aid of wonderful D.P. and a truly Shakespearian cast.  He indeed makes this story his, and in doing so, justifies the ego of a perfectionist who's in love with Hamlet.The plot itself, as are all the really good ones, is basic and eternal. Much like the tales of Jesus Christ or (not to overemphasize or de-emphasize the latter or the former) the film The Godfather, the story unravels like so  the unassuming son of a great legend is forced to take uncharacteristic action due to the evils of the world, eventually proving to everyone that he is truly his father's son.  Whether it be Jesus, Michael Corleone, or young Hamlet, this powerful device tends to work very well.  Although William Shakespeare may not have been the first to make it work, one would be hard pressed to argue that it is Hamlet that makes it work the best.So, to those who do not know the story and are wondering about what I'm babbling about, it goes like this  King Hamlet, the beloved, respected, feared king of Denmark is killed one day while napping in his chambers by his jealous brother Claudius.  Two months after he is killed, Claudius marries Hamlet's wife, Gertrude.  After this has happened, the young Hamlet, prince of Denmark returns home from school in Wittenburg to find his mother married to his slimy uncle, who is now the fully appointed King.  Hamlet is not a happy boy.  He doesn't respect his mother, he doesn't trust his uncle, and he can't stand the smell of things.  The Ghost of King Hamlet tells Hamlet one evening what happened to him, and gives young Hamlet the unenviable task of righting the wrongs of his unceremonious death.  He demands that Hamlet avenge his death, he demands Hamlet kill Claudius.  But Hamlet is not a violent person.  He may have a hotheaded temper at times, but it isn't within him to kill.  Or so he thinks.  The story of Hamlet is filled with tragedy, drama, a little comedy, and a lot of murder.  But Branagh's interpretation transcends everything except the basic idea that ordinary people can do insane, illogical, heroic things when placed in extra-ordinary circumstances.Style-wise, it doesn't get much better.  Choosing 18th century England as the backdrop, everything from the spooky prologue to the last, violent exeunt is done in such a manner that suggests precise intensity.  The director knows how to convey the pinpointed flaws in every situation (Hamlet's judgemental stance the first time we see him says so much), always letting the characters' demons hang out there, because he knows that the movie and audience will benefit from it.This is a truly fantastic film, adaption or not.  If you are an aspiring director with a love for original, weird, or otherwise interesting shots, watch this for that alone.**** "},{"Title":"Kenneth Branagh at his BEST","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Hamlet, one of William Shakespeare's most popular dramas, has finally found the perfect director and actor to bring it to life. Kenneth Branagh, a long time Shakespearen actor who spent a good two years of his life writing, directing and acting for this movie deserves 99.8% of the credit. With a great supporting cast and surprise actors around every corner only add to the greatness of Branagh's masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Amazing!","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie manages to be true to Shakespeare's original folio while making it readily understandable and entertaining. Branagh has given Shakespeare back to the average person. As a teacher, I plan to use this film in my Sophomore English class. "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"3 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I thought this movie was horrible. Branagh gets more and more repetitive as time goes on as he tries to act and direct at the same time. A Midwinter's Tale was such a far superior film, it was fresh with a wonderful eye to detail and character. Hamlet was by contrast stale and repetitive. At the end of Act 1 with the confrontation of Fortinbras army I nearly walked out as Branagh used practically the same filming technique, vocal inflection and acting choices as the St. Crispin day speech in Henry V - a movie that ranks as THE BEST Shakespeare adaptation. "}{"Title":"The best there will ever be!","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I doubt there will be another 'Hamlet' as well done as Branaugh's.When the film first came out, I rose at 630, drove 120 miles one way, and sat in a darkened theatre for 359, and it was worth every second.I recently watched it again on TV (TNT) and was still moved, in almost every direction, by all the actors.  The only weak performance (to me) was Julie Christie.  She seemed to have a time keeping up with the other, more classically trained performers.  I enjoyed Charleton Heston more this time around.  Although brief, his part was pivotal and he carried it without the histronics of his other work.  Maybe he's finally learned that less really is more!I purchased the movie and the movie poster for my English teacher husband. He uses both in his classroom.  Also, I don't think you have to be immersed in Shakespeare to follow the story....just concentrate and let the words flow over you.This is as good as it gets.  Enough said. "},{"Title":"Hamlet embraces the 20th Century","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I teach English Literature, and this film actually turned a hardened, Bard-hating classroom into a class who understood Hamlet as a man and enigma, and that Shakespeare's knowledge of the human soul DOES carry on today.  Unbelievably essential. "},{"Title":"I Don't Get It","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film reveres Shakespeare's play but doesn't bring it to life.  I'll admit to a bias, I have not seen a film based upon Shakespeare which worked as a film, which made one forget that one was watching an intricately contrived presentation, with the single exception of Franco Zafferelli's Romeo and Juliet. Brannagh's Hamlet was chisled from marble, intricate work but little else.  If you're an expert on Shakespeare you might like this film. If you enjoy movies you'll be bored.   "},{"Title":"Brilliantly done.","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I've seen three versions of Hamlet, this, the Nicol Williamson version and the Olivier version and this is without a doubt the best one.  All the performances were incredible, especially Micheal Maloney (Leartes), Hamlet (Branagh) and Horatio (Nicholas Farrell).  A bit long but there is an intermission in the film version.  All the characters come out as sympathetic which is good because it makes it a true tragedy.  The play was one of Shakespeares best and this is one of Branagh best films. "},{"Title":"Hamlet is a movie","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Branagh is one of the few who understands the difference between a film and a play. Hamlet is probably the most faithful adaptation of Shakespeare to a film and yet is a very dynamic film, almost an action thriller. The scene of Hamlet's meeting with his father's ghost won't leave your mind. "},{"Title":"A True Masterpiece","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There were a lot of things going against this movie for me before I watched it.First, I was a typical high school senior, in a Shakespeare class I didn't really even like, much less understood half of! Shakespeare would be no more than UNINTELLIGIBLE without me pouring ALL my concentration into his almost encrypted plays... encrypted with his extremely difficult to understand language.... and then I still wouldn't get most of it.Second, it was 4 hours long! I never thought that could be a good thing.Well let me tell you something. This movie was so masterful, so beautiful, I actually understood all the language as it was being performed. Now, the script was followed to the letter in this movie, the same script that was incomprehensible to me in Shakespeare class. And here I was my mind opening and me understanding it. I was doubting myself while watching the movie almost! But lo and behold... when performed, and only then, Shakespeare comes to life. So this version of Hamlet showed me that Shakespeare is indeed a master, who wrote great stories. When I saw it on the big screen, especially in the high budget major motion picture style (with beautiful cinematography and photography), and acted amazingly by Brannagh and cast, somehow.... I understood what was going on. What was being said. The language is awesome and passionate. It allows for more raw emotion... when words can't describe something, maybe Shakespeare's words can.I still hold to this day that Fist of The North Star (animated, english dub) is the greatest movie ever made. No movie provides more sheer entertainment. But for a movie to come close to dethroning Fist from that position (which Hamlet did -- it came close) is truly amazing.... awe inspiring. It wasn't a movie. It was an event.Even more amazing, it made me appreciate shakespeare. Wow. Powerful. Powerful is the word. One of the rare, TRULY powerful movies out there.This gets 2 hundred trillion stars out of infinity stars. Yes yes.By the way, all you kids out there in a Shakespeare class... forget it. You're wasting you're time. You have to see the plays performed. Only then will justice be done to them. "},{"Title":"The definitive Hamlet","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is the definitive movie version of Hamlet.  Branagh cuts nothing, but there are no wasted moments.  "},{"Title":"Where are the Oscars?","Date":"27 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I went to see Hamlet because I was in between jobs.  I figured 4 hours would be great, I've been a fan of Branagh; Dead Again, Henry V.  I was completely overwhelmed by the direction, acting, cinematography that this film captured.  Like other reviews the 4 hours passes swiftly.  Branagh doesn't play Hamlet, he is Hamlet, he was born for this.  When I watch this film I'm constantly trying to find faults, I've looked at the goofs and haven't noticed them.  How he was able to move the camera in and out of the Hall with all the mirrors is a mystery to me.  This movie was shot in 70 mil. It's a shame that Columbia hasn't released a Widescreen version of this on VHS.  I own a DVD player, and I'd take this over Titanic any day.  So Columbia if you're listening put this film out the way it should be watched! And I don't know what happened at the Oscars.  This should have swept Best Picture, Best Actor, Best Direction, best cinematography.  What films were they watching?  I felt sorry for Branagh at the Oscars when he did a tribute to Shakespeare on the screen.  They should have been giving a tribute to Branagh for bringing us one of the greatest films of all time.  "},{"Title":"Hamlet as a big-budget mainstream film","Date":"11 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kenneth Branaugh deserves a lot of credit for taking risks in his adaptation of Hamlet. He chooses to present the text uncut, something that pretty much nobody does, but which realizes aspects of the text that are usually ignored, like the geopolitical threat that the characters ignore to their peril. (It also includes a lot of overblown navel-gazing that is usually justly excised.) Far from the dark and gloomy atmosphere we usually see Hamlet presented in, Branaugh fills the screen of light, suggesting the former glory of the now debased court.While all this is interesting, there are a lot of problems with this adaptation. Branaugh is a bit too old and definitely too hammy to take seriously as Hamlet, and the ridiculous goatee he sports throughout the film doesn't help. The other actors come off better -- Derek Jacobi has a particularly good turn as Claudius -- but there's still a pervading odour of cheese, and the great drama of Hamlet frequently tips over into melodrama. Despite the bold choices he makes, Branaugh is ultimately using the aesthetics of a Hollywood blockbuster, and they're as shallow as ever.It's hard for an adaptation of Hamlet to be really bad, especially one as faithful as this the iconic characters and the forceful plot are enough to carry even the limpest adaptation to something fairly decent. Still, the whole thing feels like a failed experiment, and you could probably see a better take on Hamlet at a local theatre show. So while Branaugh's ambitions deserve respect, he doesn't really have the chops to pull them off, no matter how many famous actors he pulls in. "},{"Title":"A great modern Hamlet","Date":"7 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A lot of people don't think Branagh's Hamlet film is all that good, but I must admit I think it is splendid. Like virtually every production of Shakespeare, it has problems and it has had to make hard choices, not all of which work out. The thing about the secret doors everywhere, for instance, simply doesn't work. That element never achieves the ominous feeling of metaphor or analogy that it attempts to, which results in the play being too gaudy and losing its trademark sense of a thousand mysteries looming. This is the biggest problem with this production. And while it's a biggie, I'm also inclined to say that it's the only problem. Almost everything else works out absolutely beautifully. All right, so Branagh is a mite too old for the title role. And the relationship with Ophelia seems a little forced. And he gets too hysterical at times. But that's it. No other complaints. Even with these faults, I think this version is a seminal one, and if it's not as powerful a drama as it ought to be, it's every bit the literary work that it equally ought to be. We get the complete text of the longest version of the play, innovatively and expensively brought to the screen, mostly enunciated in perfect and modern and highly understandable voices - even if they sometimes speak too quickly in order to get the massive text over with. But in a staging of Shakespeare, it simply is not possible to speak slowly enough for the audience to really appreciate the full depths of the language. For that, one must delve into the print versions of the plays.All the actors of this version are simply mesmerizing and utterly and instantly classic (incl. Jack Lemmon). Julie Christie as Gertrude is surely one of the best ever, and even the American actors are astounding, esp. Charlton Heston as the Player King - who would have thought it?! (A story is going around that Heston once played Hamlet on stage, and when a critic in the front row couldn't stand his hammy acting and said out loud, This is terrible!, Heston reportedly retorted right from the stage Well, I didn't write this crap! Of course it may not be true, but it's a funny story - and if true, a bold and ironic choice for Branagh to include Heston here.) Robin Williams as Young Ozric is perhaps not young enough for the part, but he makes it a comical one, which is warranted.Overall it is a very well-produced version, with most of the key scenes being, to my mind, supremely memorable. Of course, I watched this movie just as I was becoming interested in Shakespeare (and around the same time as Luhrmann's formidable Romeo+Juliet), and it made a great impression on me, which must account for some of my fondness for it.All things considered, I must pronounce Branagh's Hamlet to be my favorite one, with Derek Jacobi's 1980 BBC version a close second. I probably like Branagh's Shakespeare work more than most, finding him an expert interpreter and popularizer, with an attractively casual attitude to the words and a deep and appropriately and unashamedly enthusiastic appreciation of the text. In the world of Shakespeare acting, the two brightest luminaries remain Olivier and Branagh, and while Olivier is the superior actor, Branagh brings Shakespeare down from the pedestal of snobbery and artifice, and transforms it into churlish, easy-going, populistic worldliness while compromising none of its dignity. Branagh, I believe, brings out a truer Shakespeare than the world has yet seen.And so, 10 out of 10 for an absolutely tremendous Hamlet. "}{"Title":"Hamlet - Tremendous Movie","Date":"24 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One of the best movie-dramas I have ever seen. We do a lot of acting in the church and this is one that can be used as a resource that highlights all the good things that actors can do in their work. I highly recommend this one, especially for those who have an interest in acting, as a must see. There are several scenes of note. For one, the graveyard scene when Hamlet encounters Yorick (everyone knows about THAT scene by just going to elementary school), and his interaction with the skull was extremely well done. The logic used in this scene was tremendous--I suppose a testament to Shakespeare more than anything else. For a second, I very much enjoyed the scene where Hamlet, Horatio and the character played by Robin Williams discussed the upcoming duel. "},{"Title":"The Best Version of Shakespeare's Best Play","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" William Shakespeare would be very proud of this particular version of his play. Not only is it the best movie version of it, but it's also the only complete version of Hamlet. Kenneth Branagh's Hamlet is simply genius. Not only because it was written by Shakespeare, but also because it had the guts to do the whole thing, even if it went just over four hours.We all know the story of the Prince of Denmark and his plot to avenge his father's death, so I won't go into the details of the story. I will, however, tell you that the best part of this Hamlet version is not the breathtaking sets or the stunning photography, but the actors' interpretations of each character. I doubt you'll find a better Polonius than Richard Briers' delicious portrayal. Plus, you can't go wrong with Julie Christie and Jack Lemmon. Also, Derek Jacobi, a regular among Shakespeare adaptations is magnificent as the antagonist to Hamlet.Of course, we must talk about Kenneth Branagh. He wowed audiences when he came onto the scene with his first outing with Shakespeare, Henry V. He outdoes himself with Hamlet. Sure, Olivier's presence was captivating, but I think Branagh's performance is wonderful. When you watch him on screen, it's almost as if he knew exactly how Shakespeare wanted the role to be played. How he wasn't nominated for an Oscar is a total mystery. At least the movie got a few nominations and even an odd choice for Screenplay. I guess they know good writing when they see it though. All in all, you'll never find a more rich and lavish production of the Bard's best play. To say that the technical aspects were awesome would be an understatement. If you love this play and are a fan of Shakespeare, you definitely need to check this movie out. Even if you don't really care for Shakespeare, the visuals will keep you occupied for the duration of the film. You may not think you'll be able to sit through all of it at once, but you'll soon find out that pausing this movie will make you want to see it even more. "},{"Title":"A great way to make four hours fly by","Date":"4 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kenneth Branagh's Hamlet hits all the marks. The acting is magnificent, the 70mm cinematography is gorgeous, the Oscar-nominated costumes and sets are stunning, and Patrick Doyle's score (also Oscar-nominated) is sensitive and moving. Oh yeah - the screenplay, by some guy named Will S., isn't too bad either. Film critics ribbed Branagh for receiving the films' fourth Oscar nod for adapting the screenplay, but his decision to use the full text was a gutsy one. I can't think of many better ways to make four hours fly by.Nearly every decision Branagh makes works brilliantly the use of England's Blenheim Palace for exteriors, the Edwardian dress, and the staging of To be or not to be in a hall of mirrors, to name a few. The casting of Hollywood luminaries such as Robin Williams, Billy Crystal and Jack Lemmon in minor parts can be distracting, but that's nitpicking. The principal cast excels Derek Jacobi captures the conflicted nature of Claudius; Kate Winslet acutely depicts Ophelia's descent into madness; Julie Christie brings passion to her portrayal of Gertrude; Richard Briers is pitch-perfect as the conniving Polonius; and Nicholas Farrell elevates the potentially thankless role of Horatio to the apotheosis of true friendship. Every speech, every line, every word is delivered with passion and conviction; there isn't a wasted moment in the entire film. The final scenes magnify the extent of Shakespeare's tragedy in a way not possible with theatrical adaptations.Branagh's Hamlet is a bold, ambitious, and ultimately successful attempt to match the grandeur and poetry of Shakespeare's language with equally eloquent imagery. It's arguably the greatest Shakespearean adaptation ever filmed &#150; strong praise, but well deserved. "},{"Title":"Amazing!","Date":"12 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Hamlet is by far my favorite of all of Shakespeare's works. Branaugh is one heck of an actor. His portrayal of this was just amazing. His soliloquies were breathtaking. For as long as it was it is rare for a film to hold my interest, however I was engrossed in this particular piece. I recommend this to anyone both fan of Shakespeare and those not so much. This has everything the modern world looks for in its films murder, betrayal, and deceit. Not to knock Mel Gibson's version, but Branaughs touches the whole work. This leaves no stone unturned. When you finish the film it will feel as if you read the play yourself. Um how you say two thumbs up. "},{"Title":"Another Marvelous Hit to Add to Branagh's List","Date":"26 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This was a marvelous adaptation, especially if you are reading Hamlet for the first time. I was first introduced to this film while taking a Shakespeare class at my high school, and I felt that it was very well done.As any director does, Kenneth Branagh took a few liberties with things, but unlike some other adaptations, his liberties were quite few and far between (thankfully!) I felt that all of the actors were excellently cast, and I felt that Kenneth Branagh himself brought a lot of personal feeling into the character of Hamlet. I was initially surprised to see Kate Winslet as Ophelia, but I thought she did a very good job. Julie Christie was a remarkable Queen Gertrude, and I feel that the various cameos of other actors served the plot well.I would definitely recommend this film to anyone who enjoys the play of Hamlet. I think William Shakespeare would have been proud to see this production. "},{"Title":"Wasted talent, wasted time","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I am tired of watching Kenneth Brannagh waste valuable money and film on useless re-tellings of Shakespeare. The play itself may be beautiful but there is no need for this over done fiasco of a masterpeace. Once again the director has taken a sledge hammer approach to a play meant instead to be subtle, if only Mr. Brannagh could take some valium before coming to work one might not be quite so violated by his acting. This movie is a waste of time, money and intelligent actors, perhaps the idea was to shock a modern viewing audience, but few people needing shock value are willing to sit for more than two hours watching men speak in verse. Save your time and read the play instead, your imagination will do the play more justice.  "},{"Title":"Branagh is the best Hamlet I have ever seen.","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Branagh, as usual, puts the vigor back into Shakespeare, and his is the most vivid Hamlet I've ever seen.  He also uses often-omitted scenes to great effect;  in fact the emotional turning point of the film comes during a scene (with Robin Williams as Osrick) that is almost never staged.Fantastic cameos by Williams, Billy Christal and Rufus Sewell, as well as the great Judi Dench in a silent scene.  Brian Blessed is a monumental ghost, with more life to him than most of the Hamlets I've seen!  "},{"Title":"The cure for insomnia, at last!","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If a cure for insomnia is what you're looking for, be sure to pick up Kenneth Branagh's Hamlet.  It is too long and too dull--perfect for that sleepless someone for whom sleeping pills do nothing.  Kenneth Branagh stars as Hamlet, with hideous bleach-blond hair and an even more hideous moustache, and does a hideous job.  He speaks at least three quarters of his lines in a whispery monotone which creates a nervous twitch in the viewer the thumb suddenly has an irresistible urge to push the fast-forward button until he stops talking.  (Actually, in some cases, the twitch is the temptation to laugh hysterically at his attempts to be dramatic when it just sounds as though he has laryngitis.  Both twitches at once are common too.) When he isn't speaking in that irksome whisper, he may or may not sound inappropriately pompous.  Not only that, but this is the full text of Hamlet, so we get four hours of this annoyance.It is set in the 1800s, which adds a nice charm at some places but for the most part seems rather pointless, although the sets and swordplay are breathtaking.  Countless flashbacks are thrown in for no apparent reason,when the money going into those scenes should have gone towards getting another actor to play Hamlet.  Julie Christie is unremarkable as Gertrude, Shakespeare god Derek Jacobi the same in the role of Claudius.  Richard Briers plays Polonius as sensible and savvy, rather than the bumbling old fool he is; this ruins at least half the humor.  Even Billy Crystal as the gravedigger in the funeral scene can't brighten up his section of the script, and the same even goes for (gasp) Robin Williams as Osric.  (I admit I am biased--no one beats the fluffy Osric from the Laurence Olivier version--but the cameos are as countless as the flashbacks, and as unnecessary.)The only redemption of this movie is Kate Winslet as Ophelia.  She shows remarkable versatility as an actress, moving convincingly from sorrowful to scared to sexy to psychotic as the script dictates.  The climax of the movie is in her insanity scene; despite how the rest of the movie floundered, I literally held my breath as I watched that part.  She is so convincingly despondent and lost in her songs and imaginary flowers that it rivets you. Strange that between this movie and Titanic (which was created after Hamlet), she seems to have decreased in her growth as an actress.Unless you are planning to watch only Kate Winslet's scenes and then use it to get a good night's sleep, I highly recommend not renting Kenneth Branagh's Hamlet.  You only get so many hours in a lifetime; don't waste four of them on this tediousness. "},{"Title":"Best movie ever made!","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Kenneth Branagh's Hamlet is absolutely positively exquisite. Everything about it captures the essence of Shakespeare. Though it is four hours long, one can hardly tell because the presentation is so heart felt. At the end of the four hours, you actually wish that there was more!! The length is much outweighed by the beauty and quality. Branagh's role as director results in pure art-the beautiful colors, the setting, everything about it. Branagh's performance as the tormented Hamlet captures the feeling and the emotions of the character better than any other film version of the Shakespeare play. His acting is beautiful and superb, and this film should give him the title of best actor in the history of acting.  "},{"Title":"The best depiction of a masterpiece","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is truly the quintessential rendition of Hamlet.Kenneth Branagh has given us Shakespeare's immortal tragedy just the way it was meant to be presented.This film far exceeds the inaccurate and cliche Mel Gibson version and I will admit it out does Lawrence Olivier's Hamlet.Nothing has been omitted,not a single line or scene.The performances given by Kenneth Branagh,Sir Derek Jacobi,and Kate Winslet are spectacular.Even the specific phrasing and delivery of the lines are perfect.Kenneth Branagh gives the best rendition of the To Be or Not To Be soliloqui that I have ever seen,on screen or on stage.When I first saw the film I kept thinking to myself This is exactly what Shakespeare must have envisioned when he wrote it "}{"Title":"AWFUL","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is the absolute WORST interpretation of a Shakespearean play ever. As a devout fan of the work, I am OFFENDED at this horrible attempt to out-do Zeffirelli's version of only FIVE YEARS EARLIER.This film is an obvious reaction to Zeffirelli's, doing everything opposite. It is TOO long.  I love Hamlet, yet I was bored out of my mind by the second scene.  The acting is ATROCIOUS.  I have never seen so many big names bomb at the same time.Hamlet is a sad story of a man's internal conflicts.  This version makes it out to be some scary action packed adventure.  Hamlet is portrayed as a FLAT, BORING, WACKO.  He makes no sense whatsoever.I am appalled that people now associate one of the greatest works ever written is now associated with this c**p.  It is overdone in every way, yet in all that trouble it has absolutely no lasting effect.  This is not a work of art, it is a waste of precious film and time. "},{"Title":"the best of all Hamlet adaptations","Date":"18 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Hamlet is a play to be read and watched as long as man lives. and among the adaptations of the greatest play of Shakespeare, Kenneth Branagh's is truly a masterpiece. the difference between the other adaptations, Branagh's Hamlet is more colorful, and it uses the full, original text of the play, apart from the time it takes place. thus, it is very useful for literature students in that sense. Kenneth Branagh as hamlet, especially when he screams out I loved Ophelia!, is fascinating, not to mention the rest of the cast. in short, it is the best Hamlet adaptation with its respect for the original text. any special scenes? the whole movie is a special scene! "},{"Title":"Rich entertainment for the ambitious viewer","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If you have been lucky enough to see Shakespeare done well on stage, you know what an immersive experience it can be.  The problem is that the language is hard to follow and the plots are complicated.  Unless you have actually studied the play before seeing it, it can be completely lost on you.  Shakespeare can especially lose the modern viewer if it is done badly or with the wrong kind of enthusiasm.Kenneth Brannagh is the latest actor to attempt to take Shakespeare to the movie going audience in an uncompromising way.  This means little or no abridging.  You get the whole play and these plays can be very long.  It means no tampering with the very old English, which has changed very much over the years.  It also means carefully studying the plot itself and not bending to a classical rut or some modern psychological-pop-gizmo.His efforts are a great success and he puts the credit in the hands of Shakespeare and his plays where it belongs.  His Hamlet is a great entertainment experience for the home viewer, which is how I saw it.  I rented it on VHS.  The uninitiated need not plod through the whole thing in one sitting in some movie theatre.  It can easily be seen over and over again and you pick up something new each time.  This is my second VHS viewing.This particular interpretation sets Hamlet in a more modern era.  I think the set is actually some real Danish castle or something.  I'm not sure, but it is beautiful and it all works, mostly, very well.  There are many exciting performances from many actors I am sure we are all familiar with and a few that will not be familiar at all.  Some performances for the seasoned movie goers to look for would be Charleton Heston, Billy Crystal and Jack Lemmon.  Sadly, not every scene is performed perfectly.  One might imagine that this observation is snobbery, but part of the rush of seeing Shakespeare is seeing scenes performed, or at least managed, to perfection.You can find Hamlet at your local library.  Check it out, find a scene and read it out loud.  How did you do?Now memorize it.  Now see the movie again. "},{"Title":"Exhausting","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Yes, the visuals are grand.  Yes, there are some good performances.  Unfortunately, Branagh's is not one of them.Kenneth Branagh is just too over-the-top and indulgent as Hamlet.  Maybe it is a matter of taste, but it is vitally important that you like the man who plays Hamlet as the character speaks more than the rest of the cast put together.Another problem is the script; it was written as a play, it was turned into a movie.  A really long movie.  I have nothing against long movies, but this one really was long on the dialogue.  It didn't have to be this way.  I think this play has to be cut a lot to make a tolerable movie.  (I would see the Zefferelii one.  Really conveys the spirit of the original without making it a marathon movie.)All in all, it was not terrible but I will not sit through it again. "},{"Title":"Rank Bardolotry","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Hamlet cries out for cutting, for complete removal of the martial frame & merciless editing of LONG asides on the theater wars & the art of acting that STOP the play. Branagh is NOT a bad Hamlet, especially when he quiets himself (a particularly nice graveyard scene performance), but Jacobi might have been better employed as Polonius, Winslet is an unconvincing Ophelia, Christie is neither here nor there as Gertrude, the Altmanesque cameo casting is distracting (though some of the celebs perform capably), the opening & closing scenes are grossly extravagant (Hamlet is NOT Henry V?), the straight jacket & modern fencing gear are silly notions, the whole thing rings stiff/false/inflated. The 1990 Zeffirelli/Gibson is truer to the spirit by being less obviously obsessed with the letter?      "},{"Title":"Branagh","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The internet has made digging up real information virtually impossible. When it first appeared, I remember that many people believed that all our library books would be scanned onto microchip (and then quietly destroyed as no longer necessary).Well, a lot of them have been destroyed, but unfortunately somebody forgot to scan them first.Hamlet has been a fascinating subject for female actors since the beginning of film itself (Sarah Benhardt is apparently the first to have the play recorded on film). Sometime before the second World War, a female actress in England decided to make a complete film of the (then) accepted authoritative copy of the whole of Shakespeare's play. The film ran some 5 hours.I have searched and searched for information about this woman and her film, and have come up with naught. I mention this at all because Branagh earned a reputation for his version of Hamlet even before the film's release with his promise of the complete version of the whole play (according to currently accepted authoritative texts).Well, as it turns out, having a complete version of a play doesn't actually mean one has a good performance of it.Branagh clearly wants us to forget the Olivier version - but unfortunately makes all of Olivier's mistakes without any of Olivier's delicious Gothicism (which is really what makes the Olivier play special). So Branagh is loud, ego-centric, pretentious, neurotic - all the worst aspects of Olivier's Hamlet - but never brooding, mysterious, or ethereal - many of Olivier's best qualities. Olivier's Hamlet appears to be visiting from another world - and none too happy about his short stay in Denmark. Branagh's Hamlet is visiting a Kenneth Branagh film festival, and got lost at the wine-and-cheese buffet.Understand that I really admire Branagh's previous Shakespeare efforts, and believe him to be an excellent actor. But Mary Shelley's Frankenstein showed us a side of Branagh - loud and egotistical - that we didn't really need, and then he pours that all into this film - which unfortunately we have to suffer with for four whole hours, if we choose.Will some internet computer wiz please remember not to preserve this film? "},{"Title":"I'm very disaPOINTed","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  KB's Much Ado About Nothing is one of the greatest adaptations of Shakespeare to the big screen.  KB's Hamlet is one of the worst.  The special effects were childish, the humor was stale, flat and unprofitable, KB was wooden, many famous actors barely knew their lines and I doubt any understood what they were saying.  And what was that guard doing jumping onto the back of the other one at the beginning?  Was that supposed to be funny?  And the Doc Zhivago ending?  What's up with that?And the pace of the movie!!!  Slower than a Jovian year!  I've seen Hamlets that went by in a flash because of the humor and the quick pace of the play. This movie seems to go on forever.Now for good parts.  The film did have a very good look it.  And Sir Derek .. . wow . . . that is the best Claudius I have ever seen.I can only hope that KB returns to the formula he used for Much Ado and Henry V for his next Shakespeare adaptation.Nick  "},{"Title":"I will never again go by  the  average rating,","Date":"25 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The author and director both should have enough IQ and sensitivity to understand the original.Adaptation can enhance the impact of a work. Example is the 1955 British film adaptation of William Shakespeare's historical play of the same name, by Laurence Olivier.In this case it failed badly. The choice of actors, alternatively whispering and screaming.Intimate, graphical insets which detracts from the real drama.Attempt to change the character of the hero. All that are mortal sins.Author-director should have written his own play not be a parasite of a totally different drama . "},{"Title":"Spectacular if inconsistent production of over-rated Shakespeare play","Date":"29 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As someone who appreciates the work of the English Bard, I admire attempts to stage and film the plays of William Shakespeare and generally I have enjoyed the ones I've seen, especially the BBC productions of the late 1970s/early 1980s. This isn't the first time Hollywood has tackled Hamlet either, with Mel Gibson and Franco Zeffirelli's effort in 1989. This one, in sheer ambition and flair, is a very entertaining watch despite Branagh's rigid commitment to do the play full-length.I have never been very fond of Hamlet the play. This is not to denigrate Shakespeare, but there is just something about it that does not appeal to me. It has some great speeches but above all the plot and the characters are a bit of a bore. Romeo and Juliet, Richard III and Much Ado About Nothing - THEY are classic Shakespeare plays. Hamlet is far too dependent on court intrigue and the meandering musings of it's central character at the expense of genuine emotion and as such comes off as a bit flat.The plot centres in on Hamlet, Prince of Denmark (Branagh) who has returned from Wittenburg University to see his father drop dead and his mother Gertrude (Julie Christie) shacking up with his uncle Claudius (Derek Jacobi) who has since assumed the throne of Denmark. His father's Ghost (Brian Blessed) haunts Hamlet's home in Elisnore Castle and lets the grief-stricken young prince know that Claudius killed him, setting Hamlet on a path to revenge...In his DVD introduction to the movie, Branagh states he wanted to make the definitive version of Hamlet and assembled a high budget, top-class location in Blenheim Palace as well as an all-star cast to do it. Unfortunately he has not done as well he might. He gives his English stage actor friends the biggest roles and the Hollywood actors he has drafted in are given bit-parts.A further inconsistency derives from his giving actors like Sir John Mills, Sir John Gielgud and Dame Judi Dench throwaway roles only referred to in the original text and their appearances are often less than a minute long. The only place where this arguably works is in the inclusion of comedian Ken Dodd as Yorick, when Hamlet gives his famous speech Alas, poor Yorick as an ode to his late court jester.Branagh also fails to show two crucial events in the play Ophelia's suicide by drowning and Hamlet's escape on a pirate ship after having been exiled to England by Claudius. Their absence, combined with the above throwaway parts, gives the film a maddening inconsistency.It's not all bad, however. Derek Jacobi is excellent as the scheming Claudius and brings a suave charm to the role. His demise, as a result of a falling chandelier, is also very well done. Richard Briers is a delightfully restrained Polonius, played not as a gibbering fool but a competent statesman who's just in the wrong place at the wrong time. Kate Winslet is fine as Ophelia and Rosencrantz and Guildenstern (Timothy Spall and Reece Dinsdale) are suitably clueless. Branagh's Hamlet isn't actually too bad, although he could have toned it down in some parts. His wild, stagey energy is a little too comedic in places.Blenheim Place is a superb location, and Branagh gets a lot of mileage out of the snowy surroundings and mountainsides. The concluding set-piece is excellent with Norwegian forces crashing in on Elsinore as the Danish royal court implodes.A sterling effort from the industrious Branagh, but it's not enough to change my opinion of Shakespeare's most over-rated work. "},{"Title":"Young hamlet struggles w/ his throne-stealing unctuous uncle and gradually learns to believe in the supernatural.","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" AHH! The glory of a film that captures the spirit of Shakespeare's most beloved play...a feast for the eye, marvelous acting, and a glittering costume and design ensemble make this the best filmed rendition of Hamlet ever- Laurence Olivier, you've been had. Watching this movie is a painless(nay,the extreme opposite) way of upping your familiarity with the Bard, and impressing the world in g. with the ease you quote from HAMLET. (Kate Winslet is also stunning- so go ahead, be shallow, and choose the movie for its looks) Derek Jacobi masterfully fills the role of Hamlets uncle- he's friendly and suave at the start, and penitent and malicious at the end- And Ken Branaugh (though he may be a tad too peroxide) convinces all when he vows love, revenge, and friendship. A MUST SEE (if you have four hours, eh?) "}{"Title":"Word for Word, but off?","Date":"10 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I really enjoyed this movie in its original literary sense. It show the play word for word, scene by scene. Kenneth is a brilliant actor and cute too. Kenneth's act was wonderful as well as the other characters. The passion and accuracy of this movie was educational. I liked the scenes that showed what was going on while characters tell a story. I would give it a 10, but due to not having a scenery and customes like it should have been, it loses a point giving it a 9. Even the actor who played the Queen should have been a young man like they used to do it, not a woman. OVERALL, this movie is awesome if you want to know exactly what happens in the play and hear word for word. If not, then just watch Gibson's version since it's for pure entertainment. "},{"Title":"So why do I complain about its lightning?","Date":"7 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The movie is almost perfect except the lightning. The actual lightning of the movie doesn't represent the dark, hopeless atmosphere of the original play. We know Shakespearean Theatre addresses people's imagination rather than his/her scenery. What you see is not more important in Hamlet than what you hear (or think or imagine). For this, in Shakesperean time, there were little settings on the stage. First of all, it was impossible to set the stage with props and furniture. Thus, Shakespeare supported his plays by adding extra verse which described the setting to the audience. This restriction freed Shakesperean theatre from putting the plays under several stage restraints  so that it came nearer to temporary movies in its fast editing.So why do I complain about its lightning? Still, I'm complaining about its lightning because Branagah ignored the stage conditions of the Shakesperean time. He used brilliantly lit, overfilled settings which bothers our eyes with its 18th century decoration and  fashion which is a distraction because the verse has enough decoration and description.Also, by ignoring the setting conditions of Shakesperean time, Branagah misses the chance to visualise the tragic look of the play. If Branagah used a low key lightning with strong contrast (i.e. dark and light together), the movie would seem more grotesque as it is.For me, the time shift of the play from ancient times to the 18th century is also useless and perturbing. We know that no Shakesperean play needs the adaptation of time to seem more contemporary. They are so universal and moving that any time shift is unnecessary.It is clear that Branagah wanted the audence like his movie very much so he shifted the time near 20th century; but, for me, it was useless.  "},{"Title":"A sealed deal!","Date":"16 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Branagh's amazing version of Hamlet has set the standard which in my opinion cannot be matched, at least not during this generation!  This is the most complete and intense Hamlet to date.  I've seen different adaptations including a stage play as well.  This is truly a superior work of art that shouldn't be dismissed by true Shakespeare disciples. "},{"Title":"Minor flaws are put into perspective by the scale of this wonderful production","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In the mid-1800's the palace of Elsinore, Denmark is on the brink of war with the growing Norwegian army as led by Fortinbras.  In the middle of this conflict Prince Hamlet is dismayed when his mother Gertrude marries his uncle Claudius within two weeks of his father's, the King, death.  When the Kings spirit appears to Hamlet and reveals that Claudius murdered him and took his crown and wife.  As those around him try to work out what is wrong Hamlet descends into madness with only thoughts of exposing Claudius and avenging his father.  Indeed something in rotten in the state of Denmark as plot and counter plot threatens those within the kingdom.What can I say of this magnificent and ambitious labour of love?  It is indeed worthy of praise but I am worthy to praise such a thing?  I can't add many words that have not already been said by reviews professional and amateur alike.  The scale of this film makes it without saying that it will have flaws, but such that there is is minor compared to the sweeping nature of the film.  The story is classic and well told here.  Using the full text was a risk but Branagh the director guides us through the meaning within the words to good effect.  He uses the focus of the camera and other visual interpretations to clarify the meaning.That this film is not difficult to follow is to his credit.  Although I didn't get all of the subplots and understand the significance of every scene I wasn't struggling to keep up with the meaning and direction of the plot.  The length of the film wasn't a problem for me because that is simply the time it took to tell the full story.  However I understand that 4 hours is quite intimidating for most &#150; the only times I have watched this film in 4 years is two days when I was off work!  However I think Branagh saw this criticism coming and he puts a little humorous spin on some of the dialogue.  `This is too long' says Polonius of the first player's speech, `Say on' mocks Hamlet `he's for a jig or a tale of bawdry or he sleeps!'  Also later when directing a player on how to speak Hamlet, he advises him not to go OTT and waste his emotion as the majority of the audience are mainly only interested in `inexplicable dumb shows and noise'.  While Shakespeare himself wrote these lines, I did detect a glimmer of mischief as Branagh delivered those lines, perhaps thinking of the multiplexes where this great play would struggle to draw audiences alongside endless noisy comedies or dumb actioners!If it does have one glaring flaw it is in the casting.  At once the casting is both sublime and ridiculous.  The ridiculous is the use of star names in parts that do not demand anyone of such ability or simply don't fit the star assigned.  An example of the former is the use of Dench and Gielgud in a brief scene used to silently backup the player's dialogue.  Similar why bring in Depardieu to deliver a few lines with no character or understanding.  An example of the latter is the shameful waste that is the use of Jack Lemmon.  He is clearly ill at ease in the role and you can see his discomfort where he is a spare wheel in the early scenes his Marcellus shares with Hamlet and Horatio.  Branagh is clearly living out a dream and for the most part he is perfect.  At times I found his `madness' poorly judged, repeating words like a mocking child and bouncing off the walls like a clown didn't work for me &#150; but this is a small part of his overall performance.  Christie is perfectly pitched and Winslet shows a range that surprised me.  Briers is good as the fool and Jacobi is well cast as Claudius.  So many strong performances that I find it hard to list!  Blessed deserves mention simply because he is uncharacteristically understated and all the more powerful for it.The all star cameos are not as distracting as I feared.  Those given enough to work with are generally able to make a good impression.  Heston gives the best performance I've seen from him in ages. Crystal's wit and style compliments his lines as a witty gravedigger. Jimi Mistry is blink and miss him.  Robin Williams is OK but stands out too much, and why does he play his character so camp?!  Faces like Ken Dodd and John Mills simply flicker onscreen but it kind of adds to the feeling of quality in depth.Overall it is hard to fault this film with reasonable complaints that wouldn't leave me open to being picky.  The production, set and costumes are priceless &#150; the look and feel of the whole film feels as rich and extensive as the dialogue itself.  I acknowledge that it has its flaws, but look at the scale of the production and the scope of the film &#150; any flaws fade to insignificance. "},{"Title":"Where is the DVD?","Date":"16 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I would like to know why this is not on DVD yet. It is am amazing piece of work. So many titles that are absolute filth are already mastered to DVD. What is the hold up with this most excellent rendering of Hamlet. I would really like to know. "},{"Title":"DVD now!  Please.","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I recall seeing this Hamlet when it first came out.  I think the words of others sum it up well.. it is minorly flawed, but overall brilliant.I simply want to add mine to the chorus of voices asking for this to be released in DVD.  It really, really deserves to be. "},{"Title":"Inventive interpretation of the play but not the best","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is definitely an important interpretation of Hamlet on screen. The oratorical skills of Branagh especially when he twists his face to say  `Words, words, words..' are magnetic. Of particular note is Branagh's felicity with the use of mirrors, so appropriate for cinema than for theatre, for the famous `to be or not to be' sequence. Shakespeare would have loved this innovation.Initially, I was amused to see Julie Christie traipse around in a most non-queenly manner as if she was reprising her old role of Bethsheba in `Far from the Madding Crowd'. As the film progressed, she evolved into a very credible queen. If this progression was Branagh's intent, full marks to the director.The editing (Neil Farrel) and music (Patrick Doyle) were equally commendable throughout the film. The conversation between Laertes and the priest at the burial is accentuated in this adaptation, which is again a Branagh touch of brilliance. The silent cameo of Sir John Mills (bringing to mind his award winning role in Ryan's Daughter), the performances of Kate Winslett and Derek Jacobi, the short appearances of Billy Crystal and Robin Williams, and the rendering of  `In Pace' by Placido Domingo were definite highlights of this version.   What was out of place? The pulling down of statues is one twist of adaptation that was not called for. Why does Branagh use a different dye for his hair and another for his beard? And the below par performance  of Jack Lemmon? However, my vote for the best version of Hamlet goes to Grigory Kozintsev's 1964 black and white cinemascope version in Russian. If you love to watch Shakespeare's plays as movies-the finest adaptations are those of the late Kozintsev who made `Hamlet' (`Gamlet' in Russian) and `King Lear' (1969). Most versions have English subtitles. The late Lord Laurence Olivier in the book `Shakespeare on Film' applauded these Soviet `Christian-Marxist' interpretations of the plays. Kozintsev's two films had the music of Shostakovich, translation of Pasternak, photography by a great cameraman called Jonas Gritsius and unforgettable performances by fine actors such as Innokenti Smoktunovsky (Hamlet) and Yuri Jarvet (King Lear). Branagh, inventive as he is, would be humbled by Kozintsev, who used black and white and cinemascope or widescreen format for dealing with the dark subject when he could indeed have used color as many directors have resorted to while adapting the play on screen.  "},{"Title":"Best film version of the play, ever","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Definitely worth watching over and over again.  Beautifully directed, and you won't soon forget Branagh bounding around manically, as Hamlet-seemingly-gone-mad.  Winslet plays a heartbreaking Ophelia.  The best actress of our generation, folks, right there.  Julie Christie is a beautiful queen.  You'll see many familiar faces, notably Billy Crystal as First Gravedigger.  All right, so it's the full-text, 4 hours long.  If you ever felt the slightest pull of appreciation for Shakespeare, you'll enjoy this film.   "},{"Title":"Not the best possible, but the best up to now.","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Not as good as many stage productions, but the most successful of film productions extant despite many weaknesses.  Olivier's encounter with the ghost was more effective without the superficial special effects.  Branagh violates all the principles of acting he tells the players to avoid. Like most modern actors he tries to turn Shakespeare into prose. The beauty, shading and complexity of the poetic speech is smothered; almost as bad as the mumble school of acting.  The new interpretation of an actual sexual encounter with Ophelia and of Fortinbras' military invasion of the palace violate the overall meanings and pathos of the play.  Olivier put the focus of Hamlet's death where it belongs . . . on Hamlet. "},{"Title":"A great example of Shakespear for the masses!","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"       Although there has been much criticism of Branagh's over the top performance and the mixed performances of the who's who list of famous Hollywood personalities, the bottom line is that this Hamlet is the first I've seen that will truly hold the attention of most movie-goers and bring Shakespeare's greatest play to a mass audience particularly the young. That it does it for over 4 hours in the very superior long version, is truly an accomplishment.       Like Branagh's Much Ado about Nothing, Henry V., and Zefferelli's 1968 version of Romeo and Juliet, modern audiences without a great deal of experience can understand and appreciate the greatest literature in the English language. More, they can relate to it. This, after all, is what Shakespeare himself would have done.      Performances are mixed; Branagh is good, but not great in the title role, Julie Christie, who makes Gertrude a truly interesting character, gives her best performance in years, and Derek Jacobi, who was not great some years ago in his own Hamlet, gives the performance of his life as Claudius. The movie is worth seeing for Jacobi alone.      This is a must see especially for college and high school students who thought they could not understand Shakespeare. Like the young audiences of Romeo and Juliet, 30 years ago, they will find themselves saying, I've felt like that!  "}{"Title":"A Cinematic Masterpiece.  Kenneth Branagh's Greatest Shakespearean Film.","Date":"21 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The first time I saw this excellent production, it was on VHS (I was too young to see it when it came out in theaters) and was literally blown away by Kenneth Branagh's genius in every aspect of this film. Everything about it was top-notch (I had grown up watching Charlton Heston in The Ten Commandments and Ben-Hur and Robin Williams in Aladdin.) I had seen Sir Laurence Olivier's Hamlet previous to this version and thought it was the work of a master (it's not without reason that he's acclaimed as the greatest Shakespearean actor who ever lived). Zeferelli's chopped-up version starring Mel Gibson isn't crap, but it's not as good as either Branagh or Olivier's film versions. To make a long story short, I was a true fan of Kenneth Branagh after viewing this colossal epic, made in the style of The Ten Commandments, Ben-Hur and Spartacus. This is the full text of the play, with a few additions by Kenneth Branagh, along with a nice twist or two (which make a lot of sense). MILD SPOILER ALERT The twist occurs almost at the end of the movie and it involves Osric (Robin Williams).Finally, this full-length version of William Shakespeare's greatest play (arguably with Romeo & Juliet, Othello, Richard III, Julius Caesar, Macbeth and King Lear) is out on DVD (and in a well-deserved 2-Disc Special Edition and NOT with the crappy bare-bones presentations that are sometimes given to DVD editions of Shakespeare films). The feature commentary by Kenneth Branagh and Russell Jackson is excellent, as is the 7-minute introduction to the movie by Kenneth Branagh, a 12 minute Cannes promo for the film and the featurette To Be On Camera A History With Hamlet, included on Disc 2. Everything is very informative. The DVD also includes trailers of the 1990 and 1996 film versions of Hamlet, the 1965 and 1995 versions of Othello and two films included in the Shakespeare Collection along with the 1965 Othello and this hypnotic film version of Hamlet. The transfer from VHS to pristine DVD format is as marvelous as the movie itself. Everything is crystal clear in terms of content and image resolution.This movie might scare a lot of people off, as it is 4 hours long, but it never feels that long (more like 2 hours; but I'm always hypnotized by this version, because it is so well done). I am pleased to recommend this version of the Bard's longest and greatest work to everyone who enjoys film and or is a student of Shakespeare. I also highly recommend Olivier's version. Rated PG for some violence. "},{"Title":"What a Masterpiece","Date":"19 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Maybe the Milestone of Branagh's career. A great cast,in a shape of pure revival and directed by a genius of theatrical transposition,walks the profane through Shakespeare's masterpiece. A good Cut Version,a great LV(for fanatics only). Dresses,dialogues,interpretation will surely bring you into one of the best revivals ever...you will cry,you will laugh,you will hate but,above all,you'll be moved by an eternal doubt...Is he crazy?Or he's not? It's up to you,to find out the truth. P.s.Listen carefully the very first monologue,and you won't even remember To be,or not to be...The choice is between 2 1\2 hours,and 4 hours...even if you think it's too much,watch it,or you'll miss it.Fairy tales shouldn't end so sadly.The Bard would say Bravo! "},{"Title":"Fantastic!","Date":"25 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Though I am biased in that I actually like Shakespeare (unlike most of this country), I found the film incredible. It was just beautiful! Yes, Branagh can be criticized for taking definitive steps that were merely implied by the Bard (such as a sexual relationship between Hamlet and Ophelia). He also took out long-held literary assumptions which were just as faulty. For example, negating a romantic love between Hamlet and his mother totally changes their relationship and the film as a whole. I think Branagh, though obviously an egotist, has a great capacity as a director. The problem with Shakesperean films is that the directors have no knowledge of the text, but Branagh has that knowledge. He knows just how to make Hamlet work from the stage to the screen. While I can (somewhat) understand why their is such criticism over the time length of this film, I suggest that these critics attend the theater one night and see how long such a production takes you. Shakespeare was a theatrical writer. His work is theatrical and, therefore, Branagh kept it theatrical. If one has issues with length, then perhaps such pieces of art are not for you. I just can't say enough about this film and eagerly await the DVD release. "},{"Title":"I  believe in miracles and I believe in Kenneth Branagh","Date":"12 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Yes, I totally agree. I, too, had to watch this movie in one of my classes while we were reading the play and it was scrumptrilescent. While everyone was sleeping (because they are all total losers and have no appreciation for anything beauteous unless it's on MTV or US Weekly), I was falling in love with another movie. The casting of Ophelia was great because Kate Winslet is my home girl ever since I saw Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind. She really plays a crazy well. I LOVE HAMLET. Honestly, it's one of my favorites from Shakespeare. And not only is the movie great but the soundtrack is kick ass as well. I'm considering purchasing it. And although no one is going to read this or care, I just want to say Thank you to Kenneth Branagh, Patrick Doyle, AND William Shakespeare for making my life wonderful. That, and Can I please have your babies? Thanks. a lot. "},{"Title":"Wildly uneven but worth seeing","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Despite what you've heard the all star cast is not as distracting as the fact the film swings wildly from one of the worst Shakespeare adaptations to one of the best films ever made on a scene by scene basis. I saw this in the theater originally and had to leave 90 minutes in because of its ping pong nature was too much to endure at late show that was due to end close to 2am.I've since watched it several times on tape and TV and think its one of the best adaptations I've ever seen. The film contains several actors best performances, Charlton Heston leaps instantly to mind. If you want to see and understand Hamlet see this version, but be warned there are some truly awful moments in it. "},{"Title":"Just see it! ... NOW!!!!!!","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I love this movie! How can one not love Shakespeare?!?! Every time I watch it I just sit and focus and totally completely indisputably enjoy myself ... its intense ... its incredible ... its inspiring ... its beautiful ... its tragic ... its .. its .. its just damn good!Hail hail to Branagh for making Hamlet work on film! "},{"Title":"Best Movie Ever","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this film tonight and I must say I am truly impressed with it. I am a big fan of old literature but this filming of this ancient play send shivers down my spine.Especially the graveyard scene, with the dead Ophelia truly got me very emotional. This has never happened to me before...Also, the actors, under whom, Robin Williams (one of my favourites) were very excellent.This definetely worth a 10. "},{"Title":"Was This Really Hamlet?","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I will admit that I have not seen this movie--only a couple scenes.  I'm an English major studying Shakespeare and my professor brought the movie in for us to see.  Dr. Pastoor seems to think the depiction of Hamlet himself was great, but I thought it was silly.  Hamlet is methodical, thoughtful, and above all things slow.  In this adaptation he seemed to bounce off the walls like a sort of manic psychiatric patient (and I have known my share of them).  This may sound silly, but I picture David Schwimmer (mind my spelling) as the perfect Hamlet.  Think about that for a bit and you might see what I mean.  But then again, like I said, I've never seen the movie. -Joshua White "},{"Title":"ABSOLUTELY THE BEST THING THAT HAS EVER HAPPENED TO ME","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm out of words to describe the brilliance of this film. I saw it last year for the first time and my life has not been the same since. I get still amazed every time I watch it and it is not for a moment boring or incomprehensible, although I am not a native speaker. My five-year-old daughter (who doesn't speak a word of English) watched it and could understand what was going on thanks to the excellent performances. You have to be deaf and blind (or from another planet?)not to like this one.I'd like to THANK Branagh AND his ego for creating a true work of art!THIS IS THE DEFINITIVE HAMLET. "},{"Title":"possibly the best Hamlet ever","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Branaugh once again proves his brilliance as a director with this inspired version of Hamlet.  After the admirable but flat version by Zefferelli, it's nice to see the passion and fire brought back to material that now seems both familiar yet fresh.  Yes, some scenes have no purpose, but blame Shakespeare for that.  Kate Winslet is extremely impressive as Ophelia, and Derek Jacobi (who did an even better job as Hamlet in the BBC production) makes Claudius complex and not entirely unsympathetic.  And if Claudius is complex, Branaugh makes Hamlet a complete cipher, understandable but remote at the same time, a character with limitless depths.    If the acting is superb, the set design and costumes are incredible; the set design of the castle of Elsinore, with its one-way mirrors and secret passages, resembles the labyrinthian nature of the plot and the characters.  It is what Branaugh aspired to, the definitive Hamlet. "}{"Title":"One of the best films ever made.","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Kenneth Branagh's towering achievement, Hamlet, is a bold, richly developed full-length version of one of Shakespeare's most famous plays.Using an international cast of some of today's most popular and best actors, Branagh wastes no time or a single line. Adding color and power to many oft-repeated monologues, he sets some of the key scenes in new and intriguing places.Branagh's actors are, for the most part, terrific. Derek Jacobi plays Claudius with skill and intelligence, making us realize he may have been a fine leader under better circumstances; Kate Winslet makes for a moving Ophelia, the doomed lover of Hamlet; Julie Christie is a stronger Gertrude than Glenn Close was; Charlton Heston is impressive as the Player King; and Branagh, himself, is a graceful Hamlet, in both the quiet moments and the more intense ones.The sets and art direction are beautiful, as are the costumes, creating a world of intrigue, secrets, and mysteries.Branagh's pacing flows so well we never stop to think how long the film is (4 hours). This is something rare among movies.The Academy Awards snubbed the movie in the major categories, acknlowledging the art direction, costumes, and the Patrick Doyle score. Branagh recieved a nomination for adapting the play.  Some critics thought this was odd, but actually it is appropriate considering some of the ingenious ways in which the director uses Shakespeare's words with compelling images.This is one of the best films ever made. "},{"Title":"Will everybody else please do Shakespeare this way?","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm generally opposed to trifling with Shakespeare  didn't care for Olivier's modernizing The Merchant of Venice, for instance.  But I must say this treatment in Blenham Palace works completely.  It's a mesmerizing version, at the top of the heap.  At first I thought Branagh was throwing the part away, perhaps too burdened by his production responsibilities; but then I realized he was just playing it straight.  And how welcome!  All our great actors have to color the part somehow  Geilgud's melancholy, Olivier's indecisiveness, Gibson's bravura.  But Branagh finds the emotions already there; and he takes the immortal prince and makes him believable, and eminently human.  Be prepared for weeping that cleans the soul by the time Placido Domingo gives us the final solo.  A classic, in every sense of the word.   "},{"Title":"Best Hamlet put to film","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When I first read Hamlet, I couldn't help but think of the ending of OUTRAGEOUS FORTUNE, where Bette Midler puts down the play because of how indecisive he is, and says, Give me Romeo any day.  Five acts of a man trying to decide whether or not to kill his uncle or not?  Seemed like overkill to me.  But upon further reading, I grew to really appreciate the play.  I've seen the Olivier and Gibson movie versions(and part of the Nicol Williamson version), and all of them take their model from Olivier; the melancholy Dane.  Olivier at least did it without being self-indulgent about it, but Gibson and, from what I saw, Williamson, looked like they went to the Look, Ma, I'm acting!  I'm acting! school.Now here comes Kenneth Branagh's version, which is breathtaking from start to finish.  It finished #2 on my top ten of 1996(behind THE ENGLISH PATIENT, and ahead of LONE STAR, JERRY MAGUIRE, FARGO, SECRETS & LIES, EVERYONE SAYS I LOVE YOU, FLIRTING WITH DISASTER, BIG NIGHT, and LOOKING FOR RICHARD), and it's the best Hamlet, and maybe the best Shakespeare, put to film. Obviously, Branagh's talents as a filmmaker, for making the full-length version, in 70mm print, and not losing our interest for four hours, is great, but what seems to get overlooked in discussions about this film is his performance in the title role.  This was my favorite performance of the year by far.  Branagh avoids the melodrama which actors seem to get trapped in by playing Hamlet as a normal, regular human being, and makes us understand his actions and feelings each step of the way.  And unlike Olivier, who depended mostly on his voice, Branagh uses his entire body to demonstrate the range of emotions that Hamlet goes through, but since he plays him as normal, none of it seems like scenery-chewing.The rest of the cast is top-notch as well.  I didn't even mind Jack Lemmon, though I agree he was the weakest member of the cast.  The most surprising turn came from Charlton Heston; I've always found him stiff as a board, but he's quite commanding as the Player King.  The other big surprise was Billy Crystal; I thought I'd find him all wrong as the 1st Gravedigger, but he was his usual funny self while being in character.  All in all, a glorious film! "},{"Title":"It seems to me a sterile promontory","Date":"27 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The devil is in the details for Shakespeare. While the words are important, reading between the lines often gives the greatest fulfillment. Someone tell Kenneth Branagh.As a direct and unabridged reading, this Hamlet holds every word to sacrosanct, so it is ultimately the superior PRODUCTION of Hamlet we've yet seen. Or at least a noble attempt, though even this full text is disputed as definitive. As a movie, however, I cannot rate this as anything other than a failure for a very simple reason. Why?It isn't the massive sets, or large format photography. But they don't quite save Hamlet either. One could always point to good old English irony or juxtaposition in such a bright and jolly looking adaptation of what is a dark story of a hallucinating and suicidal boy struggling with the betrayals of his step-father, or perhaps the mother? But for me, it does not hold. Lavish, yes, appropriate? eh&#x85;It isn't the cast, but some choices may leave you scratching Yorick. Robin Williams, Heston and Billy Crystal? While they seemingly were picked up for novelty and not drama, they aren't what bring down this movie either. There are some heavyweights in here, but the movie is notably missing the riveting ghost of Paul Scofield and Ian Holm's layered Polonius from the pop Franco Zeffirelli job. There's really no interpretation at all. A clear sign the movie was not actually directed but simply read aloud.No, what dooms this production of Hamlet for me isn't the 70mm photography, trendy casting, Ben Hur visuals or boomy music. What sinks Hamlet is the actor playing the lead character. Kenneth Branagh plays this part so removed from sympathy and his delivery is so grating, I actually wanted to poison him myself from the first moment he appeared on screen. From his Peter Pan appearance to skippy mannerisms, I could only see this Dane on the label of a peanut butter jar with a ear to ear grin. Hamlet is crazy, but he needs to be at least a little sympathetic to the audience. I could only root for the villain. For the very first time, it was quite sad to see Jakobi's Claudius go at the end. Branagh clearly knows all the words, but he's just a mime. This isn't Hamlet, it's Kenneth Branagh for four hours. Instead of a tormented prince in the midst of doomed love we are stuck with one merely in love with himself. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest films of all time","Date":"9 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Many who watch Shakespeare films tend to classify them in a separate category from all others. While often that differentiation is justified, Kenneth Branagh presents a Hamlet which transcends such a classification.The four-hour film is closer to the play in language (in fact, almost word-for-word) even than any stage production of the 3,880-line play that one can hope to see in one's lifetime. However, that is not the level of the film that truly separates it from most Shakespeare adaptations. The reason this film escapes that classification is that it is Branagh's film, not Shakespeare's. Where many directors seem intimidated by Shakespeare's language and thus place it as a king above all else as they are followers of Shakespeare, Branagh seems to feel as though he is Shakespeare's partner in the film and thus is willing to use daring camera shots and deeply psychological performances.The first thing that must be said is that the complete text makes a fuller, richer, ironically faster-moving and easier-to-follow, and simply better experience than the severely cut version of Olivier's film or the severely cut, rearranged, and rewritten version of Zeffirelli's film. However, there is no need to go into the intricasies of this point here--suffice to say that the script, being the play nearly exactly (there are a few places where words or lines must be chosen from contradictory versions of the play--most famously the line Oh that this too solid/sullied flesh would melt--or Branagh slightly modernizes lines, altering a word here and there), is almost flawless.The acting is also wonderful. Branagh's Hamlet is perfect, being just a shade below the almost-over-the-top hysterics of Derek Jacobi's performance in the BBC production while keeping Hamlet intensely theatrical and bordering on, if not creeping into, real madness and not taking him to the point of Mel Gibson's and Laurence Olivier's swashbuckling Hamlets. He also pulls of the stoic fifth act Hamlet remarkably well, something that Jacobi struggled with. Meanwhile, Brian Blessed gives a stirring performance as the ghost, surprising in its restraint. Derek Jacobi, one of the most under-appreciated actors on earth, manages to take a character who has little to him as written (no, he's not a bloat king, but he's not that much more) and turn him into something more a slimy, slithering political operator and sexual fiend. Kate Winslet also (as always) shines in a wonderful performance as Ophelia, playing her absolutely perfectly. Billy Crystal also deserves notice for his fun cameo as the first gravedigger, seeming to understand the incredible intellectualism the character must exude (no one else can stand up to Hamlet intellectually, remember) and still be a smart alec. The only disappointments here are Jack Lemmon, who sounds woefully out of his element in the worst performance of a man who gave many brilliant ones before and after, and Rufus Sewell, who doesn't have the physicality for Laertes and does not seem to be either the company man who does what he's told or the adventurer Laertes reads as being.Branagh's direction is marvellous. He uses flashbacks, created movements with the camera or sequences not written (Hamlet's chase of Claudius and Laertes through the halls, for example), and a barrage of other visual tricks to keep the audience interested for over four hours. The huge number of close-ups and extreme close-ups allow the actors to go on display even more so than they otherwise would, and to great effect, since almost all of them are so brilliant. He also creates a simply beautiful film, something too often not done in recent times.All in all, Branagh's Hamlet is the quintessential Hamlet. I can understand Olivier fans detesting it, because the two interpretations do not agree at any point, Olivier's being an Oedipal story of a man who cannot make up his mind and Branagh's being far more complex and not at all Oedipal. However, Branagh has the theatricality and energy to play this Hamlet to the hilt to anchor a beautiful, perfectly acted production. I recommend this film to anyone who can sit for four hours, even if they're not Shakespeare fans. "},{"Title":"If you're looking for a complete realisation of the First Folio Hamlet, this may be it.","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Just what is too long for a rendering of Shakespeare's HAMLET? If, like me, you love every word gem of the Bard, there is no too long, even a tad. Bertram Kliman's Three Text Hamlet gives the First and Second Quarto and the First Folio versions in parallel columns. The first two are much shorter, and most scholars and dramaturgs use them only for emendations to the Folio text. It looks like Kenneth Branagh has used just about all of the First Folio, with maybe a pick here and there from the Quartos. Whatever, he has created a magnificent film. Casting, background, direction and camera work defy criticism. Using Blenheim Castle as Elsinore and moving action forward in time does make for some of the usual anachronisms, but then Shakespeare was guilty of plenty of these himself. In any case, the problems are deftly handled. Treat yourself to a splendid HAMLET! "},{"Title":"Something Rotten Indeed","Date":"17 May 2011","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is without a doubt the worst Shakespeare adaptation I've ever seen. That includes Baz Luhrmann's nauseating Romeo + Juliet. I wasn't really sure what to expect going in-- no expectations whatsoever. Except that it would be a full-text adaptation of the play, something so unusual it was surrounded by a good deal of pomp and praise upon the film's initial release. Surely it was a brave thing to do, but was it in the best interests of the story? Absolutely not. In reality, Hamlet was probably never performed in its entirety even in Shakespeare's day.I was never a big fan of Branagh, but he did a reasonably good job with Much Ado About Nothing, both directing and starring. Sadly it's the only halfway decent thing he's ever done. His Hamlet is most foul. It takes a great actor and a great director to be able to police oneself well enough to take on both roles in one of the most famous stories of all time. Branagh fails miserably. The film is largely constructed on two gimmicks-- the first being the percentage of text used (100%, obviously) and the second being its jarring update from medieval to 19th-century Denmark. The first gimmick mortally wounds the film right off the bat. Characters either pompously expound for minutes on end or shout with breakneck speed just to fit it all in. As for the second gimmick, it doesn't serve the story at all. It merely serves to distract us. After all, the primary reason to update the setting of a Shakespearean play is to make some kind of statement. It worked in Titus, and, in theory, even worked in Romeo + Juliet. But all it says here is, I'm Kenneth Branagh and I can do whatever I want. The performances are so-so at best (Julie Christie, Derek Jacobi and Kate Winslet) and gut-wrenchingly awful on average (Branagh, Branagh, and more Branagh). It was nice to see Charlton Heston doing serious work again as the Player King, but crucial casting missteps were made virtually across the board, the worst being Robin Williams as Osric and Jack Lemmon as Marcellus. Indeed the film had almost as many irritatingly pointless cameos as The Greatest Story Ever Told. Say what you will about Mel Gibson. But his performance as Hamlet, mediocre though it was, is leaps and bounds over Branagh's because Gibson had an amazing director, Franco Zeffirelli. Branagh merely thought his own director was great. His ridiculous arrogance bleeds through every frame. No movie in history has ever been so difficult to sit through, so gimmicky, so over-produced *and* so self-indulgent. Siskel and Ebert was right-- it does show Branagh's virtuosity. His virtuosity at making horrible decisions because he wanted to. The Bard would be disappointed to say the least. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I went into Hamlet with exceptionally high hopes, having liked most of Brannagh's other movies. I had also frequently listened to the BBC radio production of Hamlet starring Brannagh and the rest of the Royal Shakespeare Company, many of whom also appeared in the film. When I saw the film version, though, I thought that the acting was terrible. I read someone who had commented on this movie that there was no emotion...just volume. I feel that's an accurate assessment. The movie just devolved into a shouting match between all of the principle characters. It was very disappointing to see, especially considering how good the radio production with essentially the same cast had been.Riding on the tails of his previous successes with Henry V and Much Ado About Nothing, Branngh clearly tried to pull out all the stops with this production, and that may have also worked against him. A huge number of big name stars were signed up to do cameos, and I found such excessive stunt-casting to be disconcerting. In every scene there seemed to be another celebrity trying to make the most of his or her couple of minutes of screen time.I did enjoy the cinematography, which seemed to put you right in the middle of the action. In retrospect, I remember it almost as if I had been watching a 3-D movie. The sets were beautiful, and some of the scenes were genuinely stunning -- I think in particular of the scene at the end where Fortinbras' (sorry if I mispelled it) troops invaded Elsinore.Brannagh seemed to have been staking his reputation on this movie, which I suspect he wanted to be viewed as his masterwork. The trouble was that he seemed to try too hard, and the movie came across as forced. There were many good points to the movie, but I feel they just could not overcome the poor direction and lousy acting which was present. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Adaptation and Interpretation by Ken Branagh","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Kenneth Branagh is a wonderful purveyor of Shakespeare.  His Hamlet is one of the best performances of the character I have seen in a long time. Interestingly enough, one of my favorite Hamlets was Derek Jacobi in the BBC version, and he excellently plays Claudius in this movie version.  All in all, a great movie, a great screenplay, and a great viewing experience. "},{"Title":"kenneth branagh IS hamelt!! lol","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  First of all, Ms. Vanover, if you ever read this- I LOVED Hamlet!! I am not a big Shakespeare fan, and I was dreading reading Hamelt, but my teacher also let us watch Kenneth Branagh's Hamlet. I LOVED it!! He cracked me up so much!! Branagh and all the actors did so wonderully! I could really visualize and get a feel of Hamlet. Usually books/plays are better than movies, but this one was not like that. When you read a play, you read words but see no actions. This movie lets you see the actions and emotions the characters have. I think this is the best play I have ever read in my entire life and the best movie of a play i have ever seen!! So Thank you Ms. Vanover! lol if anyone I know is reading this- Hello!! As my friends know, I cant stop quoting Hamlet!!  "}{"Title":"I loved it","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I loved this film version hamlet because Kenneth portrays this Shakespearean tragedy surrounded by beauty; the sets, the film's score(Patrick Doyle), the performances were impeccable, especially Kenneth's. I also think that it was very intelligent of Kenneth to have cameos of American actors in the film, which was refreshing and entertaining. There's so much to say about this visual masterpiece, Robin Williams, Jack Lemmon, Billy Crystal, Charlton Heston. It has such a huge cast, and i can understand why all these actors wanted to be part of this film, come to think of it, i don't blame them, lol. This is my favorite hamlet adaptation, the director sees the tragedy in a beautiful way, and not all darkness and chaos. Kate Winslet was great, too. One of her first 5 films. I highly recommend this film, it is a jewel of cinema, "},{"Title":"Greatness doth tread upon weakness","Date":"17 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's one of those rare productions, which I like and dislike almost equally and it goes passionately both ways. The points which go first are most influential.What I like about this movie. 1) The actors' dramatic performances (speech, gestures, emotional response). 2) The unabridged text of the original (of course I did not sit with the text near my TV-set to compare, but it seems to be really without cuts). 3) Costumes and sets.What I do not like. 1) The change of epoch (I consider it to be a terrible mistake). 2) The main actor is a bit too old to play Hamlet and Mrs Kate Winslet is a bit too old for Ophelia - no cosmetics can conceal it and I greatly dislike Hamlet's small beard. 3) Uneven pace (it often looks that the actors are speeding it all up or slowing it all down intentionally, which does not look natural.Mark me, I have not mentioned the running time in cons. When the production concerns a classic of the greatest literature creations and treats it almost word for word, time does not matter to me. Some more details on the actors' oral talent.quote HAMLET That's a fair thought to lie between maids' legs. OPHELIA What is, my lord? HAMLET Nothing. unquoteThe way Mr Kenneth Branagh pronounces nothing opens a new interpretation to the words and a new wicked pun.quote HAMLET Words, words, words. ... HAMLET Slanders, sir for the satirical rogue says here that old men have grey beards, that their faces are wrinkled, their eyes purging thick amber and plum-tree gum and that they have a plentiful lack of wit, together with most weak hams all which, sir, though I most powerfully and potently believe, yet I hold it not honesty to have it thus set down, for yourself, sir, should be old as I am, if like a crab you could go backward. ... HAMLET These tedious old fools! unquoteGreatly pronounced and acted. Deserves to be memorized by a foreign student.quote First Player 'Run barefoot up and down, threatening the flames With bisson rheum; a clout upon that head Where late the diadem stood, and for a robe, About her lank and all o'er-teemed loins, A blanket, in the alarm of fear caught up; Who this had seen, with tongue in venom steep'd, 'Gainst Fortune's state would treason have pronounced But if the gods themselves did see her then When she saw Pyrrhus make malicious sport In mincing with his sword her husband's limbs, The instant burst of clamour that she made, Unless things mortal move them not at all, Would have made milch the burning eyes of heaven, And passion in the gods.' unquoteA feast for ears. Performed by Mr Charlton Heston of course. No wonder that this actor did have all the ability to live Hamlet on stage verbally and emotionally, but alas, not physically.By drawing these examples I am just stressing the fact that the whole production can be listened over the radio and enjoyed in its full flood.Therefore, 5 out of 10. I really hate to give this low mark to this production while it is a very strong performance but the negative sides mentioned above are very menacing. And one more thing the irony is that our Hamlet is the greatest. Thank you for attention. "},{"Title":"Lavish Production, But Strange Casting & Who Wants To Hear King James English?","Date":"4 August 2007","Score":"11 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Many will disagree with this point but this film fails on one major point few people today, if any, want to hear King James English spoken. Who wants to strain to understand what the actors are saying, and strain for four hours! Are you kidding me? No wonder this film bombed, except for big fans of Shakespeare. To make it even worse, the lead actor, Kenneth Branagh, speaks in a whisper half the time.Actually, the casting in this Shakespeare classic is mind-boggling; some good, some bad and some very questionable. I mean, comedian Billy Crystal?The most embarrassing performance is by a Hall-of-Fame type actor, the great Jack Lemmon. What is Lemmon doing playing this role? He must have wondered the same thing, but he looked like he could care less. I have never heard him deliver lines in such wooden fashion. If you didn't know it was him, you would have thought they dragged some poor idiot off the street to handle the role.Yes, it's a visual feast, and I appreciated that, but it's too much of everything, almost gaudy in its presentation. Some say all of that reflects Branagh's ego. I don't know; you might ask Emma Thompson about what goes on inside Branagh's brain, not that he isn't intelligent and done some good work. To be fair, I just wish I had more patience with the King James English. Had I been, perhaps I would have enjoyed this lavish production. "},{"Title":"Too long!","Date":"4 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is too long. The plot drags and drags as the movie progresses. 80% of this movie is someone saying a monologue to them self in an empty room. If this movie was 2 hours and 5 minutes, it would be tolerable, but IT ISN'T! All these Shakespearean works are relatively the same, someone dies and someone plots revenge as the another character is slowly going crazy because of some ghost or witch they saw which made them crazy. Honestly, if Shakespeare didn't have sorcery and/or witchcraft in his plays, they would probably stink because those characters are only there to fill in the gaps in the story. All in all, if you like Shakespeare go see this film. If you don't, don't see this film. Also, the acting is great from Robin Williams, Kate Winslet, and Billy Crystal. "},{"Title":"Thumbsdowns, here we come...","Date":"23 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" William Shakespeare's 16th century play in unabridged four hour format! Well, what can you say? It is ambitious and handsome - screenwriter/director/star Kenneth Branagh has set the film in Victorian times! - and yep, Bill knew how to write often beautiful dialogue. Of course these modern Ophelias are not white-dressed, flower-decorated angels of sumptuous Victorian paintings, harking back the play's fair and unpolluted madwoman - this time it's Kate Winslet's turn to lose her mind, and she does it in coarse, realistic manner. Shakespeare has often left me a bit cold, despite the highlights of aforementioned dialogue and handsome historical trappings. Change of pace to trash and filth modern cinema churns, though. "},{"Title":"Mediocre","Date":"4 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  POSSIBLE SPOILERSIt was interesting to see Kenneth Branagh's film take place in the late 19th century, my favorite century.  However, the sex scenes with Hamlet and Ophelia were unnecessary.  The film is far too long and it covers Shakespeare's play from front to back.  I instantly got bored at the start of the second half of the film.  Plus, Branagh decided to cast major stars in this film, most of which were pathetic when trying to act out Shakespearean roles (i.e. Robin Williams, Jack Lemmon).My advice is to rent the Laurence Olivier version or the one with Mel Gibson. "},{"Title":"Stick to directing","Date":"7 March 2007","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Branagh may be a good person but he is just not an exceptional actor. He is a little to flamboyant and lacking in subtlety and depth. The range of emotions that Branagh displays are largely based on the volume of his voice. Intense? he is, histrionic? he is, but you get the idea. Good acting entails more. This is hardly the complexity that we'd expect from a Hamlet or a Henry V (see my review of Henry V) Not to attack the poor guy, he actually did a great job in Much Ado, because his character was supposed to BE a little flamboyant. If you are looking for great acting, go for the BBC collection of Shakespeare's works. Otherwise I suppose this version is just fine. "},{"Title":"The worst piece of so called film I have ever seen","Date":"27 February 2008","Score":"10 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kenneth Branagh has gone far far too over the top for this production. Once again, another person has gone drunk with star power. Over four hours? Ridiculous. Branagh went all the way back to the original texts for some of this dialogue and it is not necessary nor does it add to the movie in any way. The only reason to possibly watch this is for the occasional cameos by decent actors (Gerard Depardieu, Charlton Heston, Rufus Sewell and so on). Branagh has only two modes of acting and it shows considerably. If you have ever seen his King Henry V (which is surprisingly good) or Much Ado About Nothing (also good) then you will recognize both his stentorian monologues and his fast machine gun recitations. Unfortunately these don't match Hamlet's character...who is not a forty year old man. Quite likely, Branagh shot this movie just so he could have a love scene with Kate Winslet. But it still has three and a half hours to go still after that. His interpretation of the character is neither interesting nor even entertaining. Save yourself two and a half hours and watch the old Hamlet. It's the one by Zeffirelli with Mel Gibson. I was forced to watch Branagh's adaptation and personally believe that it is a waste of time, money, and any random thought that might cross your mind as you attempt to watch this so called film. "},{"Title":"Nobody Don't Want a Four Hour Movies","Date":"22 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I am no Shakespeare fan that only Shakespeare story I like is Othello and King Lear. The story was so-so; the acting was brilliant by Kenneth Branagh, Kate Winslet, Julie Christie, Derek Jacobi and Charlton Heston (as cameo) and beautiful color in the film. The film is too long should have been two hours long. It is full of unnecessary scenes and a waste of good actors in minor or small roles (now I wonder why Olivier cut Rosencrant and Guildenstern out in his film because they didn't do nothing). I know Kate Winslet is not a great beauty but Jean Simmons is still the best looking of all them, Kate was believable as Ophelia especially when she went crazy. Charlton Heston did an incredible job for his small role as the player king. Julie Christie and Derek Jacobi were perfect as Gertrude and Claudius they did an incredible job. I will give it a two in half for this. "},{"Title":"visualsA  everything elseC-  Gibson was better","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Visually a good movie.the unabridged script only made the movie unbearably long. It was in no other way anything more than Zefferelli's version. And Gibson is a far better actor than Branagh. Maybe I nitpick,but were those costumes consistent to 16th century Denmark? "}{"Title":"Hamlet","Date":"7 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Apparently the full uncut version of Kenneth Branagh's Hamlet is meant to be four hours long, but on the video I saw it was only two. It is quite a good version of William Shakespeare's classic story about a man troubled by his father's spirit, or something. It has an all star cast including Branagh himself as Hamlet, Kate Winslet as Ophelia, Brian Blessed as the Ghost, Lord Sir Richard Attenborough as English Ambassador (long version), Richard Briers as Polonius, Julie Christie as Gertrude, Billy Crystal as First Gravedigger, Judi Dench as Hecuba (long version), Grard Depardieu as Reynaldo (long version), Ken Dodd as Yorick, Charlton Heston as Player King, Jack Lemmon as Marcellus and Robin Williams as Osric. The two hour version is good! I do kind of want to see the full four hour version. Good! "},{"Title":"A bit too over the top","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is not bad for a study on the play as the scenes follow the order in the original play. However, I feel that it is too close to the play and too over the top. Branagh put almost every single line that Shakespeare wrote into the film, which makes it difficult to understand. As Hamlet, Branagh tries too much to stick to the pentameter, making his speeches sound unnatural, like he's reciting something instead of talking. I like the way the difficult lines are cut out in the Mel Gibson version.I also find that Hamlet is a bit too emotional (cries too much). I do understand that given his situation, he would be a bit unstable. But Branagh did his emotions a bit too much.The ghost scene is over the top. So is the scene when he's yelling at Ophelia. I like the idea of the one-sided mirror, but he shouldn't have shot the scene from the glass side. The scene is not supposed to be funny, but it's hard to resist laughing at the shot of Ophelia's face squashed against the glass.I think Hamlet is a bit too old. I imagine him to be in his twenties, not thirty to forty. His goatee is a bit unnecessary, so is his white-blonde hair that makes him even older. Claudius looks too nice to be a scheming rat who's always drunk. He looks like he could be a Santa Claus.I do like the fact that they changed the time to more modern style, and the costumes and the set are well done--correct to the time period and eye-pleasing. I also like the fact that they played out the scenes when someone reference to a scene not in the play (like the murder, the love scene), so that it's easier to visualize. As for the love scene, no, Shakespeare never said that there ever was something that close between Hamlet and Ophelia, that's the director's interpretation, which is fine. It makes it that it would be even harder for either of them to accept the break-up.Overall, it's a good film to watch for studying the play, but not too great as entertainment. "},{"Title":"Epic Fail","Date":"12 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 'To be or not to be'- is that a question? Yes, it is. Is it a good question? No, it is not. In fact, it's not even proper English. For someone who is supposedly the best writer ever, his English ain't too good. He should really have said something like 'Should I be doing this, or should I just top myself?' or even better 'if I'm not me, then who da hell am i!?' Hamlet is a Shakespeare Comedy based on an earlier work by Chaser or someone. They tried to make us study this in school, but most of us couldn't even read it! I don't know why they don't make us read comics, it would be easier, more exciting, more fulfilling, and would make more kids turn up to class. In fact, everyone knows that books and reading is pretty much obsolete these days so they should really just show classic movies or TV shows like The A-Team, CHiPs, and Superted. 'What have we got next? Asked Neville when we were in school. 'English I think' I replied. 'Balls to that, man, I'm away for a walk'. Yes, when English came around most of us most of the time mostly sat outside the room for most of the class, mostly because we were bored, but mostly because there was a radiator we could stand against. It was cold in school; so cold. Thinking about it now gives me the shivery chills. Brrrr. I think I'll put some gloves on.This film as far as I know follows the novel word for word, scene for scene. This is to be expected, given that Shakespears's Grandson Kenneth Brana stars and directs. There was controversy here as Brana claimed sole writing credits, meaning that Shakespeare never saw a penny, or a shilling as the case may be. Given the length of the book (over 2 thousand pages) the film is actually 7 hours long. This is about 6 hours longer than any person should be expected to sit in any one place. The story is hardly an original one; a man wants revenge for the murder of his father by his mother's lover. Simple. Why it takes so long to tell this story I don't know. Rather than showing the murder, showing Hamlet (what sort of a name is that anyway!?) finding out, and then chasing Alan Rickman and killing him would have been much easier and pleasing or the eye. Instead he fills it up with pointless characters like Roseypants and Glidingbum, wastes time with 'solitudies' (scenes where a character talks to himself for 10 minutes) and confusing sexy times with his crazy sister Kate Beckinsale. I admit that some of the clothes look nice, but if I wanted to look at fancy costumes I would go to Coventry. There is a scene with a ghost and it was a little spooky, but I would hardly call it scary- another wasted opportunity. There is a sword fight, but there are better sword fight in Once Upon A Time In China and any number of Hong Kung movies. Brana clearly doesn't know how to 'stage' an 'action' 'scene'. All he can do is talk, and talk&#x85; wear black, then talk some more. This is 10 hours of my life I will never get back. GIVE ME BACK MY MONEY BANA! If not, I'm coming to Shrewsbury and I'm gonna steal Shakespeer's pantaloons! Best Scene When I fell asleep and dreamt that I was driving a tank through a field of zombies. Crrrrunnch! I rescued Melinda Culea from them (and later from her clothes) and we went on together to find Jan Michael Vincent. "}]