[{"Title":"A clever and enthralling discovery into obsession and agression.","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"58 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  FEAR (1996) Rating 8/10While this movie had mixed opinions from critics, I thought it was thoroughly underrated. I didn't really see what this movie didn't have to please people around the globe. It had a story, and an intriguing one at that, it had a lot of genres to mix its story up in, it had well-developed characters &#150; especially the character of the father &#150; and it had excellent direction, acting and a great script that explores further into the world of terror. The film succeeds highly because of its characters and the original bunch they are. Reese Witherspoon plays the short-skirt wearing, blonde-haired and extremely family-bound and nice young girl that gets involved with a psychopath and doesn't know how to take it. Mark Wahlberg plays this psychopath excellently, his character is someone obsessed with Witherspoon's character and we will go to any great lengths to protect her and assure that his and her relationship is safe. And then he gets violent, very violent, and the outcome is horrifying. The father is not the most original character in the film, but the most developed. He is the caring, brave and extremely clever dad who wants the best for his daughter but doesn't want to hurt her. Anyway, enough about the characters. The rest of the movie rocks too &#150; the script is surprisingly original for its premise, taking the boy-meets-girl, girl-dumps-boy, boy-gets-angry angle to new areas in psychological horror. The suspense scenes are incredibly tense and the movie has some gut-wrenchingly scary but incredibly good ideas. I really enjoyed the director's point of view and liked the way he built his film as each of the characters slowly drifts off. I appreciated this thriller a lot and think it is worth your time, but beware, you're in for a pretty darn scary and atmospheric ride! "},{"Title":"Far Better Than I Expected It To Be","Date":"3 September 2005","Score":"33 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I had very low hopes for FEAR . I'd read the synopsis in the TV guide and the plot sounded like one of those psycho killer stalker from hell thrillers that were being churned out without any thought in the mid 1990s . Considering it starred singer Marky Mark , Reese Witherspoon and William Petersen who's a rival to Eric Roberts in the straight to video / cable TV movie stakes I didn't think this was going to be up to much While not being a classic thriller FEAR certainly did hold my attention , probably because much of the characterisation is credible . All too often in this genre the actor or actress playing the villain really goes to town showing the audience what a bad ass they are thereby parodying the role . Mark Wahlberg as David is very restrained for the most part which makes David and credible character and his on screen chemistry with Reese Witherspoon's Nicole is believable , you can believe these two characters are genuinely in love with one another something that is all too rare in this type of movie I should also point out that much of the movie revolves around the interaction of Petersen's Mr Walker who is concerned about his daughter's relationship with David . You can't blame the guy for wanting what's best for his offspring and it enhances the credibility of the story . It's refreshing to have a more thoughtful approach to this type of genre because if people start turning up dead after 15 minutes then things start to get silly , so the violence is kept to a minimum until almost at the end of the movie which does suffer something of a plot hole because no one seems to have a mobile telephone at readily hand and don't tell me professional people didn't have mobile phones in 1996 . Also watch out for references to STRAW DOGS , THE SHINING and NOSFERATU at the climax Even if you're burned out on those 90s stalker from hell thrillers you could do worse than watch this on a wet Friday evening "},{"Title":"Works Quite Well","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"25 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Movie like this either reach out and pull you in or they don't. Fear pulled me in. I rented this movie about a week after Halloween of 1996 and put it in my VCR not sure what to expect. 2 hours later I ejected the movie from the VCR feeling somewhat dazed and overwhelmed. Fear isn't a classic. But it works well. It is scary, violent gory and well made. The reason it works so well is because it was made by people who knew what they were doing. The whole stalker style of movies is full of uninspired trash that sounds like it was made for the USA network.Fear stands heads and shoulders above that (And to some extent above the original Fatal Attraction). It's not afraid to push, to pull us inside, to scare us and give us a good conclusion at the end, one that movies of this type always mess up.*** "},{"Title":"Surprisingly entertaining, despite the negative reviews","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"24 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The story behind the film Fear is nothing new. Obsessive love leading to dangerous fatal attraction. But I'm not ashamed to say that I really enjoyed watching this movie. To be sure, there were the typical cliches (did anyone not know that the security guard was SO dead!). However, the action in the film keeps things moving along at a steady pace, and the tension builds towards the reasonably satisfying climax. Performances by the lead characters were generally quite good. I found Mark Wahlbergs character to be quite convincing and quite menacing, though I agree he would certainly benefit from some speech coaching. The two young female leads, Reese Witherspoon and Alyssa Milano, did a good job playing the victims, and certainly add value to the film for their attractiveness alone. The standout performance for me was that of William L. Petersen as the father. Most of his actions/reactions rang true to me. Was Fear a great movie? Not really. Was it a good, satisfying and ultimately entertaining way to spend 97 minutes? Yes indeed. Even my wife stayed awake till the end, and that's worth an 8/10 alone. "},{"Title":"Above average psycho thriller","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"20 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Nice, innocent teen Nicole (Reese Witherspoon) falls for handsome, muscular, soft spoken David (Mark Wahlberg) not knowing he's a psycho who wants her--forever. Good thing she's got a nice, muscular, protective father (William Petersen). OK, it's no masterpiece and the plot is very familiar, but I was never bored. It's well-directed (especially a roller coaster ride), has beautiful scenery and architecture (look at the house where Witherspoon lives with her family) and a script that, if not always credible, never stops moving. The last 20 minutes really rock. A little unpleasant at times though. As for the acting--Witherspoon is OK. At times, she's totally believable--other times she's not. And she's obviously over 17. Petersen is very good playing the understanding, protective dad. A nice, understated performance. Mark Wahlberg is (surprisingly) very good as the psycho. He plays the nice guy and the evil guy very effectively. REALLY nice bod too--what a chest! But he needs some serious voice lessons--his Boston accent kept creeping in. So, a pretty good thriller. You could do worse. "},{"Title":"Great Story and Performances","Date":"22 December 2013","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The sixteen year-old teenager Nicole Walker (Reese Witherspoon) has moved to the house by the lake of her father, the architect Steve Walker (William Petersen), to live with her stepmother Laura (Amy Brenneman) and her brother Toby (Christopher Gray). Her best friends are Margo Masse (Alyssa Milano) and Gary Rohmer (Todd Caldecott) that study with her in the high school. When Nicole meets David McCall (Mark Wahlberg) in a night-club, she has a crush on and dates him. David becomes obsessed by Nicole and one day he sees her friend Gary kissing and hugging her and he hits him. Nicole breaks with him but David continues to follow her. Steve decides to investigate the young man and he finds that he is an orphan that has spent most of his life in reformatories. The hell breaks loose in Nicole's life when David kills Gary and trashes the Mustang of her father. Steve breaks in his house and destroys everything inside. Now David and his gang go to Steve's house to payback. Fear is a good movie, with great story and performances. I saw this movie for the first time in the late 90's on VHS and last Friday I saw it again on DVD, and the plot seems to be more realistic in the present days of violence and fear in many worldwide cities. This is also a great opportunity to see Reese Witherspoon very young and cute, and Mark Wahlberg perfect performing a manipulative psychopath. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Medo (Fear) "},{"Title":"Not as bad as you might expect...","Date":"22 August 2004","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Fear is a teen thriller with no intentions others than entertain the audience and show good looking teen stars like Mark Wahlberg, Reese Whiterspoon, and the always lovely Alyssa Milano. This is not a good movie by any means but it has positive things to underline. First, Wahlberg and Whiterspoon can act and their performances are the best thing about the movie. Milano is a delight to watch even that she's not very required in the movie but still shines in the few minutes she appears. Second and best of all; Fear goes directly to the point and makes it very easy to watch. *SPOILERS* There's nothing much to comment about Fear except for some infamous scenes like the dog's head, the drilling in the hand, and the three sex scenes.There are some Slasher elements a la Scream in this movie that in the time were very effective (stabbing, dog's head cut off, minimal gore, and a psycho killer) and worked very well in order to create a tense atmosphere. The ending is quite predictable and expected. The actors they chose perform surprisingly good. If the plot is not very interesting then the least you can expect is to feel some sympathy for the characters. Whiterspoon is tender and beautiful and you totally believe her when she has different feelings for her boyfriend. Wahlberg delivers a good performance as a crazed angry boyfriend. Come on, everybody feels anger jealous acts... this is exactly where I think that Fear succeeds. The movie is directed to a teenager audience that immediately feels similarities in their personal life with the events of it. The movie works in that aspect and there's no question about it.Watch it with minimal expectations and you will be surprised maybe a little.6/10 "},{"Title":"Very predictable, and with an ending that would make Dustin Hoffman blush. But entertaining nonetheless","Date":"5 January 2013","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Fear is a slightly-above average thriller at best, boasting fine performances from Mark Wahlberg, Reese Witherspoon and William Petersen. Nicole Walker is sixteen years-old and living with her businessman father and step-mother and brother in a luxurious, well fortified and secure pad. When reluctantly skipping school one day with her rebellious friends, she spots the hunk David McCall (Mark Wahlberg) - wearing a tight black sweater to accentuate them pecs, of course, playing pool with his misfit, drug-addled pals. She later meets him at a rave, and before long, they are dating. David is perfect, it seems. He's strong, caring, sweet and gentle, and Nicole falls in love with him. But it isn't long before David's true colours start to show. And when she ends it with him, he begins to stalk her before eventually, he gets nasty...Fear runs smoothly at a nice pace over a very agreeable run-time. Mark Wahlberg is superb as a psychopath, while Reese Witherspoon is believable as a naive and innocent sixteen year-old girl (Considering she was 20 at the time). William Petersen, best known for his career with CSI Crime Scene Investigation, is commendable as he gives Dustin Hoffman's heroics in Straw Dogs a run for it's money at the end. Overall, this is a decent thriller, albeit nothing special really. It's pretty tense in parts, but Wahlberg's performance was really key to this films success. "},{"Title":"Love hurts. Especially when it's Obsessive!","Date":"29 January 2009","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Over the years I've caught bits and pieces of this film many times on cable and even premium movie channels. Just finally I decided to sit down and watch it all and I must say overall Fear is a pretty decent mind thriller. It's theme fits well with teenage love obsession and the stalker crisis. And the cast here is well known it features some of the early work for most of them before they would go on to TV fame(Brenneman, Milano, and Petersen) and movie stardom(Wahlberg and Witherspoon). Set in Seattle, Washington a teenage girl the innocent and pretty Nicole(in one of Reese's earliest roles)lives with her father Steve(William Petersen)and stepmother Laura(Amy Brenneman)and Nicole has a good loving family life yet her parents are to overprotective and she starts to give into the pressure of her peers especially from her best friend the free spirited and sleazy Margo(the hot Alyssa Milano). It's upon their partying and club going that Nicole meets a young and innocent and nice talking young man named David(Mark Wahlberg). Yet appearances and personalities can be deceiving as after David seduces Nicole and she loses her innocence and develops a false trust surely enough David begins a violent obsession with her. Her family sees it and warns her, eventually this leads to drama all concluding with violence and a hostage situation with Nicole's family that was brought on by David and his thug friends. Yet in the end Nicole will grow to learn love is blind as she faces her fear. Pretty decent thriller of the stalker mode with some early performances from what would later be big stars in both TV and film. So give it a watch some late night on cable or premium TV. "},{"Title":"Not just a simple case of harassment","Date":"13 January 2009","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" **SPOILERS** Your usual psycho movie with a bit of a twist, like snapping one's neck, that has to do with this loved crazed teenager David McCall, Mark Wahlberg, who just can't let go of the object of his obsession pretty blond high school student Nicole Walker, Reese Witherspoon, whom he want's to be his woman even if it kills her!Meeting David through a mutual friend Margo Masse, Alyssa Milano, Nicole is completely captivated by the handsome and muscular young man's shyness and sincerity towards her. As we, and Nicole, soon find out David has a past that he wants people, especially Nicoles parents, not to not know anything about.Orphaned early in life David became an incorrigible youth that lead him from one broken home, in trying to get him adopted, to another. Now in his teens David has drifted into Seattle and started this gang of both drug dealing and drug partying thugs that Margo, Nicole' best friend, got involved with. David's true personality comes to the surface when he catches Nicole with her friend Gary, Todd Caldecott, outside of school kissing and almost beats the young man into a coma! Why this dangerous lunatic wasn't arrested and put away, with the criminal record he already had, shows how slow and ineffective the justice system really is.Worming his way into both Nicole's heart and home David starts to get to work on both her parents Steve and Laura Walker, William Petersen & Amy Brenneman, with his charm and and boyish innocence. It's Nicole's dad Steve who at first sees what a lowlife and dangerous rat, in his little boy lost and without love routine, David is and this results in him being the major target, when he goes wacko, of David's mindless violence. When Nicole goes to pay David a surprise visit she sees just exactly what he's really all about. Peeking inside David's pad, a drug den, Nicoel's sees David and his gang partying and shooting up with her friend, who looks like she's totally wiped out, Margo as the star attraction! It's when Steve after taking all the cr*p that David could dish out, on him and his family, goes to his gang's clubhouse drug den and sees among other outrages that he secretly, after having sex with her, stole his daughter's panties-to prove that he did it- that he finally loses his cool! Going berserk Steve wrecks the place together with all the drugs and drug paraphernalia thats there! It's after that when things, if they weren't already, really start to get out of hand in the movie. A mad as hell David, now seeking bloody revenge, and his gang get so carried away in their actions against the Walkers that they not only break into their well fortified home and but even go so far as to murder, if that's the word for it, the family pet and guard dog Kaiser by decapitating him!The final few minutes in the movie-with his gang members by then either killed or put to flight- has the by now totally deranged David go after, after almost beating him to death, Steve as his love Nicoel stands helplessly by in not being able to do anything to save of father from getting is brains blown out! It's that fear on Nicoel's part that has her do what she should have done much earlier in the movie! Stick it to her deranged psycho lover and stick it where it hurts most! "}{"Title":"Do you remember what it was like to fall in love for the first time?","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Warning may contain some small spoilersIt's really funny, with better marketing this film may have done better business.  What I remember seeing about this film was how evil and maniacal David was going to be.  You knew going into the film that he was going to do some really bad things after his facade as the good boyfriend was over.  But really, the whole first half of this film has the same feeling as Pretty In Pink or Some Kind Of Wonderful.  When I was watching how Nicole ( Witherspoon )was quickly falling for David's charm and sweetness, I was intrigued.  There are some great moments in here that explore young love and my favourite scene in the film and one of my favourite scenes ever that deals with young virginal sexuality, is the roller coaster scene in the film.  Everything about it was pure and honest.  David ( Wahlberg ) and Nicole get into the front seat of the roller coaster and she is wearing a very short skirt.  The ride begins and then the music starts.  The song is Wild Horses by a group that I am not familiar with ( no, it is not the Stones ) and they begin to move.  David begins to inch his hand cautiously up her skirt.  Her facial expressions are perfect.  She is apprehensive but excited and after a brief resistance, she lets him touch her.  The roller coaster ride becomes a metaphor for how she is feeling.  Nicole has now just had her first sexual experience of any kind and David has her.  He knows it's only a matter of time before he will take her virginity and she knows it as well.  On this level, the film is perfect.  Exploring young love is a delicate situation but director Foley handles it with ease and he even shows the beauty of how love can make you feel.  It's just too bad that the film has to take a different path at the conclusion because this could have been a great coming of age love story.  I'm not saying the psycho elements to the film are terrible, I'm just saying that the innocence of the love story seems to work and fit better in here.  This is a film that reminds us of what it was like to fall in love for the first time and what it was like to make love the first time.  And I enjoyed it for that. I do recommend seeing this film but it just seems like two movies that could have been one.  But it is enjoyable and the actors in here are great.  Even Mylano and Petersen as Nicole's best friend and father respectively are fun to watch.  So it is a good film.  But again, not to be redundant, but I liked the innocence of it better than the vigor.   "},{"Title":"Very good movie, keeps you sitting on the edge of you seat until the very end.","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT Unlike the so-called movie expert, I believe that this movie was absolutely excellent.  Mark Wahlberg, star of Planet of the Apes, and Rock Star, and The Truth About Charlie, obviously did go on to become a very talented actor, unlike the critic said.  Mark Wahlberg plays such a good bad guy, and really charms you also, even though you know the kind of guy he really is, in fact he is so charming in the end you are sad when he dies.  Reese Witherspoon, who is also an excellent and talented actress, very really portrays the good girl next door type.  This movie is very suspensful and really keeps you sitting on the edge of your seat until the very end when you just gasp and say wow!  This movie is definitally a teen-flick though. So to the critic who said Mark had nothing going for him but his looks, HA HA.   "},{"Title":"sexy Afterschool Special","Date":"11 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Nicole Walker (Reese Witherspoon) is a rebellious teen angry with his father (William Petersen) and particularly his new wife (Amy Brenneman). She parties with her best friend Margo Masse (Alyssa Milano) and falls for bad boy David McCall (Mark Wahlberg).This is an afterschool special with sexed up Reese and Alyssa to hook the public. There is no surprises and no drama. This thing might as well be on autopilot. She goes out with the bad boy and the bad boy turns out to be a bad boy. What a twist! It's a mistake to start Mark Wahlberg off creepy. The character really needs a more innocent facade. I'm willing to buy the afterschool special storyline. But you've got to earn the drama. This didn't earn anything close to that. "},{"Title":"Guilty Pleasures","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Reese Witherspoon appeared in two guilty pleasure flicks in 1996--Fear and Freeway.  She's quite the commodity now but in the early to mid 90s, her choices were a little more interesting (The Man in the Moon is one of the few movies of the past fifteen years to make me choke up).  Fear, on the other hand, is big budget exploitation, and it held my attention, even though I was too embarrassed to admit it at the time.  Heck, even the tag line (together forever...or else!) was cheap.  The movie is basically Romeo and Juliet for the MTV crowd, but by the end it becomes a slick '90s version of Straw Dogs.  But the cast (including William Peterson, Amy Brenneman and, as one of the meanest characters in '90s film, Mark Wahlberg) does not act like this stuff is beneath them.  And the finale, in Peterson's high tech house, was engrossing.  No expectations going into this (which I recommend), but really not too bad, when all is said and done.  "},{"Title":"good actors + cool story + rollar coaster scene = good movie!","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a perfect movie for people who enjoy suspense, but don't mind if the film is not entirely intellectual or whatever. Mark Wahlberg is great to look at (so is Reese Witherspoon for the guys) and the story - though done before - is very engaging and watchable. The chemistry between David and Nicole before he goes wacko is great, too. I recommend this as a good film to rent for a night with the girls or if you are just in the mood for a thriller with real good looking people. Plus, Fox seems to put this movie on TV twice a year, as it was just on last night, and was on in August of '99. ENJOY!!  "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews...","Date":"1 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" FearTeenage girls like to date bad boys because the nice guys aren't rich enough yet.Mind you, the young woman in this thriller is doing it to annoy her father.Sent to Seattle to live with father (William Petersen), his new wife (Amy Brenneman) and her son after being evicted by her mother, Nicole (Reese Witherspoon) meets the enigmatic David (Mark Wahlberg).Shortly after the two become an item, Nicole begins to miss her curfew &#x96; enraging her father who is already angry over David undermining his authority.By the time Nicole realizes David's true nature, he and his friends have surrounded her home and having begun terrorizing her family.The quintessential crazy ex-lover movie, Fear is not only loaded with outlandish behaviour on the part of the unstable party, but it also showcases Wahlberg's best performance to date.Incidentally, the only guy good enough for a man's daughter is a eunuch.Green Lightvidiotreviews.blogspot.ca "},{"Title":"Loved it back in '96 & love it still today!!","Date":"1 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This was the first movie I had ever watched with Mark Wahlberg in it and I fell in love!! I absolutely love thrillers, dramas & movies with great acting plus young & hot actors in them!! I've been a huge fan of both Mark Wahlberg & Reese Witherspoon for a very long time. This movie has it all. Lust, forbidden love, obsession, action, mystery, suspense, real-life situations, rebellion, strong emotions that will grip you at times and a plot that will keep you intrigued all the way through to the very end. It's weird to see one of my favorite CSI characters in a movie where he got his start, William Petersen who plays Steve Walker in this movie (played Gill Grissom on CSI). If you haven't seen this movie and are looking for a good thriller/suspense movie to watch from the mid 90's....this is a must watch in my opinion!! "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie","Date":"15 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I have titled this review 'Revisited' as I have seen this movie before, a long while ago, but I have still seen it before. It really is a little gem of a film. The storyline is good, the acting is good and even the 'thriller' aspect of the film makes you feel a bit freaked out. There is a romance aspect, but its not too mushy.Excellent acting from both Mark Wahlberg and Reese Witherspoon. Both so young in this film, and also still acting today. I could easily say that Fear features possibly one of the best performances from the pair of them. Wahlberg's ability to play a psychopath so easily, and convincingly is amazing. Witherspoon's naivety as a sixteen year old girl, was also incredibly outstanding. Both Wahlberg and Witherspoon are household names now, that almost everyone had heard of, yet in this film they were both new and unknown. Excellent way to pave a career guys. "},{"Title":"Predictable But Entertaining.","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Fear is a solid but formulaic thriller about a teenage girl named Nicole (Reese Witherspoon). Nicole is your average teenager, and she lives with her architect dad, stepmom, and little brother in her father's custom-designed, secure home. While going clubbing one night with her friend Margo (Alyssa Milano), she meets David (Mark Wahlberg), who seems like a charming young man. She and David begin to form a relationship, despite her father's instinct that David is a dangerous guy. But David's true colors show after he beats up one of Nicole's male friends for giving her a friendly hug. As Nicole tries to distance herself from David, he keeps coming back, obsessed and determined to get her back. Nicole relapses for him again, but she finally decides to break it off after she sees him being abusive to Margo at his home, where he lives with a bunch of lowlife thugs. But David will have Nicole, and nothing less - even if it means killing her family and friends.All around, Fear is a pretty predictable movie. While it may be predictable, it is also quite entertaining and held my attention the entire way through. Oscar winner Reese Witherspoon did well in the film, especially since this is some of her much earlier work. Wahlberg was menacing as David, besides some of his angry facial expressions coming off as a little corny. The chemistry between the two worked well though. I found the story to be halfway decent, even though these romantic thriller revenge stories have been done before. The finale house-attack was great, it was definitely the best part of the whole movie. If you're a horror fan, this movie may be a little slow for you. It is mostly dramatic and slightly romantic through the first half, then David's true character is really established. Throughout the film the violence is kept to a minimum, but the ending sequence is actually quite gory. The only problem with the finale is there is one major plot hole - nobody has a mobile phone! It was 1996 and this is a rather wealthy family, you can't tell me they don't own cell phones! Other than that though, I thought the ending was really well done.Overall, Fear is a decent thriller. The story was interesting (if not a little bit predictable at times) and the acting was decent. For hardcore horror fans, this may be a little bit slow, but the ending made it worth it, for me at least. Not bad for the type of movie it is, quite entertaining. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Altogether gripping","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie on the TV the day before yesterday and thought it was pretty good and interesting since Reese Witherspoon was in it. The story tells about a teenager named Nicole Walker (Reese Witherspoon) who meets David (Mark Wahlberg) in a party. She readily agrees to go out with him. She's very happy and gets in a lot of trouble with her family, because her father doesn't like him that much. She finally dumps David for having hit her school friend. David hit him just because he saw them hugging. David looks like a nice person at the beginning of the story; however, he shows her evil intentions over the course of the movie. He is very devious and mean to Nicole's family. Nicole also sees him kissing and touching her best friend Margo Masse (Alyssa Milano). The guilt-ridden Margo tries to ask Nicole for forgiveness and tells her she is her only and best friend. After the dark truth behind David and Margo is revealed. Nicole is become more mature and now loves her family than she had ever imagined. Nicole's father also finds out about David's wickedness and goes to his house and wrecks it. David and his buddies see it and realize that it was Nicole's father who did it. They seek revenge destroying Nicole's house and trying to kill them. They just could kill their dog, they cut his head off. It was certainly scary. Nicole suffers gravely as a result of having been David's girlfriend. David sees her family suffering to gloat. Fortunately her younger brother gets to call the police and saves her family from those heartless people. David finally dies because of falling off from Nicole's room.  His buddies also die. It was altogether gripping even though its plot was very simple. I think it's not original, but it's worth watching. Besides Reese Witherspoon and Mark Wahlber's performances were stunning.  Watch it if you like suspense movies, otherwise watch other movies because you'll be disappointed. 8/10 "}{"Title":"Too much","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, after having read articles and reviews about Fear I thought it was going to be a standard psycho-boy thriller. And it actually turned out to be just that. A standard thriller with a script that takes it too far in the end -- the final twenty minutes are pretty ridiculous and destroy what could have been an average thriller. It's interesting to see Mark Wahlberg in an early role though, and Reese Witherspoon is a good actress, but no one has the talent to save this film.  (3/10) "},{"Title":"The only thing I feared was I might fall asleep","Date":"24 September 2009","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Fear? Oh dear, I really don't know where to start with this awfully dull thriller. I managed to sit through all of it but for a fairly short film it dragged on and on for what seemed like an eternity and the only thing that I was really fearful of was that I might fall asleep with the TV on and waste money on my parents' electricity bill.With a thriller you are supposed to build up tension throughout the film and then release it all in a nail biting climax that leaves you gasping for breath and on the edge of your seat. It's a fairly simple idea, but Fear manages to botch it up royally.You are introduced to a fairly tedious rich family, apparently facing all sorts of problems, and then after about quarter of an hour of mindless bitching the daughter meets supposedly the perfect boyfriend. As the guy says himself if something seems too good to be true it probably isn't, meaning that he is obviously going to be a psycho. So much time is spent on them being loving together it doesn't really add anything to the plot except for making you want to throw up. One particular scene on a roller-coaster was particularly distasteful and quite disturbing for entirely the wrong reasons.The premise isn't actually that bad, they probably could have squeezed a decent movie out of it if they had really tried but they decide to ignore subtly and hit you in the face with the obvious. They could have let the boyfriend slowly display his psychotic side, flashing the audience hints that the girl doesn't notice, so our fear for her grows the more and more the relationship goes on. The more she doesn't know he's bloody mental and the more we do, the more we care. Instead they decide that he is going to display his mentalness right in front of her face by going ape-**** and attacking one of her buddies, all because the poor dude gave her a hug.After this the plot just gets more ludicrous and keeps going round in circles but somehow manages to get to a really promising climax. Just when I thought the film might just be able to redeem itself, the director manages to mess up the ending as well. Brilliant.There isn't really coherent message to the film and the acting from everybody is well below par. The entire film plays out as an endurance contest for how many clichés you can handle before you are forced to turn the TV off. "},{"Title":"not of my world","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I can accept the unbelievable premise of a UFO movie.  I can suspend belief enough to enjoy a film involving some incredible coincidence.  People sometimes do stupid things, however I cannot relate to this flick at all, as each of the characters, most of whom are supposedly normal, act illogically over three dozen times.  This film needed a dinosaur to inject some reality.  "},{"Title":"Trash","Date":"5 January 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Well this is about as bad as movies get. Nothing to see here, move along. If you must know the threadbare plot follows 16-year old Nicole Walker, played by Reese Witherspoon. Sure is a long way from this garbage to an Academy Award for Miss Witherspoon. But I digress. Anyhow, young Nicole falls in love with seemingly sweet, nice, perfectly charming David McCall, played by Mark Wahlberg who somehow managed to salvage an acting career after appearing in this movie and thus was spared a lifetime of Whatever happened to that Marky Mark guy questions. Of course if David is as seemingly wonderful as he initially seems this movie would have a different title. As it is, David soon reveals himself to be a murderous lunatic and everybody does not in fact live happily ever after.So what's wrong with this movie you ask? In a nutshell, everything. The script is terrible, with some of the most god-awful dialogue ever heard. The characters are all clichéd, pulled straight out of so many similar and infinitely better movies that had come before. This film has nothing new to offer, it's just a painfully bad rehash. It's meant to be suspenseful and shocking. In fact it's just laughable. Nothing here is believable, the whole thing is over to the top to the point of stupidity. Don't even get me started on why Nicole's completely ordinary family lives in a home with more security features than Fort Knox. It's downright ludicrous, an artificial attempt to make the climax of the film more dramatic. Unfortunately by the film's climax you'll be stifling yawns. If you haven't already given up and turned the thing off. You get the sense everyone involved with this movie would like to forget it ever happened. If you ever are unlucky enough to have to sit through it you'll wish you could forget it too. "},{"Title":"Love story goes deadly, with nothing original","Date":"1 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A love story between two teens turns into a horrific nightmare in this romantic thriller directed by James Foley. Reese Witherspoon plays Nicole Walker, an average 16-year old girl in high school with great friends and loving parents. While attending a party with her best friend Margo (played by Alyssa Milano), she meets a handsome young named David McCall (played by Mark Wahlberg) who gives Nicole a ride home after the party. Nicole eventually develops a relationship with the seemingly heartthrob guy, much to the dismay of her overprotective father Steve (played by William Petersen) and their starts off fairly well. However, when David's love for Nicole soon grows into an obsession, a violent incident at school leads Nicole to believe that David may not be innocent as he appears to be. Nicole soon learns that David does not take no for an answer and will stop at nothing their relationship together, even if it involves harm of the ones she loves.Together forever...or else is the tagline for this film, and it definitely resonates well with the film's plot as it deals with a young man's obsession with a beautiful girl that turns into deadly before she knows it. This teen version of the classic erotic thriller 'Fatal Attraction' puts Mark Wahlberg in his first role after his departure from the rap group Marky Mark and The Funky bunch, as a high school boy with a charming personality that masks his violent, sadistic nature. While his performance in this role is competent, he seems a bit miscasted. He doesn't look very threatening enough as the antagonist, even during the climax towards the end with the home invasion. As a result, his portrayal as the violent, obsessive young man doesn't feel very convincing. His performance as David McCall only feels believable when he and Reese Witherspoon begin their relationship and when they are sharing romantic moments together before his violent persona takes flight. After all, Wahlberg is only for portraying heroic roles in his films. On the bright side, the movie does manage to deliver some solid thrills and a few suspenseful moments to carry the dark atmosphere, while borrowing a few elements from other erotic thrillers. And the romance between Wahlberg and Witherspoon during the first half works fine, steering away from cheesy dialogue that many romance flicks are notorious for. The film doesn't offer much new to the table or anything to leave an worthwhile impression, but carries some entertainment value at least.Fear is a fine romance thriller that may appeal to teens as well as some adults, but nothing truly original nor overly clichéd should be expected here. This definitely isn't the most memorable in the resumes of the two main leads, but it is one worth checking out. "},{"Title":"Family Tensions As Naive Girl Dates Psychotic Boyfriend","Date":"19 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie is visually strong, suspenseful and extremely entertaining but the way in which it depicts family tensions is its greatest achievement. A teenage girl's relationship with a young man from the wrong side of the tracks soon sparks off numerous problems that are down to her father's over-protective instincts and the girl's natural rebelliousness but the dramatic possibilities are then heightened even further due to the specific dynamics that exist within the girl's reconstituted family.Nicole Walker (Reese Witherspoon) is the naïve 16-year-old who, after previously living with her mother, moves into her father's suburban home in Seattle. Steven's (William Petersen) an overworked architect who lives with his second wife Laura (Amy Brenneman) and her young son Toby (Christopher Gray). When Nicole and her high school classmate Margo Masse (Alyssa Milano) go to a local rave, Nicole meets David McCall (Mark Wahlberg) and is instantly attracted to him. He's exceptionally polite, softly spoken and seems very gentle and considerate. David instantly makes a positive impression on Laura and Toby when he visits their home but Steven instinctively takes a dislike to him. This naturally creates a rift between him and Nicole and makes her even more determined to continue the relationship.Things suddenly change one day when David sees Nicole hugging her school friend Gary (Todd Caldecott) and is overcome with jealousy and rage. In a sudden and violent outburst, he brutally attacks Gary and roughly pushes Nicole to the ground. After the attack, Nicole is left with a black eye and immediately stops seeing David. This incident reinforces Steven's negative feelings towards David but it isn't long before Nicole surprisingly rekindles the relationship. Steven is incensed and angrily forbids David from seeing his daughter again. David, however, is totally obsessed with Nicole and as his fury grows, the revenge he takes on the Walker family becomes progressively more violent until his actions eventually lead to a terrifying conclusion.The ways in which conflict grows between the generations is shown very effectively in this drama because, whilst it's natural for parents to want to protect their children from pain, exploitation or bad experiences, it's also entirely natural for teenagers to want to explore life in the way that their instincts dictate and not be given advice which they just regard as being interfering by parents who want to spoil their fun. The tensions in the Walker family are also complicated by the step-parents' desire to be accepted by their adopted children and also the uncertainty that children can feel about a parent's new spouse.Reese Witherspoon does a great job of portraying the mixture of naivety and growing maturity that's typical of a 16-year-old and Mark Wahlberg is particularly good in the scenes that require him to express his anger. William Petersen provides the other standout performance as the father who's left frazzled by being overworked, having to contend with his concerns about his daughter and trying to cope with his wife's unreasonable attitude to his work commitments. Overall, this is a movie which provides some pertinent observations on family life in the 1990s in a story that's perfectly paced and delivered in a style that's never dull. "},{"Title":"Save some hot water for your father....","Date":"15 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" When she and her best friend, Margo, go out to a party one night, Nicole meets mysterious David, who she ends up getting together with. After a couple of weeks, Nicole realises that David is becoming possessive and gets very jealous when she talks to other men. David beats up one of Nicole's male friends because he's seen walking Nicole home. When she ends up breaking up with David, he's not happy, and does everything to try and get her back, when that doesn't work, he and his friends break into Nicole's home.......When this film was first released way back in '96, i thought it was a great thriller. After all, it was the nineties, and we'd been spoilt with these psycho type films earlier on in the decade, and hadn't had a decent one since Unlawful Entry.Well, my movie tastes have diversely changed in nearly twenty years, and I wanted to see if it held up as much as I'd hoped. Well it has, and it hasn't. Wahlberg and Witherspoon are an age away from this, and unfortunately in some scenes, Wahlberg is laughably wooden rather than sinister, his David just isn't edgy as I thought he once was, more autonomous.But it's suitably silly, looks really good, and you could stick a pin in the film the moment when you, Petersen and everyone else knows that David is a bad egg. It's one simple line.'Nicole, get me a coke'Cue the dramatic incidental music, and the look from Petersen, as if to say 'he didn't say please!!!!!! Good heavens Nicole.....Fear for your life!!!!'But, with all these shortcomings, its a lot of fun, Petersen is brilliant as usual, and it gets very Nast in some scenes.If you've seen the majority of these nice people turning psycho movies, then you know what's going to happen, when it's happening, why it's happening, and how it's going to end.And I wouldn't have it any other way.... "},{"Title":"Verdict Love is a Thriller","Date":"13 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Story When teenagers fall in love we all know that nothing much will come of it when one part turns into a bit of a psycho. We do get to see the highs of the relationship and how in love the couple are, but we also see the dark side once they start to break up. We see how one man snaps once he can't get what he wants and will go to great lengths in his mind games against the family before things get out of hand. It turns from a dull school girl romance into a home invasion psychological thriller. (7/10)Actor ReviewMark Wahlberg David the charmer with a dark side because when love takes over he will stop at nothing to get his girl, disposing of whoever gets in his way. Good performance here showing his darker side and range early on in his career. (8/10)markReese Witherspoon Nicole the sweet sixteen year old who falls for bad boy David, not noticing that he could have a darker side and wonders why he gets mad when she just stops seeing him, very naïve young girl. Good performance from Reese showing she was going onto bigger and better things. (7/10)reeseWilliam Petersen Steve the architect father of Nicole who becomes suspicious of David early on but gets drawn into his mind games. Good protective father performance showing he always had the authority role down to a tee. (7/10)petersenDirector Review James Foley &#x96; Good direction mixing genres as the film unfolds. (7/10)Thriller Once the slow romantic story first finishes the thrills really start. (8/10)Settings Some good isolated locations leaving the family trapped while the invasion happens. (7/10)Suggestion This is one to try, fans of the actors should go back and see their early work and it is a solid thriller. (Try)Best Part Wahlberg is frightening in the lead villain.Worst Part Slow starting.Kill Of The Film School friend.Scariest Scene The dog scene.Believability People can become that obsessed but I think this is a bit too far. (3/10)Chances of Tears No (0/10)Chances of Sequel NoPost Credits Scene NoOscar Chances NoBox Office $21 MillionRuntime 1 Hour 35 MinutesTagline He's dying to date youOverall Solid Thriller About A Lost Love "},{"Title":"Fear can hold you prisoner&#x85;","Date":"6 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Fear is directed by James Foley and written by Christopher Crowe. It stars Mark Wahlberg, Reese Witherspoon, William Petesen, Alyssa Milano and Amy Brenneman. Music is by Carter Burwell and cinematography by Thomas Kloss.One of the number of psycho-sexual thrillers that surfaced in the 80s and 90s, Fear has the narrative hook that it involves teenagers. Witherspoon is the girl who invites drifter David McCall (Wahlberg) into her life, only to find he's as unstable as unstable can be. Director Foley and his team then produce a film that pretty much cribs from a number of other similar themed movies. All of the key scenes will be instantly familiar to genre film watchers, and unfortunately the plot twists and turns come as no surprise.However, in spite of the lack of originality in structure and narrative thrust, Fear is never dull, not even when Wahlberg is wistfully looking into Witherspoon's eyes like a love sick puppy. Suspense is on hand for the big finale, which unfolds with kinetic brutality, and it's also nice here to find that some thought has gone into the characterisations of those in peril. Kloss' photography around the various Seattle locales is vividly appealing, as is Burwell's music compositions, while the acting performances are all on the good side of good, with nobody harming the balance of the piece.A teenage Cape Fear &#x96; cum &#x96; Straw Dogs - cum &#x96; Fatal Attraction, but good with it regardless. 7/10 "},{"Title":"A Psychological Thriller","Date":"20 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" One day two high school students named Margo Masse (Alyssa Milano) and Nicole Walker (Reese Witherspoon) decide to check out a nightclub together. When they get there Nicole meets a young man named David McCall (Mark Wahlberg) and falls head over heels for him. However, underneath his smooth manner is a deeply disturbed person who resorts to violence at the least provocation. But what really sets him off is the thought of not having Nicole and his insane fear of losing her which only exasperates the situation even further. Anyway, rather than disclosing the rest of the story I will just add that as a psychological thriller this one definitely had some good points. I liked the performance of William Peterson (as Nicole's father Steve Walker) and Mark Wahlberg but unfortunately, the first 30 minutes or so started off a bit too slow and the ending was much too simple and abrupt for me to rate it higher than I have. Slightly above average. "}{"Title":"Fear is an option.","Date":"16 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I spent a few years waiting for this movie to pass on my cable, to get in my video store or something like that, but it never did, so I found a way to buy its blu-ray from the United States-- and that's the best thing I could've done about it! Fear has a quotidian plot father and daughter issues, forbidden date, overly protecting parenting and so on. Even thought such subject has been used lots of times in films, this is probably the best execution I've ever seen. James Foley gives a STRONG directing that makes you understand what the characters have been into, even if they're not saying it at all-- as an example, I mention the disco scene, in which you could easily see why Nicole surrounded so quickly. The atmosphere Foley builds is quite tense, helped by a very credible and convincing story, making you feel like it actually could happen to anyone-- except for the over-the-top violence in the outcome. Mark Wahlberg and Reese Witherspoon proved they can ACT, and they do it with style. Conversations are all intelligent, and spectator is able to relate either with daughter or father-- they both have their points. The photography directing is very nineties, and you don't see much difference from others of the period. All in all, this is a GREAT picture in many aspects, and another reason why we should respect the nineties in movies. "},{"Title":"A surprisingly Dark Psychological thriller.","Date":"5 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A straight forward girl meets boy, girl and boy split up and one get very mad picture. Fear is A surprisingly Dark Psychological thriller. With moments of sex and violence that were more graphic than what i was expecting. The cast showed early signs of the talents and stars they would become, Alyssa Milano for me giving the best performance in her small role in the movie. I enjoyed the father - daughter relationship which seemed realistic. The Direction of the film was on point and the action in the film keeps things moving along at a steady pace, and the tension building towards a reasonably satisfying climax.negatively, i did not enjoy the soundtrack, as individual songs i may have enjoyed them, but they did not build tension and seemed to not match the action taking place, moments in the story came off as silly especially a sexual assault confusingly being seen as a legitimate consensual sex act. Also as a whole i did enjoy the performances but never really found Mark Wahlberg's early sensitive side in the picture as true.On the whole i did enjoy the film, but still would have to give an average rating. "},{"Title":"Predictable but still engrossing.","Date":"28 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Referred to by its own producer, Brian Grazer, as a Fatal Attraction for teens, this slick thriller holds no surprises but is still reasonably good visceral entertainment. Reese Witherspoon plays Nicole, a Typical Teen with an Overprotective Dad, Steve (William Petersen). Nicole chances to meet a hunky stranger named David (Mark Wahlberg, in one of his earliest starring gigs) and they enter into a passionate relationship, only for Nicole to realize that every suspicion that her dad has about her boyfriend is correct the guy's a brutal, controlling thug. And he naturally doesn't take kindly to being dumped. Simply put, this is the kind of cretin who simply won't be denied what he wants. And he'll kill anybody to get it. Fear does benefit from very capable direction by James Foley (Glengarry Glen Ross), and impressive widescreen photography. This story does move along quite well without getting bogged down in any sort of filler. It's also quite sexy, to boot Nicole and David have some steamy couplings along the way. The action gravitates right toward the kind of final showdown that we know from the start is going to be inevitable. As it happens, Steve foolishly gives Davids' equally seedy goon friends all the motivation they need to launch an assault on the family home. The movie is certainly well cast and all of the performances are effective. Also among the actors are Alyssa Milano as Witherspoons' friend and Amy Brenneman as the dads' new lady friend. Witherspoon is appealing and Wahlberg is convincing as the lovestruck antagonist. Overall this works pretty well at manipulating its audience and getting them all cranked up. The big finale is reasonably exciting and has some brutal moments. While this might not be innovative stuff in any way, it does do its job, and delivers the expected thrills. Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not Especially Creative, But Well Done Nevertheless","Date":"4 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" There's a lot about Fear that's pretty cliché. The charming boyfriend who turns out to be a controlling, violent, psychopathic, obsessive guy who can't let go of the girl he's fallen in love with in spite of the fact that neither she nor her family want him around anymore. I can't say that struck me as particularly creative, nor did I find the bulk of the story especially interesting. It does, however, have some things going for it.First, I have to give credit to Drew Barrymore and Mark Wahlberg. Setting aside the fact that both were a little older than the characters they were playing, they were quite good in their roles as the young & naive Nicole and the charming psychopath David who sweeps her off her feet. Both were in the very early stages of their respective acting careers, but the lack of experience didn't show. They were convincing. The rest of the cast didn't really measure up to their standards, but the characters were interesting enough. I could certainly relate to William Petersen as Nicole's dad as he gets more and more concerned about this relationship his daughter is having, even though for some reason Petersen didn't really strike home with me in the role. And I have to say that although the movie almost lost me with the silly scene where David tattoos Nicole 4 Eva on his own chest, and while most of the story really didn't make that much of a connection with me, the last 20 minutes or so turns out to be a pretty good ride. It also is pretty standard for this kind of movie - as Nicole's entire family ends up doing battle with David and the bad guys, etc., etc., but it was very well done and exciting.This isn't a bad movie. It's perhaps a bit too much driven by clichés and a storyline that isn't very original, but it's well made and it has enough to keep the viewer interested. (6/10) "},{"Title":"Entertaining. Mindless.","Date":"26 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Mindless cheesy teenage fun. Marky mark's facial expressions make the whole thing worth it. Reese wanders about in a pretty convincing manner. The friends are contrived and fantastically cookie cutter 90's punks, so that was funny.My main complaint is plot holes. Ending is kind of silly. Successful father with fortress like house doesn't own a gun or a cell phone? If Dad had pulled a Glock it would've been the shortest conclusion in all of cinema. They also own the worst German shepard in history. I've been around these dogs. Sneaking around in the bushes with 7 other strange guys is a shortcut to a removed jugular. "},{"Title":"I Thought  FEAR Was Fun.","Date":"24 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Why I waited so long to watch this is beyond me. After viewing FEAR, I found it to be very well done for what it was.Reese Witherspoon stars as Nicole Walker, a 16 yr old who who falls in love with David McCall (played by Mark Wahlberg), who seems very charming at first but soon his psychotic side takes form. In one scene in particular he beat's Nicole's male friend up when, upon arriving to pick Nicole up from school, sees him hugging her. That's when Nicole realizes that David is not who she thought he was. After that, she can't decide if she should continue seeing David or not.Her father (played by William Petersen-of C.S.I.) already knows that he doesn't want his daughter to continue seeing David and he makes this known to him. I thought this scene was well done, though a bit cliché, as David basically turned it all around on Mr. Walker. Then David beats on his own chest to cause it to bruise and then tells Nicole that the bruises were caused by her father. This pretty much starts an all out feud between Mr. Walker and David. The final straw for David and the crew he rolls with is when Mr. Walker goes to their residence and ransacks the place.Eventually, it all comes to to a satisfying ending as Nicole, her father, brother, mother and her friend Margo Masse (played by Alyssa Milano) are trapped in the Walker house by David and his posse of thugs. I especially liked the ending cause, well, cause I did.Acting wise, I thought Reese Witherspoon was believable in her role as a young, naive teenager who was looking for acceptance by someone. Mark Wahlberg, although in some scenes I was laughing at his acting, actually comes off quite well as a charming, albeit psychotic, man who will do anything he has to do to have the one he wants, even if that means killing her family so they can't get in the way of that from happening. And William Petersen does his job accordingly as the father that will do anything it takes to make sure his baby girl is safe.The movie has a good look that creates a nice atmosphere for the feel of the movie. I love the songs in the movie, especially by BUSH. The song 'Wild Horses' by Sunday Girls (I'm not 100% positive on that) is used rather, in my opinion amusingly, in a scene that features Nicole and David on a roller coaster. In this scene David...well, watch it for yourself if you really want to know.All and all, there are worse ways you could pass an hour and a half. FEAR is no classic but it knows what it wants to do from the get go and, for the most part, succeeds at doing so. "},{"Title":"well worth watching once","Date":"15 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" If you've watched this movie, chances are you'll either love it or hate it. If you hate it, you'll hate it for its predictable plot, simplistic storytelling and obvious catering to hormone-driven teen girls looking for some eye candy in the shape of young Mark Wahlberg's visually pleasing physique. But if you love it, you'll love the convincing and multi-faceted acting. You'll love its honest take on first loves and first experiences, and you'll love it for&#133; Mark Wahlberg's visually pleasing physique. Because let's admit it The boy's darn fine.FEAR offers everything you expect from a '90s psycho stalker thriller directed at a young audience. It does, however, go further than that. Unlike most movies of this genre, FEAR manages to make you, let's not use the word sympathize, but at least understand the crazed lunatic and, if nothing else, respect that David's need to 'own' the girl is not based on an entirely unfounded and ridiculous madness. The stalker guy for once isn't one-dimensional and the movie takes the time to lead up to the climax and show us a believable relationship between the bad guy and the victim.The climax of the film, on the other hand, is a little bit disappointing. The grand 'showdown' was necessary to the plot, but doesn't seem very well thought through. I feel that involving David's lowlife cronies was a bad choice &#150; they were nothing but distracting extras. Having David 'storm the gates' alone, or some other scenario involving only David, Nicole and her father, would have been much more logical and effective.All in all I give FEAR 7/10 stars. It is not a work of cinematic genius, but it is a gripping, well acted and entertaining movie and worth watching at least once. "},{"Title":"Somewhat predictable","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I haven't seen the full unedited version, just the version on cable. What started out looking not too bad because of Reese Witherspoon turned a little ridiculous and predictable after a while.Nicole (Witherspoon) is a 16 year old girl who feels she is overly sheltered by her father. When she goes to a party with her friend Margo (Alyssa Milano), she meets David (Mark Wahlburg), who seems rough around the edges but turns out to be really sweet . . .she thinks. When he starts to become a little demanding of Nicole, her father begins to worry, especially when he finds out the two have had sex. Then David beats up a guy friend of Nicole's for hugging her, and she decides to break it off. But its not as easy as it seems, with David's manipulative ways edging towards more serious violence.The movie started out fine, but I grew a little tired of Nicole's overly trusting nature with David and began yelling at the screen. The end succeeded in scaring me a bit, but it was expected. Not much surprised me in what happened, except when Nicole's dad finds David's shrine of her. That was creepy as heck. But while the movie is in no way perfect, it provides a few creepy and violent moments. Mark does a good job in being a weird psycho stalker, and Reese gives Nicole the emotional edge the character needs, through the relationship with the father.Overall, not a total waste of time, but a movie you should rent before buying. "},{"Title":"LIked it","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I liked this movie because it was real to life and I thought it really showed how easily it is to get caught up in things. I would show this to my children for educational purposes.I liked the way it showed the transition from a great boyfriend to an evil man. "},{"Title":"Awesome Movie","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  TINY SPOILER*This is movie is top quailty! Fear not only has a great cast(yes even marky, who in this role is good or he might be playing himself kinda weird) Reese Witherspoon and willam peterburg are both at the top of thier games and even if there is maybe 3 scenes that drag on the whole movie had me on the edge of my seat! IM outraged people think this is an ok movie or horrible movie! i think it's one of the best  i've ever seen! The finale is so good and one of the best endings i've ever seen! One comment from a user mentioned that he was mad they caught off the dogs head! Hello where you even watching? The kid now had a motive to run over the guy! People what are you doing well watching movies? I think this is one of reese witherspoons best movies! 9 1/2 / 10 "}{"Title":"Yet another Teen Flick","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Although I did enjoy this movie immensely thanks to Mark Wahlberg's over powering phsyical presence, I have to remind myself.....the movie itself wasn't outstanding. Don't get me wrong I loved the movie and it had me sitting on the edge of my couch...and it made me think twice about who I dated...but it was a little cheesy. BUT HEY I love Marky!!!! "},{"Title":"this movie was awesome!","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is definitely not for young children and probably not most parents. Mark Wahlberg was awesome as well as Reese Witherspoon! My fave part has to be the roller coaster scene! The song played in the background Wild Horses sung by The Sundays was the perfect song for that part! This movie definitely makes you think about guys, in this case the one you hope you will never meet! I will have to say the sad part is that there is no soundtrack to this movie what a shame! "},{"Title":"You know you're getting older when you start fancying the heroine's mum...","Date":"20 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I'm almost surprised at how low this thriller's rating on IMDb is as I was by how good the film actually is. While it's not first class material, it's easily a notch above the usual 'teen girl stalked by psycho boyfriend' film. The reasons for this are two-fold the fact that the predominant point of view is as much that of terrorised teen Reese Witherspoon's concerned father (William Peterson) as it is of the girl itself, and the way the film concentrates as much on the interplay of the characters as it does on manufacturing suspense at the expense of credibility. As a result we get believable well-rounded characters and nothing out of the ordinary (above the surface, at least) until the second half of the film. That doesn't mean the first half of the film is dull, it just means the story gathers pace with a pleasing rhythm that eventually peaks with a tense finale.Former singer Mark Wahlberg is probably the best thing in this film. He plays his character, that of the seemingly normal boy harbouring a deep well of rage, with surprising assurance for one so early in their acting career. He doesn't ricochet from teeth-clenched rage to angelic sweetness but resolutely treads a narrow path, barely deviating this way or that when called upon to illustrate the turmoil beneath the calm exterior. The scenes he shares with Peterson are among the film's best, and it's a shame there aren't more of them, and that the entire father-daughter-boyfriend thing isn't explored further.While the ending might follow genre conventions with a little too much rigidity, it still manages to ratchet up the tension while avoiding cheap scares and back from the dead surprise endings. The crazy guy dies the same way the rest of us would die if what happened to him happened to us. Immediately before he dies everything he does makes perfect sense to him and, in his own mind, he is completely rational. I like that - it makes a refreshing change to see a hissable villain behave so normally. "},{"Title":"fear","Date":"4 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I Got quite excited about this film when i caught the 1st half of the film, it had some tense purpose, but I've just seen the whole film and what a pile of s@@@. I've never been so let down in such a promising film that turned into a s@@@ fest. With no other clever words to describe it, i am deeply embarrassed that this s@@t bag of a film got this far. Mark Wahlberg has done good stuff apart from this. fear is proper sh@@. this is the worst film he's done by far.Well, anyway, fear is proper s@@@, what are you into?Dawn of the dead is the best< 1978 version. What about the warriors?Rocky 2? The Shawshank redemption American BeautyAll these films are class.I love you "},{"Title":"One of the best Pycho thrillers ever made","Date":"6 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Fear is a dark thriller that will have your heart racing and you mind working through the whole film. This great film form director James Foley stars Reese Witherspoon as Nicole, a 16 year old good girl who while partying with her friends she meets David( Mark Wahlberg), a charming young man who sweeps Nicole off her feet. Soon enough David and Nicole are inseparable, and Nicole's dad doesn't like that; Nicole's dad starts to dig into Davids past and finds some disturbing things. after that he forbids Nicole to see David,and that starts a battle of wits and brawn that explodes into a heart-pounding thriller that you can't miss. I highly recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Straw Dogs 345 or something like it","Date":"15 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I am a major fan of both Reece Witherspoon and Mark Wharlberg. I enjoyed the end of the movie, but then I am a brit and love Straw Dogs. The big difference is that suddenly loads of guns appear, the bad guys had guns and didn't shoot out the windows? I also missed the cooking oil. The lady of the house was cooking away when Mark and his mates turned up, maybe the new fat free diet fad, so nothing to irritate the psychos? Who knows. I thought it was going elsewhere for a while and was very sad when it all became too predictable. A few saucy scenes from Reece and Mark were well done and the thing was well edited and rolled along nicely but the story was very much a Hong Kong remake standard of offering. One to chalk up to experience. Both stars have certainly moved onward and upward and I look forward to their next movies. "},{"Title":"It is a great Movie!!","Date":"9 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I loved the movie.It pulls you into the movie. for my friends and I it was like we were stuck between saying to each other go for the man and saying he is bad don't go for him. overall it is one of the best movies ever made. I think that mark wahlberg got into the role very well and you could believe him, and reese witherspoon took the role also as a very trusting of everyone and very I want something to happen to me and toward the end she became very scared and didn't really trust anyone that well she lost a friend and was being followed and wanted.  "},{"Title":"One of the best of its kind","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is a triumph. If you like guy-who-seemed-to-be-such-a-nice-guy-and-now-wants-to-kill-your-family type of films you must have this one in you collection. Trust me. Wahlberg and Witherspoon give a really good performance. The soundtrack is nice, the cinematography is nice and the editing is nice. The script is predictable, of course. But you will enjoy this one. There is plenty of violence in it so don't watch it with children. I was on the edge of my sofa the whole time. "},{"Title":"EXCELLENT","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Fear was an excellent movie its about this girl who meets this guy at a club but she thinks he's nice and falls in love with him but soon finds out he's got a violent temper when he catches this one kid hugging her he goes nuts and flips out then she gets back together with him and her father has warned her and she has seen his temper but she still goes back to him. She finds her friend with him but doesn't know the whole story and gets mad at her friend so she fully breaks up with him now he wants her back. he threatens her friend (alyssa Milano)to get them back together or he'll kill her. Well Alyssa Milano goes to her house to talk to her and that night the boyfriend and all his buddies show up and start breaking things around the house and trying to break in only the boy friend knows the code to get into the house with out setting off the alarm system and when they get in they start attacking the family and Alyssa Milano and the ending is really tense its an excellent movie if you like tense movies you'll love this one. "},{"Title":"If you thought the ending to Fatal Attraction was ludicrous, wait until you get a load of this!","Date":"4 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" In 1996, James Foley directed a movie called Fear. If there is any irony to be found in that title, it may very well be in that Mr. Foley would have had reason to be concerned about his career after making this mindless, overproduced piece of garbage. Five years earlier, now-famous Reese Witherspoon made her debut in a wonderful movie called The Man in the Moon. In both that film and this one, she played a teenager troubled by her crush on a boy. Except in that much-superior film, it was because her crush was three years older than her and he was smitten by her sister. In this film, it's because he's a sex-addicted psychopath who won't leave her be.Fear could be described as an adolescent version of Fatal Attraction. But there is a difference. Up until its last ten minutes, Fatal Attraction was a splendid thriller as well as an insightful one. It had a sharp, shrewd knowledge about marital affairs. Hence why Glenn Close still claims to this day that her performance stopped several men from cheating on their wives. That movie did lose its mind in its big climactic ending, but Fear is a movie born without a mind. And if you thought the ending to Fatal Attraction was ludicrous, wait until you get a load of what happens here.One of the core faults of the picture is lack of a demanding villain. I've had mixed feelings about Mark Wahlberg before, but this could be his worst performance. As the stalking boyfriend with a household of hoods, he's about as frightening as the stone lions in front of a library. There are two sides to Mr. Wahlberg's performance, one worse than the other. When his character goes psychotic at the end, it's just limp ham-acting. But he's worse at the beginning, when he's pretending to be a nice guy just by speaking softly and hanging his eyelids as if he had insomnia. But I guess Mr. Wahlberg, who can act when given a worthy screenplay, cannot be fully blamed here. For I doubt this material could have been handled well by any actor, young or old. Because I was not the least bit intimidated or frightened by him, I saw no reason why Miss Witherspoon, or her parents or friends, would be, either.However, the worst sin the movie commits is insincerity. It is tackling a very topical and relevant collection of subject matter underage sex, early-age affection, the tough times between parents and children at that crucial age of sixteen. But instead of offering insight about these tough times--that everyone of us can relate to in one way or another--it just pushes those opportunities aside in favor of over-the-top exploitation. Take, for example, the denouement of the picture. Instead of going for a plausible conclusion, the movie goes into a cheesy monster-on-the-loose formula, which very well have been a parody of Night of the Living Dead. This is the sort of film where four teenage boys have been granted special powers like second lives and super-human strength. They apparently also become master electricians and know more about architecture than the designer of a maximum security system. How do they acquire this vast array of skills? By doing drugs, raping high school girls, and playing lots of pool. I don't buy it.The movie is so unconsciously bad that it is always racing ahead of itself. Even a scene such as a jogger running through some woods (not chased by a bad guy, by the way) is accompanied by whooshing camera motions and a soundtrack so noisy that it would make the world's most obnoxious rock band ask for a little quiet time. I suppose if there was any good intentions from the makers of the movie, it would have been along the lines of Larry Clark's Kids released a year before. But whereas that film had a purpose, Fear just pretends to have a purpose. "}{"Title":"10/10. Mark Wahlberg was great!","Date":"30 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I really loved this movie. Mark Wahlberg and Reece Witherspoon share a tight chemistry. I think Mark Wahlberg did a fantastic job. He was so sensitive and at one point in the movie I even cried. I love how this movie shows us the connection between the two. They put the perfect amount of thrill. To me, Wahlberg is a brilliant actor and portrays his character very well. Reece Witherspoon also did great. The character she played, I believed was very much similar to the real Reece Witherspoon. The two look gorgeous as a pair I must admit. I think what made this movie even better was the incredibly great actors. William Petersen (Better known from C.S.I) did a great job playing Nicole's (Reece's) father. To me, it was so realistic. Overall, 10/10. Fantastic movie, a must see. "},{"Title":"Third act spoils it.","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Fear appears to be a decent enough thriller; at least up through the first hour. We have a great cast who all play seemingly interesting characters, and that bodes well for the rest of the film. As the action plays out, however, things seem to jump the tracks of credibility. That's a shame since this could have been a really good little film.The story centers around a 16 yr old girl named Nicole (Witherspoon), who seems to have a lot going for her. Unfortunately, she like so many other young ladies, falls under the spell of a bad boy named David (Wahlberg). We the audience can tell from the start that David and his buddies are at the very least shady, and at the very worst homicidal maniacs. Nicole realizes this too after a while. But in defiance of her father (Petersen) she sticks with David a little too long. By the time she's ready to dump him, David is totally obsessed with Nicole, and will stop at nothing to be with her. By the film's final 15 minutes, David and his band of cronies have laid siege to Nicole's house and are terrorizing her entire family.The film starts out great. We the audience meet characters we care about, and things play out somewhat realistically. The cast is really awesome. Many of the principal performers would go on to much bigger things over the years. Witherspoon and Alyssa Milano are gorgeous, and Mark Wahlberg shows some talent in his first major film role. William Petersen is great in anything he does, and his performance here is no exception. The film falls apart in the final minutes, though. Characterization and logic are thrown out the window as the film relies too heavily on violence and mayhem to sort things out. There are a couple really ridiculous scenes toward the end. In one of them, Wahlberg snaps the neck of one of Witherspoon's friends while he's walking home from school. This is silly enough, but it's also poorly filmed and not at all convincing. In another scene, we see Wahlberg repeatedly punch himself in the chest to make it look like Petersen has beaten him up. It just looks stupid as he's pounding away at himself and trying to look tough.I don't know. Go ahead and try this one. It could have been better but it's not a total loss.6 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"A new kid from the block...","Date":"18 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I really like this movie, although many people say it's too much stereotype. The story is simple - a wealthy middle class family consisting of star architect William C.S.I. Petersen, his beautiful wife and car and house and two kids, one of them beautiful young Reese Witherstone, are threatened by a wicked high school dude, played by Mark Wahlberg. As Wahlberg starts dating Witherspoon, she realizes too late that her new flame is a violent and weird psycho, killer and gang leader who soon becomes a real threat to the whole family... and it  didn't last long until good and evil faces in an all destroying fight...The story is quite simple, but it really works. The direction is thrilling and fast-pacing, Carter Burwell's soundtrack is a menacing, gloomy score in the wake of Bernhard Herrmann, and the actors are really good, especially Petersen, Witherspoon and Mark Wahlberg who portraits a really disturbing character miles away from his former New Kids On The Block and Markie Mark pop star image.The songs featured in this film are also really great and a good selection of groovy mid-nineties dance and indie rock tunes. The end is really dramatic and a nice rip-off of Rio Bravo, Assault on Precinct 13 and Straw Dogs. Sit back and be thrilled, and after watching Fear you won't listen to you old NKOTB records anymore like you did it during your teenage years. Recommended.  "},{"Title":"A Brillaint Thriller!","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Fear is a great film that isn't really scary, but very entertaining. Reese Witherspoon, Mark Whalberg, and Willaim Petersen are great in the film. This is a highly entertaining thriller which is kind of a drama and horror. James Foley did a good job on directing and the acting was terrific. Fear is a great film that is entertaining and suspenseful, and keeps you on the edge of your seat. I give Fear a 10 out of 10!!! ) "},{"Title":"Piece of trash","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie starts off very well, but slowly plot holes start to emerge and characters become unrealistic and dumber until it becomes just another slasher movie. Director James Foley (who has shown his potential with Glengarry Glen Ross but has made some VERY bad business decisions) made a good effort however, but couldn't come up with the goods. He created some genuine tension in the film's climax and some steamy scenes between Wahlberg and Witherspoon but I guess with an appaling, extremely derivitive script, unconvincing performances -especially by Wahlberg who looks right but just dosen't have the edge- and bad casting (Witherspoon/Peterson) one can only do so much. One way this failure could have been a success was to tone down the violent/scary tone and let Wahlberg reveal his psychosis slowly (Jaws anyone?) instead of revealing it before we can even say RIPOFF!. "},{"Title":"A very good viewpoint for me","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Ok I know some people might say that the movie Fear was a bit cheesy but think about it this way.  It has a major influence and impact for teenagers today.  Some people think Oh well I would never get a boyfriend who would go throught hat much to try to kill anyone who tries to get between me and him or I would never have a boyfriend that would do psychotic stuff like carve a tattoo in his chest of my name and punch his chest so hard so that he would have bruises to blame it upon someone else.  Well this is the 90's and there are a lot of weirdos out there that can do that and from a 16 year old's perspective(myself) this has influenced me so much to watch otu who I date.  Ok enough of what my beliefs are I will get on to the good stuff. The movie.  I loved this movie.  I though it was great. I could watch it over and over and never get bored over it.  The main reason I saw this movie was because my #1 all time favorite actress, Alyssa Milano (Margo Masse) is in it.  The movie has a great plot about it and it just gives off this great vibe Oh I wanna watch this again, right after you watch the movie.  It's basically about a 16-year old girl named Nicole Walker (Reese Witherspoon) who meets a very mysterious and sexy guy named David Mcall (Mark Wahlberg)The end up dating and she thinks he is everything and more until she finds out the dark side of him.  He beats up one of her friends, Gary, rapes her best-friend Margo and then terrorizes her family in their own home.  You can basically get the picture that this movie is very suspenseful and intense and keeps you off of the edge of your seat. I could see how a older adult would not like this movie very much but the more younger audience ranging from 15-30 would like it in my opinion.  I could watch this movie over and over again and I think it is a great movie and I recommend it to anyone who likes suspence. "},{"Title":"Marky Mark can act and Reece Witherspoon is breathtaking.","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Ok,  this is not the best movie in the world, but it does deserve a solid 7/10.  What is it about Reece Witherspoon that the screen makes her look like candy.  She is sweet.  Marky Mark's (Mark W.) pre boogy nights performance is pretty good.  I can see why the producers and directors of his future bad mistakes gave him a chance.  He should have stuck to more gritty roles like this one and that of Boogie Nights.  Alisa Milano sure did grow up nicely.  I can recommend this movie to anyone who likes a pretty predictable thriller.  "},{"Title":"MARK WAHLBERG IS TERRIFIC.","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I really liked this movie. The climax had me on the edge of my seat.  Mark Wahlberg did a grand performance that will have generations to come talking about it. **1/2 "},{"Title":"Beware of orphans!","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERS That could be the obnoxious moral of this story.And long live the family !When a whole family is involved,any suspense disappears.What could happen to these nice people?Which is less likeable is the necessity to find victims somewhere elseif you're not part of the Family,they make sure you die it's a wonder that Margot survives (and she was a naughty girl at that in the first part!).But as for the gentle boyfriend,the cops who come to the rescue ,the dog of the family and of course the villain and his pack ,the die is cast.There's one interesting moment  and you think that things will take offthe scene where Wahlberg insults Petersen indicates what a heterical movie this could have been.Instead we have a humdrum work,barely made-for-TV quality.The main character is an orphan,and for the script writers, this accounts for his perversitynobody tries to see more .But he acts as a expiatory victimthe family ,who had problems at the beginning ,comes out of this ordeal with increase stature.Mindless and irresponsible. "},{"Title":"Obvious, predictable, mechanical, and mediocre.","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Fear is a mediocre suspense/thriller about a teenage daughter (Witherspoon) who is terrorized by an exboyfriend (Wahlberg). An ordinary and predictable formula flick, Fear goes through the motions mechanically, obviously manipulated for maximum effect. For example, Walhberg's constantly looking into the camera with chin down and eyes up to give him an evil look becomes almost laughable. Forgettable escapism most likely appreciated by younger adults who haven't seen this genre run into the ground. "}{"Title":"Under-rated Must watch","Date":"14 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is probably one of my favorite movies. Why? Because men like this EXIST IN REAL LIFE. Being a residential counselor and seeing men behave this way - it is completely realistic. The psychological background completes Mark Wahlberg's character development. The upbringing and dialog corresponds to the promiscuous friend's behavior Played by Alyssa Milano. This is the most under-rated movie. Mark Wahlberg shines in this one.There is one particular scene in this movie that is still stuck in my head which rarely happens. The few lines from Mark Wahlberg are so poetically psychotic it leaves you thinking for hours (or even days) after the credits role - which is what a movie is supposed to do. A movie is supposed to send a message and expand your awareness. This is the most under-rated movie and a must watch. It's 2013 and this 1996 script still resonates a fresh tone in today's world. "},{"Title":"With an ending like that, how could I not enjoy it?","Date":"19 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Over the years, I've developed quite an aversion to Mark Wahlberg for various reasons the guy was the front-man for quite possibly the suckiest boy-band of the 90s; he speaks with an irritatingly soft voice; his hair is crap; he starred in the awful Four Brothers, dreadful Planet of the Apes and dreary The Yards; he got to have on-screen sex with Heather Graham and Julianne Moore in Boogie Nights, and in Fear, he gets to break-in a jailbaitalicious Reese Witherspoon and screw a slutty Alyssa Milano. Tell me, what's to like about the guy?Fortunately, in Fear, where Wahlberg plays despicable psycho David, who makes life absolute hell for pretty schoolgirl Nicole Walker (Witherspoon), her friends and family, a general disdain of the actor, compounded with a hatred for his character, makes this movie an all the more intense and enjoyable experience after having Witherspoon and Milano lounge around in bikinis, Milano bending over in a very short skirt, step-milf Laura Walker (Amy Brenneman) in a sexy one-piece, Witherspoon orgasming (with a little help from David) while riding a roller-coaster, Gary's neck snapped like a twig, and The Walker's pet dog Kaiser's decapitated noggin pushed through its dog-flap during a tense siege/home invasion, what better way for director James Foley to end his film than by launching Wahlberg through a first storey window to land face-down on the rocks below? "},{"Title":"Good, even for a Wahlberg film","Date":"28 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I don't like Mark Wahlberg. I'd go so far as to say that I hate him -- despise him, even. The Happening, Max Payne, The Departed - he has this way of systematically ruining everything he does; he's like Adam Sandler, almost.Despite Wahlberg's role in this film - which, if I might add, wasn't very good (as can be expected) - I was surprised to find that I enjoyed this film. I never thought I'd hear myself saying such a thing about a Wahlberg film, but it's true. This was an enjoyable, thrilling movie that I am glad that I watched.I'd recommend it to anybody in search of a good, old-fashioned thriller. "},{"Title":"A pretty good show...","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" ***Contain's Spoilers***I liked this show even though it definitely was not Reese Witherspoon's best performance. Mark Wahlberg did a fairly good job as the insane, obsessed, jealous boyfriend. He was totally scary in this movie. One of the things that really got on my nerves was the whole killing off the dog and Gary. I happened to think Gary was a good character even though we don't see a whole lot of him. On the other hand Mark Walhberg's character had to kill off someone. I also liked Alyssa Millano's performance as well even though at one point in the movie I almost hated her for hurting her best friend, it ended up not her fault in the first place. But other than that, I pretty much enjoyed watching this movie. "},{"Title":"A fantastic teen movie","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Nicole Walker is the sweet goody two shoes of her friends at 16 years old, with an innocence that will ultimately attract danger in the form of handsome David McCall. She lives with her father Steve , his new wife Laura and her son Toby after her mom passed away. It is through her best friends ...the vixen Margo and Gary that they leave school and go to lunch at a cool café ...Margo instantly is attracted to Logan ( the best friend of David McCall) and it is then that Nicole first sets eyes on David. He spots her in the crowd and there is clearly instant chemistry between them. The two girls go to a rave when Margo rushes off to be with Logan leaving Nicole alone ..but David has already seen her and goes to talk. The party is cut short and the pair leave in his car to talk the night away ..breaking her curfew causing tension with her step-mom. This is the first of many situations caused by David, he takes her virginity and the two are madly in love but Nicole's father senses something is not right and a background check proves to him David is not all he seems! Margo is forced into bed with David at a party and Nicole vows never to see him again not knowing her father has broken into David's home and destroyed it ..now he wants revenge and so do his friends. War is taken upon the Walker residence .... as David wants Nicole enough to kill for her . "},{"Title":"Shades of Straw Dogs","Date":"29 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I did not like everything about this film but the least one can say is that it lives up to its name. There are only a couple of deaths, including Kaiser but throughout the film the spectator is fearing death most of the time.For me the soundtrack was awful, unmemorable and in the nightclub shots the volume was too loud ! What is the human race coming to, if to derive pleasure from music, it is necessary to have it at such a loud volume ? This adds nothing to the film, just annoys me. The other thing is the girl, Nicole ......... God, she's dumb, won't listen to her father, jumps into bed too soon with a strange man, leaves condom packets lying around in the bedroom, and worse of all gives him the entrance code into her house despite her father having forbidden her to have visitors in the house. How can anyone be so STUPID ! It's therefore difficult to feel sorry for her once she gets herself into trouble.David has a seemingly affable and polite character at the beginning, but during his first visit to Nicole's house addresses her in a rather authoritarian way when asking for a drink and Nicole's dad picks up on this, but the big shock really comes when he sees Gary and Nicole together in front of the school and really lays in to Gary, the scene is EXTREMELY violent, actually worse than the scene where he breaks Gary's neck in the woods. Fom here onwards things gradually go down hill and even our dumb Nicole ends up by realizing that David isn't perhaps such a good bet after all.The final scenes where their house is attacked from outside by David accompanied by his local band of scum is reminiscent of Straw Dogs of 1971 and I'd bet the director had seen and appreciated that film as well as Misty by Clint Eastwood where the psychopathic Jessica Walters is precipitated by Eastwood out of the house and crashes to the rocks below, and in this film, David ends up laying across the rocks.I applaud above all Nicole's father in all this, he had sassed out the evil character of David from the start and he held firm right until the end, unlike his wavering girlfriend who appears to want to be tough on Nicole at the beginning and during the film becomes soft and permissive. Still, if all the characters were the same, the film would n't be interesting.The film, then is certainly to be recommended if you like to be made afraid by cinema but if, like me, you are not turned on by excessive blood and gore ! "},{"Title":"one of the scariest movies i've ever seen","Date":"29 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I saw this movie on the USA channel, so I know it was edited a little bit. I only watched the movie because I saw it had Reese Witherspoon in it, since she's one of my favorite actresses. I ended up enjoying it, but the plot was a little far-fetched. The movie starts out with Nichole seeing a cute yet mysterious David at some local hangout. She later meets him at a party and they leave together and take a walk. They decide they want to date and he goes home to meet her parents. At this point you want to like David but a few minutes later when Nichole's dad tells him that Nichole's curfew is midnight, David sets the clock back 30 minutes. You know then that he has a dark side. Then Nichole's parents go out of town and Nichole and David do uh, bad stuff. You can already tell that David is obsessive, and that something is wrong with him. When Nichole's dad finds out about what his daughter did when he was out of town he immediately turns against David, and tries to get them to break up. Then David beats up Nichole's friend Gary when he is seen innocently hugging her. That is the turning point at which everyone realizes that David isn't just possessive, he's physco. The story goes on as Nichole breaks up with David, and he and his criminal friends kill Gary (and Nichole's dog-which is a disgusting scene), and try to break into Nichole's house. The ending is fairly predictable, but I still somewhat enjoyed this movie. "},{"Title":"Movie with two faces","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" ** YEAH, HERE BE SPOILERS ALRIGHT ** Recap Nicole (Witherspoon) has her eyes set on David (Wahlberg) and apparently David has his eyes on her. The two starts dating, a young love between teens, and all seems sweet and well. However David has a dark side, a side of jealousy, violence and crime. Nicole's parents Steven (Petersen) and Laura (Brenneman) try to break the pair up, but that only results in Nicole's rebellion and as a trigger for David... Nicole and her friend Margo (Milano) hangs out with David's criminal friends before Nicole finally wake up and sees David foe what he is. But then it is too late...Comment Starts out as a sweet romantic drama that centers on the young tentative love. But there are some darker moments that warn about what is about to happen. Along the way the movie changes into a thriller with traces of horror. Unfortunately the movie is better as the romantic drama in the beginning than the thriller in the end, so the movie doesn't improve as it goes along. The cast is good, handles the change very well and consists mainly of (to me) known faces. Wahlberg is especially good as David, able to quickly change from sweet and lovable to obsessing and violent. All in all, slightly above average...6/10 "},{"Title":"Routine programmer saved by Wm Petersen","Date":"14 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  William Petersen shows why he's one of the best and most under-rated actors of recent times.  He practically saves this rather routine and mundane heavy-handed melodrama.  Here he shows how he can really rise above the material.  Wahlberg is fine but nothing special, and the others seem to be walking through the script.  It's a tired old story that's been done and overdone, and it's also been done better.  A routine programmer good enough to pass the time and then forget 10 minutes after it's over.  Director Foley usually elicits good performances from even the weakest actors, but not here.  Popcorn actioner and that's all.  Thankfully, Petersen does it right and that's why CSI is so good and would be nothing much without him. "},{"Title":"gripping thriller","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  gripping thrilleris entertaining all the way with solid acting and frightening moments and the hot Reese Witherspoon And Alyssia Milano make this even more engaging anyway you have to see this one it's pretty good *** out of 5 "}{"Title":"Could, and should have been a lot better.","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film had plenty of things going for it. A strong cast, a good premise and an interestng comment. But ultimatly this left me dissappionted.William Peterson (in what was presumably his last cinematic point of call before heading off to CSI) was the main reason I decided to watch this, along with Reese Witherspoon, and to be fair, both of them do a pretty solid job with the rather shock-free script.Unfortunaly this film simply had nowhere near enough tension shocks or truly hair-raising moments, even The Blair Witch project was more tense than this !!What ultimatly let this film down though was Mark Whalberg. He simply isn't scary enough or frightening enough to convince you he is a psychopathic bully. Instead, his tree-like acting left me wanting Peterson to punch his lights out.This film, in the rights hands with the right atmosphere and right script could have been a terrific piece of film, but in the end there is just nothing to make you feel fearful.However, there is one good moment when Peterson, trying to get thorugh to the police asks I need to speak to the people who solve murders !!, hinting at what was just around the corner fo him.At the end of the day though, even Gil Grissom wouldn't be able to solve the mystery of why this promised so much, and delivered so little. Marks out of 10 5/10 "},{"Title":"'Fear' doesn't make you fear anything","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  ** 1/2Starring Reese Witherspoon, Mark Wahlberg, William Peterson, and Amy Brenneman.A boyfriend that a teenager has is all she could dream to be.  But, what she doesn't know, is that he is a psychotic freak who will do anything to be sure that she is his.  It doesn't make you fear anything, but laugh at Marky Mark's silly accent. "},{"Title":"Okay thriller that rips-off Straw Dogs!","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I just saw this thriller on Polish TV and I can safely say that I enjoyed it.The relationship between David(Mark Wahlberg)and Nicole(Reese Witherspoon)is well-handled by director James Foley.The film is fast-paced and Wahlberg is pretty good as a psychotic boyfriend of Reese.The climax rips-off  Straw Dogs,but the movie is entertaining enough to watch without falling asleep.There is a bit of violence and some frightening moments,so the film is worth checking out for horror/thriller fans.7 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Mediocre","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  **POSSIBLE SPOILERS** This is definitely one of the worst movies I've ever seen. I mean this could be a Lifetime movie. Its pretty boring, as well. The plot has been used a hundred times before. Boy meets girl, they fall in love, and slowly, the girl finds out what a jerk the guy is. It's really that simple, the whole plot right there. I mean this movie isn't a total loss. The end is good, where David ( Whalberg ) and his buddies are trying to get into the house. Thats really the only good stuff. But i thought it was just sick for the , writer, or whoever decides this stuff to put in a scene where in innocent dog is decapitated and its severed head is dropped through the dog door. I don't understand why someone would do something like that. But anyways, I give FEAR a 3/10 "},{"Title":"Pretty Psychological Thriller AND HORROR","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, I saw this film whilst on Holiday -- and I have to say that the film definitely portrays things well. Acting is above board for the most part and hey, give Mark Whalberg a break -- he did the role very well. Dog Lovers will NOT like this film -- and whenever a dog appears in a horror movie, it's a BAD sign. Can't they think of anything more original than a dog? In fact, can they stop killing animals altogether? Some of the actors were surprisingly unconvincing. David Duchovny is the one I think is most unconvincing. Back to the film, I suppose its worth watching for a night in, but don't say I didn't warn you about some of the awful scenes in this film. It might've been nice to explore a bit more of Whalberg's past... but that never really happened. Also, SURPRISE The killer doesn't come back to life. Now that's original for US movies! Rating 6/10  "},{"Title":"A Great Movie That Keeps You At The Edge of Your Seat.","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"     Fear is a great movie that will keep you on the edge of your seat. Reese Witherspoon and Mark Whalberg did great performances. Story Nicole Walker (Reese Witherspoon) is a normal teenager with a good family. Then, Nicole meets David McCall (Mark Whalberg), who seems to be a nice guy. When he is introduced to Nicole's family, her father (William Petersen) doesn't like David that much, but that doesn't stop Nicole and David's relationship. Then, when Nicole is seen hugging her friend which is a boy whom she has known since childhood, David sees her, and then ends up kicking and hitting him. Then, Nicole stops seeing David. Now, David will stop at nothing to be with Nicole for ever. Even if it means killing her family and friends. All, in all Fear is a great movie that will keep you highly entertained. I give Fear a 10 out of 10!!!  ) "},{"Title":"Hitchcock meets Charles Manson &#150; Hitch comes off second best.","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The guys who made this nasty little piece of work obviously deluded themselves into thinking they were paying homage to Hitchcock (who makes a cameo appearance on someone's T shirt). This movie isn't about fear, it's about exploiting the audience. 'We'll give you a thrill folks', the makers say, and instead they give them a trite, predicable plot with a nasty violent ending. I don't mind meaningful violence, but this was comically meaningless. The only suspense is the bet on how many people will walk out of the audience before the end. This is straight to video stuff with a big budget. Having said that, I thought the two major relationships portrayed in the movie - father and daughter, and daughter and boyfriend, were not without interest, but anything fresh there was spoiled by the ending. Reese Witherspoon was quite good as the rebellious daughter but William Peterson as Dad spent most of the time looking like a stunned mullet. Poor old Marky Mark (the former underwear model) as the boyfriend turned psychopath did manage to arouse something of an air of menace despite his stupid lines, but he too was betrayed by the finale. Amy Brenneman put in a decent performance as as the not-so-wicked stepmother. "},{"Title":"Good movie, but...","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" ... why would Alyssa Milano's character go for the guy that she's interested in?  It makes no sense because let's face it  he's not a looker. He is, in fact, most icky.  Reese and Mark are great in the movie, and they are the main people- so Alyssa's little side thing really isn't important... just an observation! "},{"Title":"Entertaining, but come on...","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"    This movie, in general, is entertaining, and I can watch it without getting bored, but when it comes down to it, the movie is pretty ridiculous.  The script is written well in that is keeps you involved, but it's completely ludicrous in so many ways.  Do they really expect us to believe Nicole is so stupid?  Her crazy boyfriend, who, if you can't tell he's nuts from the get-go, you're blind, acts out in ways that make crazy bikers look tame.  Yet, she keeps going back, thinking, wow...what a nice guy.  He really didn't mean to beat my friend up until he was nearly dead.   Yea right.  Also, I hate movies in which they have someone who is clearly 20-25 playing a 16 or 17 yr old.  That is so annoying.  I can't take it too seriously because Nicole looks like she's 22 or 23, and Wauhlberg's character looks like hes 25, 26.  Then, as I said before, the girl is a total idiot.  The movie progresses kind of slowly, which, outside of the theatre can be good if you ask me.  It entertains you longer, I guess.  It seems to atleast.  Outside of the fake aspects of the film, and the annoying main character, it's nice.  Peterson is awesome, and I think he's completely enjoyable to watch, no matter what role.   Witherspoon, I personally cannot stand her, she's just too annoying for me, in every role she has ever had...but a lot of people like her, so I guess it doesn't do any real harm to the movie.  The other characters are not really that prominent, besides maybe Milano, but she's not in the movie all that much, not in any real concrete way atleast.  She plays her usual role...slut...but, shocking, she doesn't get naked at all.  She proves again, with this role, that she has no talent whatsoever.  The ending of the film is very dramatic and you're on edge the final 20 minutes or so, but it's for nothing.  Why does what happens in the end happen at all?  Isn't this a bit extreme.  If you have seen the movie, you know what I mean.  It's like--come on guys....give us something real here.  In the end, when all the tension is gone, there's no payback.  It works the way most movies work, but in this film, something is missing...you feel cheated at the end.  Anyhow, it's good to watch, but it's no masterpiece.   "},{"Title":"Rip-Off","Date":"23 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Fear(1996) begins with a strong start but ends up descending into familar territory of different movies from a certain type of film.  There's nothing wrong with using ideas from other films as long as there's something fresh and original that is used to convey the idea.  Resse Witherspoon gives the only interesting role in a lousy movie which reaches below her talents as an actress.  Fear(1996) would have been much better if the filmmakers continued on the themes explored in At Close Range(1985) as this movie would have been a perfect companion piece.  Mark Walhberg gives a performance that is average but nothing that could match the performance by Christopher Walken in At Close Range(1985) who balances between being very charming to behaving genuinely evil.  The lead character behaves like Krug from The Last House On The Left(1972) and the movie degenerates into a Fatal Attraction/Cape Fear clone with a climax that shamelessly borrows from Sam Peckinpah's Straw Dogs(1971)(unfortunately without the outlet of sudden violence from that film).  It is a shame that a director like James Foley who's done better things like At Close Range(1985), and GlenGarry GlenRoss(1992) is actually doing this lousy motion picture. "}{"Title":"The best suspense thriller of all time","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Fear has to be my favorite movie, I just love it and can't get bored of it. I thought it was realistic and easy to relate to and very suspenseful.This movie is about a sixteen year old girl Nicole Walker (Reese Witherspoon) who meets a seemingly charming sweet guy named David (Mark Wahlberg) at a local rave party. Nicole thinks she has finally found the right guy but little does she know that David is not all he seems to be. Nicoles' father is suspicious of David from the start. Nicoles' stepmother thinks David has just had a hard life and makes excuses for him. It isn't until Nicole sees David go upstairs with her best friend Margo (Alyssa Milano) that she finally sees what he is really like.If you like a suspense thriller then this movie is for you. I give it an easy 10/10. "},{"Title":"***1/2","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was wonderfully acted and directed. It was full of suspense and scared me very badly (especially the climax). I thought Marky Mark was great in this movie as was Reese Witherspoon.The only problem (which is why it didn't get the half star) was the editing in the movie. Some of the scenes had the look they were edited by my six year old brother.But other than I recommend this to anyone...but during the last half hour have a change of underwear.  "},{"Title":"Familiar material enlivened by direction, performances","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  James Foley's knowing direction and the performances of the principal actors nearly keep Fear from being just another entry in the Fatal Attraction/Hand That Rocks the Cradle/Single White Female sub-genre of psycho vs. decent folk thrillers.  Unfortunately, the inevitable siege and showdown style ending that mars each of those films sinks this one as well.  The first part of Fear, however, is deliciously sleazy as bad boy Wahlberg insinuates himself into the lives of Petersen's upper middle class family through naive daughter Witherspoon.  The escalating romance between the young lovers is satisfyingly lurid, and the psychological interplay between father and suitor makes for some of the flick's finest moments.   "},{"Title":"Pathetically funny","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is SO stupid that it forces some laughs out. A VERY over-used storyline and overall lame acting. Reese Witherspoon is too talented to be in a movie like this. Mark Wahlberg looks really hot, but his acting was pretty sad. Alyssa Milano played a slut- what a stretch for her (note the sarcasm.) The soundtrack is the best part of the movie. Watch this movie if nothing better is on and you want to have a few laughs. I rate it a 6/10. "},{"Title":"fear a movie i highly recommend","Date":"13 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The director of this film,James Foley,did a very good job building the characters.He is very well informed about psychopaths and their judgement.At the beginning of the movie,we can see that Nicole(Reese Witherspoon),a beautiful rebellious teenager would fall in love with the polite,intelligent and handsome David(Mark Walhberg).Her father,Steve Walker,very protective,liked at first David.But after checking his background he disapproved with her daughters relationship.Steve Walker...he got no family,no addresse,no work record.Laura Walker What's the big deal? Steve Walker The big deal, Laura, is that the guy gives me the creeps, and the girl is my daughter. He sees haw David charmed his wife,Laura,the stepmother of Nicole and her little stepbrother,Toby.He is becoming more possessive when he discover a condom wrapper beside Nicole's bed.Steve wants to keep David away from his family.After a while Nicole breaks the relationship with David when he beats her male friend,Garry.Not long and David regains Nicole's trust and we could see that love is blind and powerful especially first love.Nicole looses her virginity with David.He thinks now that Nicole is fully his and wants it to be forever.The tagline is very goodTogether forever. Or else.I was really mad when David rapped Nicole's best friend,Margo,after being with Nicole. Nicole comes to David's home and saw how Margo was carried by David.She didn't realized that Margo was going against her will.Nicole again breaks up with her love and in this moment David looses it.He kills Garry,trashes Steve's car,is stalking Nicole and even sexually assaulted her in a public bathroom.Steve returns the favor,trashing David and his gang's place. They will come to the Walkers home for revenge.This is a very good moment in the movie.One of David's friend wants to touch Nicole and David comes and kills him with could blood,with a bullet in the head .Again we see that in an obsessive way he loves Nicole.I disagree with the end of the movie,because David dies.I wanted him to survive the fall,to get therapy and Nicole to sit by his side.If that happened,the end of the movie wouldn't have been predictable,but neither letting us wanting more )If you want to see a good psychological thriller,with very good actors and scenes,see Fear. "},{"Title":"I really loved this movie","Date":"29 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The movie is like other horror movies I will give you that but, it has an extra kind of character relationship that other movies don't have. What I mean is that you can see that David really does love Nicole because it really hurts him when she doesn't respond to his letter to meet him at the bar. He kisses and touches her so sweetly that you really sometimes wish it was a love story and that there are men out there that can make a girl feel that happy. I loved the roller coaster scene because the song went so well with the whole scene it makes you feel for that one scene maybe David and Nicole will make it. The movie left me feeling something for days and i don't know what it was at all but I think it was the song and that one scene. "},{"Title":"Excellent Intense Film!","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie is definitely excellent and intense. I give it 10 out of 10 stars. The following things were excellent acting, costumes, production, directing, photography, script, storyline, plot, action, etc. Kudos to the cast, crew, and filmmakers. Two Thumbs Way Up!Although this story is fictional, it is the sad true reality of certain teen relationships,(both males and females as the victims) that go terribly wrong. The victim is naive and he or she falls into a trap set up by the abuser. The abuse then sometimes escalates to point where just like in this movie it can be extremely dangerous and possibly fatal.When Nicole's parents discovered the dangerous, awful, and deadly truth about David,(her new boyfriend), they demanded that she break-up with him. But Nicole would not do it. However, when she finally does listen after a string of incidents he keeps on stalking her and those around her. He ends up killing her male friend, who he also beat up earlier, and he takes the family hostage in their own home. But however his plan to kill them backfires in the end when he gets a taste of his own medicine. "},{"Title":"Best movie Eva","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie is my favorite movie of all time. I think its the greatest movie Eva. I love Reese and this is by far her best movie Eva. Alyssa Milano shows why she is one of the hottest chicks around. Mark Wahlberg rocks. This movie has everything a movie should have. Drama, Action, Comedy, Romance. This movie is an excellent snap shot of defining life in the 1990's much in the same spirit those 1980 montage movies did a decade past. What I mean by that is if you are trying to explain what the spirit 1980s were like in movie form, one might say well take a look at Better of Dead, or Preaty in Pink, Sixteen candles, and Real Genius etc. You want to describe clothing styles, slang/vocabulary, the feel and and attitude of the 1990s you get that in this movie Fear. The music all though not in the soundtrack from the Group Bush is awesome and again captures what the 1990s were all about. This movie is highly underrated. I would put this movie up against the Godfather any day. Furthermore, I know I'll get flamed for my review of this movie but I don't care lol. This movie is awesome. "},{"Title":"Mark Wahlberg Somehow Stole The Show.","Date":"8 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I brought this up because although it seems obvious that Mark Wahlberg was the most interesting character, I am a man that finds Alyssa Milano and Reese Witherspoon hot as an erupting volcano. I actually rented the movie just to stare at them. But what I got in return was perhaps Mark Wahlberg's best performance of his career in a realistic thriller whose genre is often overrun with violence. So kudos to Wahlberg for taking over this film with Milano and Witherspoon involved in it. But what was especially interesting was how slowly Wahlberg's character showed his dark side. It wasn't just all of a sudden, like in most other films involving psychotic people. It also teaches today's virgins to be careful of who they hook up with. I could have actually cared less about the other characters, simply put, Marky Mark stole the show. An underrated thriller. "},{"Title":"Okay I'll admit it","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  As embarrassing as it is to admit this, I kind of liked the movie. I remember the hype surrounding this movie. Ninety-five percent of the female population filled the movie theater and swooned over the pool scene as Marky Mark flexed his biceps. It was his debut film and a thriller about a seemingly charming boyfriend deflowering an innocent girl who, once he shows his ass then girlfriend indirectly fights back. Whats the tagline Together 4 eva, or else. Damn, can I laugh yet? So its about an innocent girl (fast ass hepha) if you ask me who bucks her father for her own identity and freedom. Due to being a product of divorce and an addition to a new step-family, Nicole played well by Witherspoon decides to challenge her dad's authority by mouthing off and wearing the most provocative clothes I had ever seen a girl at that age in. My moma would have whooped my ass if I busted out in that and mouthed off at my pop like that. But hey, some people are like that and cool with it I guess.So yes it was good. The first hour was great. The setup, their hook-up, the feelings, the lust was all real. For a minute, I fell back to memory lane when ignorance was bliss. The last act was scary enough when boyfriend lost his mind. The tech house was necessary to support  the fear. I mean if you thought the last act was off the wall then try the late news or watch that Investigative Reports show cause thats where they get it from. It's just entertainment.   "}{"Title":"First half is great; then film degenerates.","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  For about an hour, Fear is a way-above-average thriller. The buildup is slow and careful, and the acting in every major role is just superb Whalberg is subtly scary, the lovely and talented Reese Witherspoon will surely melt many hearts, and Petersen is solid as the caring, rather conservative father (in fact, the film has a rather conservative point of view, but never mind). Some scenes are played so naturally that you forget you're watching a horror film, and Fear becomes a compelling drama.Unfortunately, in the final 20 minutes or so, the filmmakers decide to abandon any pretense of realism, and to turn the movie into something resembling a Night of the Living Dead knockoff, with punks replacing zombies (others have mentioned Straw Dogs here, but I haven't seen that one.) It culminates in a silly fistfight (with an even sillier outcome), and a potentially good film becomes disappointing.    (**) "},{"Title":"Starts well, but writer and director don't quite know how to end it. Wahlberg and Witherspoon, however, are almost perfect.","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERS - This film is about how one, seemingly random, incident can change your whole life. Sliding Doors and Run, Lola, Run did it very explicitly. In this film, Fear, you have to watch closer for it. Nicole (Reese Witherspoon) and her father and stepmom are supposed to go to a James Taylor concert, but he gets a last-minute call that a client has to see him in Vancouver that night. As a result, Nicole ends up at a nightspot with her friend (Milano), makes eye contact with David (Mark Wahlberg), and the rest is history.I rented this DVD as part of my plan to see all Reese Witherspoon films. The Dolby 5.1 sound track is a highlight of the movie. It starts with music and drums that sound much like Mighty Joe Young. Near the end, when the bad guys are pounding on the secure doors at Nicole's home, the pounding sounds very real. Scary real. The picture is first-rate also. I cannot conceive of anyone enjoying this film without a good home theater sound system, because there is so much there.This is a common but realistic story of how a normal 16-yr-old student (Reese was actually 19) can so easily get mixed up with the wrong crowd of older (Wahlberg was 25) worldy-wise young men. It really happens, that's what makes this movie so scary. Kind and caring on the surface, a monster inside that gets violent with little warning or reason.The film starts off very promising but, as happens so often, the author and director simply do not know how to bring it to a satisfying conclusion.  The pacing begins to get a bit erratic, and the last scenes stretch the film's credibility. The kid, opening the garage door, dodging a bullet, and driving over one of the bad guys. The father throwing David through a window to the stone walkway below. At least all the bad guys got killed, and the only good guy who got nailed was the security cop.  Nicole and her father hugged and gained a fresh appreciation for their family bond. Not a bad result at all, just not done with much finesse.  However, I was shocked at how GOOD Mark Wahlberg was as David. In 1996 still a relatively inexperienced actor, he played David with all the good and bad nuances just perfectly. It puts in a better perspective why he is doing so well with his career. And, what more can be said about Reese Witherspoon. Equally comfortable in serious and comedic roles, she truly is one of the fine young actors. Her performance as the teenager here was right on. I should know -- I had three of my own teenage daughters. "},{"Title":"RIP-OFF OF STRAW DOGS","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A so-so suspense film that is also derivative of many others where a mad stalker wants his girl and no one else will get between him and her.I wasn't too convinced about the father ruining Wahlberg's whole house; the one room, yes, but not the whole house.And the ending where they attack the house is a very bad rip-off of a much superior film, Sam Peckinpah's STRAW DOGS.  It's in this scene that the nerdy guy, Dustin Hoffmann, starts to realize that violence is sometimes necessary, whereas FEAR uses the scene only for a plot device. "},{"Title":"Rather typical teen thriller","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Inspired by FATAL ATTRACTION and maybe some of CAPE FEAR, this is a typical, but for the most part watchable teen thriller with Witherspoon falling in love with the perfect guy played by Whalberg, but when she dumps him--look out!  There are some clever moments as Whalberg seeks revenge on her, her friends & family, but for the most part the film is not that creative or fresh of a plot.  Earns 2.5 out of 4. "},{"Title":"Suspenseful, but a little far fetched","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Fear is a movie like Single White Female about letting someone into your life who is a total stranger and turns out to be a nutcase. The thought of it is true to life, but that's about the only thing realistic in the film. I have a hard time believing that this highschool kid would just kill people. I didn't have trouble believing it in Scream or the Badlands or any of those and I think it's because for half the movie Marl Wahlberg's character seems normal. When he starts killing it seems out of place for his character. None the less, it is exciting and knows how to create suspense. The premise is easy to follow and very captivating. There's a father-daughter relationship that works well in the picture and Mark Wahlberg does a great job in making the villain scary. This movie is good if you can suspend belief and just follow the plot. In that case it is definately scary. "},{"Title":"An interesting and pleasant film with a great, talented and young cast!!","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Mark Wahlberg and Reese Witherspoon are the main characters in this touching,thrilling and efficient thriller directed by James Foley. Counting on a cast of young, beautiful and talented actors, Foley accomplished a work that, if it is not exactly memorable and marking, guarantees with certainty some hours of entertainment. Nicole Walker (Witherspoon) is a studious and rich adolescent with relationship's problem with her father and stepmother, who meets in a club the mysterious David (Mark Wahlberg). She falls in love with the boy, who seems to be an enchanted prince of the modern times he treats her with love and  demonstrates his fondness. However, David will be revealed himself as a dangerous and obsessive psychopath, who will kill all the obstacles that try to separate him from Nicole. The fast rhythm, underlined by a modern sound track,  help to consecrate Fear as a show recommended for adolescents. Courtship, school, problems with parents' relation, all this is treated in a slight,nice way by Foley's work, identifying the motion picture with the youths' problems. The director adds doses of violence and tension to the story (specially in the end, when Steve, Nicole's father, will do anything to save his family), but it doesn't get to shock or to innovate the gender, however, Foley follows the rule of suspense films and  makes a correct and entertaining work. The excellent and talented cast headed by Wahlberg and Witherspoon is the strongest quality of this thriller, and even being just regular  Fear  guarantees some minutes of fright and tension!! "},{"Title":"The only thing scary about this movie is Wahlberg's bad acting...","Date":"28 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie is way too predictable to be able to be enjoyed. You can see everything coming a mile away. Isn't that the antithesis of what a suspense film should be? Shouldn't I be surprised when something happens? After all, isn't suspense just a feeling you get when you're not sure what's about to happen? If so, it would seem the word and the movie are a contradiction in terms.The acting is pretty stale as far as I'm concerned. Reese Witherspoon plays the pretty idiot. She doesn't really have that much to say in this movie, even though she's basically the main character. As far as Mark Wahlberg is concerned...Man, oh man, is he a terrible actor or what? I seriously don't see what other people like about him. I think this movie would've been better than it was had they been able to find a better actor to play Wahlberg's character. What was it I didn't like about Wahlberg's performance? Well, for starters...His good guy persona was way too transparent. You'd have to be a complete moron to not know this guy was a fake. The pickup lines he was feeding Reese were being put on so thick I about wanted to hurl...Why do girls buy this kind of crap? Meanwhile, his bad guy wasn't very intimidating as far as I'm concerned. If I would've been Reese's dad, I would've opened a can of a whoop-ass on Mr. Marky Mark here.Overall, this movie is a by the numbers suspense flick. Nothing new. No surprises. No suspense. I'd recommend passing it up. This is just a stupid movie and a big waste of time. "},{"Title":"what  a movie","Date":"23 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" i have never seen mark wahlberg playing a villain before.boy , this actor is so talented.he deserved an Oscar for his performance in this movie for sure.what can i tell you is that this movie has  very good script,very good actors,very good soundtrack,costumes,montage=perfect movie.i didn't notice a flow in this movie ,everything goes perfectly.James Foley was perfectly chosen to direct this movie.i have all the songs that appears on the soundtrack that was never released unfortunately.give this movie a try and you'll not be disappointed.it's a cult classic and this because of the talented mark wahlberg.reese witherspoon and alyssa milano plays in this movie and plays very well. "},{"Title":"Fear a film to remember...","Date":"2 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Mark Wahlberg is quite simply remarkable. A film to be seen absolutely!!I saw this history as being a great proof of love, but unfortunately badly placed. This movie of all the kinds could very well be like by a lot of people, but could also shock because of the small erotic scenes particularly in the Russian mountains as because of the sudden change of personality of David in this surprising history as one seldom sees some. Perhaps I repeat myself, but I must say that I adored this film and I advise you to dispatch you to go to listen to it! dear girls be careful. At your place I wouldn't listen to this film with my parents and even less if your boyfriends is with you!! Listen to this delicious film rather only both!  "},{"Title":"a stupid movie","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  fear is a fearful movie to stick in the vcr. reese witherspoon is a teenager who wears really short skirts, meets this criminal that is obsessed with high school girls.  he starts off as nice and sweet, playing the typical role to get into her pants.  after that happens, he twists into this crazy man that wont let her be herself and associate with anyone, boys or girls. (**SPOILER**) the whole issue where he feels it necessary to kill her families is completely stupid. what is the world was that guy doing free? and what are those parents thinking, letting their daughter date a man, rather than a boy from high school?  this movie is projecting the image that some people dont look carefully into the lifes of their children, so they may appear happy and carefree, but underneath they are petrified of their boyfriends. this movie really doesnt really have the effect that i planned on, so i dont recommend this wanna be thriller to anyone at all.  you are better off watching an old episode of fear factor and listening to michael jackson's thriller album. now that is truly, fear. "}{"Title":"Brilliant Teen Thriller!","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Nicole is a 16 year old girl who like most teenage girls, likes to have fun. When she and her best friend, Margo, go out to a party one night, Nicole meets the handsome and mysterious David, who she ends up getting together with. After a couple of weeks, Nicole realises that David is becoming really possessive and he gets very jealous when she talks to other guys and not telling him where she's going, etc. David even beats up one of Nicoles male friends because he's seen walking Nicole home. When Nicole ends up breaking up with David, he's obviously not happy about this and does everything to try and get her back, when that doesn't work, he and a bunch of his thug friends break into Nicoles home, which leaves to some nasty consequences.Mark Wahlberg, Reese Witherspoon and Alyssa Milano are just some of the lead cast in this great movie and they all give really good performances.Fear is a great thriller, which includes a great script and some great directing. I suggest you see Fear if you're a fan of thrillers and a fan of the lead actors/actress' here, especially Mark Wahlberg. I give Fear a 10/10. "},{"Title":"This movie rocks!","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is fun, it ain't scary, but often it's very funny(unintentionally) and entertaining. I give it a 10! YEAH! Reese Witherspoon and Mark Wahlberg kick a**! This movie is one of the funnest movies.  "},{"Title":"Is it possible to hate a movie but love a character?","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie reminds me of those old fifties flicks like Curfew Breakers! and such.  The message of this movie is Girls, don't get hot and heavy with boys or they will turn into homicidal maniacs who kill little puppies! The Cheese factor is so high in this that even I couldn't stomach it. At least until Mark Wahlberg did his flip-out thing.  I was impressed with his acting the whole movie, but when he did his kill everybody routine, I lapped it up. He was excellent. Crazy down to the core. I liked his performance so much,I watched it again (Fast-forwarding through everything else). This one is a decent rental, check it out.  "},{"Title":"A Great Horror Film!","Date":"18 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Fear is probably of the few horror films I will like. There is a dark taste about the film throughout the movie. This is about one girl played by Reese Witherspoon who likes an older guy played by Mark Wahlberg. Their relationship starts out nice and easy but problems do appear as the climax nears. Things finally escalate out of control. Mark's character and his friends endangers Nicole and her family. Will her life return to normal? You will have to find out. The acting was pretty good for the most part. The only time Mark annoyed me when he was cute before he turned mean. The music was great in the this film. There were great songs by Bush. The script and all of the technical stuff were good but not overwhelming. I liked this film better than most horrors. I rate this film 8/10. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good!","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Rented this one the other nite as it was Rent One, Get One... was pleasantly surprised.  It's entertaining and well worth a rental cost if you need something to see that you probably missed at the theater. "},{"Title":"The worst movie I've ever seen","Date":"17 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Bad editing, bad acting, bad movie in general.  The whole thing was so ridiculous.  Worse than a B movie. "},{"Title":"Parents watch out who your little girl is hanging out with !","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What I have to say? I have the fresh image of the film because I saw it just a couple of minutes ago.Wow! Mark Wahlberg is the most JEALOUS boyfriend I ever seen. The part where he beat his girlfriend´s friend was a prelude of Aggression, Hypocrisy, Jealousy & more Aggression!!!! Critically spoken, I think the movie was a little ficticious....We know that David was really mentally perturbed but...how could he be so evil? He was really scary. Poor little girl...what a boyfriend she had uh?Anyways the movie was good. At least I had fun watching it. I give it a 7. "},{"Title":"Terrifying","Date":"14 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is not a perfect movie. There are some definite flaws, but they are either forgivable, or they come with the territory. That being said, this is one of the most frightening films I have ever seen.Nicole Walker (Reese Witherspoon) is a sixteen year old who after spending most of her life living with her mother, has moved to Canada to live with her father, Steve (William Peterson), his new wife Laura (Amy Brenneman) and Laura's son, Toby (Christopher Gray). While at a rave, she meets David McCall (Mark Wahlberg), a hot older guy with whom Nicole quickly becomes smitten. But as with every relationship, the smitten learn that even those who seem perfect have their flaws. Before long, Nicole is wishing she'd never met him.Part of the reason why this film works so well is that the script is brilliant. The dialogue and the characters are so real that the characters become real individuals instead of pawns to be terrorized by the nice guy-turned-psychopath. Even the character establishing moments, which most thrillers treat as obligatory, are just as engaging as the terrifying ending. It is genuinely refreshing to watch characters who are so real. This isn't an artistic screenplay, but credit must go to Christopher Crowe for creating dialogue that is so naturalThe other reason why this film works so well is because the actors populating it are wholly believable. I've never been a die-hard Reese Witherspoon fan. She's a good actress, but there's something off-putting about her, as if she's trying too hard to be natural. Not here. Playing the part with equal amounts independence and naiveté, Witherspoon is dynamite. Mark Wahlberg is terrific as David, playing the sweet guy and psycho equally well. In movies like this (like The Hand that Rocks the Cradle), the villains run the risk of becoming pawns of the script. Not here. David is a living, breathing human being, albeit a very twisted one. William Peterson has no problem essaying the part of a dad trying to raise a teenage daughter. Amy Brenneman is especially interesting as the new mom, whose attempts to get on the good side of her step-daughter may cloud her judgment.James Foley has created a near masterpiece of the genre. He lets everything unfold naturally, and aside from a few minor instances and one over-the-top scene, it's a perfect film. What occurs here isn't suspense, it's actual terror. It may be flawed, but I cannot let a movie that scared me this much go with anything less than a 10. This is a dark, brutal and scary film, and it will leave you shaken and exhausted by the end of it. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good","Date":"2 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I was surprised when I first heard about this movie. I didn't know if I wanted to see it or not. It looked like a typical teen drama movie. Then I looked it up and saw the true plot, and then when I saw a young Mark Wahlberg and William Peteresen (CSI, Manhuner, Young Guns II) in it, I knew I had to see it. I'm glad I did. It had good and bad parts to it. The Good The actors were well chosen. Particularly Mark Wahlberg and William Petersen. Scenes were well set to make you feel a certain way. Happier scenes were more colorful and seemed brighter and more alive. More evil scenes were more gray and darker. The music score also helped quite a bit. David's history was also very interesting. Alyssa Milano did a very good job as well.The Bad It seems Reese Witherspoon always had to try to be in the spotlight, thus her character, Nicole got to be annoying and after a while I was wishing she would just get killed off. Some scenes were off-timed, and the pacing in the movie was very bad. Over all, it is well worth a view. Interesting, dark and graphic, this movie is a good one for horror fans.6/10. "},{"Title":"There's a real life serial rapist named David Wayne McCall (strangely)","Date":"1 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I thought this movie was an excellent and very realistic production! Not only is it realistic, but it reaches into the mind of the psycho, which I thoroughly enjoyed.This David McCall character strangely resembles a real life counterpart David Wayne McCall.There's a real life convicted serial rapist named David W. McCall, who was convicted as a juvenile in South Bend/Notre Dame, IN Indiana, in St. Joseph County David Wayne McCall was convicted at age 15 for serially and violently raping several St. Mary's College Students in the late 1970's. McCall is accused of multiple additional rape cases in Plano, Dallas, & Irving Texas, and is still suspected of a rape / murder case in Indiana where he allegedly murdered CAROLYN SCHINKE. I knew him back in school at Clay Middle School and Clay High School where he was an award winning wrestler (trained by coach Glen Nelson Great Job Coach!) and he always seemed extremely violent. He was caught in Texas and convicted of several crimes he is now serving a life sentence! You can get more info at the Texas Department of Criminal Justice website, 168.51.178.33 his TDCJ # is 00876980 This is definitely one psycho I'm glad isn't out raping & killing anymore! It's sure strange where your old friends can end up after 25-30 years, eh?Tom Schmokel "}{"Title":"Great acting, could have used a more postmodern outcome","Date":"21 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Lots of great performances, silly 90's outfits, (the skirts are ridiculous)and a good, metaphorical climax. However, in the spirit of the world not entirely rotating around the perspectives of middle aged white men, (however wonderfully portrayed) the resolution to the bad boyfriend problem should not come courtesy of one's other dominant male family member. I'm not saying the fear of the bad boyfriend isn't present in the fathers of such daughters, but perhaps an able bodied young woman could have done a little more for herself than sit in her room screaming when the psycho came to call. Inadvertently this suggests that the way out of this all too common problem is to wait for another male to come and rescue you. Somehow I think that the same story where a young man is the primary target would hardly result in a showdown between his middle aged mother and a crazy ex-girlfriend. Post-modernism critique aside, Wahlburg is FABULOUS. Having him start out so wonderfully charming absolves Witherspoon's character of any blame. This movie would be really interesting to see rewritten. "},{"Title":"breakthrough performances for Witherspoon and Wahlberg","Date":"17 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie came out when I was in High School and I remember it being a decent thriller/action film. After reviewing it over ten years later, it stands up fairly well to the test of time. This film is more important as it was the first lead role by Mark Wahlberg and Reese Witherspoon as well as a big role for Alyssa Milano. When I saw this film in the theaters Mark Wahlberg was known primarily as the model dude for underwear and a rapper, I distinctly recall this performance as proof the guy had talent as an actor. Of course he went on to become primarily an actor and has come into his own as a leading man. Overall the film moves along nicely and is entertaining, a few parts are cheesy but worth seeing if you are in the mood to be entertained. "},{"Title":"pretty decent thriller","Date":"24 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" this turned out to be a pretty good thriller.i say turned out because it starts off slow and takes awhile to build up some steam.but once it gains momentum it maintains it throughout.there isn't a lot of suspense here,but the movie makes up for it in thrills.there are some pulse pounding moments that had me on the edge of my seat.there are also some pretty graphic scenes,and some sudden,shocking moments,as well as a fair amount of coarse language.there are some good actors in this one,including William(TV's CSI)Petersen,Reese(the Legally Blond movies,Walk the Line)Witherspoon,Alyssa(the TV series Charmed)Milano,Amy(TV's Judging Amy)Brenneman and Mark(Shooter,The Departed)Wahlberg.there's also some good character development as well.all in all,like i said,a pretty good thriller.for me,Fear is a 7/10. "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I first watched this movie when it came out in 96' and I was actually a little young to watch it. It really appalled me. Now ten years after this movie's release I must say it is definitely one of my all time favorites. This is such a romantic story that turns horribly wrong. Although it has its romantic moments there are many moments that keep you on the edge of your seat. Mark Wahlberg is amazing in this movie. He is a boy with a bad image, until Nicole (played by Reese Witherspoon) finds his good and romantic side. Once he convinces Nicole how much he loves her, his love quickly turns into obsession. Reese is wonderful and she plays this character very well, I have always loved her movies and this one is definitely in my top five. "},{"Title":"Someone Lost  Their Cherry","Date":"20 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film kept my interest and Reese Witherspoon,(Nicole Walker),Just Like Heaven,'05, played the role of a typical young gal who gets soft soaped into making love for the first time and her girlfriend told her, You will always Remember the First One. So Nicole falls madly in love with Mark Wahlberg,(David McCall),Four Brothers,'05 until her father, William L. Petersen(Steve Walker), CSI-Vas Vegas & Skulls,2000, sees a used condom wrapper under his daughters bed. Nicole fights constantly with her father, as she has put her entire trust, faith and love in David McCall, her first lover. The story has many twists and turns and it will keep your interest from beginning to end. "},{"Title":"Very suspenseful","Date":"20 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I brought this film mainly because of it's stars (Alyssa Milano, Reese Witherspoon and Mark Wahlberg) but i have to say the story itself was very good. It's quite stereotypical (Guy meets girl and turns psycho) but not necessarily in a bad way. I think the story was well acted and filmed, although i thought Nicole's (Witherspoon) dad was a tad overprotective from the beginning. For me, the best parts of this movie were the ones starring Alyssa Milano as Margo, Nicole's slutty best friend. Even though i think you're supposed to emphasise with Nicole, i found i felt much more sympathy for Margo after what she goes through in the movie. The scene were David pulls her car over, throws her against the car and threatens her is my favourite scene in the movie. Overall i thoroughly enjoyed it; it was very suspenseful and Wahlberg played a convincing villain. I'd definitely recommend it as i was on the edge of my seat as the movie neared its climax. "},{"Title":"Reese Witherspoon plays a 16-year old girl who falls in love with a guy called David (Mark Wahlberg).","Date":"18 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This has been my favourite film for three years now. People say that the story line can be unbelievable but I have had a similar experience myself, I'm only 18 now but a few years back I was a little blonde daddy's girl who wasn't allowed to have boyfriends. I can completely understand the feelings Nicole would have experienced and how you can be so blind when you fall in love. Fear touched me deeply and having seen many films none have came close to this one. I recommend this to everyone as it is an easy to follow story that never gets boring.My favourite parts were when they went to the fairground and the song Wild horses by the Sundays played, that really was effective as the roller-coaster dipped up and down. "},{"Title":"I fear this movie is...R.U.B.B.I.S.H!","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Jury have you reached a verdict? Lets examine the evidence...SPOILERS AHEAD!!!The antagonist David is completely unlikable and a total jerk. But hey that's ok because his character is supposed to be that way. He is the villain of the piece and we should hate him (one thing the writer managed to get right) but the protagonist? Are we really supposed to hate her? I certainly did. She behaved so pathetically stupid that the her character defied any sympathy from me.Now the film could have succeeded if they had taken these routesA) Let the audience warm to David and then reveal it later that he's a psycho. That would be more effective because we would be disturbed that we trusted this manB) Reveal him as a psycho but not let Nicole know this till later then then the penny dropping moment would be rewarding to watch.Of course what does the scriptwriter go for?David is revealed as a nutjob straight off the bat. Nicole knows this and tries to distance herself from him but goes closer to him just to annoy her dad.There is a scene where David beats her friend up savagely. He also hits her in the process (actually if this fil is about brain damage which Nicole suffers after he lands her one then that would explain her stupid behavior and I can withdraw my negative comments...of course it isn't so on we go)She realises there and then what he is like and avoids him. Of course what else does she do? Act all grown up and mature by telling her Dad that She and her boyfriend have had a disagreement and they will have to get through it. WTF! Stupid Stupid cow! What's to sort out? He just nearly killed your friend. Why would she want to act like she still likes him just to worry her father. I'm beginning to wonder who the psycho is here.Her stepmother or Dad's girlfriend is also stupid. She lets David into the house and back into Nicole's life after the scene above had taken place. Her reason? They should just get used to the fact that Nicole and David are an item and show some encouragement. At this point I just didn't know where to look. If the writer knew what he was doing he wouldnt either.David rapes her best friend. Nicole watches from a window as David twists her friend's arm violently behind her back and forces her to have sex with him. Nicole accuses her of betraying her with her boyfriend. Maybe she didn't see her twisted arm but she knows exactly what david is like so why wouldn't she believe her friend?After all this nonsensical drivel, we are treated to a climax where David invades the Walker home with his psycho buddies in a badly handled attempt at a horror film. I am a huge horror fanatic by the way. This came across as Night of the living deadbeats. There's more character development on any of Savini's Zombies than these characters.Overall. A protagonist who is completely unlikable and stupid whom wea re apprantly supposed to identify with and care for. Here comes the score.....................F***ing ZERO! "},{"Title":"Fear of not having made a better film most like.","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have a sneaking suspicion Mark Wahlberg was playing basically HIMSELF in this flick. Had to laugh at the contributor who thought Alicia Silverstone would have been better in Reese Witherspoon's role! For God's sake, the two are interchangeable clones at the best of times!Neither frightening or especially suspenseful, simply an excuse for Miss Witherspoon to act totally stupid for 90 minutes. The last quarter of an hour as the family are holed up against Wahlberg and his gang of losers is arguably the high point of the film. One can only presume Petersen must have been wondering what was becoming of his career after the brilliant MANHUNTER?  "},{"Title":"Fearful bawston accent...wicked","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Wallyberger does a great job acting.  I give him a 9 for his performance.  And as for the predictable plot......well let's just say the producers were smart enough to show lots of Alyssa, Reese, Amy underwear and swimsuit shots.  Way to hedge guys!!!!!    Worth watching when it comes on tv.......and it does, frequently.  Not worth renting.  give it a 4/10. "}{"Title":"Silly little thriller","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I hate movies like this. The poster gives away the entire story, so why bother watching it? Anyway, I knew nothing about Fear until it came on television one night. My friend said it was pretty bad, and since I am always ready for a good challenge, I sat down and watched most of it. It's not bottom of the barrel horrible, but neither is it original or very entertaining. There's a movie coming out soon called Swimfan@ that looks very similar to this, only with the roles reversed. This time it is the girl who is a psycho who falls for an unwilling fella. Sadly, Swimfan@ looks to be even more cheesy and over the top than this thing. Basically, Mark Wahlberg seduces the naive Witherspoon and then goes cuckoo for cocoa puffs when her Dad tries to end things. There is some good chemistry between the two leads, and the methods by which Mark gets the girl under his spell were also believeable (it's the classic older guy/bad boy syndrome again). However, things get pretty silly about halfway through, with Wahlberg hitting himself in the chest and claiming the girl's father attacked him. Does she automatically trust and stand behind the cute guy? Why, OF COURSE! Now granted, I didn't get all the way to the end because I lost interest, so take my score with a grain of salt. I guess you could watch Fear on a gloomy, rainy night when there's nothing else on but the Anna Nicole Show and Iron Chef, but even then I would keep channel surfing. **/**** "},{"Title":"Not too bad","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have to admit, this movie isn't too bad.  the finale was really cool and Mark Wahlberg and Reese Witherspoon's chemistry wasn't that bad.  Willy Peterson was great as the father and he was one of the most convincing people in the whole film.  the movie is pretty scary but not as scary as it should be.Overall the movie isn't as bad as people say and I recommend it.  Rating 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"disturbing behavior","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Jeez, people - just because the film is called FEAR, it doesnt mean that it automatically has to be a horror! Anyway, this is an excellent film, and for more than one reason. First of all, Marky Mark (yes, i know now he's Mark Wahlberg but as far as i'm concerned he's always gonna be Marky Mark - such a silly name deserves not to be forgotten) is a great baddie - i hated him from the first scene, cause even though in the beginning he's kinda nice, you could see in his eyes that he's about to explode.  Rest of the cast is also greatand Foley's direction is superb. Next thing i liked was the father - daughter relationship cause it dealt with rather unpleasant matter - father realizing his little girl is not so little anymore and she's having sex (just ask any dad - it's a nightmare) cause that's something you don't expect to see in an american film, at least not done as good as in this movie (I heard somewhere that before his film career Foley was a psychiatrist so i'm not surprised with that) And of course, there's excellent soundtrack (Bush rocks!). As far as I'm concerned, this is a very disturbing film, i give it 9 out of 10. If only Jerry Goldsmith did the score it would've been a pure 10. WATCH THIS FILM!!! "},{"Title":"I want you to want me...forever and ever!","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Hang on for this tense thriller from Christopher Crowe directed by James Foley. Wild and at times wickedly insane. A defiant daddy's girl(Reese Witherspoon)falls for who she thinks is the ideal guy(Mark Wahlberg). Well, the charm and the sweet talk doesn't last long. The green face of jealousy pops up and 'Mr. Dream Date' shows his true colors. Wahlberg begins to terrorize the change of heart Witherspoon and her family.William L. Peterson plays the protective daddy and Amy Brenneman the worried mother. Wahlberg for the most part does come across menacing and very psychotic. But he like Witherspoon seems to be a couple of years too old for the part. Alyssa Milano is always a welcomed sight. Ravishing as usual, but her acting talents are wasted in this pulse pounding thriller. The story line leaves little to the imagination; but the whole atmosphere, or should we say the sweat popping fear, makes the movie work. Nerve wrecking fun to watch. "},{"Title":"not bad","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Lets face it, there isn't much to do as a teenager in the midwest..other than watch movies.  I'm almost 20, so i don't know if i count as a teen anymore, or if my comments count for that matter, but i'll give mine anyway. This movie was ok.  So, for you teenagers out there who are looking for a pretty chill movie to see, this one is fine.  Although it is pretty predicable, and some transitions are pretty bad, wait, and there are some continuity problems as well, just see the movie if you have nothing better to do.  It's not too long, reese witherspoon and alyssa milano are hot, if you're a chick, i'm sure mark walberg isn't too bad to look at. i gave it a 6. "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When I got this movie I expected it to be bad from all the things I've heard about it.  It was a great movie.  I think Reese Witherspoon and Alyssa Milano delivered a nice performance.  I don't know why they let Mark Whalberg play in it because I think he was really BAD.  Aside from that the story is good at not losing your attention or interest. I give it a 9! "},{"Title":"Original ending? Not really.","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I am not going to go into a long technical review of this movie. I'm just going to say it was very unoriginal, had stupid moments (such as the homemade tattoo), and it was very predictable. You knew what was going to happen, before it did.As for the ending. Anyone who has seen the under rated Sam Peckinpah/Dustin Hoffman classic, Straw Dogs, knows what inspired it. It was almost repeated verbatim, with the ending being changed a little.If you want to watch a good stalker type movie, check out Cape Fear, either the original with Robert Mitchum, or the newer one with Robert De Niro.  "},{"Title":"Great cheesy suspense film","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is wonderful for those who like cheesy suspense films.  Nothing with Mark Wahlberg aka Marky Mark can be taken seriously, especially this movie, but the details are good, the cast is excellent and the music makes it more enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Without question the best Flic I've ever seen.","Date":"3 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Fear was the most briliant Flic i have ever seen. Nothing has ever kept me in suspense like that before. From  begining to end without question a sure-buyIn reference to the term Flic which i used to describe this film, was because i would not catagorize this as a movie. But just the same ... pefectly done.Two thumbs way up!!Sincerely, Mr. Movie  "},{"Title":"A movie about a psycho boyfriend and his disgusted girlfriend","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Fear is a movie involving the misfortunes of a psychotic man who is something everyone thought he wasn't.  In Fear a young girl, Nicole Walker (Reese Witherspoon) falls in love with a High School graduate David McCall(Mark Wahlberg).  His father disapproves of him from the start but everyone else falls in love with his good looks, his charm, and some of his many talents.  I won't tell you anymore about this psychotic thriller.  It was very well written and directed.  This movie shows that your parents are always right whether you like it or not.Here are my parental reviews for this movieLanguage Some Language here and there a handful of F wordsAdult content  Some talk about sexual situations and sexual intercourse some actions with clothes on done by David's friend to Nicole,her friend and her Nicole's motherSexual Situations Nicole Walker(Reese Witherspoon) is fingered on a roller coaster Nicole Walker and David McCall (Mark Wahlberg) have sex in Nicole's bedroom while her parents are out of town.Nudity No nudityViolence/gore There is some violence such as gun shooting a beating and a headless dog the ending is also very violentDrug use Just cigarettes and alcohol nothing Major "}{"Title":"Fear - The Review","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  First off, the only reason I saw this movie was because Mark Wahlberg was in it.  He was great in Boogie Nights so I decided to trace his career back to earlier movies.  And, again he performs well in this movie.  It's the basic plot of a jealous boyfriend who quickly becomes obsessed with his girlfriend.  When she tries to leave this ****** him off beyond any belief and he quickly tries to gain revenge. "},{"Title":"I thought this was a really good movie","Date":"12 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I thought that this movie was really cool. It was kinda violent so I would not recommend it for kids or anyone who is squeamish or who hate to see sex or violence on screen. I also thought that Mark Wahlberg was really good in this movie and that he looked REALLY hot!!! "},{"Title":"the best thriller ever made","Date":"7 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" this movie is really amazing.it has romance,violence,suspense,sex,comedy ... .mark wahlberg is in the perfect role.the other players were good too.the soundtrack is magnificent,it was also nominated at mtv video music awards.marky mark wahlberg was nominated for his performance in '97 at mtv.it's incredible how this man was growin' up becoming a such a good actor.it's no surprise that he was nominated for his role from 'the departed'.in my opinion he deserved Oscar for his performance from movie FEAR.I WANTED TO SEE HIM IN ANOTHER MOVIE LIKE THIS.aah and i almost forgot the director  james foley was perfect chosen to direct this movie. "},{"Title":"My thoughts on the movie.","Date":"6 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" It plan and simple i like this movie simply for all the shocks it has along the way. The plot was nicely done and I would put this on my list of good movies of all time. It is a well written movie that i think every one should watch in the future. It full of emo. that all the family can enjoy, just hide the kids.It can but the fear right in you heart and the tears in your eyes.THis is one of the movies that will make you love your wife a little bit better, one that will make you see the meaning of love,and stalker. Just don't get your stalker and lover mixed up at least not now. If you have time to bake a cake you have time to watch this great movie now, i am not saying you should run out and buy it...wait yes i am. Trust me It is worth it, I normal don't like this type of movie but this is a good movie for you now.. you are going to watch it right...for me ). "},{"Title":"There's Nothing To Fear About It!","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was very dissapointed when I watched this movie. This movie is not scary, interesting or funny. I watched this movie until the end just because of Reese Witherspoon. Reese Witherspoon is only thing that I interested in this film. "},{"Title":"Bore","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I found this movie a terrible bore. What is the point of showing them on a rollercoaster for full 3 minutes? That was a test of endurance! However, fortunately the music in the background during this scene was The Sundays' Wild Horses. I love The Sundays and frankly this was the only reason that I watched this movie.Also, this film is called 'Fear'. Where is the fear? The fear only happened the last 10 minutes of the film! And even the so called fear wasn't really scary. Just read your daily newspaper and you will see things which happened to people that are a lot worse. Why was this film made in the first place? "},{"Title":"The first signs of love and obsession","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Ah, what didn't I love about this movie? It has an all-star cast Reese Witherspoon, Mark Wahlberg, and Alyssa Malano. Even though the plot is not that original, it works very well because of the cast and the way it is told. Even though this is a teen movie, I think adults can watch it as well.I think almost everyone has been in love or lust at some time as a teenager. You notice when on the rollarcoaster how David gets sort of intimate with Nicole and the symbolism of the movements on the coaster represents her emotions, she knows she loves him and he loves her too. Not only that, but he is the one who is going to probably take her virginity too. Who hasn't felt that way, and got excited about it? So, you can relate to this movie in one way or another.The acting really brought the whole movie together. It could have been a big flop, but it wasn't. There are so many fans of this movie that I've seen on IMDb and also in life. I would highly recommend this for teens and young adults. It's a great thriller.9/10 "},{"Title":"arguably the worst movie i've ever seen.","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  though i admit to laughing greatly through the one time i saw this film, it sickens me to think that someone, somewhere actually PAID to see it. the first 1/3 or so is a lame cookie-cutter marky mark star projection vehicle, where he postures the way a million issues of cosmo would have it. then, he starts trying to look dangerous, and pulls lame tricks that would have been right at home in a low-budget horror movie in the mid-70's. the most egregious editing error i've seen in any recent serious movie (huge missing bit while hanging up a phone) pales in comparison to the 3rd-rate acting and hackneyed writing/plot. it pains me to see a beautiful talented actress like witherspoon in a trainwreck such as this, and i pray to every acknowledged higher power in the history of human existence that a movie like this never be made again. a total aberration. mr. wahlberg, please show some dignity and play parts that are worthy of what little you've accomplished thus far obnoxious roughneck newyorkers (like in the basketball diaries). "},{"Title":"Love can hurt","Date":"8 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I really don't know why I watched this movie, maybe it was because a friend of mine told me that it was a good movie or maybe it was the title that got me interested but all I can say is this the movie isn't that good. The movie is a romance, drama, thriller and horror. The latter, I have no idea because this movie has nothing that deals with horror.The movie is about a sixteen year old girl named Nicole Walker (Reese Witherspoon) and her family. It starts off nice, the family seems normal and Nicole starts dating this guy by the name of David McCall (Mark Wahlberg). Nicole's mother Laura (Amy Brenneman) and brother Toby (Christopher Gray) take to David quickly, but Nicole's father Steve (William Petersen) resents him. Nicole's friends, Gary Rohmer (Todd Caldecott) and Margo Masse (Alyssa Milano) both know something isn't right with David.This film shows the fears of fathers as they see that their little girls are growing up and dating. It is true that something like this might happen, disregard the ending though. You really can't trust guys who just pop up in your house hold and start getting all friendly with your wife and daughter. The movie ends with David killing Gary, then he and a bunch of his pals go and try to destroy Nicole's fathers house and kidnap her. Luckily for Nicole, her father arrives just in time to kill David. The film really doesn't meat up with the horror genre until the ending. "},{"Title":"Awesome!!!","Date":"25 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Okay I admit it was such a stupid idea for Nicole's dad to go to David's house and wreck everything, because unless they were already stoned, they would obviously know who did it. And it's not surprising that Margo was sleeping with David too, yes he probably did force her to, but she probably would have anyway... she's such a slut. And I agree with Nicole's step-mom. Nicole is a slut too. Maybe if she wasn't David wouldn't have been so attracted to her. I was so sad when the dog died. I don't know how he died though. I left the room 'cause it's so obvious that they're gonna kill the dog. They were calling it behind the rock and HELLOOOOOO! you can't be so stupid as to think that all they're going to do is pet it. I loved the part where Nicole's dad throws David out the window. I got so mad at Nicole; I mean, he beat the living crap out of your best friend (Gary), and yet you go back to him because he claims that it was an accident. Whatever. He said that he didn't know that it was Gary, but how can you not know who it is when your sit on him pounding his face in... what ever. Mark Wahlberg is an amazing villain though, you have to admit. I loved the ending of the movie, but since I've pretty much given away the whole movie plot now, so I'll just go... "}{"Title":"Mark wahlberg and Reese Witherspoon","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A thriller with Mark Wahlberg as the psycho just dont work.He isnt scary,even though he tries. When that said,I must admit that I found the movie entertaining,maybe because I like Reese Witherspoon as an actress or the fact that it had some chilli moments.Even though I dont Like Mark Wahlberg i will give this movie a chance and say that it is OK.  "},{"Title":"Completely Rips Off The Finale of Straw Dogs(Capsule Review)","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I don't have much time to waste dabbling about the details of this movie.  I'm not going to waste valuable IMDb space.  All I have to say is that, along with ripping off every other idea in the genre, the finale of this movie completely copies the superb finale of Sam Peckinpah's 1972 classic Straw Dogs.  There, you have it.  The rest is simply routine, with NO new twists laid out before us.  Not the worst, but yet again, not the best either, and just plain artificial at times.** outta **** for mere entertainment alone. "},{"Title":"I fell asleep watching this dog.","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If your having trouble sleeping,whatching this will solve your problem.I won't want to see this movie again. BORING,BORING,BORING. The plot follows hundreds of films,and the story follows hundreds of juvenile plots. "},{"Title":"Fear of Art","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Spoilers herein.Projects like this are easy to read it was made to exploit the then 'young teen' appeal of Reese. Because the project has this direct goal, all other dimensions of the project have been made as safe and predictable as possible. All formulas that can bear on this work, do. The result is tedious unless you are in the groove to get the one intended value the appealing, fawnlike innocence of Reese.It is my own theory that kids are simple in their energies but sophisticated in their abstractions, so they would much rather see something with layered ironies that something 'clean' like this. But if you do see this, it is at least interesting to see what Hollywood considers certain stereotypes, in particular the oft-used architect father.That stereotype started - I surmise - in a self-referential context the architect in the film creates a world like the filmmaker creates with the film. Often that world becomes a plot device as here he has created a seemingly impregnable fortress. Architecture in film has a rich legacy, and consequently has its own stereotypes in kiddie films, like 'Glass House' and here. But look at the actual architecture of this house. It is as appallingly simple, easy to read and unimaginative as the film.An unrelated oddity. A disproportionate number of young actresses are blond. But look at their images on the DVD covers and you will find most of them portrayed as redheads. Now why is that do you think?Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 4 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"i like it","Date":"20 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" OK, i have to admit that my first reason to watch this movie was Mark....he is so gorgeous! but anyway, i liked this movie cause it was really thrilling especially in the last 20 minutes....but even before this it made me feel nervous for example when mark is calling for Reese to bring him a coke. there you can already see his real character....and you can feel that he is just disguising himself to make Reese and her family feel secure....even though her dad is distrustfult towards Mark right from the beginning...and he is totally right! but i think you should watch it yourself to form an own opinion. the only thing i can assure you is watch it, it's worth it! "},{"Title":"A typical James Foley picture. ** out of ****","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"10 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  FEAR (1996) **Starring Reese Witherspoon, Mark Wahlberg, William L. Petersen, Amy Brenneman, Alyssa Milano Director James Foley   97 minutes   Rated R (for violence, sexuality, language and drug use)By Blake French	Fear is a desperate, horror-free thriller. It does manage to generate some heavy suspense in the twenty minute finale, but that does not make the film worth seeing. It wastes the talents of the lovely Reese Witherspoon, William L. Petersen, and I suppose Mark Wahlberg too. I hesitate to state that Wahlberg's talents put to waste because I am not sure that, beyond an attractive body, he has any. And James Foley--what in the world, he is something else. After watching The Corrupter earlier this year, and now this piece of trash, not to mention his past flops, The Chamber, (1996) and Two Bits, (1995), I begin to wonder about his career in the future.Fear takes a spin on the old girlfriend and boyfriend--boyfriend is not whom he seems genre. The sub-title to this film is Together forever...or else, but most of the movie doesn't live up to that clever plot point. The teenage girl in the picture, Nicole Walker, is well played by Reese Witherspoon, but if I was in charge I'd have to say that Alicia Silverstone was born for the role. Although I hold nothing against Witherspoon. In fact, I think she should get recognition for her performance this year in Election. I just think Silverstone has the punky, street girl type attitude more than Witherspoon.	Anyway, the teenage girl in the picture, Nicole Walker, is like all other teens her age, about sixteen. She has a father, Steve, who doesn't want his little girl to grow up, a mother who takes her side, and friends, Billy and Margo Masse who may or may not betray her before the film is over. She has a hard time getting a date usually, but when going out with her friends one night, seeing a muscular, seductive hunk playing pool named David, the next time they meet it is almost love at first sight.  	When he is introduced to Nicole's parents, who naturally live in a house guarded with high tech security systems and camera surveillance, along with a police officer watching over the mansion-like dorm, the vibes are at first too good to be true, then become quite bleak. After a few instances involving David and Nicole's friend Billy, Steve begins to suspect something more to David than meets the eye. And guess what? He's right. First he discovers that David has no family or apparent history, and then finds out his spent his childhood being shipped from orphanage to orphanage. After the emotional and physical battles begin Steve and David, and Nicole changes her mind about this hunk who she was quick to judge. David's obsession with Nicole leads to some extenuating--and even murderous--circumstances.	There is some character chemistry between the David and Nicole characters, and the way their relationship is presented, their circumstances are surprisingly believable. The problem with the characters instead of witnessing the development of the character's relationship, we get scene after scene of David and Nicole sensuously making out and starring into each others eyes, never actually letting us become involved. And the scenes, which are supposed to be steamy and hot, are strained and fake looking.	The film is so desperate for tension, which is not supplied by the script, it even features a scene where Walhberg 1) pounds his chest so hard it gives him bruises in order to frame Nicole's father, 2) creates a homemade tattoo on his chest that reads Nicole 4 ever, and 3) concludes with an ending without any motive that precedes in the script. None of these things have any dramatic purpose in the film. The scenes where David deforms his body only prove to us that he has an uncontrollable love for a girl that not hates him, but also we never feel anything in his young mind simply because of the lack of character development. So to make a long paragraph short, the film is all build up and hardly no payoff.	The filmmakers clearly desire to go for outright suspense and skip the terror. And under the circumstances, they do a pretty good job. The ending is kind of interesting, and Mark Walhberg does provide an evil eye to die for, too bad he can't get over his flamboyant self esteem--both in and out of character. There is even a disappointing false first act that tries to make us believe Nicole and David are over with. Give me a break. For once, why can't the girl be the psycho. Now that would be an original and engaging thriller.  			 "}]