[{"Title":"That's not all I did to grandma.","Date":"4 October 2004","Score":"104 out of 113 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  While watching this film I was disgusted, disturbed, and horrified while all the while LOVING THIS FILM. Living in a house where fairy tale literature is commonplace (my wife studies Children's Literature), I was surprised by this film. Seeing it in the value bin at most video stores, I expected poor production, horrible direction, and a pathetic cast. We have all seen these films that boast big names, but somehow never fully follow through. Freeway is nothing of the kind. It is a carefully written and delivered retelling of one of our most beloved fairy tales with a extremely dark twist.Reece Witherspoon (pre-Legally Blonde) gives a performance that surprised me. I did not realize that she was so capable of bringing this character to life. Her counterpart, the illustrious 'Wolf', played by 80s child Keifer Sutherland, is yet another powerful force in this film. The two of them nearly carry this film on their shoulders. This is one of those perfect examples of a film that did not have much publicity after its release, but has since then obtained 'cult' status through avid viewer's word of mouth. This is definitely a film for all movie critics, film buffs, and fanatics to gaze at just once. I know there were some poor reviews when it was first released, but I am sure that a second viewing would bring this gem back to life.I would also like to add that director Matthew Bright is a film genius. He successfully took a very wholesome and good natured story (or that we think) and transforms it into the fearsome dark story that it should be. Our society has the consistency of taking dark elements and transforming them into stories for our children. A wolf eats a grandmother in this story &#133; how happy and uplifting is that? I applaud Bright for taking this story and transforming it into a modern day fairy tale. It is gripping, fascinating, and downright beautiful.If you enjoyed Natural Born Killers and was hoping for a nicer twist, this film is your answer. I also suggest that if you couldn't get enough of Freeway that you try to get your hands on the very rare Freeway 2 Confessions of a Trickbaby. See how Bright delicately transforms yet another dark fairy tale (Hansel and Gretel) into a modern masterpiece.Grade ***** out of *****  "},{"Title":"I was lucky to find this one! Thanks IMDB.","Date":"22 February 2004","Score":"76 out of 88 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I remembered Kiefer Sutherland played a psychotic killer....and IMDB lead me right to this one. I had seen bits and pieces of this movie on cable and couldn't believe how good it was, but back in those days we didn't have channel info. This movie is wickedly funny, and Reese Witherspoon plays the most hilarious, bad-girl, tough trailer trash role I've ever seen and plays it fantastically. The slutty makeup and outfits she wears as well as the endless stream of profanity she swears are definitely a lot different than her modern day good girl roles she seems stuck in now. This movie is funnier than you can possibly imagine, as things keep happening that just blow you away or shock the pants off you and no main character is what they seem to be at first. Definitely unpredictable, this dark comedy is a rare lost gem I was glad to find again. "},{"Title":"How did I ever miss this movie before","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"55 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Although it started out slow, it really picked up the pace when Vanessa gets into Bob's SUV type vehicle. As the movie went on, it easily turned out to be one of the best movies I've seen in years. Dark, gory and still full of laughs in a twisted way. How Reese Witherspoon didn't win an Academy Award for this is a mystery. I have found new respect for Reese and glad to know she isn't all about fluff movies catering to woman (i.e., Sweet Home Alabama). I hope Reese digs into the grittier side of life again and does another movie of the Freeway caliber and leave her mantle of the next Meg Ryan at home!Way to go Reese, this movie is definitely worth owning!  "},{"Title":"A Funny and Poignant Story Under a Gritty Exterior","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"50 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is somewhat deceptive, in that the characters seem so outwardly stereotypical of the kind of the sub class of the under-educated, drug or sex addled teenagers and the people who prey on them, which makers of slasher films have doled out in the last couple of decades. But Witherspoon brings a fighting charm to the lead character, Venessa Lutz, who has just about everything bad thrown at her that a young person can have thrown at them while growing up. She survives and prevails with grittiness, will and humor. As far from an angel as you can get she becomes vigilante and enforcer of her own brand of justice to a particularly malevolent form of evil visited on by Bob Wolverton (Kiefer Sutherland) and an uncaring and unbelieving law enforcement system. It's really a small classic and should be viewed without any predjudice of youth crime. It then becomes an eloquent statement for better and more rational treatment of young offenders.  "},{"Title":"Look who got beat with the ugly stick!","Date":"19 July 2003","Score":"45 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Deeply entrenched in the subversive world of cult films, Freeway could be one of the most engrossing movies I've ever seen. Reminiscent of the films of John Waters, it's a satire of such unfunny things as serial killings, drug abuse, prostitution, sexual abuse of underage children, prison life, random acts of violence, and suicide. Like the best Waters, Matthew Bright finds the pathos in all of these things, shaping the movie into a nihilistic comedy.Reese Witherspoon is absolutely marvelous as her character, Vanessa Lutz, a sharp-witted white trash girl who makes the best out of every situation she finds herself in. Her mother is a drug-addled prostitute. Her stepfather is a jobless, sexually abusive moron who also hits the pipe. Vanessa herself has a history of being in trouble with the law and has trouble reading, but she's far from stupid. We never once doubt that she will prevail, no matter how desperate her situation becomes. Vanessa is forced to make a move one day when her parents are arrested and a social worker plans on sending Vanessa to another foster home. Unable to face that prospect, she gives her social worker the slip and hits the road to search for her grandmother, who she has never met and who is not even aware of Vanessa's existence. Vanessa's life takes a detour when her car breaks down and she is picked up by Kiefer Sutherland. She does not know that he is the I-5 Killer, a pathetic but cunning serial murderer who preys on young women he plucks from the freeway. Unfortunately for him, he comes up against the wrong victim when he targets Vanessa. The rest of the story is best left unsaid, although Roger Ebert gave away most of the plot in his review of the film from 1996 (don't ya just love when he does that?). Bright actually references John Waters several times, first by inserting a brief passage that features the opening theme from Pink Flamingos and also by making a plot point out of the fact that Vanessa, who is white, has a thing for black guys (much like Penny Pingleton in Hairspray). The dialogue is often outrageous, too. But unlike Waters' early films, Freeway is technically well-made and structurally better. It also features a number of terrific cameos and roles, including Brooke Shields as Sutherland's snooty, blissfully ignorant wife.Fans of offbeat movies in general might really love Freeway, while others should probably approach it with a strong stomach. "},{"Title":"Extreme but fascinating","Date":"29 May 2003","Score":"48 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Teenaged Vanessa Lutz (Reese Witherspoon) is illiterate and has a VIOLENT temper.  Her prostitute mother has just been jailed so she tries to get to her grandmother.  She's picked up by Bob Wolveton (Kiefer Sutherland) who might be a mass murderer...Film begins and ends like a very perverse version of Little Red Riding Hood.  The middle has Witherspoon trying to get to her grandmothers.  The film is VERY VERY violent with virtual non-stop swearing and plenty of sexual talk thrown in.  How it got by with an R rating is beyond me.  Still, I love it.  What the point of this is I don't know, but it's unlike any other film I've ever seen.  It's not afraid to push over the limit of good taste and is never dull.  Also the acting is just great.  Witherspoon attacks her role full force and is just astounding.  Sutherland is equally good as the wolf (Wolveton--get it?) and the supporting cast is full of talented actors (Amanda Plummer, Michael T. Weiss, Dan Hedaya) all doing great.An undiscovered little gem.  But be warned--the violence and language is more than a little extreme.  NOT for the squeamish. "},{"Title":"Stunning!","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"40 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Move over, Pulp Fiction. Freeway is totally outrageous, over the top hilarious, yet it all somehow has the ring of either truth or understanding or both. The performance delivered by Reese Witherspoon was not only great, it was startlingly great and the best thing I've seen her do. Each turn in the story hit me like a slap in the face, each new character was like a gift, but Reese Witherspoon playing the queen of trailer park trash was done like a symphony. Fantastic! "},{"Title":"Witherspoon Starshine","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"42 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  In other hands this story might have become just another cheesy teen exploitation flick. But in Matthew Bright's Freeway we have a solid script, confident direction, an excellent supporting cast, and a gleefully twisted world view, all backing up a boldly brilliant star-turn performance by Reese Witherspoon. Her Vanessa Lutz is brazen, coarse, violent, manipulative, and seemingly doomed no matter which way she turns. But at the end of the day, of every day, she remains her own person, and nothing can intimidate or stop her. Witherspoon seems to live and breathe this demanding role, with never a hint of 'acting a part' -- which is to say she is doing some very fine acting indeed. Vanessa Lutz is a role like Forrest Gump, though even more challenging, where one tiny step out of character would spoil the whole thing. But Miss Witherspoon never misses.Plus, it was great to see Kiefer Sutherland play a smarmy, goody-two-shoes psychopathic villain. Much more fun than his trained chipmunk limp-wrist tendentiousness in 24. I have seen no evidence that this man can actually act, but he really does not need to here. When he first appeared on screen I thought, 'Oh no, this movie's over.' But soon I discovered, to my delight, that he he had been cast precisely for his pathetic loser quality.For some reason IMDB classifies Freeway as a 'crime/drama,' which mostly misses the point. It is a diabolical black comedy with lots of violent action, some of it realistic, but most of it wonderfully absurd. All in all it earns a solid 8/10 for being funny and satisfying, a movie which I would happily watch again.  "},{"Title":"A Cig and a Laugh","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the funniest films I've ever seen.  Reese Witherspoon can do no wrong after the performance she gives here - brilliant.  She is the Tony Montana of teenage girls!  And lets not forget Brook Shields as the uknowing wife of the serial killer standing by her man through the trial.The best scene is the shoot-out where Reese and the cops walk away smoking cigarettes and laughing as if the whole thing had been a big joke.Great stuff!  Puts Natural Born Killers to shame! "},{"Title":"I don't think this is how The Brothers Grimm envisioned Little Red Riding Hood...","Date":"31 May 2006","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Based on the classic Grimm Brothers tale, Little Red Riding Hood; Freeway is the disjointed and frankly weird odyssey following a young girl on the way to her grandmother's home. The film begins much like any other hitchhiking film, with a young girl being picked up by a slightly sinister driver. However, you won't be able to predict where it's going to go from there, as Freeway continually puts its characters in absurd situations and delivers the unexpected. The plot doesn't exactly adhere to the story of Little Red Riding Hood, and after the basics have been laid down, it's basically anyone's game right down to the gripping and hilarious climax. The film sees Reese Witherspoon's juvenile delinquent being picked up by Kiefer Sutherland's child psychologist after fleeing from her home when her mother and step father are arrested. After telling the psychologist of her relationship with her step father, she soon realises that he's enjoying what she's saying a little too much; and it's not long before she asks him if he's the infamous I-5 killer, and he doesn't do anything to convince her he's not...Freeway doesn't introduce any characters that are particularly likable, and all are guilty to a degree. Most audience members will be on the side of Witherspoon's character, as although she certainly has personality problems, she's great fun to watch and her twisted logic isn't usually far from being spot on! Witherspoon got one of her best roles in this film, and really does carry it despite her young age. Kiefer Sutherland stars alongside her, and it's rather odd seeing him in the psycho role after getting so used to him being Jack Bauer in 24. He does do it great, however. Perhaps the best thing about this film is the pitch black humour that goes hand in hand brilliantly with the absurdity of the piece. The plot is really freewheeling, and the film jumps from road thriller to prison drama to the court room in the blink of an eye, and this helps to ensure that the audience is always kept on their toes. This film won't appeal to people that don't like their movies to be pitch black and unpleasant, but anyone who enjoys a good does of absurdity shouldn't hesitate to track this film down! "}{"Title":"Fascinating celluloid stew of sleaze","Date":"15 January 2005","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" A brilliant, deliciously creative title sequence, backed by a manic Danny Elfman score, sets the trashy, perverted tone of this adult version of Little Red Riding Hood.After her parents (Amanda Plummer and Michael T. Weiss) are arrested for prostitution and a parole violation, Vanessa (Reese Witherspoon) hits the road for Granny's house.Along the way she meets rapist/kiddie porn-loving psychologist Bob Wolverton (Keifer Sutherland) and pumps some bullets into him for his inevitable transgression.The narrative here is deliberately nuts and the perverted tone is not to be taken seriously. Trash-loving director Mathew Bright, who also helmed the gloriously exploitive BUNDY, blends elements from slasher movies, courtroom dramas, women-in-prison (WIP) epics, horror flicks and soft core porn flicks into this fascinating celluloid stew.Bright, like Larry Clark, appears to be cinematic ally obsessed with women's crotches and panties and sexually promiscuous girls of the under aged or barely legal variety (this is not a criticism, merely an observation). In one zipper-busting scene, a semi-crippled hottie stands up into frame to give us a front seat view of her crotch. During a fight amongst prison inmates, dresses are ripped asunder and, as expected, lesbian love finds a home in Vanessa's jail cell.The festering air of sleaze and shameless exploitation makes FREEWAY a refreshing little number. You can only admire Bright's affectionate approach to the trashy material and be grateful that the once-great John Waters did not get a crack at it.The resolution at Granny's house is too predictable to carry any weight, but the trip itself is never boring.Witherspoon is a ball of angry talent in her first major starring role and has done nothing this interesting since. "},{"Title":"Dark, disgusting and utterly wonderful.","Date":"11 November 2010","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Freeway is written and directed by Matthew Bright. It stars Reese Witherspoon, Kiefer Sutherland, Dan Hedaya, Wolfgang Bodison, Brooke Shields & Brittany Murphy. Plot is darkly based around the Little Red Riding Hood fairy tale and sees young runaway Vanessa Lutz (Witherspoon) hit the road after her parents are arrested. Setting off to visit her grandmother she agrees to a lift from the kind and well spoken Bob Wolverton (Sutherland), only to find that he's not as nice as she first thought. He in turn is in for a big surprise himself since Vanessa is more than capable of looking after herself.Twisted and richly humorous, Matthew Bright's movie oozes originality and quite frankly deserves to be better appreciated never mind better known! Going into it for a first time completely oblivious to its structure will arguably aid the experience. Suffice to say that the less known about it prior to viewing it the better. All I have to say is that it's violent, sweary and contains very sexually explicit dialogue, so if those things are likely to offend then perhaps stay away from it. But what if I offer up that those things are dealt with a satirical bent? That the tough scenes, and some of them are very tough, are basis to a caustic narrative about social hypocrisy and the often stupidity of the law? Interested? You should be, because once viewed you're unlikely to forget it. It's no surprise to see Oliver Stone's name etched onto the production credits, since this very much feels like a dirty second cousin to his Natural Born Killers. I'd argue that here we have the better acted film with Witherspoon and Sutherland giving virtuoso performances with admirable support coming from the likes of Bodison, Shields and Murphy.One of the most undervalued film's of the 90s? You bet it is! 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Extremely twisted black comedy","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Reese Witherspoon has never made a better movie than Freeway...Although I respect her for wanting to do more romantic/family oriented movies because of her daughter, I don't think even she realizes how amazing she was playing this role...She was completely foul mouthed and hot tempered, but her timing and attitude was fantastic..I recently realized how this movie is and has been potential for cult classic....Reese Witherspoon never mentions this movie in any interviews and I wish she would because I would like to hear her thoughts on playing Vanessa Julia Lutz... "},{"Title":"This is the movie where I fell in love with Reese Witherspoon","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Reese Witherspoon is the most adaptable talented comedic actress we have today.  She can play anything, no matter what nonsense is thrown at her and make it completely believable.  From Election to Legally Blond, she takes each role and makes it her own, but slightly different in each way.Freeway is an intensely dark, but comedic film based on Grimm's Little Red Riding Hood.  Following Vanessa Lutz, daughter of a prostitute and a step-father that abuses her.  Her only solace is her boyfriend Chopper.  When Vanessa's parents get arrested...again...she has no choice but to escape foster custody and head for grandma's house.  Of course, on her way, her car breaks down and a passer-by, Bob Wolverton (get it?), played brilliantly by Keifer Sutherland gladly picks her up.Little does Vanessa know that Bob is the infamous I-5 killer.  Things unwrap from there.  With appearances by Brittney Murphy, Brooke Shields, Dan Hedaya and Amanda Plummer - this film is one of the cleverest dark comedies around. "},{"Title":"Brilliant take on Little Red Riding Hood!  That's extremely well made, with fantastic storytelling, and an incredible one of a kind performance from Reese Witherspoon!","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a brilliant take on Little Red Riding Hood that's extremely well made, with fantastic story telling, and an incredible one of a kind performance from Reese Witherspoon!. All the characters are wonderful, and Kiefer Sutherland is superb as the crazy villain, plus Reese Witherspoon is simply incredible in this!. It really is often bizarre at times, but in a very good way, and it's really unpredictable throughout, plus the finale is especially great!. The ending is quite funny, and quite clever, and I felt it had some great dark humor in it as well, plus Amanda Plummer did very well as Vanessa's mother the junkie!. I loved the wolf&girl animation thing at the opening credits, and this is brilliantly written as well!, plus I still can't get over Reese's incredible performance,I mean I love her she's my favorite actress but I had no clue she could could do that tough girl stuff and pull it of so perfectly!. The conversation with Bob (Kiefer Sutherland) and Vanessa (Reese) in the van is really disturbing and a bit uncomfortable, but very engaging, and the score while weird is very good, plus I feel this movie is way way too underrated!.A lot of people complained this was too violent and sadistic, I have to disagree, and while it is extremely violent and sadistic at times, it also has a fantastic story and your able to feel sympathy for Vanessa, plus I just loved how Reese kicked people's asses throughout the movie!. This movie really proves Reese's incredible versatility!, and Kiefer Sutherland had some fantastic make up as he was horribly disfigured! plus it's often very suspenseful and funny at times as well.One of the funniest moments in the film for me is when Reese kicks this black detective's ass for calling her a whore, and the dialog was excellent, plus Dan Hedaya surprised me here by giving a really good performance. This movie is definitely an acquired taste, as it won't sit well with some viewers, and I feel this movie is going to become a classic in the future!, plus all the characters are extremely likable (except Brooke Shields).I couldn't stand Shield's character she grated the hell out of me, and I feel this should be higher then 6.6, plus there are plenty of shocking and disturbing moments, especially the one involving Reese and Brittany Murphy in the prison!. I also never knew Reese could be this vicious and fight like that, and it's a shame that this didn't make much money, because great films like these are not getting the credit they deserve instead it's always Lord of the rings, or Harry Potter, etc etc,plus it was creepy how Kifer Sutherland's change in character happened just like that!. Another one of my favorite moments is when Reese gives this guy hell and locks him in the trunk since he was only going to pay 5$!, and it would be cool if they made an actual official sequel for this, plus it also had two cool fight scenes one in the prison, the other at the end. This is a brilliant take on Little Red Riding Hodd that's extremely well made, with fantastic storytelling, and incredible one of a kind performance from Reese Witherspoon, and if you haven't seen it do so immediately you shouldn't regret it!.The Direction is fabulous!. Matthew Bright does a fabulous! job here, with wonderful camera work, awesome angles, and lots of other great shots as well, plus he kept the film at an extremely fast pace. The Acting is incredible. Reese Witherspoon is incredibly gorgeous, and is amazing as always, she gives one of a kind performance, here as she is hilarious, wonderfully sadistic, feisty, tough, and i'm with a lot of people on this one, this is one of her absolute best performances!, and I just loved the way she handled herself in situations, she was incredible!, and really shocked me overall that she could play this type of character (Reese Rules!!!!!!!!!!). Kiefer Sutherland is outstanding and wonderfully twisted, as the disfigured sicko, he often gave me the creeps, and played one of the sickest villains ever, I was extremely impressed!. Wolfgang Bodison and Dan Hedaya are great as the two detectives I liked them. Amanda Plummer is excellent as the Junkie mother, and was just utterly convincing. Brooke Shields is great as the bitch,as I couldn't stand her, she did her job extremely well. Brittany Murphy has a really weird but fascinating character I really liked her. Rest of the cast do fine. Overall if you haven't seen it please do so immediately you shouldn't regret it!. ***** out of 5 "},{"Title":"Three cheers for Reese Witherspoon.","Date":"14 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Great movie, easily one of Reese Witherspoon's best performances. The main character of this story is sassy without being obnoxious, smart without being overly booked learned, and likable, even though she does bad things. Kiefer Sutherland gives an amazing performance as a serial killer who becomes a victim and is even lauded as a hero. The story has a biting edge to it but without losing its strength as a satire. The main character, Vanessa, is wonderfully portrayed as both a perpetrator and victim. It is the duality of this character that makes this movie especially interesting. She is bad but also nice; she is nasty but also vulnerable. Three cheers for Reese Witherspoon. This movie succeeds as a parity of action movies and a strong dramatization of the degenerate side of modern society. "},{"Title":"Fairy-tale exploitation!","Date":"29 May 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The directorial debut of the obviously multi-talented Matthew Bright turned out one of the coolest movies of the entire 90's decade, a witty and sometimes truly original Indie-film with some genuine 70's exploitation trademarks. The story is a very personal and dared interpretation of the famous Little Red Riding Hood fairy-tale, transposed from the woods to present day California and featuring more appropriate menaces like prostitution, serial killers, drug addiction and child abuse. In her most fabulous performance ever (her recent brilliant portrayal of June Carter in Walk the Line not included), Reese Witherspoon stars as an illiterate and very unlucky teenager stuck in the lowest social class with a street-walking mother and a sex-hungry stepfather. When welfare officers once again try to put her in a foster family, she hopes to flee to her grandmother but ends even deeper in hell. She's offered a ride by a seemly caring psychologist who turns out a sadistic murderer that is difficult to beat! Freeway works as a disturbing thriller, but also as a tongue-in-cheek black comedy that illustrates human decay from a teenager's perspective. There are quite a lot of (major) plot holes in the script and some sequences &#150; especially in the second half of the film &#150; are a bit redundant, but Matthew Bright keeps it all very interesting with a fast pace and stylish art direction. Apart from Witherspoon and the always adequate Kiefer Sutherland, great acting talents can be found in the supportive cast, like Dan Hedaya, Amanda Plummer, Michael T. Weiss and Brittany Murphy. Even Brooke Shields is amazing in the last role you'd ever expect her to play! Danny Elfman's unique and quite petrifying musical score also contributes in making Freeway one of the most sensational post-Pulp Fiction thrillers and definitely a future classic. "},{"Title":"Reese Witherspoon did well here.","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Freeway was one of those movies that we happened to come across, and it turned out to be fairly interesting. We had seen Reese Witherspoon in A Far Off Place a few years earlier, but Freeway was the movie that really introduced us to her. She plays Vanessa Lutz, a teenage girl who runs away from home and gets picked up by a man named Bob Wolverton (Kiefer Sutherland), only to find out something very unpleasant that leads to a most unusual series of events.For the most part, you might call this one of those quirky movies that pops up every once in a while. If it has any greater meaning, I guess that it's sort of saying that no matter where we go, there are some things that we just can't escape. "},{"Title":"A future classic!","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Matthew Bright stuns with his outrageous directorial debut 'Freeway', one of the most original and subversive movies to emerge from Hollywood in years. Bright wrote the utterly bizarre 'Forbidden Zone' over twenty years ago (once seen, never forgotten!), but 'Freeway' shows he is a major talent. His only real competition in the hyper-real pop art black comedy stakes is Gregg Araki, whose 'Doom Generation' and 'Nowhere' display a similar kick ass sensibility.Reese Witherspoon is dynamite as the white trash lethal Lolita Vanessa Lutz. Along with 'Election' her best role to date. Kiefer Sutherland gets his most interesting part in years as her nemesis, the slimy Bob. And the supporting cast is equally strong, especially dependable character actor Dan Hedaya ('Blood Simple', 'The Usual Suspects'), the cute Brittany Murphy ('Clueless') who oozes sex appeal, and Amanda Plummer ('Pulp Fiction') and Michael T. Weiss (er... 'Howling IV') as the parents from hell. I also got a real kick out of the cameo by veteran Sydney Lassick ('..Cuckoo's Nest', 'Sonny Boy'). Pity we don't get to see much of him here, or anywhere for that matter!Witherspoon has gone on to well deserved stardom, but this remains one of her finest accomplishments. Bright faltered with the largely disappointing 'Freeway 2', but my money is on him. Anyone who can create a movie this fresh and cool deserves to be remembered! "},{"Title":"One of my favorite films of all time.","Date":"14 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" An absolutely brilliant film in so many different respects. At it's most basic it's a modern take on Robin Hood, but it can be enjoyed on many different levels. There are several just plain brilliant performances. This is first film that I watched Reece Witherspoon in that really showed me her depth and stretched her ability as an actress, and she was only 18 years old! She's strong, powerful, empathetic and like-able as the wayward teen looking for her grandmother. Keifer Sutherland also has a strong role, with some of my other favorite performances being from Britany Murphy as a completely transformed and nearly unrecognizable pyromaniac lesbian delinquent. Another great performance is Michael T. Weiss (from the TV series Pretender) as a complete crack-head, and Brook Shields as the wife of Keifer Sutherland's character. This is not a film for children, despite it being based on a children's tale, but if you approach it with an open mind I think you'll really enjoy it. "}{"Title":"Reese As You've Never Seen Her","Date":"8 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Reese Witherspoon made this riveting thriller before she became everybody's favorite sweetheart. The Legally Blond star plays a foul-mouthed, illiterate teenager named Vanessa Lutz who hitches a ride with an older man after her car breaks down on the freeway. He offers her a lift as far as Los Angeles and even takes her out to dinner. Later, he turns out to be a notorious California highway serial killer who has been making headlines. Kiefer Sutherland is thoroughly obnoxious as Bob Wolverton, a bespectacled boys counselor who gets more than he bargained for after he picks up Vanessa, cuts off her ponytail, and threatens to rape her corpse. She whips out a small, Spanish-made automatic pistol that her boyfriend, Chopper (Bokeem Woodbine) gave her moments before he died in a drive-by shooting. Vanessa lands in jail but she does not stick long before she breaks out and joins a group of Hispanic girls who pull tricks on the side. All Vanessa wants to do is go to Stockton, California, so she can live with her grandmother rather than wind up in another horrible foster home.The dialogue brims with profanity and the subject matter is very unsavory. Witherspoon gives a dynamic performance. If you think that Witherspoon is cast against the grain, wait until you see a grown-up Brooke Shields who plays the wife of the serial killer.Freeway is an unforgettable dark comedy that doesn't pull any of its punches! "},{"Title":"This is still one of Reese's best roles ever, and not a dull moment ever . . .","Date":"6 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I know, it may seem ridiculous to some, but actually, even after all these years (now well into 2012), this is still a film to watch, and no one could have delivered the key role more perfectly than Reese Witherspoon. She is simply spectacularly spot on with her characterization of the theme and culture that is her character here.The story is a bit hard edged for some, but sadly, not entirely outside the realms of reality in the current world.Do characters like hers in this film really exist as portrayed? Absolutely yes. Do characters like that portrayed by Sutherland, the predatory pedophile sociopath who appears to be so acceptably normal to the outside world? Absolutely yes, as recent history has shown only too clearly.On the surface this may have appeared to be a sort of whacky, creepy crime thriller, but actually, if one actually takes the time to watch this film, there is much more to this than the ad copy may have suggested at the time.It is still currently viable, to this very day . . . has stood the test of time.And it is absolutely one of Reese's best ever performances.Sadly, her more recent work has sort of flattened out into much less risky, complex roles, but hey, a great actress she is. "},{"Title":"Only 6.8???? Really? Underrated is an Understatement!","Date":"26 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I can't believe this is the score for this movie. It's sheer brilliance. This film is a masterpiece thriller, full of amazing performances. For its time, it is a HUGE eye-opener and an outstanding attempt to recreate the fairy tale in a suburban fashion. It is simply riveting and very satisfying in terms of plot, action and character. I have never seen Reese Witherspoon kick so much ass ever. I don't understand why she didn't get any Oscar buzz for this one. This performance completely tops her part in Walk the Line. She is more than amazing in this film. You really don't wanna mess with her. She is capable of almost anything after what's been done to her. We still sympathize with her though because she's still compassionate and cares for what is right. She has a set of principles that she won't let anyone tread on. Being more of a Punisher, she is that strong heroine that uses her sense of justice to subdue those who wrong her, but at the same time, she's all about instinct and guts, she isn't your Lara Croft or your fancy Black Widow. She just acts on pure instinct of what is right and she understands that most of the time, reality is screwed up and doesn't care for what is wrong or right. I was left speechless at the sheer simplicity with which she conveys so much pain, anger and most of all strength. At the same time, I couldn't believe my eyes when I saw what she could do. At the beginning of the movie, you can't picture her as that tough. But by the end of it, even those cops were smiling at her, thinking 'Okay, let's never upset this one or we'll get our asses whooped!' As for Sutherland, wow, he can play a real creep when he wants to and be good at it too. His facial expressions and his gestures tell everything you need to know about him as a killer. And at the beginning, when he's playing the good guy, he's so believable you know right away he's sure to be off his bonkers. I have to admit though, he's a tad underplayed. There's not enough focus on him. Also, I was expecting a little bit more from him, but Reese made up for whatever was missing. As a side note, Brittany Murphy is another nice touch to this movie. I have seen this kind of performance before, but I think she made it personal, as in she made you believe that she was the one going through all of that. I just wish she could have played more parts like this one, but I guess we'll never see that happening now...I definitely recommend this movie to anyone who wants to see Reese Witherspoon show her acting props. I really miss this side of her. Now she's more into sweet, sugary indie movies which aren't all bad, they just don't give her much to work with and waste some of her huge potential. Oh and that accent of hers needs to take front stage right now, it's adorable! Go watch this movie and you won't regret it! "},{"Title":"This movie has it all. Comedy, Suspense, Great Story Line and Great Acting.","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This was a very exciting movie with many twists and turns. It is for sure on my personal top 50 favorite movies of all times. I fell in love with Reese Witherspoon as an actress and she deserved a lot more credit than she received for this role. She is still one of my favorite actresses and I think this role was just as demanding as Walk the Line. The acting was also good from the other stars.Kiefer Sutherland plays an excellent Villain. You really wonder how unfair it is when it is happening to her. The Way the movie unravels is a masterpiece and you are constantly feeling the hopefulness of her situation.The ending was what you go to the movies for in the first place. I think this movie is worth renting or buying. "},{"Title":"Hey there Little Red Riding Hood, you sure are looking good as Reese Witherspoon","Date":"23 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" A wickedly nasty and subversive contemporary road movie thriller spin on the classic fairytale Little Red Riding Hood, with a phenomenally brassy'n'sassy performance by Reese Witherspoon as a tough, scrappy, not-so-innocent California teenage runaway hitch-hiker who runs afoul of a pernicious roadside serial killer (excellently played by Kiefer Sutherland) who's on a self-appointed moralistic mission to rid the world of garbage people. Witherspoon narrowly avoids being killed by Sutherland, seriously hurting him in the process and winding up in jail on a trumped-up assault charge. However, Witherspoon manages to escape so she and Sutherland can have a ferocious climactic showdown at her grandmother's house, which in this brilliantly twisted picture turns out to be a grimy mobile home located in a seedy whitetrash trailer park.Writer/director Matthew Bright relates this blithely amoral and energetic exploitation trash pip with a gut-bustingly savage and unmerciful sense of no-holds-barred caustic black-as-midnight humor, thus giving this deliciously demented doozy a frantically hoppin' electric charge and breezy irreverence that's impossible to either resist or dislike. Popping up in super supporting parts are Brooke Shields as Sutherland's snobby, unsuspecting wife, Amanda Plummer as Witherspoon's pathetic junkie hooker mom, Michael T. Weiss as Witherspoon's skeevy abusive stepdad, Brittany Murphy as a cheery lesbian, and Sydney Lassick as a jolly trailer park manager. Great barn-storming opening theme by Danny Elfman, too. And Witherspoon is a terrifically tart, brash and foul-mouthed revelation in what remains her best-ever starring role to date. "},{"Title":"Unashamedly Twisted","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I love this movie.  It makes no apologies for being completely twisted, and it defines the black comedy genre.  Reese Witherspoon is wonderful, and I particularly love watching her mock Bob in the courtroom scene.  It is sharp satire, picking on the legal system, the class system, racism, perversion and child exploitation. "},{"Title":"Holy st! Look who got beat with the ugly stick!","Date":"23 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" OK, I really need to spread the joyous word about this film to everyone. It's quite possibly THE best movie I have had the pleasure of watching. Reese Witherspoon fits so snugly in the role of Vanessa I Ain't No Trickbaby Lutz, a saucy street smart 15 year old with a mouth like a f***ing sailor. Every character she has portrayed before or since has absolutely diminished by comparison. Assuming you have read the plot synopsis, allow me to just point out some great sleazy highlights crack use--check; hookers--check; juvie hall complete with cat fights--check; a serial killer, much sass from Reese, and a hilarious reference to Richard Speck (watch closely). Oh, and Amanda Plummer, whom you'd expect to see on an episode of Cops, as Vanessa's VERY tweaked out mama. Trust me on this one. If you're a fan of the exploitation genre and have an inkling of a sense of humor, you will be giddy from start to finish. You'll thank yourself. I did. "},{"Title":"Well acted, but a cruel and nasty rewrite of Little Red Riding Hood","Date":"5 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" A very disadvantaged teenager (Reese Witherspoon) is about to get taken in to care so decides to make a run for grannies house. Clearly and explicitly a rewrite of Little Red Riding Hood although it has more to do with Natural Born Killers or Pulp Fiction than anything read to small children.There are movies in America that seem to take the view that killing is not killing, guns are not guns and death is death. This a perfect example. While set in the real world so much bad happens with such regularity that you know that you are living in pulp fiction (small case) city.Indeed the over-the-top regularity of bad things happening leads many to read this as a black comedy. This is surely a mistake as black comedy comes from irony or the unknowing. One human being shooting another (very much wishing them to be dead) is not black comedy.While many bad things happen, the movie isn't clever enough to only let bad things happen to those that really deserve it. Many lines/scenes seem to designed to shock and titillate - including child sex or at least descriptions of it.Like Tarantino director Matthew Bright forgets that less is sometimes more, and the threat of stepping over the line can be as dramatic as actually doing so. Sadly the director/writer Matthew Bright thinks that the drama only occurs if threat is then turned in to action.Although it does know a thing about having your cake and eating it to. Especially in the scenes between the fleeing Witherspoon and the creepy Kieifer Sutherland.What prevents this film from falling apart totally is the acting. Witherspoon is a total revelation in the lead role in that we normally see her as a sweet girl. Here her tiny face and pout are much more deadly -- indeed what we have here is bordering on the psychopathic.While many might read my comments as indicating that I didn't like the film it has its black charms and is very watchable. It is actually a product of what I call the new wild west -- movies in which characters crash about the place doing whatever they like and march to the beat of their own drum.Funny to some -- on a movie screen -- they are never funny in real life. "},{"Title":"Interesting movie","Date":"7 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was at WalMart and was shuffling around the $5.88 DVD bin. I came across this gem of a movie and after reading the back, decided to get it. I'm a big Keifer Sutherlund fan so that was part of the reason. I got home and planted it into my player. I had no idea what was about to happen. I was totally blown away with the script as the movie unfolded. I was expecting a road trip type movie, but not like this!! This is a dark comedy that will definitely snag you and pull you in! I almost felt bad for laughing at the many gruesomely funny parts! Oh, and now I've got to see Legally Blond. The gal who plays Mesquita in Freeway, is in Legally Blond 1 and 2. She is a total hottie!!  "},{"Title":"Black comedy, modern Red Riding Hood, is a great acting vehicle for Reese Witherspoon .","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I watched Freeway I had already become a fan of Reese Witherspoon, but her performance here was nothing short of Oscar-caliber. Her Vanessa is street smart and sassy, a real pistol that doesn't take anything off anybody.Not for anyone who shys away from lots of blue language and frank, graphical sexual descriptions. However, if you get beyond that, Freeway is perhaps the most entertaining black comedy that has come out in recent memory. Kiefer Sutherland is also in fine form as the wolf of the story. A must see, if you don't take it too seriously. "}{"Title":"A Rollicking B-Movie Caper","Date":"2 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Imagine Little Red Riding Hood, except the story is set in the ghettos of 1996, Little Red Riding Hood is a dirty blonde teenage punk with anger issues, the mother is a crack-headed prostitute, the grandma is a trailer park low-life, and, oh yeah, the Big Bad Wolf isn't a wolf at all he's a serial murderer, or, as the news so fondly labels him, the I-5 killer. If you live in 1996, are a prostitute, and are hitchhiking, scurry away, because your life may be in danger. But if none of these characteristics fit your billing, then there is nothing that should be stopping you from watching Freeway, unless you are a prude to the tenth power.When it comes to movies as unhinged as Freeway, my love for all things absurd and trashy rises to unseemly biased levels. There is something about low-budgets and Tarantino-esque exchanges that touch me in the way that most films can hardly muster. Few can brag about having an ever- present crisis of tawdry characters getting into some seriously bad situations, and even fewer can say that they've devised a film so dauntless in its over-the-top personality that it nearly laughs itself to death.Witherspoon, who is best when playing against type, portrays Vanessa, a 16-year old delinquent who is anchored to the ground by her prostitute mother (Amanda Plummer) and drugged-out stepfather. In school, reading a sentence like The cat drinks milk is a feat of Shakespearian hardship, as Vanessa, more enticed to be called a badass in the slums of Los Angeles, is devastatingly illiterate. But anyone who lacks school smarts and lives on the bad streets of town is bound to be a little more unhinged in their fight in the rat race, after all.After her parents are arrested, Vanessa decides that she's done with the government, skips foster care, and heads towards the home of her grandmother, who she never has actually met. Only a few miles into the journey does her car breakdown &#x97; lucky for her, a clean-cut stranger (Kiefer Sutherland) comes to the rescue, introducing himself as Bob Wolverton, a high school counselor. Vanessa immediately confides in her makeshift chauffeur about all her weighty problems; but after traveling for a few hours, Wolverton's true nature is bitterly revealed. He turns out to be one of those sadistic creeps you read about in the paper &#x97; some may know him as the I-5 Killer. Vanessa isn't about to become some helpless next victim, however she is, fortunately, packing a pistol. She shoots her would-be murderer several times, takes all his money, and leaves him for dead. But chances are, when you leave someone for dead, they tend to not actually die, and, as the film would like to remind us over and over, Vanessa should have shot Wolverton just one more time.The saga of Freeway is as combative and unpredictable as the tabloid coverage of a true-crime cat-and-mouse game, its participants so grandiosely sinful in their shabby hysteria that, by the end, when Vanessa is completely exhausted, mascara streaming down her face like a jilted prom queen, her asking for a cigarette is as riotous as Lucy and Ethel trying as hard as they can to get the chocolates from overloading on the conveyor belt.Freeway is a comedy, but it's not a comedy for the Anchorman generation and maybe not even for the ones who thought The Carol Burnett Show was a shining jewel in television. It's mean-spirited enough to drive Regina George away, but even the meanest of people can be hilariously mean. The film is a melodramatically contorted white-trash vision; not laughing would almost be rude. Matthew Bright, as cynical and clever as he is, has accomplished the rare act of making a B-movie thriller brilliant in its tackiness. Witherspoon and Sutherland have never been so enthralling. Read more reviews at petersonreviews.com "},{"Title":"Matthew Bright&#x97;we need another movie please.","Date":"17 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I've yet to see Tiptoes, the film from which director Matthew Bright was fired (and, sadly, his last movie to date), but I've found everything else by the film-maker to be hugely entertaining thanks to a unique off-kilter style that appeals to my sense of the bizarre. Bright's distinctive approach is very much evident in his debut Freeway, an unforgettable spin on the tale of Little Red Riding Hood the twisted plot is extremely exploitative and suitably lurid, the characters are grossly exaggerated, the direction is lively, and even though the fairytale is known to most, I'll wager you've never seen it told quite like this.Reese Witherspoon plays white trash juvenile delinquent Vanessa Lutz, who, after her streetwalker mother (a hilariously OTT turn by Amanda Plummer) and crack-head stepfather are arrested, escapes from her social worker to go looking for her grandmother up North. En route, Vanessa experiences car trouble, but is aided by good samaritan Bob Wolverton (Kiefer Sutherland), who offers her a lift. What Vanessa doesn't realise is that Bob is the serial killer who has been slicing up hookers on the I-5 interstate, and he plans to do very bad things to her (AFTER he's killed her, of course!); unfortunately for Bob, Vanessa is more than capable of protecting herself.What follows is a darkly humorous tale full of surprises, memorable characters, extreme violence and great performances, not just from Witherspoon and Sutherland, but also from an excellent supporting cast that includes Dan Hedaya, Brooke Shields and Brittany Murphy. The film also benefits from a quirky score by Danny Elfman that suits the demented material perfectly. Any film that features the star of 24 with a messed up face and a poop bag, and the star of Legally Blonde hiding a makeshift knife up her holiest of holies is easily worth a 9/10 from me. "},{"Title":"1 of my favorites of all time","Date":"7 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I seen this movie when it first come out I was 15 at the time and idolized Witherspoon's character Vanessa. . this has to be Witherspoon's greatest performance.. She really gets stuck into her white trash role and is unbelievable likable and admirable.. This film has everything from drug abuse.. Psychopathic killers..girl prison fights..violence .cholos and hoodlums and lots of very dark comedy..all the characters are likable and all very very well acted.. Amanda plummer as Vanessa s hooker mother is brilliant especially being hogtied.. This movie is a MUST WATCH One u will definitely want to own on video "},{"Title":"It doesn't pay to mess with Reese Witherspoon","Date":"20 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Wow, what a movie! As usual, I had no idea what this was about. Read no reviews or blurbs. It was in my pile of possible neo-noirs.The writer-director is Matthew Bright. He did a tremendous job. Lead actress and protagonist carrying the movie is Reese Witherspoon, whom I apparently have seen before in American Psycho (another great film), but I had no recollection. At any rate, she was terrific playing a teen (Vanessa Lutz) from the underclass or lower class, the white trash portion of it. Her mom's a whore. Her step-father a drug addict who keeps trying to molest her. They get arrested and she takes to the freeway to go to Stockton to stay with her grandmother. The plot is Little Red Riding Hood. The wolf is Kiefer Sutherland (Bob Wolverton) who is a serial killer and sexual pervert.This is a comedy, mind you, filled with funny situations, repartee, satire, stereotyping and political incorrectness throughout. Her mom and dad, for example, are not evil people and Vanessa loves her mom. That doesn't stop them from all sorts of unrestrained behaviors that polite people like me in the middle or now perhaps upper-middle class would never dream of displaying. But it's also a serious crime story. So it will be called black comedy and qualify as some branch of neo-noir I suppose. A very creative branch.Vanessa is not an evil girl at all. She matter-of-factly accepts her situation, but she's not into drugs or crime. She has a very consistent sense of right, wrong and people. What she does is her own business as long as she does not aggress against anyone and minds her own business, which she is always attempting to do. If someone intrudes on her, assaults her, threatens her physically, she defends herself vigorously. The system intrudes on her at various points, trying to place her in a foster home and at one point jailing her. If someone insults her or displays hypocrisy, she comes back at them with some terrific verbal jabs that lays them bare. It's a pleasure to hear her verbally tear into them. She's not politically correct, and authority means nothing to her, her experiences having been all negative. I loved it when she described all the guards and personnel at the women's jail as perverts and wondered who in his right mind would ever take such a job or want to do it. Unfair remark? Yes. But does it have a grain or more than a few grains of truth to it? Yes. There's an awful lot of police excess and brutality these days.Although Vanessa's family is stereotyped, she is not. She stands up well as a highly moral (in a libertarian sense) representative of her class. It's authority figures and the sanctimonious hypocrites in the middle class that come in for a roasting in this movie.When her car breaks down, Wolverton picks her up, playing all helpful and well-mannered, seeking her trust. There will be a contest between these two, as one can guess. No need to say more.Hypocrisy and lying are natural features of society and government. Ripping the veils off serves a psychological purpose. Satire and comedy are legitimate ways to do this. A movie like this does it. "},{"Title":"Varied, violent, funny and furious","Date":"6 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" So there's me thinking I'm taking a break from my obscure exploitation movies and I find myself sat before this beauty. Made in 1996, which doesn't seem so long ago, but it's before Keiffer Sutherland settled into the 24 TV series and before Reese Witherspoon had even made Election, and while they have both gone on to much bigger if not better things, director Bright has not. Well, I don't know what possessed him to imagine he was going to make too many Hollywood friends with this mighty chunk of wild and anti-establishment, two fingered spout of anger, but it is enormous fun to watch. Also, as with so much exploitative cinema it seems to tell far more truths than your average 'serious' movie. Sutherland is effective but Witherspoon amazing, I had forgotten how tremendous she could be. Varied, violent, funny and furious, this is worth a watch anytime. "},{"Title":"Outrageously Funny","Date":"22 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Only in the 1990's that you had a enormous stream of twisted, violent, dark films with awkward funny moments, and writers and directors got away with it, although some of them haven't lived up to higher expectations with the noble exception of Coen brothers. Far away from being intelligent like Coen's films Freeway comes to amaze us with bringing the story of Little Red Riding Hood in a different environment with many violent and funny situations.Reese Witherspoon plays the troubled Vanessa, a girl whose mother and stepfather were arrested, and she doesn't want to go to foster care or similar, deciding instead on going to her grandmother's house, the only place she can go. This Little Red Riding Hood won't bring cookies to grandma, and she's not so innocent like the old tale, here's a girl with lots of problems and lots of anger too after meeting her Big Bad Wolf, Bob a friendly psycho killer (Kiefer Sutherland) who picks her up on the road after her car broke. What comes after it's a hilarious and twisted story about two figures that don't know how to get rid of each other, in a plot that involves murders, juvenile prison for girls, a funny trial, punchlines in the wrong time to make us laugh all the time.It's not for everyone's tastes, it's certainly that not everyone will find the story funny as a comedy instead of a ridiculous way as the plot might suggest. It's full of surprises, very uncompromising and has some interesting performance from Witherspoon as the talking/smart/violent/Christian girl who manages to survive the whole ride meeting creepy characters on the way, and a nice performance from Kiefer playing the friendly guy who ends up being a killer trapped in his own evilness, after the girl shoot him several times, and this guy for some reason doesn't die but keeps living a painful life after. The scenes with both in the car, talking about her problems and he's playing the good listener was very good, and sometimes I wish that the whole movie would be focused on them doing this because it was interesting so these two change to each other the way they act, talk and all, but then we would have a dramatic feature, something that this film is not. How come one stumble upon this film? Simple! Of 5 films credited on IMDb you'll see in 4 random titles the suggestion for this film, and I gotta recognize that the promotion is a little bit over-the-top but it made me curious to watch it, and it turned out to be a great film. One year in a crusade after Freeway I finally watched, enjoyed, it got me laughing and surprised despite a few clichs here and there. If you can see humor in bizarre situations that in ordinary life wouldn't be funny then this film is for you! 10/10 "},{"Title":"Wash your mouth out with soap Little Red Riding Hood !!!","Date":"9 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Freeway is a black comic take on Little Red Riding Hood.Reese Witherspoon plays a rather sweet and innocent looking young woman off to find her grandmother. Kiefer Sutherland plays a psychological serial killer, although not a fully paid up one but the free or Lite version.The film's strengths are the performance by Witherspoon who brings the character to life, and the screenplay which is funny in the extreme. Indeed I would be surprised if Witherspoon had not been nominated for an award in the role.Freeway is not a very politically correct film and is all the more enjoyable for it! This aspect of it could cause offence and as such has probably hindered it's publicity.Pros - Twisted, Dark, Comic TaleCons - None come to mindOverall - Baddass "},{"Title":"Surprisingly a really great movie with good acting and a clever story","Date":"20 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Kiefer Sutherland makes a great performance in this movie. The big surprise is that Reese Witherspoon does the best part I've seen her in. A troubled teenager with tons of attitude. Who'd have known? A hidden treasure! Some good other characters, for example the woman who tries to rob a restaurant in Pulp Fiction with her husband, plays the role as Witherspoon's mother. I'd definitely recommend everyone to buy this movie if you can find it. I could watch more than once, no doubt! You never really know which turn is coming next and I'd say it's a pretty unique story told her. Well, sorry if the review is not so well written but I just wanted to share the experience with someone else. "},{"Title":"Hilarious Satire","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" One of the funniest movies made in the last ten years. Now, if you can't stand violence and pervasive profanity, don't watch it. You will hate it and you walk away within the first ten minutes. But, if you think that an insane crack whore being hogtied by police, Reese Witherspoon yelling, Look who got hit with the ugly stick, and Brooke Shields in a perfect eighties bow blowing the back of her head off with a shotgun are hilarious, this is the movie for you. It takes everything that might be bad and multiplies it by twenty to get its point across. There's $hit in this paradise we call America and only a strong person can make it. She might not be smart, or even literate, but she can blow that face off of a pedophile trying to kill her and gets out of an unjust prison with a sadistic matron. Vanessa Lutz is my personal favorite of all of Reese Witherspoon's roles (Walk the Line came close, but she couldn't sing, so I got bumped down to two). Kiefer Sutherland is perfect as the pedophile, necrophiliac, serial killer. He manages to be a charming geek and intensely creepy. The entire plot is ridiculous, but the execution is amazing. That's what matters. The movie's results are in large part due to the writer the script is hilarious. There will probably also people who will take this at face value and they will hate this. But, look past that and you will see a work of art in the guise of a trash C movie. "},{"Title":"Extreme, but worth grinning a bearing it!","Date":"17 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Freeway is a modern retelling of Little Red Riding Hood - with a completely darker twist.Vanessa Lutz (Reese Witherspoon) is an illiterate, white trash 15 year old with an extremely foul mouth and an even worse temper. When her mom gets arrested for prostitution, and her step dad goes with for drugs, she decides to run away to find the grandma she's never met. When her car breaks down, she grabs a ride with Bob Wolverton (Kiefer Sutherland). When he asks her disturbing questions about the sexual abuse from her step dad, she realizes he's the killer she heard about on the news. All of a sudden, her life takes a turn- for the way worse.This movie will totally take you by surprise if you do not know what you're in for. Its incredibly gory and dirty. It's not afraid to take incredibly huge risks with its dialog and plot twists, and that's why its so good. Witherspoon, being completely the opposite of her now squeaky clean image, is simply awesome in this movie. She plays her role to a T, the rage, violence, and humor behind the character. Sutherland is extremely creepy in his role, which eventually turns to humor ... then back to creepy. The movie is meant to be taken lightly, it really is hilarious, so don't ruin it by taking it seriously and getting creeped out! Cause I sure did. But now I love it! So be prepared before you pop in the DVD, and you're sure to become a quick fan! "}{"Title":"Witherspoon's best.....","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  With uppety, cheerful flicks like Legally Blonde and Alabama, Freeway enraptures Reese's capablity of a 3 dimensional actress, full throttle.  Vanessa the 15 year old she plays is so real and vulgure and captivating, the audience cannot help to hate and love her.  Freeway is to me one of the best movies of the 90's, with a clever script and a marvelous cast, Freeway resembles cult faves like Pulp Fiction.  It doesn't sugar-coat.  Awesome movie. "},{"Title":"An Excellent Dark Comedy","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  After her mom and stepfather are arrested for drug possession, 15 year old Vanessa Lutz(Reese Witherspoon), decides to go look for her grandmother because she doesn't want to go to another foster home. In the middle of the road, her car breaks down and this man offers Vanessa a ride. At first they get along, but then Vanessa notices that the man is a serial killer. This was a very good dark portrayel of the Little Red Riding Hood. Reese Witherspoon was excellent and also there was a funny but short performance by Brittany Murphy. I would give Freeway 10/10 "},{"Title":"Good movie, but metaphor made me feel like an IDIOT!","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Okay, late, Late, LATE last night, I noticed that the movie Freeway was on, and, as I recall, I'd been told that it was really good and that I needed to watch it.  So I did.It was really good, I definitely liked it.  Although, I think it should win some kind of award for WORST NAMED movie EVER!  Even though I'm a HUGE Reese fan, I've always avoided that movie, because I thought it was one of those made for tv movies where they somehow stretch out an eight car pile up into a 2 hour movie.Now the embarrassing part...but in all fairness to me, it was LATE and I was TIRED!When the movie first started, and they showed the titles over all the cartoons of sexpot red riding hoods being chased by big bad wolves, I thought to myself, These are the dumbest credits EVER.  UNFORTUNATELY, I did not realize the movie was a metaphor for the fairy tale, until the VERY end, when Reese walks into the trailer park and shouts Grandma, it's me, I'm here!.  Yes, I admit it.  I'm an idiot.  But I was VERY tired!!!!Did the fact that the cartoon titles say little red riding hood! tell me anything?  No.  Did the fact that she was going to visit her grandma tell me anything?  No.  Did the fact that she grabbed a wicker basket to put a few thing in it for her trip tell me anything?  No.  Did the fact that the psycho killers name was Bob Wolverton tell me anything?  NO!  Did the fact, that the REAL name of the guy that played Detective Mike Breer was Wolfgang Bodison tell me anything? N--well, THAT might have just been a coincidence.  Now the only part I DON'T feel bad about was the part that the fiance was named Chopper Wood, although HAD I realized the whole metaphor thing, I might have appreciated even that part a bit.ANYWAY, that's my embarrassing confession.Watch the movie, you'll enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Find out what makes Vanessa claustrophobic....","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've been a fan of Mathew Bright ever since I saw him in Forbidden Zone, and for his unique screenwriting like in Dark Angel The Ascent. Freeway is a glorious vehicle for his talents!  Over the top and on the mark at the same time.The idea of taking Little Red Riding Hood and turning it into a comment on urban decay and throwaway lives is a task that can only work in capable hands, otherwise it would turn out too serious or too stupid.  Bright manages to find the right note and works it for everything it's worth.  Unlike the trashy in-name only sequal Confessions Of A Trickbaby (based on Hansel & Gretel), Freeway doesn't lower itself to gratuitous nudity but instead focuses on the characters and the story -- and still maintains a great sense of outrageousness.  So, to that reviewer on IMDb that wanted more skin, you have to realize this film wasn't made just for you. If you want to satisfy your need for bare breasts, there are plenty of other avenues for that.  As gritty as this film already is, turning into a bad Roger Corman women-in-prison breast-fest flick would have just lessened the legitimacy it has.Besides the clever concept, the choice casting is perfection.  Reese Witherspoon wowed me first with The Man In The Moon, and for me her role as Vanessa in Freeway is her best to date.  She is definitely one of the finest actresses around and has an incredible talent for displaying emotion and facial expressions.  The one scene in the car with Kiefer Sutherland where she is pouring her heart out is astounding -- even Bright mentions on the commentary that she manages to have so many believable expressions within one segment. (I still giggle every time I see her make that twinkling smile in Legally Blonde after talking about Days Of Our Lives and also saying I object!).  Kiefer Sutherland is so menacing without having to outwardly act like a maniac, and the rest of the cast including Brooke Shields (seeing her cuss out the cop is a gem), Dan Hedeya, Conchata Ferrel, Amanda Plummer, Michael T. Weiss.....it just couldn't have been done better!  For trivia fans, look for porn star Kitty Foxx as Vanessa's grandmother!!  And apparently director Bright had a field day doing all the girls' hairstyles himself!  Now every time I see a certain profile shot in one scene of Reese I laugh because Bright endearingly referred to her in that scene as Tweety Bird.Funny and unsettling all at once, Freeway guarantees not to disappoint those with an open mind.  Those who think no character in this film has redeeming value hasn't thought about the histories of each one, particularly Vanessa.  She's quite complex and quite angry, but you understand where she's coming from and root for her all the way.  Freeway has one of THE most memorable lines in film history  look for when she forces a john at gunpoint into a car trunk and he tells her he's claustrophobic -- just listen for her response!  It will make your day! And I've never been more terrified when I heard her say Do you accept Jesus Christ as your lord and saviour?Obviously this film is not for all tastes and it's downright rough, but what an experience it is and such a great display of talent from all involved.  I've heard some people say they wouldn't buy a film on home video because they can't understand why you'd want to watch a film more than once, even if you liked it.  That's a shame, because true gems like Freeway offer so much with each viewing that goes beyond entertainment.  See for yourself, you won't forget this one! It's astonishing, shocking, brilliant, scary, and funny!  Little Red Riding Hood will forever NEVER be the same! "},{"Title":"Quirky and Fun, A Cult Classic","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I liked the character of Vanessa Lutz.  She was a true survivor.  This movie is quirky, but it's an interesting tale of a girl from the wrong side of the tracks with a heart of gold.  The movie is very well written and it makes you wonder what became of Vanessa in later years.  Keifer Sutherland was hysterical as the maniac killer and I even liked Brooke Sheilds as his wife. This movie is worth watching if you like the weird ones. "},{"Title":"Little Red Riding Lutz","Date":"1 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Imagine a fairy-tale of the 90's told by someone with a severe acid flashback from the 70's and you're bang into the mood of this clever little movie.You get all the elements of the original tale The little girl on the way to her grandmother, the red basket full of goodies and the bad bad wolf. These elements are woven into a dense plot and you're never quite sure who's the victim and who's the offender.Troubled teenager Vanessa Lutz (Reese Witherspoon) gets picked up on the Freeway by Bob Wolverton (Kiefer Sutherland) after her car has broken down. We soon find out that the esteemed psychologist Wolverton has some sick problems of his own, as during the drive he performs a brilliantly acted session of mental sex on the frightened teenager, pretending this to be a new sort of therapy form. As Vanessa snaps under the mental strain, we get the first reversal of roles, as she brutally strikes back on Bob.What follows is a story of dark comic horror with exquisite details that made me chuckle, despite the gruesome events. Kiefer for example is a German word meaning jawbone and, let me tell you, there are some very BAD things happening to Bob Wolverton's jawbone in the course of events. This was most probably unintentional, but I thought that to be funny anyway. The story then depicts the trial of Vanessa, her time in the women's prison and her evasion back onto the road to find her grandmother.The story cumulates in a trailer park where Girl, Grandmother, Wolf and Hunters meet for the final climax, which is a real heart-stopper.If you're looking for action, black humor, psychological terror and gore, this is the movie to watch, because it treats you with subtle doses of all of it.If you ever wanted to know how Brooke Shields' brain looks on white tiling, go get the movie! "},{"Title":"Wickedly Delightful!","Date":"5 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of my all time favorites...I am convinced anyone who does not like it simply does not get it.  I have watched it over and over and each time I laugh hysterically and notice something new.  This is a great movie and I can't for the life of me figure out why this was not a box office smash!  Even Brooke Shields is funny!  And Reese with that basket ... on her way to Grandma's house...Oh my God!!!  I love it! "},{"Title":"Awesome Flick","Date":"13 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Great movie. Reese Witherspoon gives her best performance ever in this movie. Keifer Sutherland is chilling as the big bad wolf. If you love non-Hollywood, non-Formulaic movies, this is the one for you. I was entranced by the storyline which is about the hard life of a trailer trash girl growing up in one of the seediest environments. What Reese bring to this role is a character that I didn't know she was capable of. She puts the D in Dirty when she brings this character to life. And yet, the entire way through the movie, the audience is captivated by her, sympathetic to her, and rooting for her to kill the wolf. "},{"Title":"Without a doubt one of Reese Witherspoons best performances.","Date":"19 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Freeway is an instant cult classic. Its crude, violent,graphic,gross,funny,and full of hilarious madness. I consider this one of the two best performances in a comedy. Along with Election this is her best comical act ever. She did so great. Having only seen newer movies with her, I did not know she was so good. She did a lot of hardcore movies before she switched to fluff romantic comedies. A must watch to see her true talent. Keifer Sutherland also did really well in this as a sicko pervert. Though its not his greatest role, its definitely worth the watch. All in all this movie is just awesome. Now, its not for everyone,you have to have a pretty strong stomach to make see it, but its worth it. See it ASAP. I rate this 8/10. Rated R for strong lurid violence and sexual dialogue,some sexual situations, drug content and language "},{"Title":"Tacky and Trashy, but I love it!","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" My sister lent me and my mom Freeway and she said that it was a really cool film that had a great twist on Little Red Riding Hood, but when I noticed Reese and Kiefer, I immediately jumped on the opportunity to watch this film. Well, I watched Freeway last night and I was honestly blown away! I couldn't believe how much talent Reese had at such a young age and how she carried the film along with such a strong method actor as Kiefer. They were so great as Red and the Big Bad Wolf, not to mention that in some sick way, this movie just makes you laugh over and over again despite it's twisted ways.Venessa doesn't have a fairy tale life, her mom is a prostitute, her step dad molests her, she has a gangsta boyfriend, and she's had multiple arrests. But Venessa's world gets turned upside down when her mom and step dad get arrested and she gets turned into child care, but she decides to go to her grandmother's house instead, hitchhiking with a nice Bob Wolverton who turns out to be the infamous I-5 killer, but Venessa won't go without a fight as she shoots him several times. He SOMEHOW survives, but is severely scared making Venessa look like a cold blooded killer.Freeway is so twisted and sick, but for some odd reason I really did like it. I even watched it again today with my friend, we just couldn't believe how much of a sweet heart, Reese, could kick so much butt in this film. She was so fantastic and scary! Both her and Kiefer had such great chemistry working off each other, not to mention a star studded cast with Brooke Shields and Britney Murphy. I would highly recommend Freeway, it is a very awesome film! 10/10 "}{"Title":"Surprisingly Not That Great","Date":"8 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" A twisted take on 'Little Red Riding Hood' with a teenage juvenile delinquent (Reese Witherspoon) on the run from a social worker traveling to her grandmother's house and being hounded by a charming, but sadistic, serial killer / pedophile (Kiefer Sutherland).I really thought this would be good, as it stars one of my favorite Sutherlands. And, you know, he is really good in it, but that did not save the film. Actually, most of those involved were really good. It was more the plot and script that seemed messy and convoluted. The Red Riding Hood aspect is very small, and this seems to be more in the vein of Natural Born Killers, though not nearly as good.I suppose it is worth a watch, especially now that Witherspoon is huge star. But it is far from the best film she has done. "},{"Title":"One twisted freeway of eye candy, laughs,  and murder","Date":"24 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Freeway is one jolting movie experience, a 180 degree turn movie, where there's the fun in it. You might Reese Witherspoon was just another actress after seeing her in fear. Here she proves us dead wrong. I must admit I had an admiration for her electric and brave, really showing us what this actress is capable of. Freeway pretty much starts off as something serious, but it becomes a twisted sort of comedy, where you're guaranteed quit a few laughs, mainly by Witherspoon. But there's a dramatic and ugly side to the movie as well. Reese lives with her junkie whore mother (Plummer) and her stepfather (Michael T Weiss), the more impressive out of the two here. They're a dysfunctional family, and you can pretty much guess what the stepfather does, regarding the daughter, Reese, great eye candy. With only option, when facing another incarceration in a foster home, after her folks f..k up, she flees from her Social worker (a familiar face) and soon meets a nice guy stranger (Sutherland) who happens to be a notorious nutter who's disposing of young girl's bodies. Although it's a very addictive watch, what I got off Freeway, I think was a shortness of story, or more to the point, it really didn't know what kind of film it wanted to be. Nonetheless, twisted films are great fun, and actually if you look more at this as a comedy, you might be rewarded more. There's a couple of trashy, if really stupid moments, that will have you in unbelief, Sutherland's new contorted jaw, among many. He is great, showing another evil side to him, after his preceding performance in An Eye For An Eye. Watch him in close ups. He's hairy, scary. All performances are good, where some just happened to really impress me. But this films for many a taste, but I recommend you should see it, just once, for it twisted colony. Opening song and and animated sequence, I didn't expect, was cool. "},{"Title":"Contemporary Journey Towards Womanhood Through Life","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film is a retelling of Little Red Riding Hood. It features interesting early direction and is co-authored and co-produced by Oliver Stone. Excellent acting and muted chemistry is provided by the two leads, the adept, self assured and self effacing, actress of my generation, Reese Witherspoon, and the strongly quiet, suitable and fitting Keifer Sutherland. The sparks were reminiscent of Connery and Bannen in Lumet's The Offence. They are also backed up by a good supporting cast. The film portrays the journey of a teenage girl to see her grandmother, along the freeway, through the woods, as a journey towards womanhood, as a journey through life. The micro in the macro. The objective is to resist the wild(e) temptation of adult intimacy and sexual encounter. Vanessa shows heightened knowledge of sexual language and simply explains to Bob his threat of sexual intercourse with her whilst drugged, brutalized or dead. She is, through the sociopathic and psychopathic Bob, shown another's desire for sexual encounter with her.She plays with and bastardizes her boundaries towards the end by promoting herself as a prostitute only to find a victim to rob and also possibly as a therapeutic method of getting revenge on the customers who are involved in the hiring and tainting of her mother.Ultimately both the evil murderer Bob and the growing, girl, Vanessa develop antisocial attitudes. With hope it can be viewed unlikely that Vanessa's will continue into her adult life, all things, including her post-story social care, going well, and Bob is killed.Vanessa's and Bob's relationship is immature and antagonistic involving damage to hair, name calling and insulting each others mothers. The restaurant scene; her at 15 with him, an adult of an age almost socially acceptable and normal to be her father. Vanessa invites empathy in a prison scene at night, sat high on her low prison bunk like a South American mummified king. In calm contemplation she shows ingenuous use of her body while wearing a figure accentuating top contrasting to her previous clothes. She is fulfilling her inheritance to become an adult woman.The soundtrack's strings are similar to Argento's classic, atmospheric Suspiria soundtrack. It is filmed well and the shot where the black Policeman finds the lock of hair is pleasant to view. A piece of bad editing is evident leading to the wife's easy-to-find-gun-in-a-bathroom suicide. A rare lumpy brain shot is shown. Bob is provided with a displacing voice box  la Scream and Alias when in picture. The star building vehicleness of the film notes to Clueless, as does Brittany Murphy's inclusion in the cast.The film ends on a break in their chaotic lives, Vanessa smoking, relieved and the Police officers, their wanted suspect dead.The magicness of Bob's survival, and other writer&/director's clues show a view of this story as Vanessa's pre-natal to old age journey, including bearing child. This is a very interesting film but still quite rough in its visualization.A mountainous duality of chariactured, or farsical in Reese's words, comedy and grave crime and debasement. Her incestous, abusive step-father laughs like a sly, evil, hyena, albeit a human intoxicated on methamphetamines, whilst being driven away again into the criminal system by the Police. Bob's psychotic smile is displayed as he nears his kill. Vanessa herself accompanied by her friend frolically prances away in her jail break after they assault and cut their female and male guards. She announces maskedly that she hasn't lost her smile whilst wrongly imprisoned even after her paradoxical accusers give a strong TV interview against her.True to being a journey film, the film is intricate in its content yet the heroine ends in a similar situation to how she started, although, the audience is shown, she has found a smile.--- by Jerome, computer coder, author, and voter of 1,000 films. "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"26 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I think that Freeway was an innovative film and showcased Reese Witherspoon in a role not yet seen by her before. Since it had been one of her first films and quite frankly the first time I had seen the actress before, it was a good story line and made you perhaps look differently at the perception of people. For example, even though she was from a really screwed up family situation the girl (Reese Whitherspoons character) was street smart and took matters into her own hands. Even when people explain themselves or their actions in a different way it does not make them any less intelligent. They are just a product of their environment but that person may not take on the traits expected from their environment. "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Very entertaining riff on Little Red Riding Hood.Filled with ink black humor, grotesque violence and anchored by a magnificent performance by Witherspoon, this film is never once boring.Even when director Bright just lets the camera rest on the actors it's compelling; Kiefer Sutherland's initial conversation with Witherspoon is intense as hell because of the set up, because we know some things and so we read a lot into any little thing, not really because what's going on in the scene itself (wow, he touched her shoulder)... quite an impressive directorial trick. Doesn't really lead to any great revelations, nor does it ever seem to be as interested in saying something important as it is in saying something naughty... but who cares when the ride rocks as much as it does?Highly recommended if you like films filled with blood and rocking Danny Elfman music. "},{"Title":"Don't take rides from strangers...","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Truculent 16-year-old Vanessa Lutz (Reese Witherspoon) handcuffs her social worker's hand to a bed after the police arrest Vanessa's mother and stepfather for drug possesion and solicitation. Vanessa then makes her way to her grandmother's house in Stockton, California when she meets a seemingly pleasant man Bob Wolverton (Kiefer Sutherland) on the highway while having car trouble. Vanessa is unaware of the fact that Bob is in fact a serial rapist/killer preying on young women. Vanessa manages to use his own perverse tactics against him. After beating him to a pulp, she is arrested and sent to a juvenile detention center where there's lots of violence (including a very bloody catfight) and lesbianism.Overall, a very lurid, vulgar, explicit rendition of Little Red Riding Hood...Reese was insane, in a good way! One of the best independent films of the 90s. "},{"Title":"Freeway - ****1/2 stars (out of five)","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Freeway, the 1996 thriller starring Kiefer Sutherland and Reese Witherspoon is a very provocative and intense film.  Witherspoon stars as the troubled Vanessa Lutz, who after her mother and stepfather are both arrested for drugs, runs away to her grandmother's house.  En route, she meets Bob Wolverton (Sutherland), a child psychiatrist who talks to Vanessa and she tells him many of her deepest secrets.  Unbeknownst to her, Bob is actually the notorious I-5 Killer, who has murdered several young women up and down the freeway that he's picked up.  This film is not so much a thriller as it is a grim portrait of American mass media.  Freeway fits more or less into the category of films like Kalifornia and Natural Born Killers that are hell-bent on satirizing mass media and feeding our growing obsession with serial killers. It seems that the whole world is against Vanessa when her court case begins.  As a news watcher, who are you more likely to believe - a foul-mouthed trailor trash hooker-to-be or a now facially-paralyzed school psychiatrist that the girl claims to be a mass murderer?  That's the one thing I did not like about this movie, as it could have turned into one of those O.J. trials that's on every news channel on television.  (This was done in greater detail in The Cable Guy which was also released in 1996.)  In this process, it could not only prove to us our fascination with high-profile murder cases, but it could have showed us everything that is wrong with our culture, just as Natural Born Killers aimed to do.   "},{"Title":"twisted","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  You are in for a blast, be it good or bad when you watch this movie.  This is a twisted version of little red riding hood the is quite graphic, foul, and morbidly funny.  Sutherland is always good when playing a creepy guy, and I would have never of guessed the Witherspoon would play trailer trash so well.  Fun stuff, but not for the weak of heart.  Look for Brooke Shields, and an early role from Brittany Murphy. "},{"Title":"A lot better than I thought it would be!!!","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the kind of movie that you find and you dont know what to expect.  I found it  to be very entertaining, trashy, but entertaining.  Kiefer Sutherland gives a great  performance has the big bad wolf up until he gets disfigured.  This is probly the  best movie Reese Witherspoon has been in, not counting American Psycho.  It's way  over the top, but it works.  I would recommend it only to certain kinds of movie  goers, definately not for the faint of heart.  *** out of ****. "},{"Title":"Bravo Reese","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is a must see if you are a Reese Witherspoon fan. Sheplays this part wonderfully as an uneducated low-class girlgrowing  up in a very chaotic household.  Reese won someinternational awards for her acting in this film.  A must see if careabout how the low-class can live in the streets of USA. The DVDhas the director/writer audio commentary on it. "}{"Title":"Now this is the kind of cr@p I like!!!!","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie has all of the elements that make a great B-movie. It's got violence, lesbianism, a jailbreak and Keifer Sutherland. It's got the same really black comedy that you find in Natural Born Killers. It's a modern retelling of Little Red Riding Hood.  I think Reese Witherspoon was wonderful as the semi-literate teen in search of her grandmother's trailer. In fact, I thought that the actors were all wonderful. Excellent late night cinema.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly great!","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you saw Legally Blonde and hurled, then this movie should bring you back to liking Reese Witherspoon.  Her acting in this movie is uncanny!  She plays this crazy blonde that doesn't really mean to be bad, at least that what she claims!  Either way, this is a very funny movie with vulgar jokes, especially when it comes to the women's lockup! "},{"Title":"Witherspoon's best.....","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  With uppety, cheerful flicks like Legally Blonde and Alabama, Freeway enraptures Reese's capablity of a 3 dimensional actress, full throttle.  Vanessa the 15 year old she plays is so real and vulgure and captivating, the audience cannot help to hate and love her.  Freeway is to me one of the best movies of the 90's, with a clever script and a marvelous cast, Freeway resembles cult faves like Pulp Fiction.  It doesn't sugar-coat.  Awesome movie. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining with a wicked, lovable Reece Witherspoon","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was at times scary, at times suspenseful and, most often, darkly funny.  Great villainous turn from Kilmer, the big bad wolf in this modern, very much not for kiddies take on Little Red Riding Hood.  But this is Witherspoon's movie, and she delivers big time.  Attractive, witty, tough, resourceful, pouty, cunning, she is just amazing here.  The look on her face in the last scene is priceless.  This movie actually had me feeling pretty good when it was over, contrary to at least one sentiment I have seen expressed here.   "},{"Title":" I'll give you a ride","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Reese Witherspoon is delightful as Vanessa in this voluptuous suspense farce. The supporting cast is fantastic. The costumes are preppy. One of the good movies in the genre, Freeway will engross the viewer in a passionate frenzy. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A SNICKERING, CAUSTIC BLACK COMEDY","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This twisted take on Little Red Riding Hood takes us to its creepy heart and makes us cringe even as it makes us laugh. Playing her role straight, Reese Witherspoon--who I could see was good and was going to make it--is the fearless and clueless teenager hitchhiking to her grandmother's house in Stockton,CA(!) Both she and Kiefer Sutherland do excellent jobs. What I liked best about this movie was how closely it skirted the boundary of tastelessness and managed to make me laugh after I forced yourself not to look away. It also made me notice Mr. Sutherland for the 1st time in a long time.   "},{"Title":"genius","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I loved this movie!!!!!! The superb acting, and the fantastic dialogue make it impossible to dislike. The underlying analogy of Little Red Riding Hood is obvious, but very well done. I loved Reese's character and her seemingly unremourseful attitude towards a depraved pervert, which could make anyone laugh. Brittany Murphy was funny too. I suggest this movie for anyone who likes dark comedy. 8/10 "},{"Title":"A Darker Shade Of Black","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Freeway is one of the sickest, most twisted black comedies ever made. Luckily, it's also one of the funniest. After the slow opening ends the film gradually becomes funnier and funnier right up to the last scene which features a man trapped in the boot of a car, a pensioner being shot in the chest, a naked dead granny, and Keifer Sutherland in a dress. It's probably better if you actually see it.There's been a lot of films made recently that update classics, not least the Baz Luhrmann remake of Romeo and Juliet. Freeway is a remake of that other literature classic, Little Red Riding Hood. It complies to the usual formula of these remakes - set it in the modern world, throw a lot of guns in etc - but at the same time manages to throw in some jokes about deformity and mental instability. Really, it is better than it sounds.Reese Witherspoon is excellent, Keifer Sutherland is less excellent, everyone else does their job. The girl goes to her grandma's, she meets the wolf along the way, the wolf takes the grandma's place, but Little Red Riding Hood wins out. It's such an ordinary story, but it's done in an extraordinary way that uses the car crash principle of being really gross to keep you watching. If you like sick, twisted movies, or awesomely black comedies, or combinations of the two, then Freeway is a must. "},{"Title":"Familiar Story, Familiar Faces; Strange Movie","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Freeway is one of those odd movies that comes along when the Director and/or writers cannot decide what it is that they are actually trying to do. More than an allegory, the film makes rather obvious (and often clumsy) allusions to the tale of Little Red Riding Hood beginning with the animated opening credits, lest anyone miss the point.  Midway through the story, however, the movie switches genres into the Wild Women in Prison category, before lurching back to the fairy-tale mandated conclusion at Grandma's.  It's surprisingly quite violent and bloody, and deals with some discomforting topics, but amazingly enough, it's not all that bad of a movie. Reese Witherspoon, in what was apparently her first major movie role (this was made in 1996) plays the Red Riding Hood character, with an interesting twist; she is forced to go to Grandma's when her own junkie-prostitute mother, and overly friendly stepfather are hauled off to the pokey.  On the way she is picked after her own car breaks down on the freeway up by Keifer Sutherland (who was billed as the star) whose character's name is Bob Wolverton.  Enough said there. The movie is made more interesting by some of the other familiar faces which show up along the way.  The two detectives on the hunt for the Freeway Murderer are played by the fellow who played Alicia Silverstone's father in Clueless (among other things) and the guy who played the Black Marine Sergeant Dawson defended by Tom Cruise in A Few Good Men.  An unrecognizably chubby and brunette Brittany Murphy (who also had a small part in Clueless appears as a lesbian inmate at the women's prison who takes an interest in Reese. Reese, playing a foulmouthed delinquent and part-time teen hooker is very different from the America's Sweetheart she now portrays.  She is shown to be fierce and resourceful, as well as violent, when necessary. Her very strong Southern accent (very out of place in the Los Angeles setting of the story) betrays her native Tennessee upbringing, and her early years before voice coaching; (although an off hand reference to Texas in the film attempts to address this issue).  Brooke Shields is not horrible as Keifer's unknowing wife. It's a harsh film about some harsh issues, but it's also worth a look. "},{"Title":"Sexo!  Muy Bueno!","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I love love love this movie, if only to watch Ms. Sweet Home Alabama stand on a street corner in the barrio wearing a short skirt, baby tee, and high heels, saying in the most white trash spanish accent you can imagine, Sexo!  Sexo!  Muy bueno!  Tu Quieres!  Sexo!  Priceless.  "}{"Title":"Interestingly unique","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've just finished watching this movie and I must say I am very surprised at it. It's one of those movies which some people will love and others will hate, but I personally really enjoyed it. It's not your typical easy to watch film, and has some very dramatic scenes. Sometimes I couldn't tell whether it was supposed to be serious or funny. On the whole though I enjoyed watching it and found it rather entertaining. It gets a 7/10 in my book ;) "},{"Title":"Wonderful, simply wonderful!","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Freeway is one of the best exploitation films in recent years. It stands out as a quick reminder of why I became so fascinated with these films to begin with, and what intelligent, important work that can actually be achieved within the genre. Mark my words, In another five years it will considered one of the finest video cult-classics of the 90s.The film is described as a retelling of that old molestation tale Little Red Riding Hood - and, great as the movie, that's pretty much all it does. What I liked about the movie though is that the filmmakers not only retold the story in a more adult way, but they also modernised it and changed the characters and plot to something that actually tells us something of our times and its problems. Something Hollywood would't touch. Little Red Riding Hood (wonderfully portrayed by Reese Witherspoon) is a bad girl trying to make it in a rotten world, and the wolf (Keither Sotherland in his only part i've liked - probably because he gets it so hard in the end) is a psycho serial killer with a taste for young girls. One thing that the film makes clear from the very first frame is that there is a sex-war going on between men and women. A war in which the freethinking, sexual and non-submissive young woman of the lower class are on the bottom of societys food chain. It could be argued that Freeway was intended as a morale-booster to these, often looked at as bad, girls. If that was the case I would support it all the way - just thinking of how insane young girls are treated in our society (that whole virginity-thing for example, or the fact that rapist can get away with it if the victim wore short skirt!) makes it clear that more films like Freeway are needed. You don't have to take the film so serious though, it's a fun, campy and tough film any way you watch it.Also check out Freeway II, which is like Freeway I on acid. It doesn't really work (that whole goat-thing sure came out of nowhere...), but is fun viewing anyway. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie on tv and was expecting a b-grade slasher-type movie they show late nights, but I was surprised how good it was. I have not seen much of Reese Witherspoon but I must say that this must be her most powerful performance ever. She was remarkable in this movie and played the poor troubled teen to perfection. Never overacting , she portrayed the character brilliantly , subdued and sad at times and exploding and violent at times.The movie is a beautiful modern take on the Little Red Riding Hood story. Kiefer Sutherland plays the wicked wolf and is creepy and funny. Recommended viewing if you're looking for something different than the harry potters and rings.  "},{"Title":"Reese Witherspoon saves this bizarre film.","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  'Freeway' is weird, very weird.  We all know that.  The script is semi-interesting but really goes downhill as the movie progresses.  Reese Witherspoon saves this film and is about the only entertaining thing to come out of it.The modern version of Little Red Riding Hood sure has changed a lot from the fairy tale version.  Whoa!  'Freeway' is basically a slow moving picture in which the cast saves it from going straight down the toilet.  The writing is boring but somehow amusing.  As much as I'd like to say that it was terribly written, I can't because it did make my laugh a whole lot.Reese Witherspoon is one of my most favorite actresses.  I'm glad that the casting directors and all, cast her in this role, which seems so unlike her (now anyway).  Being that this was her first major role in a motion picture, I was very much impressed with how she slipped into the character of Vanessa so smoothly, producing a wonderful performance.  Witherspoon is no doubt the best thing about 'Freeway'.  Kiefer Sutherland is not an actor that I'm too fond of.  I don't think that he was right for this film.  It just seemed as if he didn't want to do the project at all.  He could have been better but he could have been worse.  Who else?  Dan Hedaya has a very minor role, which is okay.  Brittany Murphy also pops up once or twice.  I guess I would have liked to have seen more of her.  Brooke Shields was alright, I suppose.  She was a little on the annoying side though.  I have to say it once more  Witherspoon is fantastic.'Freeway' is a movie that would be good to see one night (probably if there isn't anything else on).  It's a very weird but comical film that fails at times but does a pretty good job of entertaining at others.  I'm not crazy about it, but I'd see it again.      "},{"Title":"Very interesting!","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I found this movie to be very interesting.  The movie really made me think. I love Reese Witherspoon, and thought that she added so much more to this movie.  The movie can be gruesome to some.  It allows those who don't get to experience a life of poverty, drugs, and sex and chance to glimpse into the darker side of that life.  This movie may be made to be funny, but I saw no humor in this movie.  I believe this movie tackles a lot of issues that teens face in all parts of America.  I give this movie 2 thumbs up! "},{"Title":"twisted to put it mildly, but also hilariously funny","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Was a refreshing movie outside the norm, there is no reason for some of the things Vanessa does and yes some of the material covered is taboo, but the movie more than makes up for it in what Vanessa does to Bob and the consequent effects of that action. I found the acting and chemistry between Vanessa, Bob, and the two detectives was good. If you are not offended often while watching TV or movies and like to laugh watch this. Probably would not have rented it if I had seen it in the store but nothing else was on at the time and the description was interesting, a great treat for a movie I had no expectations from.  8.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Crazy Road Trip","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This flick is a perfect image of a dark comedy. All though it shows mass gore, death and violence&#133;it's funny as hell. This movie has Reese Witherspoon (CRUEL INTENTIONS) & Kiefer Sutherland (LOST BOYS) in a film that pushes comedy to a new level. It is good to see Witherspoon in something else than `Legally Blonde' it shows she has something beside romance in here. Sutherland with make you believe one thing but you never tell the truth. The dialog is awesome along with the original story make it a good film to catch.I give it *** out of ****  "},{"Title":"You gonna sex me now?","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  All I can figure is that the title turned off the people who should have seen this movie, and attracted people who were looking for a maintenance dose between Speed and Speed 2.  Freeway is so bloody twisted, it'll take you WEEKS to recover.  The script is the biggest collection of quotable lines since Repo Man.  Reese Witherspoon ascends into heaven, as a True Goddess of Bent Cinema.  And there hasn't been a supporting cast this tight, right down to the guy giving Chopper the finger, since Office Space.I don't care what you've got in your collection, if you haven't got this it'll be the biggest addition since you discovered `Freaked.'  Speaking of which, Brooke Shields is ALSO in Freeway, and just like in Freeway, gives you one less reason to hate her like bone cancer.  (Did she always have a lisp, or did she work that up for the movie?)Memo to whoever's got the rights get me a shirt with the picture of Reese Witherspoon sticking her tongue out that Dan Hedaya shows Kiefer Sutherland, and I'll order six, XXXL.    "},{"Title":"Streetsmart victim vs necrophiliac serial killer vs misunderstood cop vs junkie parents","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ultra contemporary, ultra hip Red Riding Hood nightmare. I foundthis film violent and uninhibited, generalised in its expression of the drugs, prostitution and poverty cycles in a slummy westernsociety. Reese Witherspoon plays Vanessa Lutz, tossed from one abusivefoster home to another as her mother and stepfather go in and outof jail. A true 'non-victim' of her background, Vanessa isheadstrong and feircely aggressive, but also intelligent andpractical. It is probably because of this that she comes out on topin the intense and fiery confrontation with the manipulativehomocidal freeway killer, Bob (Keifer Sutherland). The acting is superb, Reese Witherspoon in particular gives aneerily good performance as a streetsmart illiterate.  One of Oliver Stones more contemporary films, it might be easy todismiss Freeway as just another senseless action. However, itscharacter development and interactions are far superior in theworld of American movies.   "},{"Title":"Life is a Highway and on it, nothing is free (possible Spoiler)","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Vanessa is a girl trying to live her life. She tries hard in school, feels concern for her mother, and keeps the relationship with her fiancee strong and supportive. But, she is distrustful of and fed up with the legal system. Her parents are once again hauled off after the cops raid their residence and Vanessa is about to shack up in another foster home. Fat chance. She steals a car and fleas for her Grandma's house after kissing her love goodbye. Unfortunately, the car breaks down and a stranger offers her a ride. After befriending Vanessa, the stranger turns out to be the notorious I-5 killer, who she remembers seeing on the news. After a struggle, she is able to shoot him numerous times, steal his money, and get to safety. She is then arrested and charged as an adult with an attempted murder after the killer survives her shower of bullets, though grossly disfigured. Vanessa must prove her innocence or perish in prison.A great rebel flick in the style of a very grim Little Red Riding Hood, this film delivers the goods. Shocking and very funny. Intelligent despite it's juvenile subject matter, with interesting characters and perfect disposal of the uninteresting ones. It pushes past liberating women, and through an invincible female lead, liberates all characters who are oppressed and alienated by forces that may be weaker than they appear.The opening credits sequence play like a twisted reminder of the days of RUTHLESS PEOPLE and MANNEQUIN, with excellently demented music by the obscurely eclectic exultant of the film score, Danny Elfman. "}{"Title":"Great movie with great plot","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When this movie first started out I thought it was going to be some horror movie about werewolves or something since how the opening credits had the creepy music and the scary little cartoon. But when the movie started out I could tell this movie was completely different.I realized throughout the first hour of the film that it wasn't no horror and it wasn't no mystery... it was a dramatic, crime-type film which had a strong plot and a strong reason.But overall I give this movie a ten out of ten because you dont come across a movie that has a strange plot and is still a good movie. I also give this movie a ten-out-of-ten because the actors were great. I would definetly recommend this film to watch because it is extremely great!!!! "},{"Title":"not the average witherspoon","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was great.  I was just flipping through channels when I came upon this movie.  I usually change it when I see people like Reece Witherspoon on screen, but when I saw she was this white trash ex hooker, I had to see where the movie was going.  I think the movie wouldn't have been as impressive if the actors weren't playing such odd rolls.  I loved how cooky yet serious it was.  The whole little red riding hood implications was very funny.  I would recommend watching this movie. "},{"Title":"What an interesting little movie","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I had not heard of this film until I saw a preview for it when I rented another one of Reese's movies. While I will not say it was the best movie I have ever seen it was far from the worst. Reese is a fine actress who plays this woman to the hilt. In an age where the masses are pacified with $200 million special effects, and no substance, it was nice to see a film that was made with $3 million and with some style. I also think that Brittany Murphy is another actress who does not get enough credit for her work. I gave this film a 7/10 for keeping me interested, and for the new twist on Little Red Riding Hood.  "},{"Title":"Great Film! Largely Unrecognized!","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Don't try to read too much into this action-thriller. This movie is fun, interesting, and definitely worth seeing. It's the best thing Kiefer Sutherland has done in quite some time(remember that 'film' he did called Flatliners?). Reese Witherspoon is fantastic... better than Sutherland and, so far, the best thing she's done too. "},{"Title":"Positively twisted, but in a good way!","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is sick, violent, and disturbing...however, the acting is good and the story is woven around a little red riding hood theme. It is very well done, but not for the meek or for a family night video. Lots of foul language and violence, but I still give it a 10. Great performances from Kiefer Sutherland and Reese Witherspoon.   "},{"Title":"Seeya Big Bad Wolf!","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I never tire of watching this movie but it's not because I can relate to the characters. There's something sick and twisted about all of them, as well as the fascination for this film that comes after watching 15-20 times with your friends. Reese Witherspoon leans heavily on her Nashville roots to perfect Vanessa Lutz, a gun toting, ass whipping tornado of bravado and charm hell bent on retribution. You  need to watch this one more than once for full effect 9/10. "},{"Title":"Uneven indy film.","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film about a teenage girl from a broken home who leaves to find her Grandmother and gets, to put it mildly, sidetracked along the way has good performances, an interesting story and good direction and the overall results being a not bad film. However, the film is a amalgam of comedy, juvenile delinquency movie, social commentary, slasher picture, and a on the road movie. While all these elements are okay on their own, director/writter Bright doesn't seem able to meld them into an entirely acceptable whole.  "},{"Title":"A Great Black Comedy... but so much more!","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Wow! This movie rocked!  There was more sex, violence, prostitution, drug use and other things that your mother always taught you not to do than you could shake a stick at.  But that's not all! Reese Witherspoon and Kiefer Sutherland had great performances.The mom and step-dad were a trip! "},{"Title":"At first I thought Witherspoon was a hooker on the cover.","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It was unbelievable that a 11 year old would see this movie. I was that 11 year old and in theaters. I told my dad it was about red riding hood and was about life on the freeway. I was wrong and glad. Since then I am pure violence to death. Witherspoons best ever. I thought then well she and sutherland were gonna have sex in the car. Wrong again. She ended up you know............ Blowing his brains out. I like it for what it brought and i thought freeway 2 was a sequal that should not have been made.  8.6/10 "},{"Title":"An excellent movie","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is so funny and surprising that you will see it over and over again.Kiefer Sutherland and Reese Witherspoon plays their roles excellent in this very violent black comedy I think this role was almost made for Reese Witherspoon,because I can not think of any other person who can play that cool teenager role the way she does. The movie has some really shocking scenes that goes against all values and rules in society,but that is one of the things that makes it great. The movie starts out like any other thriller and then it takes a whole new direction.The movie keeps on shocking you and nothing turns out the way you thought.Just see the damm movie,you will not be disappointed.9 out of 10.  "}{"Title":"Freeway","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I taped freeway off film four in the uk recently not knowing anything about it.I expected it to be a dark violent drama but i was wrong, DEAD WRONG! It started off as a serious drama but ended up as a black comedy. It was very funny is some places.The thing that shocked me a bit was the strong sexual language but there is not much of it. The violence is over the top but it doesn't ruin the film.I very enjoyed the film and would recommend the film to some people.OVER ALL 9/10 because it was funny and stylish. "},{"Title":"Hilarious Gore Fest","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Reese Witherspoon rules in this hilarious bloody gore fest. When I first saw Reese was in Pleasentville. Her part wasn't very good and I thought she was just ok. Then my sister popped Freeway in the VCR and WOW!! Reese is terrific! Now I am a BIG fan of hers.The only way I can describe this film is that it is as bloody and violent as Goodfellas and as funny as Something About Mary. Don't take it seriously, just enjoy how 'way out there' it is. Once you rent it, you'll want it for your collection.   "},{"Title":"Little Red Riding Hood on crack!","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"   Vanessa Lutz (Reese Witherspoon) comes home from school only to find her prostitute mother and seedy stepdad get arrested for drug and child endangerment charges. She would much rather leave then get put with another family, so she chains the probation officer (Conchatta Ferrell) to her bed and makes a run for it. The irony comes in, right before she enters the freeway, of the brief encounter with her gang member boyfriend which turns into a sacrifice. (won't say what happens.) When her car breaks down on the freeway, she's picked up by a clean-cut counselor (Kiefer Sutherland) for troubled kids who is actually a rabid serial killer just warned about on the news. What we didn't know before is that Vanessa is much smarter than you imagined (not the blonde hick portrayed at the begining) and more insane than the monster who she gets into a warpath with throughout the rest of the movie. Executive-produced by Oliver Stone, the film has a John-Waterish look to it for the acting, campy sets, gratuitous violence and sexual inuendos. But unlike anything Waters' has done, Freeway takes it easy on the shock value and comes off more as a dark, fascinating satire of the urban human condition. Highly recommended.  "},{"Title":"A great movie, not a one to miss.","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was truly surprised that this movie was so funny. I thought that it would be meaningless blood and guts. I thought that the scene at the gas station was hilarious!Right after Reese Witherspoons character cuts the guard, he says that she didn't have to kill him, and she snaps that she didn't. The twins were also very funny.  The scene where they are standing over the injured guard. Ooh he's all bloody, do still think he's cute? I hope to see more of Monica and Leanna Creel "},{"Title":"Reese Witherspoon is absolutely phenomenal","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I think that a story taking the Little Red Riding Hood plot and transforming it into a modern pop-culture noir is a great idea. Freeway is very well done in some areas, but sometimes it bites off more than it can chew. The sex and violence becomes a little overwhelming. HOWEVER, I became a great fan of Reese Witherspoon after seeing this movie. Her complex performance, full of brains and wit, is one of the most outrageous characters that I have ever seen. She's always funny and cute, and at the same time, trash-talking cops and fighting off killers. Witherspoon gives the role everything she's got; she is completely unafraid to do anything, thereby making her performance one of the most honest characters ever in a movie. Even if you're turned off by the violence, see it for Reese. She is one of the greatest young actresses ever to come out of Hollywood.  "},{"Title":"A very funny movie","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Hands down one of the funniest movies I've ever seen.  Reese Witherspoon is fantastic.  One of the best performances I've ever seen, in any movie. She makes the movie, although the supporting cast especially Amanda Plummer as the mother (she's only there for one scene, but it's memorable) is very good.  The subject matter is dark, and there's plenty of violence, but the movie is just hysterical. "},{"Title":"Greatest movie.","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This dark comedy is one of the greatest I have ever seen. The movie was outragous. Reese Witherspoon did a great job as Lutz. The fact that the main character was not a sweet innocent little child was excellent. The whole little red riding hood theme was kind of cool too. I really enjoyed this movie and I think every one should see it. "},{"Title":"Fun, Violent","Date":"15 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Freeway is both gruesome and--to the right audience--hilarious. Reese Witherspoon gives a powerhouse performance as Vanessa Lutz, a sort-of sweet girl from the wrong side of the tracks, who, on a dime, can become a ruthless killer when necessity presents itself. Kiefer Sutherland is equally good, giving as greasy a performance as ever was of a smooth, unctuous predator. Witherspoon is Cassandra-like; sure, she tries to execute Sutherland, shooting him in the neck and face, and twice in the back...but no one listens to her when she tells them he's the serial killer they're all looking for. And she doesn't particularly care. Captured, accused, she lashes out at everyone. She is prosecuted, while Sutherland is presented in the media as a victim. Witherspoon taunts the now terribly-disfigured Sutherland hilariously in court--Hey chipmunk-face!--convincing everyone that she is an unpenitent sociopath.Violence becomes Witherspoon's means of survival, and she isn't squeamish. In jail, she fashions a makeshift knife by melting plastic wrap around a toothbrush, melting it, and then sharpening the plastic. With this, she slashes a guard during an outing. The guard cries, You didn't have to kill me! Vanessa snarls, I didn't! and off she goes.If you can't stomach extreme violence, skip this one.  "},{"Title":"Reese Witherspoon is Wonderful","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There's one reason to see this film -- to see Reese Witherspoon's delightful comic performance. The film is a good black comedy that I would recomend to anyone, particular anyone cynical, but Reese's performance makes the film. As she's shown in Election, she is an extremely talented comedienne. She creates caricatures, yes, but what caricatures! Her line readings are just so awesome at times! Once I got over the grotesqueness of a black comedy about a serial killer preying on women and got into the swing of things (because of Reese and her terric performance), I just laughed and laughed. I want to see more Reese films! "},{"Title":"Little Reese Riding Hood","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I saw the movie 'Fear' with Reese Witherspoon, I hated her.  She was too goody-goody. Then Freeway comes along and she blew me away.  Her character is absolutely hilarious.  This movie sort of rides the Pulp Fiction wave, but the white-trash fairy tale story and all the cool cameos really keep it entertaining.  I've seen this movie several times and it always delivers.  If you like twisted humour, you'll be repeating quotes from this movie for years to come.   "}{"Title":"violent but fabulous","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  this movie was hard to watch at times, but it was riveting, forceful, and brilliant.  the acting and writing are superb.  it's hard to believe the film and actors did not get oscar nominations. all the film needed was philip seymour hoffman in the cast!! "},{"Title":"Witherspoon is quite impressive...","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Very briefly, I liked the movie OK, but it was Reese Witherspoon's performance as an intelligent-but-trashy abused runaway teen hooker that really impressed me.  Also I liked the guy from TV's The Pretender as Larry the crack-smoking step dad.     "},{"Title":"Not for everyone","Date":"2 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Joe Lieberman would probably claim that &#145;Freeway' is one of those grotesque and brutal films Hollywood should be ashamed of. Fans of Reese Witherspoon will enjoy her performance here as an illiterate Texan living in Southern California but this 90's  version of Little Red Riding Hood lacks true substance. My guess would be that it was inspired by &#145;Natural Born Killers'. It attempts to shock the viewer with themes of child molestation, serial killing, gory violence and twisted one-liners from the stars. While many  people might be offended by this film, I though it was kind of amusing. "},{"Title":"Black Comedy At Its Finest","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is incredibly raunchy and incredibly FUN! What a brilliant take on an age old tale. Not for the faint mind you this classic has been contemporized into the modern day decay of inner city America. The characters, acting and direction are all great. A MUST see.10/10 "},{"Title":"Awesome movie","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was quite a surprise as I was expecting a rather dull video.  This was anything but.  The characters in this movie do not act in predictable ways, which is a big selling point for me.  From what I've seen, Reese Witherspoon really likes challenging herself; all her roles are fresh and unique in their own way.  So far, I have enjoyed 100% of Reese Witherspoon movies - this is a phenominal actress.  "},{"Title":"An Off the Wall Film","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If Quentin Tarantino were to have written Little Red Ridding Hood, Freeway is probably what you would get. Reese Witherspoon plays Vanessa, the modern Red Ridding Hood, who is the type of girl you would see on Jerry Springer (as the film begins she is struggling to read the sentence The cat drinks milk). Kiefer Sutherland plays Bob Wolverton, the big bad wolf.After her mother and stepfather are taken to jail for being just too darn sleazy, Vanessa handcuffs her social worker to her bed and steals her car to go to her grandma's trailer. She isn't sure if her grandma is going to accept her with open arms, after all, her mother did throw acid in her face. When her car breaks down on the freeway she is picked up by the seemingly nice Bob. 	Bob at first seems to be generally concerned about Vanessa, but this is Kiefer Sutherland we're talking about here. We know that it's just a matter of time before he attacks her and he does.  Up too this point I thought I knew where this movie was going, but the result of Bob's attempt to murder Vanessa sends the movie into an entirely different direction. A modern Red Ridding Hood would have to be a force to be reckoned with, especially if she came from a poor white trash background. There are more big bad wolves these days then there were in Grimm's time. What's good about Freeway is how it has all the elements of the fairy tale but it's crossed with a satire of true crime stories. I especially liked the way the actors stayed completely in reality even when faced with the most absurd situations. Kiefer Sutherland is stuck with an odd grimace for the second half of the movies and he also has to smoke through his throat. Reese Witherspoon encounters such events as coming home from school to see her mom outside their motel room turning tricks, getting told to respect her stepfather because he spent all day standing in line getting rent vouchers, and later a female inmate in a juvenile detention center tries to make out with her. And both actors maintain believability throughout. If you are a fan of over the top humor then Freeway is definitely one for you to watch.  "},{"Title":"One of the best movies","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Let me start by saying that I love this movie.  When I first saw it (before I was old enough too), I had only read a single review in the paper, and it was short.  I did not know too much about it.  So, now 5-6 more times later (I need to buy the thing) I know alot about it, and still find it clever, creative and amusing.This is a trash movie to the max which is too clever for its own good.  Of course this is a parody.  It is definately over-the-top, but depending on your tolerance level, it never goes too far.  (The sequel tried to offend, went too far, made it seem like they were trying to offend, and just bored).  The script is clever, with a sign for the start of the movie (Freeway entrance) the middle of the movie (just pull over bob) and the end (I think that's our exit).  Also, after her boyfriend, Chopper is killed there is a sign next to the freeway entrance sign that says no motorcycles allowed.  Also, the basket, and the name Bob Wolverton were nice touches.The plot is great, I mean who doesn't know Little Red Riding Hood, yet the movie comes up with surprises.  And, nothing is taken seriously.  It is sure to offend people, but to those of us who are hardly offended (attack those who should know better, or deal better) this is a great movie.  Not for all tastes, a must see for those that fit.  This is indeed one of the funniest dark comedies ever made.  The performances are just this side of brilliant.  With others talents they could have gone into the world of too fake, or too real trashing the whole movie.  This was just the fine border making everything seem cartoonish.  So, check it out.10/10The sequel shows how hard it is to duplicate this kind of movie. "},{"Title":"A Great Movie. Reese Witherspoon is excellent!","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Freeway is a modern-day version of Little Red Riding Hood. Reese Witherspoon is absolutely excellent, and this is a definite must-see for her fans, and everyone else, too. It's extremely funny and insightful. Freeway is one of the best movies I've seen in a while, very refreshing. "},{"Title":"A darkly, comic tale.","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The multi-talented Reese Witherspoon gives her all in this lewd comedy. All I can say is it's great, in a perverse sort of way. It's basically a very twisted take on the Little Red Riding Hood story, featuring Little Red (Reese Witherspoon), the wolf (Keifer Sutherland), the grandmother (Kitty Fox, looking a lot like Jerri Blank's father in Strangers With Candy), and even Little Red's basket. My rating 9 "},{"Title":"Going to Nana's house...","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Oh my god. Words can not describe exactly how much I love this film. I saw it for the first time last night, luckily I taped it, and I watched it again three times today.In the beginning we are introduced a bunch of character, although only one of them will remain in the picture. That is, of course Vanessa, played by Reese Witherspoon (Election, Pleasantville), who is so adorable I could just lay down and die. Then there's her mother, played by Amanda Plummer (God's Army, Pulp Fiction), her stepfather Michael T. Weiss (The Pretender, Days Of Our Lives) and her boyfriend Bookem Woodbine (The Rock, The Big Hit). Who all do a great job, although they only appear in the movie for one or two scenes each. This is one reason I love Freeway so much the supporting actors. We also bump in to two of my personal favorites, Alanna Ubach (Clockwatchers, Denise Calls Up), and Brittany Murphy (Clueless, Girl, Interrupted). The latter being absolutely flawless as a smack-abusing, paint-sniffing, lesbian weirdo. Plus, they're both really hot. Which is not a disadvantage in any way. And don't forget to watch out for Susan Barnes, the queen of cameos, as Mrs. Cullins.Later on, enter Kiefer Sutherland as Bob Wolverton, a wolf in sheepish clothing. Since this is, sort of, a version of Little Red Riding Hood, you need one of those. I used to like Kiefer quite a bit, but then I was unfortunate enough to watch Frankie The Fly, and that was that. Mankind has seldom witnessed a performance which lacked so extensively in presence, credibility, and not to mention talent. But he actually does a good job here. There is hope after all.And also Watch Reese Witherspoon as she walks to the car with the basket in her hand, right after handcuffing the social service woman to the bed. She looks EXACTLY like Little Red Riding Hood did in the cartoon she and her stepfather were watching earlier. Very nice little detail there.So, finally, all I can say is if you haven't seen this film, do something about it. If you don't, you'll regret it. "}{"Title":"A towering performance by Reese Witherspoon","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If she never again acted, she would still have a legacy with this film (provided enough people actually see it). Of course, as we know, she has gone on to give other great performances (Election, Cruel Intentions), but this is definitely the jewel her crown. I had never heard of her before I stumbled upon this gem (it actually played in a real theater here in San Francisco for several months) and was simply blown away. She somehow takes a cartoon-like character and makes her into a multi-dimensional person that you care about and sympathize with. All of her scenes are priceless, especially her scenes with Keifer Sutherland as the big bad wolf (this is a Little Red Riding parable, after all). If you have not seen this film, please go do yourself a favor and rent it asap. (There is violent content for those who are sensitive to it) It is truly a dark comic masterpiece! "},{"Title":"Raunch to the max!!!","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It`s a B movie, but what a B movie!! This movie has enough verbal carnage and just plain far out stuff in it that I had to watch it about 3 times!! I mean it`s better than any Jerry Springer show. First I must say Reese Witherspoon was great in this movie and played a big part in the review value of this film (which I think will someday be a cult classic) I don`t think any other girl could have played the naughty yet very nice and sexy Vanessa Lutz as good as she does!! The part that made this film entertaining is watching the life of a BAD GIRL type played by Witherspoon. I don`t want to make Sutherland and Shields feel left out of this review but Vanessa Lutz steals the show!! Anyway this is the most I have ever written about a B movie so check this movie out and you`ll find out why, This is not the kind of movie you watch with your mother!! keep in mind my rating is based on how good the movie actually is over a long period of time not how good it is as a cult classic (4 stars). Rating (best of five stars) 2. "},{"Title":"Once upon a time...","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Dark comedy with quirky characters...COMPLETELY entertaining. While decidedly not for everyone, this retelling or rather revamping of Little Red Riding Hood is almost as depressing as it is uplifting. Does that make any sense? Maybe not, but still well worth your time to see Reese Witherspoon play poor white trash so convincingly.Warning This fairy tale is NOT for children. "},{"Title":"quirky, unpredictable, and trashy. a great film!","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  this has to be one the weirdest and unpredictable excercises in trash i've ever seen.   and i loved every minute of it.basically a white trash variation on Little Red Riding Hood with the cute Reese WitherSpoon playing L.R.R.H. and kiefer sutherland playing the wolf role. it's set in Los Angeles and the main plot element is a killer murdering young girls on a strecth of freeway, which is where the movie gets it's title from.this is one of those movies that just when you think you can predict where it's going, it takes a turn that is surprising and logical. the acting is top notch yet they find the perfect balance in their roles. Freeway could have easily slid into the realm of parody but the superb directing/writing of Matthew Wright keeps it on it's proper course.some of my friends who watched this with me hated this film and couldn't see how i could praise it so highly. that goes to show that it's not for everyone and at times it is VERY violent.if you want to see something genuinely different that will keep you guessing and entertained throughout, i highly recommend this definitive cult film.FYI-(the so called sequel Freeway 2confessions of a trick baby has absolutely nothing to do with the original and nothing to do with freeways either! it's also not as good.)rating9 "},{"Title":"The anarchist's book of moral virtues","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This glorious comic retelling of Little Red Riding Hood strips away polite society's version of morality and builds a robust alternative universe on the streets that is just as virtuous and a lot more demanding.  Reese Witherspoon plays an illiterate state-raised teenager with a Ph.D. in street smarts.  Her nemesis, Kiefer Sutherland, plays a university-educated pillar of society with a few hidden bad habits.  Their lives intersect on the road to grandma's house and a no-holds-barred contest between two remorseless antagonists takes off from there.Nothing is soft-pedaled in this film.  Child abuse, vicious fights, and murder all take place in an environment where they appear commonplace.  Every character is drawn with an eye towards basic humanity rather than good or bad.  Vanessa Lutz knows the system as well as the folks running it.  Anyone feeling smug or superior to her is usually in for a rude awakening.  The only virtues lauded are that no one has a right to treat another badly without repercussions and that respectability is in the eye of the beholder.The acting in this film is terrific.  Both Reese Witherspoon and Kiefer Sutherland give insightful performances and the supporting performances are generally low-key and believable.  The comedy is in the contrast between real life on the streets and the middle-class bureaucratic dreamland portrayed on the evening news.  Witherspoon's Vanessa Lutz has a long juvenile record including theft arson prostitution and attempted murder, but comes across as openhearted and innocent.  She had to use a lot of empathy and intelligence to make her character as interesting and as full-bodied as she was.  "},{"Title":"A Gritty slutting Red Riding Hood.","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Reese Witherspoon plays Red, a messed up teenager trying to visit her grandmother. On the way she picks a ride,with a teacher, that turns out to be a modern Wolf on young girl. I enjoyed the telling of what happens when society doesn't believe you, and you are accused of a crime you had to commit. I was also surprised to see Brooke Shields in this movie. "},{"Title":"Reese Witherspoon's brilliance shines in this black comedy","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Freeway showcases a remarkably affecting performance by Reese Witherspoon, who plays Little Red Riding Hood in this modern day allegory (she goes so far as to carry a red basket in one scene).  It is a dead-on portrayal of the travails of a juvenile criminal, and the film is brave enough to ask us to accept Witherspoon's Vanessa without apologizing for her behavior. Freeway succeeds as the thriller it was advertised as, but upon closer inspection, viewers will find a strong dose of black comedy to go along with a scathing indictment of dysfunctional adults, and their roles in the wayward lifestyles that youths often adopt.  Freeway is a small gem which was unjustly overlooked for cinematic release in 1996, and is a must for the new legions of Reese Witherspoon fans.  I became one of her biggest after seeing this film.     "},{"Title":"Never underestimate a white-trash girl with a gun.","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie starts slow, so you might be tempted to shut it off in the first 10 minutes if you lack the virtue of patience. Once Vanessa meets Keifer Sutherland's character, the movie kicks into gear and stays there.Not for the faint of heart. "},{"Title":"A Savage Little Slice Of Satire","Date":"11 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Definitely not for everyone, this Little-Red-Riding-Hood-Gone-To-Hell movie is destined to be a great favorite with the cult flick crowd, of which I proudly proclaim myself a member. Bloody, fairly shocking and rivaling Trainspotting for sheer number of cuss words per minute, Freeway is a trashy delight, its closest cinematic cousin probably being The Doom Generation. Reese is terrific. I won't spoil one of the funniest scenes in the movie, but I now die laughing every time I hear a televangelist ask Do you accept Jesus Christ as your lord and personal savior?  "},{"Title":"You will either love it or hate it...","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A movie you will either love or hate; no shades of grey here...Great script, but Witherspoon's brilliant and riveting performance is what powers it.  (Picture someone like, say, Liv Tyler in the lead role and you can see what an acting tour-de-force Reese Witherspoon accomplished; just about any other actress her age would have bludgeoned the role.)Even Brooke Shields is almost good, playing someone who seems curiously like.herself!  "}{"Title":"Very fast paced non-stop action thriller","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Free Way was one of the best action movies I've ever seen, I don't usually go for action movies because they are all the same but this one stood out, and stood out well.  Reese Witherspoon played a fantastic part as the poor girl with real life problems.  This movie was very violent and not exactly appropriate for most kids, but it's the best thriller I've ever seen in my entire life.  Even though some of the scenes are rather violent most people can handle it.  This movie will keep you on the edge of your seat as Reese is in the back of your mind ) "},{"Title":"Reese Witherspoon is phenomenal!","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Because of the violence and vulgarity, this is a hard movie to watch. On the surface, it looks like one of those movies I would hate. But Reese Witherspoon is just so amazing as an actor, that I really like this movie. Her character is so funny. Brittany Murphy's part was also a nice little surprise. Seeing her in Freeway makes me think her talent was wasted in Clueless.  "},{"Title":"Amazingly Enjoyable.","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am shocked that it wasn't a hit movie. Totally shocked.I'm very glad I watched it before I forgot to watch it forever. It, I feel, is one of the best movies ever I watched. Reese Witherspoon and Kiefer Sutherland were so funny together. I got a chuckle out of Vanessa's reaction and mocking at Bob in the courtroom. The plot was well-written and the consequences were perfect and truly funny.Witherspoon did a fabulous job, portraying a 90's version of a little red riding hood with a rad attitude. Sutherland as Bob Wolverton was a total psychopath, which did a good job. He creeped me out. The supporting cast of Murphy, Shields, Plummer, Weiss and Hedaya were not too bad.Freeway is an original, devilish, and funny movie, which surprised me. It deserved to be watched by a bigger audience. "},{"Title":"fascinating drama, fascinating performance","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is really a fascinating critical comedy about 90's little red riding hood who used herself might to kill the wolf.   With Witherspoon's talented performance and the elaborately-made funny plot the film gave me great enjoyment.The  red riding hood, Vanessa, is far more pitiful than in the fairy tale a mess family, suddenly deprivation of parents, being caught by a sick killer and the cops in turn, unjustly judged by the law ... This low IQ girl is so innocent and so easy to be played in the palm of that f***ng sick psychiatrist, that really had made me feeling worried. But she is not a weak lamb waiting for the wolf to eat, she is more like a beautiful female kight who hate the wicked people so much, fight  with them so bravely, never give up and always win surprisingly and smartly. I am fond of this characater very much. She is seemingly a rather mad girl, but actually not. In the all, she is a kindhearted girl, with a true love to her black boyfriend, a sincere friendship with her prison mates(what perhaps is amazing is that she even be so helpful to admit the lesbian girl to hug and kiss her) and cheerful nature to face all the difficulties and mock the bad persons joyfully(I had felt sorry that I-5 was still alive first, but then when I saw the plot of the court  I found that her mock is a more powerful penalty than death to him).And the other role the wolf, I think, is not just simply the person called Wolverton who use his special knowledges to manipulate and play other people's thinking and emotion.  It also, in a way, include all the unreasonable things prevent the innocent girl back to her grandmother, like the foster home, the court and the prison which didn't fulfill the justice, and the two detectives who first didn't care about her at all and just wanted to make use of her for the case, and who didn't do any real investgation either just until the black one found the girl's friend was also black. They all somehow hurt the girl on her way to her grandmother. And all these things that reflect flaws of the society make this film thoughtful.This is the first film of Reese Witherspoon I saw.  Though at first her countenace really made me feeling a little weird, but after that, I had found I was naturally captived more and more deeply by the role's fascinating personality and Witherspoon's wonderful performance. And when she wearing that pink garment interviewed with that two detectives, her impressive beauty had conquered me thoroughly and made me a fan of her.In fact this is also the only movie of her I saw. Because of the rigid movie censorship of our country(I am a Chinese student of Jilin Univeresity in People's Republic of China). We can see only a few films of Hollywood. But this film really is my favorate one. I hope to see more films of my favoratest staress Reese Witherspoon and wish her being better and better on her performance skills, and also wish her having more and more fans all over the world. And I also hope all of you to contact me(certainly including Reese herself,  Hey! Don't remember you have a Chinese fan if you saw this).ALL THE FANS OF REESE WITHERSPOON IN THE WORLD, ORGANIZED!!! "},{"Title":"excellent!","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  you have to be not sick, but open-minded to love this movie.  it was more than funny, vanessa is someone you'll find yourself quoting again and again. her independence and lack of empathy makes her the no nonsense kind of character appreciated these days.  a tip though*  the later you watch it, the funnier it is.   "},{"Title":"Amazingly well written with extraordinary acting!","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I started watching this movie at 230 at night and wouldn't go to bed until it was over.I loved it!It seems to me that there really aren't enough movies like this where the main character isn't perfect.I felt that all the acting was amazing (it's fun to see how many actors/actresses you can recognize in this one because there're a lot).The main character is greatly written.When I saw it I found it extremely hard not to feel bad for her no matter what happened.She has one of those horrible lives that you can't help but feel bad about.Great movie which you should definitely see!! "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The best word to describe this movie is hilarious. It is a modern day version of the fairytale little red riding hood gone bad. Real bad. Reese Witherspoon does an excellent job of portraying the lead character Vanessa, who is a juvenile delinquent with a memorable personality. Kiefer Sutherland did a good job of playing the madman, and Amanda Plummer was really funny as the drug-addict whore mother of Vanessa. The dialogue in this movie is incredibly amusing and you will want to see it many times. The only flaw of the movie was the casting of Brooke Shields as the madman's naive wife. The cast was so great, why downplay it by adding her pathetic excuse for acting talent? I rate it a 9/10.  "},{"Title":"GREAT!","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I loved this movie! Everything about it is great! Great cast, great plot. It's not like all those commercial movies you see at your local theatre! "},{"Title":"dark, funny, cruel, great!","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Great movie... Reese (what a cool chick!) makes Vanessa immensely likeable despite her shortcomings, and Kiefer makes Bob disarmingly horrifying. You truly sympathize with her and want her to kick ass, which she does. Brooke is good for a few dark-humor chuckles too. The whole thing was great, the Red Riding Hood connection was nifty. This is worth watching more than once. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully demented!","Date":"17 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is going to make Reese Witherspoon a star. In a few years when she looks back at her early works, she'll have nothing to be ashamed of in this little film. The director, Matthew Bright was able to push all of his actors to the limit. This was important because he doesn't give much screen time to any of them except Witherspoon. All the performances were outstanding. Even Brooke Shields was great as the prissy princess wife of Keifer Sutherland.It's a graphic movie and quickly paced. And well worth the video rental fee. "}{"Title":"A Fantastic Dark Comedy","Date":"7 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is a true gem. Its skillful updating of a classic fairytale provides a shockingly dark,yet undeniably funny story. The feelings that this movie evokes are a rather unique blend of amusement and disgust that makes it irresistible. Reese Witherspoon does a wonderful job creating a protagonist that, regardless of her shortcomings, is easy to sympathize with. "},{"Title":"Thoroughly enjoyable - for a dark comedy","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is one of those off-beat, hidden treasures you're lucky to run into. In the same sort of macabre way as The Last Supper, it's both terribly funny and terribly frightening. I found the first 20 minutes or so very difficult to watch - these are lowlife characters NOBODY would want to know - but once Vanessa Lutz takes control in Bob Wolverton's vehicle, it never turns back. Reese Witherspoon was a tour-de-force as the luckless Vanessa. I've recommended this movie to anyone who can stomach the rough patches. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest films I've seen!!!","Date":"27 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've never laughed so hard in my life.  The story was original and dark.  The characters were so mean and wicked that you had to love them.  I especially found  the court room scene when Venessa finally sees the damage that she's done to poor ole' Bob.  A movie destined to become one of the great cult movies of the 90's. "},{"Title":"Excellent - watch it again and again!","Date":"4 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Behind the cover of blood, drugs and swearing, this film is an excellent rendition of an old fairy tale and probably the best re-make of said tale since The Company of Wolves.  It's definitely a film to be in your collection and watched again and again - there's always something you miss (like the name of the cafe Reese W. goes to after she's done the dirty to Kiefer).  Well made, lots of unexpected twists and even Brooke Shields managed to look less than wooden.  Brilliant. "},{"Title":"Great fairy tale!","Date":"28 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Great comedy. One of those movies that you have to watch twice. Kinda like the first time I saw BARFLY. After the film finished I thought to myself  that was one of the funniest films I've seen in a while. The only problem with the film is the opening credits. I don't think they should have alluded to the the Little Red Riding Hood motif.  "},{"Title":"Weird!!!!!!!","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is, without a doubt, one of the weirdest, strangest, most f***ed-up flms I have ever seen.  The elements of this movie all amounts to trashy fun.  I loved it!  I have grown a new respect for Reese Witherspoon for her extreme versatility.  The court scene when she ridicules Kiefer Sutherland's character was her all-time greatest performance.  This film is highly recommended.  One of the best films of 1996! "},{"Title":"A surprisingly gritty and funny film.","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  In the lead role, Reese Witherspoon displays an extraordinary talent I will certainly enjoy watching develop over the coming years.  This film, a dark modernist retelling of the Little Red Riding Hood fable, is exquisitely unflinching as it portrays the differences between characters who act in immoral ways (like Vanessa Lutz) through necessity, and those who act immorally from a position of privilege.  No matter what Vanessa does, she remains far more sympathetic than those who judge her.  The film is graphic, so don't let the fairy tale premise fool you. "},{"Title":"Little Red Riding Hood for the 90's..","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  At first, I thought this movie was going to be stupid. But after watching, I really enjoyed it. It was hip, original and inventive. Characters were great,especially Reese Witherspoon. She even carries a basket to top off the red riding hood idea..Recommended for those who like good characters and a twisted story line. "},{"Title":"An unlikely heroine","Date":"7 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" FREEWAY has always been one of my favorite indies. Long before she became a household name with LEGALLY BLONDE, Reese Witherspoon turned in an extraordinary performance in this darkly humorous semi-fairy tale/road-trip gone bad.Somewhere down around the Mexican border in the SoCal desert live what many people call garbage people, poor white trash who live in sleazy motels, turn tricks for drug money, and raise children that will no doubt learn nothing but how to follow in their parents' footsteps.One such child, Vanessa Lutz (Witherspoon), barely a teenager, has a lot stacked against her. Her mother (Amanda Plummer) is a raging crack-head and hooker, selling herself just a few yards away from the motel. Dad Larry (Michael T. Weiss, totally unrecognizable) is a doper too, and while Mom is out earning the cash, he's molesting young Vanessa.Baby faced Vanessa (Witherspoon has a head shaped almost like Tweety Bird's) has also already been arrested several times herself for arson, vandalism, stealing, and most disturbing of all, prostitution. She cannot read, and is enrolled in a special school with other disadvantaged teens in her neighborhood. One day, just as Vanessa has come home from school, her mother is busted for drugs and prostitution. Mom and Larry are both hauled away quite abruptly, and suddenly Vanessa is faced with the usual grim situation foster care. Unable to stand the thought, she manages to trick her social worker and escape in the family junker, heading to the city of Stockton in northern California, where a grandmother she's never even met might be living. She doesn't get far before the POS gives out, and a good samaritan named Bob Wolverton (Keifer Sutherland) stops to assist her.Indeed a twisted twist on the story of LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD, complete with a big, bad wolf, FREEWAY is filled with wonderful actors, unforgettable characters, disturbing images, foul language, and a very unexpected, unlikely heroine in Vanessa. At first glance, she's what many would wave off as just a regular troubled juvenile delinquent. Illiterate, despoiled, damaged beyond repair, with nothing in her future except drugs, welfare, kids with different daddies, multiple arrests, prison time, and so on. A lost cause with no redeeming qualities at all, but suddenly, face to face with pure evil, Vanessa becomes this hero. She refuses to allow the evil to continue, and in a strange mixture of compassion and absolute certainty that this must be done, makes the difficult decision to execute Mr. Wolverton, the man she once believed was decent and kind.And she completely got me with her prayer afterward. It was unlike anything in any movie I'd ever seen before. This kid who has just made a brutal decision to kill someone kneels down and prays, for forgiveness? For guidance? For something she can't even name? It's indescribable. Suddenly Vanessa Lutz becomes this beautiful soul, and you're rooting for her from that point on.I'm sure many critics and viewers could not look past the unpleasant qualities of this film to see the morality tale being told, but I saw it. To this day, it is my favorite Reese Witherspoon role and film. The incredible cast includes Dan Hedaya and Wolfgang Bodison as two detectives puzzling over the case and seeking the truth, Brooke Shields as a wife in painful denial, and an amusing Alanna Ubach (who later played Witherspoon's cheerleader pal in LEGALLY BLONDE) as a Latina gang-banger/killer Vanessa meets in a juvenile facility.It still gets an A+ from me. "},{"Title":"Very funny - very, very dark","Date":"29 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Wow, I'm glad I finally got around to seeing this movie. It's a deeply felt drama exploring strength through adversity -- not!Actually it's the darkest black comedy I've ever seen that is actually laugh-out-loud funny. None of this gag-based gross-out humor, but honest-to-goodness character based humor. Great comic performances from everyone involved. (Sutherland obviously thinks sucking spit through his teeth makes for menace, but in this movie it totally works, perhaps his best villain role ever!)Not for kids or the faint at heart, but those that enjoy dark humor will love this film. If you're hoping for a horror film, skip it. There is plenty of gore, but it is only used for comic effect, and not the laughing at the slasher film kind of comedy. Don't expect depth or substance -- in the end, this is a feel-good flick for the crowd that drank cosmopolitans while watching COPS.Won't say much more, but if you rent this -- take note of the black cop. One of the funniest minor supporting roles ever! "}{"Title":"Gritty!","Date":"25 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is wild and intense, and it's a ride you'll never forget. Here you have Reese Witherspoon playing Vanessa Lutz, a troublemaker who is on her way to see her grandmother. Unfortunately, she runs into very bad people. Other than the social worker, she catches a ride with a man named Bob Wolverton(Kiefer Sutherland), who is actually a killer and a pervert. Being the tough girl she is, she takes him out. With two detectives hot on the trail, they began to investigate more. Vanessa may have called one of the detectives the N word, she's no racist herself. That detective called her a coal burner meaning she has an Afro-American boyfriend who was later killed in a drive-by. The wife of Bob Wolverton, Mimi(Brooke Shields) demanded justice for her husband's attacker. She later finds out that she's the victim of deception. Rather than facing her own husband, she commits suicide. The ride to grandma's gets more intense, and when the nightmare's over she told the detectives she needed a cigarette. Plenty of drama, acting and a touch of comedy, Freeway is non-stop!4.5 out of 5 stars "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"26 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I loved and still love this movie. I can watch it over and over again. Of course, it's not a multi-layered masterpiece but why should it? It's pure entertainment and it does that job very well. One if Sutherlands' best roles IMO. the story is entertaining from beginning to end and has a good arc. It does however also have some very enjoyable details which make it eligible for re-watching.Definitely a must-see for anyone who can enjoy the deviate films of our times. 10 out of 10 for the movie. PS I'm still waiting for a decent release on DVD here in the Netherlands. But that's probably in vain considering the age of this little gem. "},{"Title":"Sleazy, immoral, completely without redeeming social value - in other words, a trash classic for a new generation!","Date":"22 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Those who complain about Freeway being sleazy and exploitive obviously missed out on the point. Its meant to be trashy, over-the-top, and having the social value of a sewage pipe. However, its also wonderfully entertaining trash thats so extreme in its luridness its impossible to take seriously. Considering the fact the director used to be a member of Oingo Boingo, I'm pretty sure thats how he intended this to be taken. Its a throwback to the glory days of exploitation cinema in the 70s. Its almost surreal seeing such recognizable Hollywood stars in something this sleazy, but its also a lot of fun. This is about as morally degenerate as Hollywood will get, and not since True Romance as there been such as entertaining film of this type.What makes this stick out is that, in addition to the exploitation elements, its a very well made film. The direction by Matthew Bright is cutting edge and quite in your face, leaving little room for subtlety. And with this material, no other style could've worked. The acting is also great. Reese Witherspoon is revelatory as the white trash girl with more smarts than it initially appears. Along with Election and Walk the Line, this is the best performance from an extremely talented actress who often gets stuck with tripe (such as Legally Blond). Kiefer Sutherland is watchable as usual, creating a surprising degree of sympathy for such a psychotic and sickening character. The supporting cast is quite eclectic, made of stars, has-beens, and cult favorites. Freeway is a deliriously trashy ride, a kind of film which I thought wasn't made anymore. (8/10) "},{"Title":"What a Surprise","Date":"27 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Missed viewing this film and I was glad I found it on sale on five dollars and figured if Kiefer Sutherland, ( Bob Wolverton) and Reese Witherspoon, ( Vanessa Lutz) are appearing in this film I have nothing to lose. I was in for a very big surprise, I was completely captivated by the theme of the Big Bad Wolf and Little Red Riding Hood. Vanessa Lutz is a very down to earth young girl who came from the school of hard knocks and as the picture progresses she gets completely out of control but it can be justified. Bob Wolverton is a pervert who loves dirty talk and very young girls he can take advantage of and much more. Mimi Wolverton, (Brooke Shields) is married to the sex nut and has no idea about how sick her husband really is until they open up his shed in the backyard. There is a Big Bad Wolf and a Little Red Riding Hood and also a grandmother which has a great ending. Enjoy "},{"Title":"Unpredictable, live-wire black comedy","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Reese Witherspoon gives an uneven, though commendably colorful and overall bravura performance as an illiterate, white-trash teen in southern California who meets up with the notorious I-5 killer (a brave and game Kiefer Sutherland), resulting in several twists and turns in her ultimate journey to Grandma's house. Low-budget revisionist take on Little Red Riding Hood (!), written and directed by Matthew Bright, is perhaps an overachiever, with an impressive cast of actors frequently at a loss over how broadly to play their scenes. Matthew Bright shows chutzpah, charm and in-your-face bravado as a filmmaker, and he's a talent to watch, however the film is a real question-mark, quirky but shapeless. One watches--amused and entertained--yet unsure how anyone thought this darkly-comic plot would play. The editing is sloppy (particularly at the beginning, and at several key points later on), and frequently Bright shows a penchant for earnestness that is more curious than successful, yet he ultimately delivers a wild and raucous sleeper. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Excellent and Original","Date":"17 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is truly an excellent and original movie that is exceedingly difficult to describe. To say that it's a modern day retelling of Little Red Riding Hood doesn't do it justice. It's twisted to be sure, violent yes, but it's also incredibly funny at times and disturbing at times - often at the same time. While we all know the story since we've heard it a number of times during childhood, you honestly have no idea where this movie is going from one minute to the next. Viewing this movie in light of the subsequent career of Reese Whitherspoon it's obvious that this girl has always been able to act. Kiefer Sutherland is brilliant as well. Brittney Murphy has a nice little role. Honestly, this is a must see movie. It's incredible. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"7 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" It is normally hard to hate a great actor like Kiefer Sutherland... But not in this movie. You actually believe he is evil.. It's a dark underground-ish sort of movie. I loved it! You can't go wrong with future Oscar winner Reese Witherspoon. Michael T. Weiss of Pretender fame was equally great in this movie. The drug content and innocence lost novel plot makes this movie easily one of my top 5. Like most dark and realistic movies it was way under rated by *Critics*. Maybe we should hire more critics that actually watch movies that step outside the box because I don't need a movie to be a billion dollar blockbuster for me to want to see it. All in all, I give this movie a 9. GREAT MOVIE! Run, don't walk to Blockbuster to rent this.. ASAP! "},{"Title":"PERFECT Dark-Comedy...","Date":"6 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" GOD DAMN this is a good film!!! I try to revisit this one once every few months cuz I get such a kick out of it. I honestly can't find a single flaw in this film, and I'm not one to hand out 10's generously...FREEWAY is a f!cked-up retelling of the LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD story - a white-trash teen (played absolutely BRILLIANTLY by a young Reese Witherspoon...) runs away from home (and the law...) when her mother is busted for prostitution. When her car breaks down, a seemingly kind stranger (also portrayed brilliantly by Keifer Sutherland) gives her a lift. The kindly stranger turns out to be not-so-kindly...and the whole film goes to hell from there.FREEWAY is honestly a flawless film. The performances by everyone in the film are absolutely top-notch and dead-on. I'm not even that much of a Reese Witherspoon fan, but she is so perfect in this film that she should have won a f!cking Oscar. She is so lovable as the scrappy, loud-mouth, sh!t talking, dirty-fighting, naive Vanessa Lutz that she radiates from the screen. Sutherland as Wolverton is believable in his dual roles of confidant/psychopath and the interaction between the two is a pleasure to behold. There are cameos and supporting roles played by all sorts of pretty big names, including Brooke Shields, Amanda Plummer, Bokeem Woodbine, Brittany Murphy, Guillermo Diaz, and Dan Hedaya - and they all absolutely shine in their respective parts. All that being said...FREEWAY is not a film for everyone - it is a times shocking, completely un-PC, vulgar, and violent...but all of this is handled with such a truly hilarious dark sense of humor that almost everything that goes on in the film elicits a laugh. Again, this film may not be for everyone, but if you are a sick bastard that can appreciate more subversive cinema...check this one out at all costs!!! Especially since you can find this one in the $5 bin at a lot of stores. One of the best $5 I've ever spent - and honestly one of my all-time favorite films. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED 10/10 "},{"Title":"Superlative film","Date":"11 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Largely overlooked when released in the summer of 1996, this film predated Reese Witherspoon's memorable work in Twilight, Cruel Intentions, and especially Election, by several years. Today, it's a rare and precious commodity; a B-picture that one often cannot find at most rental chains. Freeway is on one hand a definite mid-90s post Pulp Fiction picture; with its heavy SoCal desert ambiance, colorful language, and delirious plot. But on the other hand, it's a film that rose well above the muck of those typically awful films released during that era. Reese is nothing short of extraordinary as Vanessa Lutz. Sort of a young version of Amy Sedaris' Jerri Blank, Vanessa turns tricks, is,in a sense, illiterate, and can kick butt with the best of them. When Mama and step-daddy get pinched by the fuzz, Vanessa hightails it out of there. She runs into Bob Wolverton, played by the first-rate Kiefer Sutherland. Sutherland, a kind of reserved actor like his father, cuts loose here with a wonderfully unrestrained and loopy performance as the wolf. He's all self-conscious psychobabble whose only intent is to lure unsuspecting and trashy girls to their death. Vanessa is no ordinary girl though.Great performances all around. Amanda Plummer and Michael Weiss are terrific as Vanessa's ne'er do well parents. Alanna Ubach, years before she played Serena opposite Reese in the Legally Blonde movies, is perfect as Mesquita. Brittany Murphy is fun as the nymphomanical heroin addict who lusts after Vanessa. Brooke Shields is wonderfully over the top as Bob's patrician wife, and Dan Hedaya is great as the cop who is the only person who supports Vanessa.This is an excellent picture, seek it out!P.S. Looking back, this film fits well into Reese's middle part of her career, after she was a wonderful child actress and prior to her becoming one of Hollywood's leading ladies. She is still a wonder to behold; one of our absolute best actresses. Sadly though it appears that she has kind of gone away from making the truly memorable films she made from 1994-2000. For those few years she had a fearlessness to her that makes one (especially when comparing her career then to her work now) stand up and take notice. This is no Elle Woods or, even Melanie Carmicheal and certainly no Becky Sharpe or Cecily. This is a character who is trailer trash through and through, played by an actress who just didn't give a darn. It's quite remarkable. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Strangely strange. The best B movie I've seen in a long time.I haven't seen a more twisted movie than Serial Mom. Can't wait to buy it and make all of my friends watch it! This will be my new stocking stuffer for 2005! Reese was absolutely Brilliant..strong, innocent, tough, sincere, total hard ass, Her delivery was right on! The more things happen to her, the more you want her to Rambo out on these idiots that get in here way. You start by feeling sad for her, then cheering her on when she holds her own, and kicks some assBriittany Murphy was sadly sweet in a totally whacked out genuine way and Poor Ms Brookes..know u know all that white she was wearing had to be covering up some kind of evil.Thank you for making me laugh my ass off! "}{"Title":"I may be wrong, but this is my favorite movie of all time...","Date":"29 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have sold more people on this movie than I could possibly remember, this is a wonder by Reese Witherspoon, She is just incredible.If you can find a movie with all around better dialog then please let me know, but the script is just wonderful. She should have one an academy award for this movie, (ala, Charlize Theron, in Monster,another amazing performance), but you've got to love the cast all the way around, not to mention the music by Danny Elfman.\Alright, watch it, and trust it, it is wonderful. I just hope Reese takes on another role that is as extreme as this, she certainly has the talent to do it.  "},{"Title":"A serial killer picks the wrong victim.","Date":"19 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've heard this described as a remake of the old children's tale Little Red Riding Hood. Maybe. All the elements of the old classic are here. Reese Witherspoon gives possibly her best film performance as serial killer Kiefer Sutherland's seemingly innocent victim. As the film progresses, Witherspoon's character, Vanessa, becomes ever more violent and unpredictable, while Sutherland's character, Bob the killer, becomes comically pitiful, and almost even sympathetic. The backstory of the film is dark, violent, and depressing, but the film itself is often quite funny. It's the kind of film that makes one laugh out loud, but then look around guiltily to see if anyone heard you. That said, I can't in good conscience rate it higher than a 6, and only because of Witherspoon's and Sutherland's performances. Still, it's not a bad way to spend 102 mins. "},{"Title":"Eight years later, Freeway still shocks!","Date":"31 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  You ever recommend a film to a friend only to have the relationship strained after they take you up on your advice and spend their hard earned monies watching a film that they end up describing as &#145;terrible', &#145;awful' and &#145;tormenting'?This was the case when I recommended 1996's Freeway to a friend.  Now granted, I had not seen the film in eight years, but I had fond memories and I could even remember the Roger Ebert/Gene Siskel show giving the film a recommendation back when movie reviews actually meant something.  So it was therefore without fear that I challenged my friend (let's call him &#145;Jim' to protect the guilty) to rent Freeway after we discussed one day how much we enjoyed films that were two blocks away from norm. Three days later, there was a threatening phone call and a doll looking very much like me with a pin in its back hanging from my mailbox.  I knew at that moment, that maybe I had made a mistake, and I purchased Freeway at the local DVD Warehouse to reacquaint myself with what has now become a friendship speed bump.Freeway stars Reese Witherspoon and Keifer Sutherland in an updated version of the Little Red Riding Hood tale.  Reese plays Vanessa Lutz, a young misguided teenager who sets out to meet her grandmother after police bust her mother and stepfather for drug possession and soliciting.  While on the run from social services, Vanessa meets Bob Wolverton (Sutherland) who offers her a lift after her can breaks down on the high way.Bob comes across as a sweet guy.  A counselor for boys who offers sound advice and really seems to care.  But as we all know in Hollywood, that is too good to be true.  Just when Bob seems to gain the trust of Vanessa, he becomes increasingly agitated and violent.   Vanessa relies on instinct and reaches for a gun given to her by her fianc and shoots Bob.  Four times.As Vanessa goes to juvenile hall awaiting a trial, she finds out that Bob didn't die.  Bob made his way to a local hospital and although saved from the big cloud in the sky, Bob is a hideous self with a deformed face and electronic voice box.The movie then follows Vanessa as she violently escapes from jail and runs to her grandmother's house where Bob is in hiding a la the fairy tale.  So with the police in hot pursuit it becomes a cat and mouse game that explodes with gunfire at a nearby trailer park.So the movie was over, and quite frankly, I liked it even more the second time.  The violence was ever present and the language (the movie was originally NC-17 due to it's explicit dialogue) was like a power drill to the forehead.  No cuss word was left out.  From A to Z, Reese Witherspoon spoke more profanity than in the rest of her filmography combined. Upon my second viewing, I wondered if Reese Witherspoon has ever been challenged as much as writer/director Matthew Bright pushed her here.  She ends up pulling off someone who can be very kind hearted, yet has a temper this side of Hannibal Lector.  Kudos also to Keifer Sutherland who is no stranger to playing the weird unlikable characters.  In Bob Wolverton, he gives us a creature that is so heinous and hideous that you will add this to your memory banks along with The Lost Boys and Stand By Me, whenever someone mentions his name.  I was also reintroduced to actors that I had forgotten contributed to the greatness of this independent.  Dan Hedaya (Cheers), Amanda Plumber (Pulp Fiction), Brittany Murphy (Don't Say A Word) and Brooke Shields are just some of the talent that cross our viewing paths throughout this odyssey. So now that it was over, I wondered where I lost Jim on the road to acceptance.  Was it the time the teenager was describing in detail having oral sex with her stepfather?  Was it the scene when Bob tells her he is going to have sex with her after he kills her?  Maybe it was when Vanessa walks into a local diner covered in Bob's blood or we first see Bob after his attack with one eye gone and his head stuck between four spikes resting on his shoulders.    Who knows?  All I can write is that after viewing Freeway eight years later, I offer no apologies.  The movie is brisk, violent and profane.  I liken it to a Tarantino wet dream, and I would recommend it again no matter what the cost.P.S.  Jim, call me.www.gregsrants.com "},{"Title":"what a good movie...","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Seriously, a great film. I love Reese Witherspoon, she's one of the most talented actresses to come out in the last decade, and she should do more artistic roles, than she has been lately.  Although I won't discredit her in any of the movies she's been in, because she's good in all of them.  However, this might actually have been her best role.  She is so real and good in it, that sometimes you have to remind yourself, she's only acting. Kieffer Sutherland is also phenomenally good...which is such a shock to me, because I never thought of him as being that good an actor.  However, the film is marvelously written, and the cast is just terrific.  There is one scene (as dramatic as the movie is) that is just hilarious and it's the courtroom scene.  If you've seen the movie, you know what I'm talking about. I love this movie and I'm giving it an 8.5 out of 10 (10 being the highest-of course) for great writing, and acting.End of this review. "},{"Title":"Two Words Reese Witherspoon","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is an unusual movie that mirrors the Little Red Riding Hood tale. However, it's worth seeing for Reese Witherspoon's performance. Many of the actors who are publicly lauded are not deserving of their fame. Reese Witherspoon is an absolute powerhouse in this movie. She shows she has tremendous range and can play any character she wants. I look forward to seeing what other performances she has up her sleeve. Kiefer Sutherland is appropriately sleezy. "},{"Title":"Twisted Black Comedy","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Freeway is Reese Witherspoon's greatest role as an actress..Although I respect her choice of doing more Romantic/Family oriented movies because of her daughter,I don't think she realizes how amazing she was in this movie..PLaying foul mouth, hot tempered Vanessa Julia Lutz has become cult classic in my video store as well as among my friends...Greatest lines...Look who got beat with the ugly stick!...I'm gonna shoot you so many times...and of course....Get your GOD Da.. hands off my anatomy!...Reese pulled off this role with humor, insane timing, and extreme quality and presence...I am proud of how well she is doing and hopefullly she will express her thoughts on Freeway in an interview sometime soon...I would love to hear her thoughts... "},{"Title":"I'm in love","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Once again I took a cassette and shoved it in the videoplayer with no glorious expectations whatsoever. Just another boring b-movie, I was thinking, but let's check it out anyway. I'm only losing my time and so on. Sometimes it's nice to be wrong. Freeway was an extremely exciting, impressive, peculiar, entertaining, funny, stylish and well, from the excellent title sequence to the very end a pretty damn good movie in every department. Donald Sutherland's son Kiefer makes a splendid, devoted performance as Bob Wolverton. I have no idea would the film have been even half as good without that lovely goddess called Reese Witherspoon but luckily I don't have to even think about it. She's playing the leading role brilliantly and all I can say is....wow. I'm in love. "},{"Title":"Seriously funny under dangerous exterior","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I will admit I had no particular interest in this movie, apart from appearances from certain actors/actresses in it (Kiefer Sutherland, Michael T. Weiss the Pretender, Brooke Shields, Reese Witherspoon and more) . But as I watched this movie, I liked it a lot.At first I thought it was a B-quality movie, trying to be funny with trash storylines. But I turned out to be wrong. Best is to keep an open mind and simply let this movie surprise you! Keep your popcorn and drinks ready and leave kids out, because it does present quite some violence and abuse (of any kind). Not a boring movie!The main character gets all possible hardness and sh** thrown her way. Almost anything you can think of, this teenager Vanessa has had to deal with.  It becomes nearly unbelievable, but if you really think about it, it isn't that unbelievable at all. This sh** really happens all the time... In stead of becoming pathetic or hateful, this girl takes it all in with a lightness, becomes self-empowered and somehow manages to come out seemingly unharmed. Is this a tribute to girlpower? However unrealistic her reaction may seem, the actress does a great job. Her seemingly untouched and carefree attitude and also the over the top, exaggerated performances of the other actors/actresses gives the movie a lightness and makes all the horrible stuff that actually happens in this movie bearable and even funny. Without loosing its impact.The story is told as a parody on today's society and justice system, it has great actors and actresses. I recommend you go see it, even if it is only because of the great cast. Think about it why would so many good actors/actresses have contributed to this movie if it hadn't some quality to it? Go watch and enjoy!  "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Great great movie, with a twisted demented logic that drives throughout the film. Very rarely have I seen such a collection of unlikable characters in a movie that works this well. Reece Whitherspoon makes her sociopathic character endearing with her animated portrayal, and Kiefer Sutherland gives a slimey performance as a serial killer. You will find yourself laughing, frightened, and disgusted throughout this film. Do Not Miss This One. "},{"Title":"Witherspoon acting showcase","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*Reese Witherspoon hits the freeway to grandma's house. A big bad Wolverton picks up her little red riding scent. Oh no. The trip to grandmas may have to be delayed so Reese can deal with this killer wolf in yuppie's clothing.I was enjoying Freeway while I was watching it. When it ended though, I felt let down. I kept expecting a payoff scene to appear but it never did. I thought Freeway was going to be a B-movie extravaganza with Reese Witherspoon doing her thing as a country girl hooker. Nope. It turns out that Freeway is just an acting showcase for Witherspoon. I was disappointed.It's a shame too because there was a ton of potential here. Technically, this is not a bad flick. You've got killers and hookers and blood and fighting. Killer hookers. Bloody fighting. The acting is strong, especially Witherspoon. It only makes it sting that much harder. The exploitative heart in Freeway is barely beating. For some, that may not be a bad thing. For me, it's heartbreaking.  "}{"Title":"White Trash Red Riding Hood","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Freeway is the story of white trash queen Vanessa Lutz (Reese Witherspoon) and her journey to escape from the hell she is trapped in.Her Mom (Amanda Plummer) is a hooker/druggie, she doesn't know her father but her stepfather (Michael T. Weiss) is an unemployed/druggie who also enjoys molesting the underage Vanessa. This is until this world comes crashing when Mom and Pa get a surprise from the pigs as Vanessa so lovingly calls them.But Vanessa has been here before and foster homes haven't proven to be a great gig. So, she kisses (if you can call it a kiss) her boyfriend (Bokeem Woodbine) good bye and drives off to Stockton, CA.Now, Vanessa is no princess of innocence herself and later on in the movie we discover how far from it she really is. Anyway, on her way her cars dies and is picked up by Bob Wolverton (Kiefer Sutherland). A seemingly nice, gentleman. He works with troubled boys and seems to be seriously concerned with Vanessa. He gets Vanessa to tell him things and open up about the abuse she has suffered. But Bob is interested in more than just her feelings as she soon discovers.We then zig and zag through the twisted misadventures of Vanessa.The writer/director Matthew Bright plays Freeway off as dark comedy. Making some of the most insensitive and immature moments seem funny.The only problem is, is that after a while you get a little tired of the 100+ minute sick joke. As it is really all one long joke.Freeway is a good movie, but it seems to be trying to be Pulp Fiction minus the charisma.The acting is good from most ends. Brooke Shields doesn't do a very good job with her small part. And I thought the detectives were basically worthless except to be a plot tool to end the movie.Freeway has a certain charm for a while but it wares off and Vanessa starts to just become a butthole more than anything.The real star of the movie is Reese Witherspoon, she really does a great job, even if her character can become very annoying. Kiefer Sutherland does a decent job, sometimes he seems too fake for me though.Anyway, a decent movie, 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Camp? This is just horrible farce!","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Okay, I was ready to buy into an updated Little Red Riding Hood, even after they arrested her Mom for prostitution just outside their home and hauled away her step dad for sexually abusing her. So you would think Red this would be streetwise and clever because of this, not a stark raving lunatic who nearly kills a prison mate. Sure the scenes with Kiefer in the car are humorous, but that's all ruined when they turned him into a cartoon figure as well. They're excessive anger was needless and spoiled what should have been a clever movie. And what was up with the black detective getting turned on by Red's criminal past, and why was she now okay because she dated a brother from the 'hood???? I suggest follow the detour signs and avoid this piece of crap at all costs. "},{"Title":"this movie is lame","Date":"7 January 2005","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I know everyone loves Reese Witherspoon but she is by far the most interesting thing about this film, which is dull, violent and uninventive, and even her one trick pony gets old after a while. I don't mind being made uncomfortable by a film but I expect something, anything, in return. This film is a complete clich, and I've seen Kiefer Sutherland play a crazed rapist one too many times now. I love cult movies but this is the lamest and most contrived excuse for a cult film I have seen in a while. Go rent a John Waters movie.I was satisfied with the brevity of this comment, but unfortunately it was not long enough. Now it is.If only the movie makers had had the same discipline. "},{"Title":"Dreadfully Bad!","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"   I saw this film late at night on HBO. This was one of the most dreadful films I have seen! Even for a so-called parody this film is terrible. Extremely poor performances,a script as improbable and tactless as they come, and violence with no reason.Reese Witherspoon is so laughably bad,the accent,the mannerisims and her lack of emotin when a certain relative turns up dead all contributed to my annoyance.  Sutherland,Plummer and Hedaya all give the worst performances of their careers as well. Skip this film and have a labotomy instead! "},{"Title":"Wait... So This Movie Was Released in the West?","Date":"16 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I just saw this movie, and as soon as it started with the bizarre, embarrassingly bad Red Riding Hood opening credits and horrid cheap-sounding soundtrack, I was certain it was some sort of fake knock-off video, especially as someone gave me this copy as sold in Indonesia. The ending credits were really bad and fake-looking as well, so maybe both were replaced in the Indonesian version, not sure, but it also is so bad throughout, perhaps the entire movie was replaced? While watching this, my friends and I were almost certain the actor credits were fake and that it was filmed by a group of amateur film-makers (as it was so utterly badly made - I was certain it was made in Indonesia or other Foreign country and was meant to make fun of the West), until Keifer Sutherland showed up and we were fairly certain it was him. Was this a straight-to-video movie? It was just so badly made and badly acted even for a dark comedy. Just because it is a comedy doesn't mean you have to act as if you are playing around with the script and not saying the lines in any way that makes sense.The acting was so disturbingly over-the-top bad, the accents annoying and ridiculous throughout (sounded mostly like hillbillies from the more isolated areas of Kentucky - yet supposedly was taking place in California), and the actors themselves looking so awful in every way possible (even Brooke Shields looked as if they used CGI to warp her body into something not quite human in that weird sailor outfit - again unless our copy was tampered with), I'm certain this was MEANT to be a farce/comedy, especially with the ludicrous climax regarding the actual Little Red Riding Hood story - which kind of added insult to injury - how could any writer be THAT ridiculous? Obviously it wasn't meant to be crime drama or anything like that, even though the premise suggested it was drama. It does have an overwhelming quickly made television movie and print every first take feel.So it appears that this movie (or a version of it) WAS released in the USA (not sure about here in Australia) after all? I'm still fairly certain our copy was tampered with (especially the ridiculous looking and sounding opening and ending credits - that were in static-ridden Foreign-sounding music and in mono - which wouldn't meet even the lowest standards these days), as nothing could be that badly made and be released. Most of us thought that it was one of those experimental films that was made especially for places like Indonesia and never placed directly in the actors' credits, and which wasn't released elsewhere, but seeing the information on IMDb is quite stunning in its implications about the general populace... Unbelievable. "},{"Title":"Worth watching because of Reese...","Date":"12 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I was rather intrigued to watch it because of the elements taken from the Little Red Riding Hood tale. It was a surprise to watch that whatever the writers/directors took fro the tale are just half the story. Because of the nature of the events and character's dialogs you can clearly watch the hand that Oliver Stone gave to the movie (for better or worse). Maybe I'm being too... demanding?, but I thought some cuts and approaches from the characters were rather abrupt, meaning that either I got to see an adulterated version on cable, or the editor for the picture wasn't the right choice. Freeway is a decent thriller, not because its twists and turns (rather obvious or predictable), but because of its characterizations. "},{"Title":"No way....","Date":"14 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie was good for what it was worth. I mean, when Keiffer made it to the hospital, that was a little bit extreme. But the dialog was good and the characters were interesting. The movie was completely NON REALISTIC. I mean, when they all go to the convenience store and then escape? No way couuld that ever happen. Also, the part where Dan Heydeya and that black dude do the good cop bad cop routine and Reese bangs a chair over his head? That was a little bit much. But the movie was good. Keiffer looked SUPER FUNNY when he went into the courtroom in that wheel chair. Brooke Shield's character was forgettable at best. I would suggeset this movie to folks who are into strange entertaining movies. If you want to see that dude from The Pretender act super over the top, this is the movie for you! "},{"Title":"Its All In the Casting","Date":"2 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a good, diverting movie in the tradition of Natural Born Killers, Wild At Heart, etc.  Witherspoon is good as the resourceful, resigned, trashy teen, Vanessa.  Venessa has an inner strength, belief in God, and unhesitating judgment that you know will see her through.Keifer Sutherland is not quite menacing enough as the wolf.  Amanda Plummer reprises her Pulp Fiction role as a hysterical slutty b*t*h.A real strength of this film, aside from (or due to) Bright's adept direction, is its featured supporting players.  Wolgang Bodison and especially Dan Hedaya give terrific measured performances as the very human police detectives investigating the case.  All too short are appearances by the always real Conchata Ferrell, and the watchable Bokeem Woodbine.  Under the surface this is a disquieting commentary on today's youth all potential and no means of exploiting it; street smart and book dumb.  Vanessa is sharp and intelligent, but cannot read even the simplest of sentences.  The chaotic informality of her classroom tells volumes.Good movie!   "},{"Title":"I stumbled onto this....","Date":"13 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was up one night after studying hard and came across this film. Reese Witherspoon is what drew me in. She was so adorable..and quite the cut throat as well.This up-date of Little Red Riding Hood...works. Everyone is a gem in this film!  Today's realizations of fairy tales are so far from sweet, but the idea is still there and this daring film pulls it off! Kiefer Sutherland's performance was chilling and wonderful. Even the small part Brooke Shields had was on target, she did very well in this. Don't miss this very now version of an old fairy tale. "},{"Title":"Through the woods to grandmother's house we go","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" (Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon.)There are any number of very sick jokes in this, not the least of which is the poor john is still in the trunk (ha!), and the sight of that girl with the...ah, legs from the sixth grade... Matthew Bright, you are one sick puppy! And the plot is at times a farcical burlesque of contrivance (Wolverton as the wolf in grandmother's bed; his resurrection). But no matter. Reese Witherspoon is very funny as Vanessa Lutz, a semi-literate teen who's got a whore for a mother and a lecherous junkie for a stepfather. By the way, Vanessa was faking that she couldn't read The cat drinks the milk in the opening scene just to make fun of the not entirely bright teacher. She's a home girl who can kick Major Buttski along with any celluloid hero, doing here a nice variation of a Bridget Fonda-like La Femme Nikita. She also has some admirable integrity and she's cute.Kiefer Sutherland got way into his role as a child psychologist turned serial killer. The satanic leers and psychopathic drooling on his face as he contemplates his necromantic encounter with Witherspoon was enough to curdle sweet cream. Later when he gets the appliance to hold up half his mouth, displaying buck teeth, Witherspoon calls him a chipmunk, but I thought he looked a little like Stephen Hawking after an injection of protoplasm. And Brooke Shields as his grieving, empty-headed wife was a scream. (And I did like that white skirt!) We are talking creative casting here!Director Matthew Bright takes dead satirical aim at shrinks, prison guards, cops, social workers, judges, teachers, and any other societal cogs he can find and lets Vanessa, representing the under class, choke 'em, gouge 'em, cuff 'em, shot 'em, out smart 'em, and slap 'em across the face. One gets the impression that he was getting even with some people from his early years, which is good, since there's no revenge more satisfying than to trash your tormentors up there on the silver screen for all the world to see.What I didn't like about this comedic romp through the barrios and the freeways and the institutions of SoCal Land was all that blood and nary a bit of skin. What IS it with you, Matthew Bright? You've got nubile Reese Witherspoon and a whole bunch of home girls, and Brooke Shields in that white dress, and you can't score some flesh tones? Are you some kind of prude? "}{"Title":"Ugh","Date":"23 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie on HBO at 330 in the morning. It was one of those movies where I knew it was bad, yet I couldn't stop watching it. Besides, that Reese Weatherspoon is cute  "},{"Title":"Not good, but you will NOT FORGET IT!!!","Date":"8 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" While the movie is far from good, it does have a lot to offer if you feel like spending an hour and forty minutes on acid, in a sewer, up to your knees in diarrhea with people who want to kill you coming after you.What I mean is, the movie is very unpleasant.Everything that goes on throughout the entire film is very upsetting and you're always questioning the characters decisions. Although none of the performances are all that impressive, there is no other chance you will ever get to see Reese Witherspoon as a reckless hillbilly hooker piece of trash, or Kiefer Sutherland as a deformed sexual predator who talks through a creepy voice box.The movie starts slow then all of a sudden blasts off into a fast-paced, nonsensical orgy of destruction. The dialogue is pretty weak overall but there is plenty of memorable violence-fueled sequences to make the ride worth it.If you like movies like Natural Born Killers or The Doom Generation this is right up your alley. If you're into messed up movies in the big picture, add this one to the list to see. "},{"Title":"Loved this one","Date":"23 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" My hub and I are old people ) (even though he's 12 yrs. younger) but we still loved this one. And I've seen Election, thought it was very good but maybe I missed something....Freeway just blows it all away, I think.It's so fun and crazy and over the top in a wild, funny way, like a mental, emotional roller coaster. Not too many films I want to see again but I know I will with this one and I can't imagine anyone but Reese doing this the kind of justice she does. If you haven't seen it and appreciate something really wild and original, check out Freeway. You won't be sorry. "},{"Title":"A Modern Fairytale Paradox In Three Acts","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Freeway is not a thriller like I thought it would be. What it is is a send-up of the legal system and its biases, told sarcastically through a rough outline but very clearly intentional comparison to the story of Little Red Riding Hood. It goes off on tangents when it feels like it's been too long since it's filled its violence quota, but it focuses on its three very different and contrasting acts. The first act involves the Little Red Riding Hood character, in this version an illiterate southern white trash teenager with an impetuous temper and a black gun-dealing boyfriend, and her prostitute mother and her drunk, stoned and incestuous stepfather and the devastating situation caused by the legal system that provokes her to flee with her belongings (that she of course puts in a straw basket with a cloth cover over them) to her grandmother's house. The second act involves the persuasion and dangerous encounter with Bob Wolverton (...Wolverton...almost missed that one), a mild-mannered man who picks her up when her car breaks down and comes off as friendly and protective in that suave college professor sort of way. The third act involves the legal system's naive reaction and stubborn handling of the second act, and of course the strive to get to grandma's trailer home.Reese Witherspoon is actually brilliant in her uneducated but very street-smart and very temperamental role, playing her in the most convincing way you could play a role in a film like this. Kiefer Sutherland, who can play the worst of evils in his sleep, is surprisingly weak through the majority of his screen time, with the immediate exception of the hospital scene.Freeway is one of those movies that's just not found at the top of anybody's favorites list, a movie that's so inextricably what it is that it just could not be improved to a point near perfection, but it's entertaining and it takes you for a ride. "},{"Title":"A dysfunctional family  la Visitor Q.","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This strange, violent film is a disturbing take on the Little Red Riding Hood story. Reese Witherspoon is Vanessa, the daughter of a dysfunctional family  la Visitor Q. The father rapes her, the mother's a whore, both are on drugs, and when they get busted, she flees Child Protection Services and heads for her grandma's. Wherever she goes, trouble seems to be lurking and that's no exception when her car breaks down. Kiefer Sutherland as Bob Wolverton (get it?) stops to help and from here, things really go downhill. Freeway is enjoyable enough as a quirky dark comedy and has developed a minor cult following, though I can't honestly say I really loved it. The cast are all pretty good but Reese's faces and accent are a bit much at times (though sometimes great too). I listened to most of director Matthew Bright's commentary and the guy says a few odd things himself, almost as if he should be one of the characters in his film. Listen for yourself! For you action fans, he also says the rising shot of Reese walking into the trailer park at the end is his homage to Spaghetti Westerns, complete with a screaming theme! "},{"Title":"A comedy?!","Date":"1 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Although this movie doesn't bore, keeps entertaining and moves on quickly, I can't say I really enjoyed it. I'll explain why! (Of course I'll explain! Why else would I write down a review?!) 1) This movie presents itself as a modern retelling of Little Red Riding Hood. Come on, how lame is that. OK, she's dressed in red, the bad guy calls Wolverton (get it, get it? Don't blame me, it's the director with such uninspiring creativity), ... but I wouldn't really call this a modern version of the well known fairytale. Movies like Company Of Wolves and even the japanimation Jin-Roh are, but this one isn't. 2) I'm not really into those nihilistic movies, where everybody seems to be a gangster, hooker, drugs abuser, ... I always have the feeling that the message in these movies is Be a bad guy, if you want to be cool 3) Movies like these (those nihilistic movies) portray shocking things (rape, murder, drugs, ...) in a very neutral way. What's up with that?! Do those directors think I don't want to shock my audience, so let's present it in a neutral way?! That's pretty dangerous. Movies filled with violence must shock, not seem like everyday normality.My conclusion a movie for people who kick on violence and dirty words.  "},{"Title":"Amazingly Addictive","Date":"17 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  My mother recommended that I watch Freeway, as she found it to be oddly shocking and hilarious.  I sat through the entire movie without flinching, and I found none of those things in it.  I found it very strangely addictive.  From that point on, I couldn't resist watching it each and every time it came on cable.  I found Reese Witherspoon's performance wonderful (playing the bad girl which is the absolute opposite of most every other movie she's done).  It was amazing.  Eventually, I got to see the sequal (Freeway II  Confessions of a Trick Baby) and found the same aspects in that as well.  Needless to say, this one should be seen if not just to give you something to scratch your head at. "},{"Title":"It good, but I sort of don't like it.","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I always think Reese Witherspoon is so miscast in this movie, but the truth is she does an decent acting job w/ her role. SPOILERS, I hope it doesn't shoot out your nose... Maybe there are a few things that irk me.. that Mexican girl that Reese beats up, I don't think it would been that easy, I also don't think that she would've won that fight, but my guess is Vanessa is supposed something more like Natasha Lyvonne in the sequel (which is supposed to be worse, but I still have to finish it.) Another scene was finding all those girlie mags in Bob Wolverton's study is too much a moral knock on porn, like that's gonna make someone think he's a serial rapist-killer, I need more twisted violent imagery!! He's a psycho, not a pervert (well, he's a mixture of the two.) Also the fact she's trying to read for someone when she can really read makes me think she prefers mugging horny men rather then seeking what less dangerous professions there are out there. But it is true, that movie has a great supporting cast, plus it's more gritty than most movies tend to be, but I'm still wondering what Vanessa's  character is supposed to be about? You know she can't be going on to great things, and that end really is too far-fetched, I figured someone would realize Grandma's dead. It's a 6.5, entertaining but it still shines it's bad points with me. "},{"Title":"Not a great movie.","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  And I am surprised by the large number of laudatory reviews I have seen for this flick.  How can viewers take this movie or Reese Witherspoon's performance seriously when the screenplay did not?  Did Ms. Witherspoon pull off a performance that her peers would have botched?  She did give a nice performance but who cares? If the movie cared, maybe I would.  Someone who eats a lot of fast food probably thinks Doritos are a nice snack.  Someone who watches a lot of TV would probably love this movie.The movie is about an illiterate girl in a poor LA neighborhood.  She's been abused by her parents, by society and by the system charged with rehabilitating her.  After wacko Bob tries to get kinky, she has her day in court...so to speak (you have to see the scene, it's quite funny).  And that's one of problems.  Are we watching a cartoon action flick like Desperado?  If so, why do we care about Ms. Witherspoon's performance?  A dozen other Hollywood indie chicks would have turned in the same work. Not to mention Christina Ricci, Alicia Siverstone, etc. etc.She goes from stupid (but with a heart of gold), halting killer to hardcore jail bitch who almost beats another inmate to death...who watches a murderof another woman and who fashions a knife in solitary to use it to slash a guard.  And then 5 minutes later the screenplay is trying to get cute again? Please.  The only excuse for this type of plot dyslexia is a) A poor screenplay or b) A parody.  I hope it's the former.  Well, it is obviously the former because murder, minor incest, drug abuse and violence--all portrayed in graphic detail--are not subjects that can be parodied to the extent they appear in Freeway.If Freeway is a parody then we ought not to mind when the movie goes cute--that'd be amusing.  But that's what happens when we as a society become desensitized to the scary bogus s**t that were seeing in our world--lest we might be offended.  I challenge the viewer who thought this movie was great to tell me on what grounds.  Tell me how did they feel the last time they were molested?  Or the last time they took someone's life? Oh, that's never happened?!  Why doesn't that surprise me.If you want funny murders, watch a dark comedy.  If you want a serious molestation flick, rent it.  If you want a gang violence piece, get it. But save this parody crap for a more appropriate time...and clean up the screenplay. "},{"Title":"not as good as a lot of people say","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  the first half of freeway is a thriller, and the second half is a comedy.i really don't know why a lot of people seem to like this movie. i mean it's ok overrated too. it's one of those movies you see on cable in the morning like at 1 or 2,3,and 4 o'clock and it looks like a bad movie. but freeway was ok.i give this movie ** out of *** "}{"Title":"Dreadful!","Date":"10 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There is only one word that describes this film Dreadful. I don't see the point of making this terrible movie, it was meaningless. The story was nothing, it had no substance. It started off bad which meant it could only get better. It didn't. It chose to take the hard way out and took us on an ugly ride. The main character is totally unlikeable. I hated here from the start, she is annoying and bitchy. And when Sutherland came into the scene, it just made things worse. His character was the most awful character ever, even though he was suppose to be mean. He was dreadful. The performance of Sutherland was a heartache. He just proved to me that he isn't worth watching. Reese on the same hand was horrible. What made her sink so low to do this film. I hated this film the only good thing about it was the music by the excellent Danny Elfman.  "},{"Title":"Do yourself a favor - don't watch this.","Date":"16 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have seen very bad movies in my day, but this one has got to top it all. I'm just at a loss for words on how incredibly BAD it is and I honestly don't know how they got such a great actor like Kiefer Sutherland to partake in this disaster piece (I'm guessing he had high bills to pay and no other movies to work on at that time). The movie actually makes SOME sense right until Vanessa thinks she kills Bob Wolverton and leaves him for dead - but it's all downhill from there. The visual and symbolical (and frankly, ridiculous) homages to the original tale like the big red basket, Bob hiding under the sheets in the trailer and her pure innocence at times don't help matters either. And speaking of her innocence, WHAT sense does it make for this young girl to be brought up in such a rough world and be so incredibly naive in some instances? Don't even get me started on the detectives... What's up with the Mike character?If I would've seen this in the theaters, I would've probably asked for my money back. 2 out of 10 stars. One for Kiefer and one for the first shot in the neck which actually sparked some interest - but only to let me down from then on.A pseudo-intellectual/artsy piece of work. Horrible movie.  "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I have ever seen","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Don't be fooled by the implications that this is some sort of Red Ridding Hood for the 90's type of film. Maybee I'm way off base here but I can't get into a movie that is about a middle aged man trying to take advantage of a troubled teenaged, let me say that again, TEENAGED, girl by pretending he is going to save her sanity with his pycological prowless. In case you didn't figure it out yet Sutherland is our big bad wolf. And though I can admit he makes a stuningly great child molestor, I can't thathum why anyone would want to watch him make Witherspoon say she feels like a human urinal after performing oral sex on her step father as a young child. As the movie comes to an end it becomes a little more etertaining and a little less depturbing as she enters a prison for girls. One of the films few humerous moments is seeing Sutherlands overexaggerated wounds as he is recovering from about four or five shots in the back and neck. Amazingly we see Sutherland walk away from the incident, his head might hurt a little in the morning. Overall I'd have to say this movie was entertaining although discusting. So if you're into shock value then this might be one of the best films you've seen in awhile. But as for us normal people I'd have to advise staying away from this movie, it will be a good hour and a half saved.  "},{"Title":"No middle ground?","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's astonishing that anyone could see this movie and not come away feeling tarnished by the experience. Freeway is a steady stream of sordid, sleazy moments calculated to appeal to the crassest, lowest impulses in human nature. It debases anyone with any involvement in it, including the producer, director, actors and actresses and the audience. We in America need to learn how to spell, pronounce and deeply appreciate a word that isn't used much anymore prurience. Movies like this illustrate that, as a nation, we have wildly overcompensated from Puritanism to prurientism. "},{"Title":"Too over the top","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The performances in this movie were too over the top....Im not sure it was supposed to be a dark comedy ..thats just the way it turned out.I must say that Reese Witherspoon was incredible.She has incredible range for such a young actress,not to mention she is gorgeous! The movie was basically a B-movie...thats it! "},{"Title":"Shocking","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I had heard good things about this film, so I was excited to see it. It started off interesting enough, but I hoped it would get better. But it only got worse. So bad I struggled to watch the end of the movie. But I ploughed through this overlong movie and could only think of one word to describe it. SHOCKING! That is in the sense that it did shock me, and I thought it was dreadful. I had liked Reese Witherspoon in a couple of her earlier movies ( Fear, SFW) but this movie seemed to bring her down as well. And Kiefer Sutherland's movies seem to get worse. He used to make good movies now he just chooses badly. Apparently some people do enjoy movies like these, but I wouldn't recommend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"embarrassingly bad","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  One of the worst movies of modern times.  It really is just a waste of time to describe the plot, as it is just horse manure from the beginning.  It wasn't funny at all, it wasn't really effectively dramatic, and it was laughably over the top in the violence/depravity department.  Incredibly, most people seem to enjoy it.  Why?  I have no tap dancing idea.  It is extremely strange why people criticize some movies for being too violent and then watch tripe like this and declare it a guilty pleasure.  Reese Witherspoon, Dan Hedaya and whatever other respectable actors who were in this theatrical train wreck should conspire to have their names removed from it.  I hope those of you that enjoyed it got your money's worth from ogling 15 year old Reese Witherspoon, because that's the only logical explanation I can come up with for why this thing is so well liked; convicted child endangerers must love the darn thing. "},{"Title":"Suggests a better story than it delivers","Date":"21 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Freeway is one of those films that are okay but still manage to be a little disappointing because it's so damned apparent that it could have been much better. It's perfectly clear where the story is going early on, yet it still takes forever to get there. When it finally arrives, writer/director Matthew Bright throws a great left turn into the plot and sets up a potentially fascinating second half of the movie. That never materializes because Bright ignores almost all of the possibilities suggested by his great idea so he can relentlessly focus on a main character who is too impervious to care about.Vanessa Lutz (Reese Witherspoon) is the 15 year old, illiterate spawn of poor white city trash. Her drug addict stepfather (Michael T. Weiss) molests her and her at-best-borderline crazy mother (Amanda Plummer) turns tricks on the street in the parking lot outside the motel room where they all live. When they get arrested, Vanessa tries to flee to the grandmother she's never met. Along the way, she runs into Bob Wolverton (Keifer Sutherland) a counselor for troubled youth who offers her a lift and some help with Vanessa's beyond screwed up life.If I tell you there's a mention at the start of the film of a serial killer targeting young girls in Vanessa's town, can you guess where her and Bob's relationship is headed? That is where it goes, though writer/director Bright waits a long time to get it there and then shamelessly foreshadows it right before it happens, as though anyone watching this movie didn't see it coming. But then he takes what you expect and completely upends it, leaving you without any clue where Freeway is going next but anxious to find out.That feeling doesn't last long because writer/director Bright takes almost all of the interesting directions his story could go and reduces them to comic relief so he can put Vanessa through her paces in an afterschool special that has no moral or message to grow on, unless that moral is bad things also happen to bad people. It's only when Freeway needs an ending that writer/director Bright abruptly picks up some of the potential he's cast aside and tries to cobble together a big finish. I'm not sure the origins of this motion picture, but what it turned out to be was a starring vehicle for the young Reese Witherspoon that went nowhere. Not because she isn't cute as all get out and doesn't do a fine job here. It's because Vanessa dominates the whole show and is a sociopath but unfortunately, she's not one of those intriguing and grandiose sociopaths. She's one of those petty, boring sociopaths who turn up in police stations every day. The movie takes great pains to spell out all the terrible things that were done to Vanessa but none of it seems to have had any effect on her. Vanessa has no depth or inner life and cruises through her horrible existence like a shark looking for the next fat seal to eat.That might not have been a problem if Freeway had become the kind of thriller suggested by writer/director Bright's very clever left turn. In plot dominated tales, it's not always necessary for characters to be relatable or even all that interesting. By essentially becoming a study of a two-dimensional character, though, the film only highlights the lack of connection the viewer can have with Vanessa.Witherspoon is good here, as is Keifer Sutherland and Brooke Shields. Brittany Murphy has an odd role as a scarred paint-huffer and Dan Hedaya and Wolfgang Bodison are fine as two detectives, though the movie can't keep straight which one of them is supposed to be the good cop and which the bad cop.In most respects, Freeway is perfectly acceptable entertainment, with reasonably good writing, directing and acting. I can't shake the feeling that it could easily have been more than that. "},{"Title":"Lurid Red Riding Hood","Date":"19 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" White trash bred Reese Witherspoon (as Vanessa Lutz) loses her whorish mother and crack-head stepfather to the cops. Since she is underage, the social worker comes to take her away; but, Ms. Witherspoon doesn't want foster care. She handcuffs the social worker to a bed, and heads for a California Freeway. Witherspoon wants to go live with her grandmother up North. When her car overheats, she pulls over, and attracts assistance from perverted passerby Kiefer Sutherland (as Bob Wolverton). Mr. Sutherland says he wants to to help little red-jacketed Reese; but, he has ulterior motives&#x85; Writer/director Matthew Bright's version of the Grimm classic Little Red Riding Hood could be described as a crude satire. Sometimes, it is very amusing; especially funny are Witherspoon's reactions to Sutherland. Witherspoon holds the film's interest. There are a dozen entertaining supporting roles. Susan Barnes is a highly pleasing prison matron. And, dysfunctional parents Amanda Plummer (as Ramona) and Michael T. Weiss (as Larry) get things off to a great start. Mr. Weiss, late of Dark Shadows, and on the verge of success with The Pretender, returned for Bright's Hansel and Gretel-themed sequel.****** Freeway (1/96) Matthew Bright ~ Reese Witherspoon, Kiefer Sutherland, Michael T. Weiss, Amanda Plummer "},{"Title":"Subversive satire or just a nihilistic piece of junk?","Date":"9 May 2003","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you're in the mood for a totally cynical, nihilistic, immoral and unredeeming film, then Freeway is right up your alley. Matthew Bright was apparently trying to emulate the success of Tarantino's first two films, but even, say, some of the vicious criminals of Reservoir Dogs had a sense of morality and a trace of humanity - Freeway has none. It also has no point. All the characters are unappealing, and Reese Witherspoon, so believable and natural in the same year's Fear, doesn't have it in her to play a tough girl; she POSES gamely in the role, to be sure, but it's only posing, not acting, and there are times, such as the scene in the car where she's holding a gun and making mean faces, when she's excruciatingly unconvincing.     (*1/2) "}{"Title":"Why did I waste MY time?","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Chalk it up to one of those latenight guilty pleasures..I caught this movie just after it began. I spent the next 2 hours trying to figure out if this was a serious movie or a parody.1) I can't believe the acting was so bad. Reese was great. But everyone else...I'm so embarrassed for them! The Mother (didn't recognize her, so she shouldn't be embarrassed, I guess). Kiefer Sutherland -- who I once thought (guess we all did) that he was brilliant in Lost Boys & other movies from years ago, is now doing SUCH a cheesy movie? How could he stoop so low?  Who talked him into this script!?  Brooke Shields?!  I've never seen her look so bad! At first, couldn't figure out if it was her or an actress who looked a lot like her, because she looked HORRIBLE! Her outfits made her look dowdy, her facial expressions...geez, she didn't look enough like the anal wife she was supposed to portray.2) My high school students could write a better script than that!  PULEEZE!  An illiterate girl who discovers herself so poetically?!  I think not! I was laughing during that car scene w/ Bob.  No illiterate girl would use words like that and not be able to read The cat drinks milk.  By the way, how was she able to read the menu in the restaurant w/ Bob? Trust me, if a kid can't read a sentence like that, they will struggle over a menu -- noticeably.I found nothing redeeming in this movie. I still can't figure out if it was supposed to be a parody or not.  Please tell me it is..  "},{"Title":"This movie was hard to watch.","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I also watched this movie on HBO. I think that it was a pointless movie that tried to hand out a good lesson, That you should work hard to achieve your goals. But was smothered in stupidity. In a nutshell, this is a movie that just made you feel bad.  "},{"Title":"Just horrible","Date":"16 December 2010","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is horrible. I spent the majority of the time holding down the fast forward button on my remote.Reese W. does well despite the horrible film that this is. Keifer S. should just stay retired or go in hiding or wherever he was before this came out.Reese has to regret doing this film.Very predictable, with no plot or storyline that you're average movie buff couldn't come up with. I don't see where this has anything to do with the little red riding hood story. They forced that association onto this film.This is not worth watching at all. The weekend opening gross tells the story. Don't waste your time, or spoil your thoughts that Reese W. is fun to watch on film. "},{"Title":"Almost as bad as the sequel - revels in nasty detail hoping that some audiences will buy it as `different' and `cool' - but Witherspoon does help it","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When her mother is busted for prostitution and her step dad is taken in for drug use and owning an illegal firearm, Vanessa Lutz, decides that she'll be damned if she gets sent to another foster home.  She makes a break for it and heads to her Grandmother's house across state.  On the way her car breaks down and the kindly Bob Wolverton stops and offers her a lift. However, during the journey Bob starts to turn nasty and Vanessa shoots him and leaves him to die.  However, when he survives and makes it to a hospital, Vanessa is arrested and put in a juvenile jail during her trial.Having seen the hideous sequel to this film, I wasn't sure if I wanted to give the director any more of my time.  However, I had heard good things about this film and I decided that I would give it a go - maybe the sequel was a misfire.  However from the start of the film (where we see that Vanessa is about as white trash as they come) right through the lurid sexuality of the film and the cruel and unnecessary violence all through it. The plot is a very, very loose retelling of the Red Riding Hood story (in that Vanessa is trying to go to her grandmother's, oh, and she gets picked up by a guy sort of called `wolf').  However, just like the sequel it is an excuse for a bit of a roll around in a series of lurid interactions that hang together as a basic story.  While it is nowhere near as bad as the sequel, the film does just seem to be more focused on having shocking violence, language and sexuality rather than having an engaging plot, characters or any sense of value other than the appeal of being `different' - and that's why I think people seem to like it.Many comments about the film draw attention to how very different it all it is and how they were gripped by something just so very weird and unusual and I think that Bright was aiming for this very effect.  However to `like' this film simply on the basis that it is `different' would make a fool out of me. When I was a child, I thought that swearing regularly was clever and grown up - however as adults most of us see that it really isn't and we reduce our use of it and we stop trying to `shock' others.  I see this film as being the same principle - it is all about shocking and being as lurid as it can be.  Why Bright was given the chance to do this rubbish once (never mind twice!) is beyond me.  However, unlike the sequel, some of Bright's failings are covered by some reasonable performances that, although they don't make the material `good', certainly stop it being as godawful as it could have been.Witherspoon is good mainly because she is playing against type - it's not her fault that she has zero character to relate to or feel for, but her performance is still a good one.  Likewise Sutherland has nothing to work with but he does do well in the car ride with Witherspoon.  However after we see him for who he is, he spends the rest of the film just being another lurid part in the film's attempt to shock the audience into thinking it is cool.  Hedaya is OK but is hardly in it, Plummer hams up to show how trashy she can play, Woodbine is a cameo and the rest of the cast are all just there to add shock value (Murphy as a cut-up, strung out lesbian - wow, how very cool).Overall, I managed to forget the sequel and I did give this film a fair crack at being something worth my time, but sadly it is almost as bad as the sequel and it is only the slightly better cast and slightly less lurid material that stops it being as awful.  Bright comes across as someone who is still trying to shock his elders and he is mistaken if he thinks that any more than a minority of the audience will look and this and think `cool'. Like it's sequel it is a horrid little film that ignores plot, characters, dialogue, audience involvement and logic and concentrates on just being as lurid as possible. Whether it is violence, language, sexuality or general content, this is a film that wants people to call it a `cult' and say it is `different', `unique' and `cool' where really it is a piece of trash that teenagers will love but most of us will despise. "},{"Title":"Genre Takes a Ride","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.The world of film is large enough to encompass many types of attraction. We might be attracted to a film because of cinematic excitement (`Jurassic Park'), or clever plot twists (`Sixth Sense') or an endearing actor/actress (`Runaway Bride') or notable performance (`Breaking the Waves'). But there is danger when the only reason for a film to exist is in that one attraction. Each of the examples cited is a waste of time as it relies solely on that one hook to charm dollars and attention from us.Many films are a result of this kind of Hollywood engineering. Not only is it the case that everything else that makes for a good film is ignored in such projects, often the reverse is true; the other values are deliberately compromised in order to emphasize the one bankable element. So no Julia Roberts film can EVER be watchable because every useful cinematic device is hijacked so she can earn her twenty plus million through her smile. But these one-track films are easy to spot because they bludgeon us with that one trait.In the case of `Freeway' we have a bludgeon that is at least interesting to discuss. The dynamic here is the bald fact that films are about films, almost never life. That makes them self-reinforcing and over a short period genres emerge. All genre films rely on huge expectations we bring to them; in this way, they can sustain alternative worlds without having to create them from scratch. Genres are the key tool of Hollywood engineers, and one of their engineering techniques is the so-called `genre-bender.'When a clever genre-bending technique appears, they are quick to exploit it as an attractive feature. Often, such a thing comes from fresh kids who aren't already programmed by the institution and in such cases, Hollywood prefers to have the writer direct. After all, directing an ordinary film is simple with all the support one gets and it ensures that a genre-bound director-for-hire doesn't ruin the spirit of the thing. Example `Boondock Saints.' And this.The genre-bending has to be obvious and revealed to us, so that we can marvel at how clever we as viewers are. The bludgeon here is especially thick; it pounds and pounds Red Riding Hood. Superficial selfcritical sexploitation. A Tarantino-like self-aware, self-tweaking version of `Kalifornia.' A supervillain (and justice system) done in by a white trash tart.There's a clear line between films that are tools for life and those that are attractive junk food. This is junk, with many penalties for consumption.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 4 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"I'd give it a minus 10 if I could...","Date":"14 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This was an awful, horrible, stinker of a movie. Bad acting on the part of all involved. Completely RIDICULOUS characters and situations. I felt insulted watching this. When I first turned it on, I thought it might be a spooky stalker style movie, then it just got worse and worse. I thought I was watching a movie written by a bunch of high school people. One thing I can't stand are totally ridiculous scenes that would never come close to happening in real life. I also can't stand clichd moments and fake acting. I thought Reese Witherspoon's character was laughable as were the rest. Do yourself a favor and avoid this piece of junk. "}]