[{"Title":"Great movie, strong plot, good acting.","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"38 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this movie and am at a total loss as to why it scored such a low vote. I guess these days a movie just can't be a big hit unless it has lots of fancy special effects and sex scenes. 'The Juror' has a strong, easy to follow plot and some really great acting; Alec Baldwin's role was terrifyingly real! I'm no fan of Demi Moore, but she played her part very well. And the kid that played her son was equally great -- I remember him from the TV series 'Third Rock from the Sun' and always liked him. To anyone thinking of renting this flick, I say pay no attention to the naysayers and go for it! "},{"Title":"Underrated thriller","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"36 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Alec Baldwin comes on quoting from the Tao Te Ching, making me think he's my kind of anti hero. He's urban, sophisticated and seemingly very safe since he's an art curator, or seems to be. Demi Moore as Annie Laird, a gifted and original sculptor (she sculpts works of art that you feel with your hands by reaching up into them it's all tactile), is thrilled when he offers to buy her work and sell it to the Japanese. Wow. She has arrived as an artist.Thus we have an intriguing and original premise for a thriller. One almost wishes that there weren't this little matter of her agreeing to serve on the jury in the case of a Mafia boss on trial for murder..I will gloss over the excellent, if unlikely, plot since it would be preemptive to reveal any of it, and concentrate on Demi Moore who is gorgeous, strange and riveting.It might seem impossible to give an 'heroic' performance in a thriller, since the point of a thriller is pure entertainment, but this movie manages to look into the nature of good and evil a bit more than most, and Moore plays her part like our dream of a true heroine. Her character has strength and cunning; she's sharp without pretension. I always thought Moore was better than her reputation, but somehow she always seemed a little on the not entirely bright side, the kind of actress who would never presume to play Shakespeare. But now I think she's a 'natural,' like a gifted athlete-I'd almost say an 'animal'-as an actress, which is probably why some people don't like her. She can project the beautiful woman, an ordinary woman, or herself as a matronly woman with just a turn of her head. She can display a wide range of emotions and be, by turns, both a masculine and a feminine entity; but she is not androgynous. The role she plays here is, in a sense, the feminine counterpart of many Harrison Ford roles, the ordinary person elevated to heroic action by compelling circumstances. I would not say that Demi Moore is a great actress, but she is close, and I could be wrong.Alec Baldwin combines megalomania with a seductive cynicism. He fills the screen with his presence like something you can't get rid of. He is so compelling you want to push him away or just give up. And he is charming-evil, but charming.Brian Gibson's direction is unobtrusive and clever, and he pays attention to detail. The script is relatively free of the implausibilities that usually mar the genre, and the editing is crisp without jarring. The story practically transcends the genre by making us feel the evil of violent crime and how it perverts society, the sort of revelation not usually attempted in a thriller. I was especially delighted to see the Mafia demeaned and defeated, even if it's only by a new breed of international criminal. This is a superior thriller.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"Bada-Bing....","Date":"19 June 2011","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" When Annie Laird is selected as a juror in a big Mafia trial, she is forced by someone known as The Teacher to persuade the other jurors to vote not guilty.He threatens to kill her son if she doesn't commit. When the trial is over, he can't let her go...There are two big problems with this movie, they should have trimmed the ending by at least ten minutes, and Baldwin should not have got his motivation from the T-1000.There are times when he is so autonomous, you can almost hear the mechanics grinding in the background, which is a shame, because in the first act, he is really convincing, but when we find out he's the Teacher, it's as if he's expecting the audience to want him go that little more Psychotic.Moore is as good as she always is, convincing as the parent who is worried for her son's well being. But when Baldwin and Moore are on screen together, it just doesn't convince. You do think every now and again that they will get together at the end, but thats only because the fear factor that Baldwin had in the first act vanishes.Gandolfini is great in this movie though, and shows what a talent he is. Just a shame he isn't in the movie a lot more.There is some good camera-work and good performances, even from your token mobsters, who look like extras from Goodfellas.It's not a bad film, entirely watchable, just not plausible enough. "},{"Title":"Great lead performances but...","Date":"27 January 2004","Score":"21 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is enough to recommend on the strength of the acting from Moore, Gandolfini, and especially Alec Baldwin but it is a shame that some of the excesses and superfluousness (especially the unsatisfying escapade in Guatemala) could not have been cut out. Instead of more action it would have been interesting if the ethical aspect of a compromised juror (albeit unwillingly) could have been explored in the spirit of 12 Angry Men. Anyway, this movie still rates a 7/10 on the strength of some undeniable suspense and very strong acting especially from Baldwin. "},{"Title":"Heche and Moore should have swapped roles","Date":"2 August 2012","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film is a great demonstration of why Demi Moore didn't have a more successful career as a top-level actress, though whether it was the fault of Moore or society is open for debate. She's a capable enough performer, but she lacks the ability to project either vulnerability or likability. With the former, you can trade on an audience's sympathy. With the latter, you can paper over the problems in a script or a production with your own charm. Moore's weaknesses are so clear in The Juror because she fails first at playing the victim and then can't entice the viewer to overlook the obvious melodramatics of the film's conclusion. She also stands exposed when compared to her co-star Alec Baldwin. He himself has always suffered from a lack of likability, especially in his dramatic roles, but Baldwin can manage a bit of vulnerability. His cold-blooded, criminal mastermind here is far more open and inviting than Moore's ordinary woman and mother.It's especially a shame because a different actress, one without Moore's emotional blind spots, could have raised this movie up from being slightly better than average and made it a truly thrilling thriller. Anne Heche is a perfect example, playing as she does a supporting role to Moore's lead. There's an unguarded energy to her acting that makes her characters so much more appealing than Moore's, who cannot radiate the same kind of joy and ease as an essential contrast to the more sullen and terrifying moments in the story. I'll confess to being more a fan of Heche than Moore, but I think my argument is supported by examining the roles and quality of work done by each woman in the years after The Juror.Annie Laird (Demi Moore) is a sculptress and single mother to Oliver (Joseph Gordon-Levitt) who essentially talks her way onto the jury of a major Mafia trial. That leads to her being targeted and manipulated by the brilliantly evil Teacher (Alec Baldwin), a Mafia associate who demands that Annie produce a not guilty verdict. She succeeds, only to find that the twisted romantic obsession of Teacher is far more dangerous than any aspect of organized crime.Putting aside Moore's deficiencies as the star of the show, this is a pretty good flick up until and ending that goes over-the-top and all the way to Guatemala. With James Gandolfini as a gangster that serves as sort of a midpoint between Annie's normality and the psychopathic nature of Teacher, Ted Tally's screenplay put a lot of mostly effective effort into building an interesting dynamic between his two leads. And in the relationships between Teacher and other mobsters, Tally defuses the super-villain aura around his bad guy and makes him both more believable and more frightening because of that.And when Moore is able to play Annie as a strong and defiant person, her strengths as an actress shine through. Which brings up the point of why a woman can't build a career on playing strong, aggressive characters on screen? There's a legion of men in Hollywood history who duplicated Moore's lack of accessibility or possessed even worse flaws in their craft, yet were able to prosper in roles that didn't require or disguised their faults. But at least in American cinema, female roles are defined almost entirely by vulnerability, likability or f**kability. Moore has the last in spades but admirable avoided that career path. Maybe the problem isn't in Moore, dear friends, but in ourselves.All in all, I like The Juror enough to give it a mild recommendation. Heche does get naked in it and that's more than enough to tip the scales to the good for me. "},{"Title":"Plenty to Deliberate Here in Taut Thriller ****","Date":"1 July 2006","Score":"16 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Terrific. Exciting thriller about a woman on jury duty who is threatened by the mob to make sure that the jury votes for acquittal.Demi Moore is the juror with conviction, that is to save her young son who is threatened. Alec Baldwin is the psychotic killer who will go to any length to make sure that Moore tows the line. He even kills her friend, Ann Heche, a doctor.Tony Lo Bianco is the head of the mob syndicate who fears Moore even after he is acquitted of all charges.An exciting ending for this gripping film. Moore becomes Rambo-like in the end and it's well justified. "},{"Title":"Surreal At Times and Not For the Better","Date":"31 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Over the years of watching movies, there are two types of movies that stand out above all. The ones that are beyond excellent, and those that that are complete garbage. The ones that teeter between not entirely bad, but really all that good become left out like a sore thumb. Brian Gibson's The Juror based on a novel by George Dawes Green falls in the category of forgettable average films even though it stars a cast of very talented performers like Demi Moore, Alec Baldwin, Joseph Gordon-Levitt, Anne Heche and James Gandolfini. It's a very easy film to keeping its obscure status because it's overall a mediocre film that leans more towards a bad mediocre than a good one with some rather absurd characters complimented with an even more absurd story that goes way off kilter at times. Demi Moore stars as a sculptor names Annie Laird who's been assigned to stand as a juror on the trial of a hardened Mafia crime boss, only to fell her life and her young son Oliver (Joseph Gordon Levitt)are in jeopardy. A minion of his known only as The Teacher (Alec Baldwin) convinces her to plead Not Guilty. Even after the trail folds, her and her son's life are still in the balance which leads to her taking care of business herself, personally. The intensity level of the story here is really not that bad considering that a juror was forced to overrule a decision by a Mafia minion. The suspense even after the trial with her still being under the threat still sends chills up my spine after viewing it for the first time in many years. It's what you would expect in a bone-chilling suspense thriller. But the script by Ted Tally was badly executed making the story awfully surreal. The characters just don't match nicely to the story-line and charge up the tense dramatic scenes goes way out of proportions to the point where it unintentionally becomes more laughable. Even the opening scenes where Annie has the chance to bow of the trial is very awkwardly built up. I personally would not ever consider stepping up to such a situation knowing that your life and your loved one's lives would be in jeopardy. It just seems odd that Annie seems more determined to through with it makes her at times be kind of a daft individual. Her enthusiasm makes doesn't give much sympathy to her situation as she gladly agrees to the trial and that a mob henchman is breathing down her and Oliver's neck unless she pleads Not Guilty to the judge. And to make matters worse she eventually takes matters in her own hands as she decides to confront the Mafia without realizing what these guys are capable of. The surrealist structuring isn't with just the protagonists, but the antagonists as well. Alec Baldwin's character Marc The Teacher Cordell is meant to be a chilling, cold-blooded remorseless killer, he doesn't come across that cerebral. Granted Baldwin does a good job of making this man a cool and collected individual, but it seems his motives are not fully functioning at times. I'm not condemning Moore or Baldwin in any way; they give a good performances in what's given to them, but the motives between the leading hero and villain just don't hit the right cords. Surely, to have a compelling ending, you have to mold the ending with some rather bizarre twists that are not always plausible. And in the genre of suspenseful thrillers, it should come as no surprise. Sadly, in The Juror, the results are not thrilling, but just plain dumb and quite unconvincing. If it would've had a conclusion similar to the like of Runaway Jury, then this movie would've had a better outcome. If they would have gone with Annie overturning the judge's decision, then I wouldn't be ranting too much on this movie. The supporting cast behind Moore and Baldwin, fail to add any impression on me. Joseph Gordon-Levitt who would later climb to bigger and better things later in his career, was quite good as innocent child put in precarious situation by his naive mother. James Ganolfini who would later on become the iconic Tony Soprano was near perfect as mob henchman Eddie was really not offered much to do and Anne Heche's Juliet is only as a clichéd sex symbol as she gets jazzy with The Teacher. It's like as if it's never been done before. At long last all I can say is that The Juror was an unsatisfying thriller that was let down by the characters and a story structure that loses its direction and tarnishes in what could have potentially been a very exciting thriller. The effort to boost excitement was put-off because they took a wrong turn in direction making this movie contrived and stupid instead of a chilling surprise ending which this film had the potential to achieve. "},{"Title":"The OJ Jury was smarter","Date":"10 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" If you have two hours to kill (or whack, in the mob nomenclature), then feel free to watch The Juror, a brain-dead thriller that is best witnessed on TV (you don't have to pay for it and you can pretty-much tell when the cussing, sex, and bloodletting are being snipped out).It's an easy synopsis, here--mob boss orders a hit, Alec Baldwin carries it out, there's a trial, Demi Moore gets threatened in order to keep her from voting guilty, biff-boom-bang. By the end, there are lots of bullet holes in the bad guys, Moore has turned from cutesy artist to Dirty Harriet, and, if you're an Anne Heche or Alec Baldwin fan, you are wondering if you should rent this nonsense to see what all happened in the sack. Since I am neither, I'll stick with the butchered-for-TV version and hope that not all juries are as stupid as the one Demi served on. "},{"Title":"Average movie could have been a lot better&#x85;","Date":"11 October 2013","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Annie Laird (Demi Moore) is a sculptress and single mother to Oliver (Gordon-Levitt) who essentially talks her way onto the jury of a major Mafia trial. That leads to her being targeted and manipulated by a hit-man(Baldwin) who demands that Annie produce a not guilty verdict&#x85;&#x85;Baldwin and Moore trying their best, and are compelling to a point, it all eventually unravels due to over-length and implausibility of the characters, whose actions over the course of the film are increasingly unlikely.This film is a great demonstration of Demi Moore's lacking of facial expression. She's a capable performer, but she lacks the ability to project either vulnerability or likability. Moore fails at playing the victim. Moore is played away by Heche (one with great facial expressions). Heche in the leading role And Moore in the role of best friend, could have raised this movie up from being slightly better than average into an exciting thriller. This is a pretty good movie up until the ending, that goes way over-the-top. "},{"Title":"ugh...","Date":"7 August 1998","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  While this movie had an interesting plot, it was carried out very poorly.  Alec Baldwin's character was just too psychotic to be convincing. The story  became predictable and the cinematography was terrible. yuck. "}{"Title":"confusing, messy rubbish","Date":"1 February 2008","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film had a great cast and a tried and tested format of a juror forced to get a mafioso acquitted so nothing will happen to her son. Right from the getgo though, I could tell this was poorly done. There were so many plot holes and inconsistencies that ruined any semblance the movie had of being a thriller. I thought the movie was going to be a courtroom drama but the movie continued long after the acquittal (which again was done so unconvincingly). The movie then began to meander with all these small sub-plots between Baldwin, Moore, the mafia guy, Anne Heche etc. Fifteen minutes before the movie ended I gave up, nothing was making any sense and this was so disjointed and unbelievable that I had no interest to find out what happened. Maybe, this needs a second viewing, but I doubt it as its hardly high brow stuff. In any case, this isn't a courtroom drama and its far too lightweight to be a mafia movie. Its an unsuspenseful, poorly written film that I wasted an hour and three quarters on. "},{"Title":"Joseph Gordon-Levitt Shows Early Promise","Date":"14 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" After a great run of movies Ghost, A Few Good Men, Indecent Proposal and Disclosure. Demi Moore had escaped the 'Brat Pack' phase of her career and was now the go to leading lady of Hollywood. However she came unstuck with The Scarlett Letter tanking and Now & Then hardly setting the world alight. Up next was the The Juror. Which didn't stop the rot before Striptease opened to scathing reviews and a less than expected Box Office returns. There is a lot wrong with this movie, but none of that is really Moore's fault, as despite a stellar cast (Alec Baldwin, James Gandolfini, and Anne Heche) it is her who carries the movie on her own. Baldwin was still an attractive leading man back them, gives a career low performance of the time. I'm not sure his character is meant to be as funny as he seems. Gandolfini (with an awful accent to match his performance) gives no indication of his future in The Soprano's but is still better than Baldwin. A bright spot though is Joseph Gordon-Levitt catches the eye and shows his future promise as Moore's son Oliver. It's over half an hour too long, I was surprised at it's running time as it felt a lot longer. Ridiculous plot twists and some unnecessary scenes of sex and violence weigh down what could have been a tight little thriller. Moore is watchable as always, but these are not two of her better hours. "},{"Title":"broad thriller not quite working","Date":"6 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Mobster Louie Boffano (Tony Lo Bianco) is on trial for murder. Annie Laird (Demi Moore) is an artist selected as a juror in the big trial. She and her son Oliver (Joseph Gordon-Levitt) is soon being tracked by mob muscle Eddie (James Gandolfini). She's wine-and-dine by a rich art dealer but he turns out to be someone working for Boffano. He's known as The Teacher (Alec Baldwin). She is shocked at his veiled threats against Oliver and her friend Juliet (Anne Heche).This is a bunch of very broad characters in a wannabe thriller. Moore as the protective mother is functional. Baldwin is good when he's creepy but he loses something as a maniac. Gandolfini does some good acting that foreshadows better things to come for him. The story needs to be simplified. The first half is fine but the movie deteriorates. When the trial finishes, the movie needs a reason to go on, and on, and on. So the movie change the driving force from the trial to a psycho Teacher. The change lost me a little and I stopped caring. "},{"Title":"Twisted Emotions.","Date":"21 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Not too bad. It begins with a situation any experienced movie maven is likely to regard as stock. A representative of the mob, Alex Baldwin, contacts a juror, Demi Moore, in a murder case against mob boss Tony Lo Bianco. Baldwin informs Moore that she has a very fine son. He'll stay healthy as long as Moore sees to it that the jury brings in the verdict of not guilty.The rest could have been written by the numbers twenty or thirty years ago, but now is not then. The all-powerful mob has been done to death and it must now be portrayed as in decline, slowly being edged out by the Calle cartel and other organizations of that ilk.A further novelty is the casting of Alex Baldwin as Vince, the smooth-talking enforcer. He doesn't look particularly Italian. He doesn't wear suits of raw silk. He doesn't use double negatives. He ends his gerunds with a pronounced g -- going instead of goin'.Baldwin's part is a complex one. He begins as another tool of the Mafia, although his relationship with them is properly ambivalent. He manipulates Demi Moore into complying with his demands through a fluid set of threats and fake concerns about her and her family. As in, Please, I beg you, don't make me kill your son. To put an end to any doubt, Baldwin picks up Moore's best friend, Anne Heche, to whom Moore has spilled every bean available. He beds her and then smiles as he forces her at pistol point to swallow a lethal dose of barbiturates.Then he appears genuinely to fall in love with Moore. Their tense bond has been, as he puts it, like a marriage. Tearfully, but still manfully, he says, I'm sorry you hate me, Annie, because I really do love you. As I said, the emotions behind his role are always in process, but Baldwin manages to pull it off.He may be right on both counts. He loves her, true, but she really DOES hate him. After she finagles a not guilty verdict out of the other jurors, she hates him enough to cooperate with the cops and betray him to his Mafia bosses.The good fellas try to whack him but he's a clever guy and sees to their demise instead. I mean, you know he's clever because he's pronouncing all those gs. Probably graduated from Reed College.But, having discovered Moore's betrayal, he displays a vengeful persona never before shown. Moore is trying to hide her son in a remote Guatamalan village. Baldwin flies to Guatamala to kill the kid, Moore in another airplane right behind him. There is a final shoot out, naturally, that leaves a few loose ends dangling. That climactic character of Baldwin's is strictly by the book. Any subtlety we've seen earlier is all gone. He's just another bloodthirsty villain to be outwitted. Moore has to kill Baldwin, naturally -- but not before he tries to sneak a hidden pistol out of his ankle holster. We can't have the heroine shoot him down in cold blood. Anything but that.Demi Moore has always been kind of a puzzle to me. She can act, but lots of people her age can act. She's never been in an outstanding movie and she's not staggeringly beautiful, not exotic in any way, yet her career goes on. That's okay. I'm not complaining. I only wish there were more to be seen on the screen. She has a husky voice, a strong splanchnocranium, hard eyes, and a neck of substance. It fits the part. The role hardly calls for an hysterical weeper with spindly limbs.The film is nicely textured. We see the friendships and the tensions within and between groups. We see uncertainty, ambiguity, a nebulous patchwork of values that we innocents would be hard put to deal with. "},{"Title":"terrific,well acted suspense thriller with a few twists","Date":"9 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Juror is a well paced suspenseful film,with great performances from the two main actors, Alec Baldwin,and Demi Moore.the supporting cast includes Anne Heche,James Gandolfini and a young Joseph Gordon-Levitt.Demi Moore Plays Annie Laird,mother to Oliver,(Levitt)and also a juror juror in a high profile murder case against a mob leader.Annie is forced by a mob associate to convince the other jurors to render a verdict of non-guilty or her son or others she cares for will be harmed.the problem is,the jury is convinced of the guilt of the mobster and the evidence seems to indicate guilt.I won't say any more about the plot.i will say that what follows is loads of suspense and nail biting tension.Demi Moore is so convincing as the mother who feels helpless and Alec Baldwin is Brilliant as her tormentor.the movie doesn't end the way i thought it would(and i mean that in a good way)instead offering up a few twists i wasn't expecting right up until the final moments.A terrificly entertaining film,which relies (very successfully) on suspense and great performances. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Yeah! yeah! yeah! I'll get otta ya life fa ever!","Date":"10 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" **SPOILERS** If you don't take the film The Juror seriously you can actually find it quit entertaining in just how unintentionally funny and campy it really is. You begin to notice that there's something very strange in the film after the person big shot Mafia bigwig Louie Boffano aka the big Spaghetti-O , Tony La Bianco, whom Juror #1 Annie Lierd, Demi Moore, was blackmailed into getting off on a murder charge got acquitted. Boffano was charged in ordering the execution style slaying of fellow Mafia boss Salvator Big Sal Riggio and his grandson Tommy who just happened to be an innocent bystander. It seemed that Big Sal was deadly serious in being against the Mafia, or his fellow Mafia Don Louie Boffano, in making a deal with the Colombian Cali Drug Cartel which in effect had him whacked. With Boffano now acquitted he, and his goons, still keep blackmailing Annie which can only attract attention on them which is something they don't need or want. The guy doing most of the blackmailing is Vincent The Teacher, Alec Baldwin, who freelances as a hit-man for the Boffano Family between affairs with those, women of course, whom he's blackmailing like Annie. And in the case of Annie's good friend the awfully cute and brainy Juiet (Anne Heche), who's a doctor by profession, The Teacher in keeping himself in shape, in his job as a professional hit-man, murders!The Teacher under orders from the mentally deranged and reality challenged Louie Boffano, who doesn't seem to realize that all this is totally unnecessary, keeps putting the screws on both Annie and her 12 year old son Oliver, Joseph Gordon Levitt, which leads Annie to take matters into her own hands. Annie secretly sets up the so full of himself Teacher in getting him to admit, on a tape recorder she had hidden, that he and the Cali Cartel are planning to take over Louie Boffano's Mafia operations with him-know to his friends as Crazy Louie-getting iced in the process!****SPOILER ALERT****The film goes from the ridicules to the sublime as were shockingly shown just how off the all The Teacher and his boss Louie Boffano really are. After The Teacher was set up by his good friend, and flunky in the Boffano Family, Good Time Eddie, James Gabdolfini, to be rubbed out he turns the tables on them only to, like his boss Louie Boffano, still blackmail Annie in him threatening to murder her her son Oliver for what seems like just for the thrill of it!The unbelievable ending takes place in of all places the jungles of Guatemala in South America where Annie with the help of her boyfriend Boone played by a hippie looking Matt Craven-a fellow artist and sculptor like herself-is hiding Oliver by keeping him from getting killed by The Teacher. It was The Teacher in overestimating his obviously low intelligence as well as underestimating Annie's determination, of getting him out of her hair as well as life, who ends up getting all that's coming to him! Which he should have gotten a lot sooner! A big D minus in plain old common sense by him not knowing when to quite when he was in fact way ahead! "},{"Title":"Not bad, but doesn't stand up to multiple viewings","Date":"4 January 2004","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Juror is one of those movies I saw a long time ago and moderately liked and (tried) to watch again recently and couldn't get through 5 minutes.I really think there are just some movies that cannot be viewed more then once and this is one. I personally couldn't remember much about it thus my wanting to see it again-usually a really good movie CAN be viewed multiple times or at least twice. There was a lot of overacting in this as well-everyone just tries to hard and once you know what's coming in this, it's tough to sit through a second time. Still, it isn't at all the worst movie out there-and this is liked by many I know. Any major fans of this movie may want to check out a movie that's similar in plot but lesser known trial by Jury that, to me rates slightly better then The Juror although not by much. The story lines are very similar. "},{"Title":"this a story about jury tampering and a woman's struggle to protect her son from the evil forces of the mafia","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"12 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A thoroughly enjoyable film with the sexy and talented Alec Baldwin playing a sadistic dark character role as a hitman for the Bofanno family. They hire him to take care of their dirty deeds and give him a code name as the teacher. The film's opening is both entertaining and unpredictable as Demi Moore's character, Annie Laird is called up for jury service and is subsequently taken on as a juror for the Bofanno case  the big spaghettio , a nick name for Louis Bofanno's character. The film develops into a struggle for survival as deceit and treachery is the name of the game. The teacher makes contact with Annie as he politely calls her. His objective is to threaten Annie,her son played by an angelic Joseph Gordon-Levitt, and friends and family, to get to her and force her to get a not guilty verdict for Bofanno's pending trial. He deceptively makes first contact by posing as an art dealer and as Annie is an up and coming artist he buys some of her contemporary boxes and later waits for her outside the art gallery and takes her to lunch. He then tries to win her confidence by inviting her on a date ,but when they get back to Annie's place he shows his true colours by threatening her with the fact that he will kill her son if she does not co-operate with his wishes to render a not guilty vote. The film then takes an interesting roller coaster ride of death and betrayal as Annie and the teacher are locked in a spiral of survival with Annie out doing him. The moral of the story I believe is that if a woman is pushed to the ultimate limits she will fight to the death for the protection of her family. As the old saying goes, Hell have no fury than a woman scorned.  "},{"Title":"Demi's best","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"14 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I am not a big Demi Moore fan and seeing this movie wasn't top priority but afterwards I was very pleased with the outcome.  This is, by far, Demi Moore's best film to date as she shows so much emotion as a single mother stuck in a difficult position between working for the mafia in order to save her family and herself.  Moore truly deserved an Academy Award nomination if not a win, and the Razzies were very out of line by giving her Worst Actress for this (it was moreso for Striptease and that also wasn't that bad...a thing about the Razzies, they don't know what the hell they're talking about half the time).  Alec Baldwin is pretty good as the villain and Anne Heche gives all she has as the token best friend.  Ted Tally's (Silence of the Lambs) script is riveting and keeps you on the edge of your seat.  A great suspense film with a great performance by Demi Moore...see it and believe it. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Petulant thriller made by numbskulls and aimed at numbskulls","Date":"21 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Demi Moore gives a sullen performance as an artist and single mom who is harassed by mobsters while serving jury-duty on murder trial involving Mafia Godfather. Overwritten, inconsistent film attempts to outweigh its campier aspects with mind-thriller clichés (such as Alec Baldwin's role as a egomaniacal hit-man) but results are still closer to Murder, She Wrote than to anything resembling Tom Clancy. Would probably pass muster as your basic, dumb time-waster were it not for a ridiculous climax in Guatemala. Moore is grim throughout, and Baldwin (pursing his modulated lips and narrowing his eyes) is a poser here--not an actor. Anne Heche does what she can with a best-friend role and there are a few rousing scenes, but the off-kilter script buries the good points, giving way to a pushy, unpleasant and occasionally offensive movie. ** from **** "}{"Title":"If I didn't watch all the movie do I still get credit?","Date":"2 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" It was a full time job to watch this movie. A lot of work. Did Gary Marshal direct it? Should I check my facts? Guh! Like a dry heave sound. Man this movie...was not fun to watch, that's the nice way of putting it. I mean when they read the script whoever they are did they know it was for THIS movie? It would be easier to let the magic eight-ball write the script. Forecast uncertain try again. Do you want to know the plot? If I don't tell you the plot and which actors play which characters are you not going to be able to understand my review? You know they list all that stuff of the IMDb movie's page, if you are reading this review you have already passed it. "},{"Title":"It's sick . . .","Date":"15 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" 'The Juror' features a character that works for the mob and is a master of manipulation, he can spin a woman into sex and then murder her without even thinking about it. He uses a calming voice and tricky, twisty and inventive ways to coerce anyone into anything. The problem with 'The Juror' is that his target is so stupid that we don't sense that he has to work very hard.Her name is Annie (Demi Moore) and she is happily serving on a jury in which a mafia godfather is on trial for murder. When asked if she knows the facts of the case she says that she knows a little about it from her son. What moron would mention her kid in a courtroom with the mob boss and his henchman sitting there listening? Because, if she didn't there would be no reason for her to be chased down by the mob - That's why!.A mafia hit-man breaks into her home and copies some documents and photographs. The next day he returns to the house posing as an art collector (Annie is a sculptor) and pays a large sum of cash for one of her works then asks her out to dinner. He is called The Teacher and is played well by Alec Baldwin who manages to turn in good performances in bad movies. Naturally, The Teacher informs Annie that all she has to do is say two little words - Not Guilty or bad things will befall her and those around her especially her son.The movie goes on and on and on even after the trial is over. It includes a particularly ugly scene in which The Teacher seduces and then murders Annie's best friend. This leads to a complicated series of cat and mouse scenes one less believable than the next until the movie ends up in Guatemala for reasons I still can't explain.'The Juror' would have been served will be sticking to the basic idea but it loads on scene after scene of excruciating thriller baggage. In the end it's us in the audience who pay the penalty for having to sit through such a needlessly long movie. "},{"Title":"Great suspense film; Baldwin is creepy","Date":"10 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I'm surprised at the low IMDb rating for this film, because I think it's one of the better suspense films to be made. Perhaps it's because Demi Moore has lost her popularity, but this is a film to be savored.The overall script is pretty believable -- a mob boss is going to trial for murder, and Moore is the one juror his compatriots select to tamper with. Unfortunately, they choose a rather sick and obsessed colleague to deal with her -- Alec Baldwin. Moore succumbs to their threats in order to protect her son. Baldwin develops an obsessive love for Moore, and will do ANYTHING to have his way with her. After she throws the trial, Baldwin is not done with Moore...or her son. The climactic scene is especially taut.Demi Moore is great here...one of her best roles. Alec Baldwin, however, makes the film as the sleazy and obsessed lover/killer...he's truly evil here! James Gandolfini is pretty average as a gang member. Joseph Gordon-Levitt shines as the young son; he was a comer even as a child star (and his potential is more obvious today). Anne Heche...well, I never saw the attraction...and still don't. Tony Lo Bianco was good as the crime boss. Although his role was small, it was nice to see Michael Constantine as the judge.The exotic finale in Guatemala is an added treat.Highly recommended! A strong 7. "},{"Title":"Good and bad.......","Date":"9 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Excellent Demi Moore, cinematography. The suspense-parts are generally well done, for example where it is not clear whether the boy on the bicycle will be killed or not. General plot Unfortunately the genre where the good person does nothing right and the bad person does nothing wrong. And innocent friends also get killed in the process. Then suddenly in the last 5 minutes the good person amasses incredible logistics and action, and the bad guy dies. Better would have been some more intellectual input throughout the film from the heroin, such as that she gradually finds out where he hid microphones, and realises that he has her address list, and so warns her friends what is going on. "},{"Title":"Extremely Convoluted And Far Too Long","Date":"18 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" There's a rule in public speaking that goes something like this always know your landing strip before you start. In other words, rather than circling and circling and circling, you have to know how to bring something to an end. Among others, Martin Luther King, Jr. lived by that principle in his preaching and speaking. The Juror could have learned that lesson, and it would have made for a far more satisfying movie.Basically the cast was all right. In fact, Alec Baldwin was quite good as the rather charming psychotic known as the Teacher. He had an air of both friendliness and ominousness to him. It's not easy to bring both of those qualities to a character, and he did it well. Demi Moore (who isn't my favourite actress) was fine as sculptor Annie Laird, and James Gandolfini carried his weight as Eddie, a sympathetic member of a local mob family. Ann Heche was superfluous as Annie's friend Juliet.The story revolves around Annie being selected for jury duty in a murder trial involving the head of the mob family, Louis Boffano (Tony Lo Bianco.) Desperate to get Boffano acquitted, Eddie and the Teacher are sent to threaten Annie, telling her that unless she successfully argues for an acquittal in the case, her son Oliver (Joseph Gordon-Levitt) will be killed. Given the nature of the story, I was expecting more jury room intrigue, as Annie desperately tried to get Boffano off to save her son. Instead, as far as I was concerned, the movie got way off track and ended up adding way too much to the story. The trial ends just a little over halfway through, and the last 45 minutes or so was much too much, and began to approach the level of being just plain silly. The mobsters turn on each other, the DA turns on Annie and then offers to protect her, and Annie becomes a gun-toting heroine in Guatemala of all places! Had the movie stuck more closely to the courtroom drama, and Annie's personal dilemma as she desperately tried to get Boffano acquitted even while knowing that he's guilty, this probably would have been both tighter and shorter, as well as better focused. As it was, seemed to me to be a bit of a jumble that tried too hard. (3/10) "},{"Title":"Preferred Trial by jury","Date":"3 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Someone here mentioned that a movie can't be a hit without sex and violence and special effects. Well, I can only guess that they hadn't seen Trial by jury. Then they'd see that The juror is the version with sex and violence. I liked William Hurt more than Baldwin as the teacher. Baldwin gave a too maniacal, big movie villain, while the threat seemed more real coming from Hurt's character. The juror is just too flashy for my taste. Trial by jury was a bit meek, but simpler and more realistic. The first time I saw The juror, I just felt that something was missing. It just yelled REMAKE! Then I saw the other movie and it all made sense. My conclusion - together they'd make one really good movie. This way they're both just incomplete. "},{"Title":"About to do your civic duty?","Date":"8 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A surprise when I saw the ratings here! I watched without checking ratings first; I thought it deserved better. I liked the film on several levels Acting (Moore, Gandolfini, Heche, and Baldwin), plot (plausible), and suspense (twists, timing, ending). That Moore apparently received the Razzie award for worst actress is simply incomprehensible &#x96; I thought she was completely compelling in her role as single mother who is threatened along with her teenage son by the mob unless she cooperates as a juror in rendering a not-guilty verdict for a guilty mobster. Baldwin is evil incarnate &#x96; on the surface charming, brilliant, handsome, erudite, sophisticated, spiritual, artistic &#x96; all of which makes him more frightening. He is as crazy as they come. Annie finds herself with an impossible dilemma do as the mob says and save her kid and herself, or do the right thing and turn the mob in to the authorities, which would of course place her son and herself in immediate lethal danger. Rather than jump to a decision, she struggles; she goes this way and that, unsure, terrified. I think this is the way most of us would act if put in a similar situation. It is a monstrous choice, a Sophie's choice; there is no simple solution, and the film doesn't pretend there is. The plot interweaves in and out, with unexpected but fully explainable twists, getting ever more complex. I found myself wondering how Annie was going to get out of this mess &#x96; what's the answer to this terrible spot she's in, and how will it end? The film does a good job of making us care about how it ends. Baldwin's character is electric &#x96; once introduced, his presence is literally ubiquitous, with eavesdropping microphones and break-ins. At one point Annie finds a note left for her in her home I will always be with you. You sense he means it, and is completely able to carry it off. His psychosis has invaded her life like a cancer. My only hesitation to give it a higher rating is some rather inexplicable events at the climax ending, but given all that precedes it, easily forgiven. Otherwise, first rate. This is one scary film, one that will stay with me for a long time, and certainly the next time my name is drawn for jury duty. "},{"Title":"Less is Moore","Date":"26 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Though a conventional thriller, The Juror does feature an interesting subplot involving actor Alec Baldwin as The Teacher, a criminal mastermind who views himself as an artist, able to walk into any situation and sculpt his way toward his desired objectives. Baldwin's smooth and clever, like all puppet masters are.The rest of the film is poorly written, and notable mostly for both the presence of a young Joseph Gordon-Levitt and a fine performance by actor James Gandolfini. Gandolfini plays your typical mob henchman, but imbues his character with a certain unconventional sadness. The film was conceived as a star vehicle for actress Demi Moore, but she's outclassed by everyone else in the film.7/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Demi for the Defense","Date":"16 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sculptress and single mother Demi Moore (as Annie Laird) answers her summons for jury duty with uncommon good citizenship. She agrees to serve on a jury hearing the case against a murdering mobster Tony Lo Bianco (as Louie Boffano). But, psychotic henchman Alec Baldwin (as Vincent, the Teacher) will do anything to insure Ms. Moore vote his mob boss Not Guilty; this puts the lives of Moore, son Joseph Gordon-Levitt (as Oliver), and topless best friend Anne Heche (as Juliet) in grave danger.The Juror makes little sense, if you think too much about what is happening to Moore; but, she is attractive, and the movie is moderately engaging. For a courtroom drama resulting in a sequestered jury, you'd be surprised at how little time the camera spends in court; Moore and the action are all over the world, with the trial being seen only rarely. Mr. Baldwin is a charming psycho, especially with sidekick James Gandolfini (as Eddie). This is the movie to cite if you want to be excused from jury duty.***** The Juror (2/2/96) Brian Gibson ~ Demi Moore, Alec Baldwin, Joseph Gordon-Levitt, Anne Heche "},{"Title":"Read The Book!","Date":"26 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I think that the book is much better than the film. Alec Baldwin doesn't play the teacher well at all. You imagine him to be more slier and handsome. If you liked the film then I suggest that you read the book because you will love it as well. The juror is a story told in two different ways. I like the book better. Also you need to read the book more than once to take everything in. I love the book but only like the film. I can't say if you will love the book but I do. So why don't you give it a try and make your own mind up. In the film they have changed the names and I don't like that they have done that. They should of kept the names the same and also kept to the story line as much as they could. "}{"Title":"Far-fetched and highly unlikely","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie about Demi Moore as member of jury on a Mafia trial being intimidated by hit-man to push for a not guilty verdict appear far-fetched, untrue and impossible in reality.  Surely in a Mafia trial of this nature the jury would have been sequestrated(remember the O J Simpson trial) and therefore the coming events would not have happened.  I think that sums up the entire movie. "},{"Title":"Yeah, Demi can act","Date":"24 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Yeah, I know it's popular to diss movies like this and even more popular to diss Demi Moore. I'm gonna have to report, though, that Demi Moore IS the best thing about this movie and, as I have discovered, she CAN act. It's been a long time since I saw this film but I can still remember her wonderfully fierce, beautiful performance that rises above the pouty, mediocre script. I was also struck by her performance in The Seventh Sign (which was better written than The Juror). So, I guess what I'm trying to say here is, C'mon give her a chance, watch some of her films and decide for yourself. This may not be her best film, but it is one of her best performances. Oh yeah, other reasons to watch this film are nice supporting performances from Alec Baldwin and Anne Heche. Oh yeah, and if after watching this you don't believe that Ms. Moore can act, check out Ghost or GI Jane and then tell me that those are two of the gutsiest performances of the decade. So, take it or leave it...I guess it sounds like I'm a big fan of hers, which I'm really not, just sick of all of the trash talk that she can't act. "},{"Title":"Good thriller.","Date":"6 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Demi Moore gets lots of criticism but in the right part she is a very fine actress. (Charlie's Angels 2 was NOT the right part.) Here she is a single mom, an artist, Annie Laird who gets picked for jury duty on a murder trial of a reputed mob boss. This results in her family and friends being put into grave danger and the movie is about this, and her finding a way to deal with it and stay alive. Alec Baldwin is so good as the bad guy who becomes her nemesis, only known as Teacher (because when the teacher shows up, 'school's out'.) (Note to myself -- this is NOT the movie where Von Bargen is the jury foreman.)SPOILERS FOLLOW. Pretending to be a fan and customer, Teacher gets friendly with Annie until he reveals his agenda. As juror she must see to it that the boss doesn't get convicted. Otherwise her son gets killed. Along the way her friend dies at the hands of Teacher (Anne Heche playing a doctor) then Annie finds out the bombshell -- a hung jury won't do, they don't want a re-trail. She must argue for acquittal, a tough, maybe impossible job. But she does, wearing the others down. But it doesn't end there, Teacher ends up having to kill the mob boss and his men, and hunts Annie and her son in Guatemala, but Annie is ready for him, in effect set a trap he walked into, and policeman waiting for his move shot him down. "},{"Title":" What do you want me to do?","Date":"7 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Demi Moore is solid as Anne in this anticipating suspense movie. The supporting cast is genuine. The costumes are honorable. One of the good films in the genre, The Juror will proclaim a verdict of harm on the viewer. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not bad,not good,just average.","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is an ok thriller,I have seen worse,but also better. The acting is not great,but I have seen worse. The story has some suspense and it got me to sit through the whole movie. To sum it up,this is an average movie. "},{"Title":"is it bad to like an unpopular film?","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Although this movie has many fatal flaws, I do have to admit (reluctantly) that I do like this film, especially some of its elements.The actual happenings may be a bit far-fetched, with The Teacher going to such lengths on ONE person and concentrating whole-heartedly on that ONE person is a bit increduluous considering the substancial evidence mounted against Boffano, the mob boss. Certainly if I was The Teacher, I wouldn't be putting all my hopes on only one person, trying to convince them that an already guilty person in the minds of the jury to be innocent, especially considering the outcomes of the trial if Annie failed to convince her fellow jury to vote 'not guilty'.However, what I do like about this movie is the incredible cast. Demi Moore, Alec Baldwin, Anne Heche and Joseph Gorden-Levitt are all really good in their roles. I thought Alec Baldwin's performance was really really good (emphasis on the 'really'). I don't particularly know why I think so, but his psycotic, sociopathic 'thing' was superb. My favourite part in this story is when The Teacher (Alec Baldwin) asks Annie (Demi Moore)when they are in the woods, whether she believes that he is capable of giving himself whole-heartedly to love. He then goes on to say that it's a shame you hate me so much, because I do love you (I don't know the exact words). That warped sense of loving someone you aren't supposed to is what I love about this movie.Yes I do realise that the whole movie is extremely predictable and extremely unlikely to occur in the real world. But then again, there are plenty of movies which are extremely unlikely to occur in the real world. That is what movies are about. If everything in films were a reflection on 'the real world' there would be no such thing as fiction and films as indeed everything would inadvertely become documentaries. As for the predictable ending, there are heaps of succussful, predictable formula films out there that thrive on that predictability element. "},{"Title":"Already been done","Date":"20 May 2006","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I enjoyed this movie even though it was done two years prior with Joanne Whalley, Armand Asante and William Hurt. Slightly different plot twists, but all in all the same movie. I enjoyed both, depending on the day of the week it's a toss-up between Demi and JoAnne. I tend to lean towards Armand Asante over Alec Baldwin as the mob boss, however both do good jobs in their respective roles. Supporting cast I believe goes to Trial By Jury especially since Gabriel Byrne and William Hurt are part of it. Seems to me that TBJ is slightly more believable as far as the story goes. I do like the Alec Baldwin-Demi Moore version, however I think they capitalized on the fact that this movie was not noticed on a wide basis and jumped in to make a movie with the same premise "},{"Title":"Essentially a fantasy with a memorable performance","Date":"22 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The protagonist of The Juror is an artist and single mother who serves on the jury in the murder trial of a mafia chieftain. Her antagonist is a man who briefly seems cut out to provide romantic interest and heroics to a conventional thriller but soon reveals himself (so soon that this can hardly be a spoiler) to be anything but a hero. This character, played by Alec Baldwin, is known to us only as The Teacher. The juror of the title is Annie Laird (Demi Moore).It seems that The Teacher is not only a hit-man for the boss on trial but also somewhat of a power behind the throne, though we get this information more from claims made by other mafiosi than from what we see of his interaction with them. Events give the impression that he's an awe-inspiring loose cannon rather than an established mover and shaker. At any rate, he presses Laird to swing a not guilty verdict in the jury room and threatens to kill her son if she doesn't.As someone has pointed out on the Message Board, it's odd that the jury is not sequestered in a trial of this kind. That's not so much a hole in the plot as a hole containing the entire plot within its confines. In reality, the story would have to center on The Teacher's ingenious way of getting at the juror; in the film, all it takes is a little stalking and then a pass.This film needs to be seen (if seen at all) as a kind of fantasy an extreme parable of predatory male behavior in which the male combines almost superhuman powers of attraction and domination with downright inhuman aims and impulses. Even when Laird knows the worst about The Teacher and intends to destroy him, we see that she has to struggle against the effect of his caress the way Professor Van Helsing struggles against the vampire's gaze in Dracula.There are two distinctly satisfying things about The Juror. One is a well-judged final sequence that distills the mood of the film by transposing the action to a setting full of symbolic imagery, unaccustomed color, and deepened contrasts of light and shadow. The other is Baldwin's performance. His Teacher exemplifies the paradoxical psychotic -- youthful, athletically handsome, suggestive of intelligence and sociability; agelessly evil, grotesque, savagely cunning, disliked in his own circle. This is no mere anti-hero or rogue, but a repellent loser who nevertheless draws all the other characters, the story, and the viewer into a vortex centered on himself. It's a noteworthy acting accomplishment in an unusual category the star villain. "},{"Title":"Engaging Script but undue liberties with reality","Date":"6 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Overall an engaging drama for those with interests in legal plots. But script has taken liberties with reality and the ease with which houses are bugged, reservation systems are hacked, explosives are planned, makes the genre more like a spy thriller but the attempt is not very successful at that. The plot could have had a better focus on the legal drama. Character of Teacher has been portrayed larger than life perhaps for cinematic effects but it has a trivializing effect on the story line. The Jury room conversations were interesting but wish there was more of it as the audience for the movie (as drawn in by the movie title) would likely have more expectations of that. "},{"Title":"Takes too long to go nowhere ........","Date":"7 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Juror features Alec Baldwin in yet another edgy criminal role not unlike his character in Miami Blues, which happens to be terrific, while The Juror is close to terrible. Everything about the trial is very vague, stretched, and uninteresting. The characters are mostly unlikable, including Demi Moore. So what you get is a highly unlikely story of a meek artist juror submitting to Baldwin's threats for almost the entire film, and then suddenly transforming into Mrs Rambo for the unbelievably weak finale. Throw in a ridiculous how did he do that? relating to the demise of Tony LoBianco, some questionable motivation, and a general feeling of no way could that happen. - MERK "}{"Title":"Looks real familiar to me...","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'm sitting here watching a movie Trial By Jury, from 1994, and it has pretty much an identical story line.  William Hurt even calls himself the teacher.  Single mom, on a jury for a mafia case is terrorized to ensure that she will return the proper verdict.  There are totally different writing credits for these two films.  I'm real curious as to who won the lawsuit for theft of creative material.... "},{"Title":"Credible acting but lousy script about sums this one up.","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Juror is not a bad film but it certainly falls short in the writing department. The always steady Alec Baldwin gives a fine performance and Demi Moore is very believable in her role. Ann Heche adds to the fine cast of players but it is not enough to save The Juror from rating only average.   "},{"Title":"...","Date":"17 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The movie was entertaining...but Baldwin, too-psychotic or not, was ferocious; as he can be at times (Glengary Glenross).  I like seeing him angry as he does it well.   "},{"Title":"The Juror","Date":"17 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Before I watched The Juror, I had one thought in mind. This movie looks great. It had a great plot, great actors, and it was a crime film, which I enjoy. But sadly, this movie fails on almost all these levels.The acting isn't superb. But it isn't terrible. In fact, it's the best part of the film.The writing, forget about it. Terrible. Awful. The worst. The actors try so hard to make the dialogue sound good, but even with their decent delivery, it still sounds cheesy, uninspired, and stupid.It's almost like the movies spoofing itself.The movie is stupid, cheesy, uninspired, one-sided, with good acting.I would say see it for the acting. But there are hundreds of movies with better acting, and better writing! Go watch those. "},{"Title":"How did this movie ever managed to turn out to be so silly.","Date":"17 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" It's crazy, basically we have a decent genre plot here and some more than capable actors to play the roles but the movie makes some wrong choices, that often turn this movie into a silly one and therefore also a quite bad one.Not that the movie was very original to begin with but at least it showed some potential with its story. It's the sort of concept that should turn the movie in a decent thriller to watch. For its first halve or so it also is a quite watchable movie but then some of the twists and turns start to kick in. The movie could had gone into many different ways with its story but yet it picks the least likely ones and for some odd reason the movie toward the end becomes more of an action flick than a thriller really. The characters were being all still quite credible in the first halve but in the second halve we see them all doing things that completely ruins some of the credibility they had build up in the first halve.Further more it's pretty much a movie by the number, without any real surprises in it, despite of the twists and turns the movie is taking. It's one of those '90's thrillers that try to look more clever than they in fact really are. On top of that '90's movies all tend to have the same visual look and feeling to it, which just isn't the most compelling thing. In terms of style the '90's was one of the worst, if not the worst, decade for movies. Like a lot of thrillers from those days the movie has a pretty solid cast, with some well known names in it, like Demi Moore, Alec Baldwin, Anne Heche and James Gandolfini. Also child-actor Joseph Gordon-Levitt is a quite popular grown up actor these days, with his most recent roles in movies such as (500) Days of Summer and G.I. Joe The Rise of Cobra.Not really a great thriller that is worth watching but also far from the worst that you'll ever see.5/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Implausible","Date":"25 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Annie Laird (Demi Moore) is chosen as a juror because she wants to be a juror. The trial she will hear involves a murder charge against a stereotypical mob boss named Lou Boffano (Tony LoBianco). In stereotypical mob fashion, Boffano sets one of his soldiers, named Eddie (James Gandalfini) and a contract hit man known as Teacher (Alec Baldwin) who evidently works for a Colombian drug gang that does business with Boffano's gang. Rather quickly, Eddie and Teacher make their presence known to Annie. Teacher in particular menaces Annie and threatens her son, Oliver (Joseph Gordon-Levitt). Teacher bugs Annie's home, her phones and has an inordinate number of photos of Annie. It is interesting that he spent all that time and effort getting audio of Annie's home but did not plant any surveillance cameras. Eddie's role is less clear. He seems to have some minor supervisory role over Teacher, but Teacher is clearly in command. Turns out, in fact, that Teacher was the trigger man in the murder for which Boffano is on trial. Somehow Teacher (who seems to be planning the defense lawyers' strategy) wants Annie to convince the jury that Boffano is too stupid to be in charge of anything. He wants her to convince the jury that Teacher is the real mastermind -- without revealing his identity, of course. This hare-brained plot then morphs, briefly, into what comes off as a parody of the great movie, 12 Angry Men. Unlike that classic, where the jurors debate and discuss the evidence in great detail, in The Juror, there only seems to be one piece of evidence an audiotape that ambiguously implicates Boffano. Annie's job is to point out that ambiguity, which she does over and over again. One of the jurors reveals some kind of bias toward mobsters, or murderers or Italian-Americans (it's not quite clear what his bias is, just that he's biased), but the other jurors seem to have the depth of intellect of Cletus Spuckler and are persuaded by Annie to acquit Boffano. Of course that does not end the story. Boffano did not like the way Annie looked at him after the verdict was read and wants Teacher to take her out. Teacher has developed an obsession with Annie (of course) and wants to take care of it his own way, i.e., by continuing to pressure her and convince that he's the only person who can keep the Boffanos from killing her or Oliver. Annie tries to get help from law enforcement, but of course they are ineffectual (never mind that Annie has enough evidence to have Teacher given 10-15 lethal injections AND she knows that the Boffano family will not come to Teacher's aid). She tries to hide Oliver in Guatemala with his father (maybe -- at least with some guy with whom Annie once had something), although she uses no alias and flies a commercial airline. Thus, Teacher finds her and Oliver easily, leading to Teacher being executed by some Guatemalan somethings --- Soldiers? Police? Drug lords? -- with the coup de grace delivered by Annie herself. Hooray.The story is unbelievable at any level. Alec Baldin is somewhat menacing as Teacher, but comes off more like a stalker than a hit man. His beating Boffano to the punch and blowing up the car when Boffano thought his men were going to kill teacher is weak. Boffano left his limo unguarded, evidently, and the men about to kill Teacher simply let him pull an obvious detonator out of his pocket and use it. Right. They would have plugged him immediately when he went into his pocket. Demi Moore is supposed to be the strong woman as Annie, but she is really kind of dull-witted when you get right down to it (not using an alias to get to Guatemala; letting Oliver ride a bike home from school by himself, etc.). Joseph Gordon-Levitt plays his totally helpless role quite well. He's supposed to be an extraordinarily bright kid, but he seems a little slow, too. For a mob soldier, Eddie is far too affable -- that is primarily a problem with the script. James Gandolfini is okay in the role, I guess, but it's shame it was written with Mr. Rogers as the role model for a mob soldier.All that aside, despite it's flaws, The Juror has a lot of moments where it is a fairly successful thriller. It needed a lot more of those moments and a lot less of 12 Angry Men, which it imitated poorly at best, and a tighter script to close up some of the plot holes. "},{"Title":"Demi, kicks some asse","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  WOW, I really liked this film, i didn't think i would. I don't really know alot about Demi Moore, but after watching her in this, i will definitely purchase more of her films, she was completely convincing as a mother who enters a court case involving the mafia, and ends up on there hit list, but it was the story that gripped me, alot of mafia type movies are long drawn out sagas, that are hard to follow, this one is much different as it takes you away from the usual mafia story, and cosentrates more on the relationship of the mother and her son, which softens the whole tone, and also the hitman has a real purpose, and is one of the main characters played by Alec Baldwin, who is brilliant in any part he's playing, he really is evil in this one, but him and Demi worked well together, just a shame there was no romance. "},{"Title":"Alec Baldwin was great.","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This was a good movie.  I never read the book.  Maybe I should.  Alec was creepy as hell.  I liked Demi moore in A Few Good Men, The Juror, and Ghost. Other than that, her acting hasn't got me very well.  I didn't bother to see G.I. Jane.  Anne Heche was good too.  The scene with the car going to hit Moore's kid I thought was well done.  I would give this movie a C or low B.  It wasn't anything new, but was a good movie.  Nothing original. "},{"Title":"A Mixed Bag","Date":"16 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A compelling story and yet the camera work makes it seem like a made for TV movie. A good cast yet some cheesy acting and ridiculous situations. Alec Baldwin is believable and strong while Demi Moore is not. What makes this film worth watching is the surprise ending which did come as a little bit of a shock. That and the solid Italian-American actors who signed on to make The Juror realistic. Baldwin's character is a sick deranged bastard and any crime family who would even consider recruiting a guy like that gets what they deserve. I really thought they had him towards the end, and in real life, they would have. The Juror had it's moments but isn't what I would call a barn burner, watchable at best. "},{"Title":"Average potboiler is too far-fetched to be convincing...","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Obviously aimed for those who love the John Grisham type of thriller, THE JUROR has all the elements for a suspenseful film about jury tampering amid the trial of a Mafia boss, but doesn't quite reach its full potential. Perhaps the climactic showdown in Guatemala is where the story really runs into trouble finding a proper conclusion.DEMI MOORE remains rather detached in her role as a young woman who is approached by ALEC BALDWIN for seemingly innocent purposes, when it turns out that he is actually someone called The Teacher assigned to get her to sway the others on the jury to vote for an acquittal.He's so menacing (and Baldwin does menacing as well as any method actor available), that she reluctantly does her best to persuade the jurors to change their votes. Fortunately, these lamebrains have no capacity for thinking because it seems the lawyers have done an excellent job of finding the dumbest panel imaginable. But the story doesn't end with Moore influencing the verdict. That's just the beginning of even more peril for her.It's the kind of film that works up to a point. But once the plot deals with further issues, it really gets out of hand. MOORE gives one of her less impressive performances, barely looking like a damsel in distress at any point. However, it's ALEC BALDWIN who makes the deepest impression with his sadistic villainy. He's never been one of my favorite persons (off the screen) but I have to admit he can play lowlifes with the best of them.It's an average thriller, too lengthy for its own good and with an ending that should have been rewritten to make it more believable. "}{"Title":"Far-Fetched Thriller","Date":"29 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Demi Moore plays Annie Laird, a single mother with a teenage son named Oliver(played by Joseph-Gordon Levitt) who is chosen to serve on the jury of a big mafia trial. Alec Baldwin plays a mysterious hit man known as The Teacher, who is hired by the mob to intimidate Annie into insuring that the jury comes back with a not guilty verdict. After this is accomplished, Baldwin is still so taken with Annie that he can't let her go, escalating matters out-of-control as the whole scheme is threatened. Anne Heche is memorable as Annie's best friend Juliet,as is James Gandolfini as a mob associate.Though features good actors trying their best, and is surprisingly compelling to a point, it all eventually unravels due to over-length and implausibility of the characters, whose actions over the course of the film are increasingly unlikely. "},{"Title":"Quite impressive","Date":"28 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Reading most of the previous reviews made me wonder... This movie is a thriller from the word go and total escapism, yet, many reviewers pretend a perfect script, a flawless sequence of events --life like-- without realizing that this is not a documentary, with dates, statistics and absolutely realistic situations.IT'S JUST A MOVIE!!Seat back and enjoy it!! there isn't more than that!!We are not watching an Ingmar Bergman or Antonioni film here. It's just a thriller, and as such, an EXCELLENT ONE!!I followed it in total concentration, being captivated by such superb actors and director and finding all scenes and sequences amazingly perfect.There is not a single word spoken unnecessarily and every one is always in character, plus a great photography and as eye candy Demi Moore and Alec Baldwin, two superb actors on top of being gorgeous.I found this movie above average for a thriller, surprisingly above average!! "},{"Title":"Disappointing, half-baked thriller which dawdles at a lazy pace.","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Juror stands out for one reason and one reason only the performance of Alec Baldwin. It is simply the most embarrassing, over-the-top, hammy attept at acting since Faye Dunaway embarrassed herself in The Wicked Lady (1983). Truly one of the very worst performances of the decade.The story is routine and uninteresting. Twelve jury members are about to convict a mob godfather for a heinous crime. They are all relatively united in their belief that the accused is guilty. Then a Mob hitman (Baldwin) begins to pester one lady juror (Demi Moore), insisting that she must change her vote and get the other jurors to change theirs. If she fails, her family and friends will be at risk.Moore seems to have been the first choice action woman of the 90s, but from this film it's decidedly hard to see why see earned such a label. Her performance is indifferent, and she conveys no particular emotion. The only cast member to do anything with their part is Anne Heche, but she is all-too-sadly killed off midway into the flick. The tension that should dominate the film slackens pretty much as soon as things get underway, and we're left with a cold and uninvolving affair that seems to drag on interminably. The climax, which mysteriously occurs in the Central American rainforest (why bother with this change of locale so late in the film?) is also uninvolving and hackneyed. As 90s thrillers go, lots of them were bad, but this is still a contender for the worst of all. "},{"Title":"Average, protracted.","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This high-profile star vehicle is generally a misfire. It has little to recommend it besides the leads' performances Demi Moore is utterly convincing, and Alec Baldwin displays his charisma and gives us a three-dimensional villain. Not quite an unwatchable film, as many reviews might lead you to believe, but ordinary and needlessly protracted.  (**) "},{"Title":"Thoroughly unimpressive","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Despite a fairly good cast, this film has nothing to offer. Nothing we haven't seen before. Nothing we haven't seen done better. Nothing worth spending time watching in order to gain. The plot is decent at best, and barely holds up at all. The conflict is just not there; who are we supposed to hope dies? Who are we expected to root against? Baldwin's character is the villain that has the most screen-time whilst remaining unlikable, but he doesn't seem like he's the actual villain. The pacing is pitifully bad. The acting is poor, apart from the leads. The characters are all stereotypes and paper-thin ones at that. The film manages to cram in every single cliché in the genre in. The ending is as predictable as they come. The film never manages to build any real suspense or tension, making the film seem endlessly long and pointless(when, really, it's just two hours long and pointless). There's just nothing new here, and nothing that makes the film even remotely worth experiencing. You like the plot outlines? Check out the book. I'll wager it's better. I can't imagine that it's worse. You like the idea of the film? See if you can't find a better one. It shouldn't be too hard. It must be easier than finding a worse one. I recommend this only to very big fans of Demi Moore, James Gandolfini, Alec Baldwin and/or Anne Heche, and possibly huge fans of the genre. Everyone else should just skip this one. 5/10 "},{"Title":"I`m Guilty","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Seeing as THE JUROR revolves round a plot of someone trying to convince a jury to find a man accused of murder innocent I was expecting something along the lines of 12 ANGRY MEN and you do not believe how foolish I feel writing this paragraph . I wish to throw myself at the mercy of anyone reading this and beg their forgiveness . I do have slightly mitigating circumstances - The trailers on TV for THE JUROR actually did give the impression that it was going to a tense court room drama , but seeing as Demi Moore was the star this is no excuse . After all a tense court room drama would have needed a good script and some intense acting , neither of which can be found in a film containing the words  Starring Demi Moore What`s that you`re saying ? You`re ready to cut me a deal if I offer some information ? Well here goes ... It`s not a court room drama  at all , it`s a very dumb thriller and tries to hide its dumbness by twisting and turning as it goes along which just becomes ridiculous . It starts in a bedroom in America and ends in some temple in the jungle somewhere . Oh and there`s some twisted romance sub plot too . Just think this could have been quite good if the producers had decided to focus on the heroine trying to get her fellow jurors onto her side in an open and shut case , and it goes without saying there`s a massive cop out where the script decides to forgo any explanation why the jury changed their mind about the accused . It`s the producers you want to cross examine not me     "},{"Title":"Another Movie with Demi Moore","Date":"1 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Alex Baldwin is incredibly believable as a rather warped demonic figure. Fun to watch even if a bit predictable. The premise was interesting, hanging on the edge of Gothic Novel. I could believe in his head trips, because he himself believed in them.Demi Moore, well, is as always Demi Moore.I have a tough time losing myself in the story when Ms. Moore is in the scene. She is a great grandstander (Kate Hepburn or Joan Crawford) except that she is playing ... herself. Actors practice their lines to find their characters, it is easy for me to picture D.M reading her script across the table from Bruce Willis and asking him if she sounds okay.I have to confess; the only movie I believed her to be IN was G.I Jane. The role did not surprise me, it fit. As for the rest, her co actors, no matter how small the part, seem to carry the films she is in. They act and build the story for her while the director makes sure to center the camera on her whenever she speaks. The movie is made because she is in it. None of this is exactly true, but it is how I feel about it when it is all said and done. "},{"Title":"Overly talky and annoying","Date":"10 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Alec Baldwin's character talks so much and is so self-righteous that I wanted one of the other characters to yell Shut up already!. It's hard to think of a more annoying character in movies. James Gandolfini is good, Anne Heche is also enjoyable, and Demi Moore is okay. Baldwin just seems way too impressed with himself and his monologues for this movie to be successful in any way. The story itself has interesting possibilities, but they're overwhelmed by the unconvincing Baldwin character and the submissive way the other characters react to him. One of those movies that I was glad to see end. Very unpleasant movie with an annoying, self-impressed main character. "},{"Title":"An over-rated, over-paid Demi Moore","Date":"9 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A really good example of how over-rated and over-paid Demi Moore was, and this was probably just a little past her heyday anyway. She was never strong enough to carry a movie. All a bit of a Hollywood mystery. I mean, does anyone even think about her now, or has any memory of a great performance? All that comes to mind was a sexy tho short-lived performance with Michael Douglas in Disclosure, and that's about it. How on earth did she get so far as she did, to become a difficult Hollywood diva with the nickname Gimme More (money)? A clue lies in how canny and controlling she was not to be seen topless as a teenager in Blame It on Rio even tho her friend's character in the film does. She has a great movie face, but that's just not enough. Without her, and with just about any other major female lead, this would have been a better movie. Thank the lord her time is up. "},{"Title":"Yet another great thriller novel poorly adapted to thescreen","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"6 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This was a really entertaining novel, with a villain to match Hannibal Lecter, so how did it become such a bad movie?  Alec Baldwin does his usual good work, and Anne Heche stole the movie as the best friend, but this is done in such a clinical and cynical way, so it feels like a machine did this movie, rather than people.  I'm not a big Demi Moore fan, but she can't really be blamed for this mess.  The irony is writer Ted Tally also adapted THE SILENCE OF THE LAMBS, and did such a good job there.  Wonder what happened here.  "}]