[{"Title":"Go rent it! WAY better than the negative reviews...","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"87 out of 118 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  You will have to chalk me up as belonging to that camp of viewers who actually *wanted* to see a truly horrid film (as based on all the negative reviews) only to discover to our delight that there was a gem of a movie hiding there all along.For me, watching the film was a *great* escapist experience. I felt exactly what the character played by David Thewlis would have felt, had I been in a similar lost in the middle of the ocean, end up on a strange island sort of predicament. The movie did a superb job of instantly whisking me away to a strange and beautiful and ominous place - the Island of Dr. Moreau - and I found myself staying with the fantasy the whole way through.The cinematography was just beautiful, and if you have ever been in or near the tropics, the filming and the movie setting did an awesome job of conveying that hot, thick, humid, teeming-with-life feel that can only be found in the tropics.I really enjoyed the eery background music, it really added to the overall creepiness of the whole weird mad-science-gone-amok theme of the story. Plus that scene where David Thewlis first encounters Faruiza Balk, and she starts to dance to that utterly hypnotic and awesome Balinese music, was just too spine-tingling for words. I only regret that I haven't been able to locate any soundtrack information yet on the movie, so I don't know who played that song, but the whole scene was absolutely and truly memorable. I'd watch it again just for that song and dance scene alone.I noticed that many people didn't like the acting or the characterizations. I, on the other hand, felt that the four main characters (Brando, Kilmer, Thewlis, and Balk) were flawless in their depiction of a familiar tale. Brando was admittedly weird - but hey, give the guy his due, he was SUPPOSED to be a weird, crazed scientist. What were you expecting, the Maytag Repairman? Kilmer was deliciously evil, can't say enough good about Val Kilmer, he's always been one of my very favorite actors, and he DID NOT disappoint in this film, either. Balk, as mentioned above, was just awesome (and I REALLY liked the scene where she and father Brando had their moment of emotional bonding). Thewlis was right spot-on with his interpretation of an innocent sane observer who barely made it off this mad-house of an island without totally losing his own sanity. I think I would have done exactly as he had done, in his circumstances. Well Acted! Bravo!One scene that didn't work for me was early on when the man-beasts were shown to be delivering a hideous-looking baby from a hideous-looking beast-woman. I don't know, but somehow I felt that it should have been Dr. Moreau and Montgomery (Brando and Kilmer) who should have been the doctors doing the delivery. Nevertheless, it was a truly creepy scene.Finally, I thought the movie was well-stocked with thought-provoking comments on the morality of scientific experimentation. The scene at the dinner table, where Brando expounds on his personal views, comes to mind, as does the final parting comments, voiced by Thewlis. I had to watch the movie several times just to hear those words. They will REALLY make you think. I truly believe this movie should be seen and actively discussed by students at high school or college level - not just in science prep classes, but philosophy and social science courses as well. I don't care what the naysayers have to say, this was by no means an empty or shallow movie.So, go take a trip to the Island of Dr. Moreau. You won't come back unchanged....  "},{"Title":"Sense of humor needed to watch this","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"34 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie gets a bad rap -- viewers say Brando plain sucks and that it butchers a good Wells story. Perhaps the latter is true, but I consider Brando, as the mad doctor, a fine choice and, while he is rather subdued, he is still the candid, self-conscious actor we all know and love. He practically mumbles his lines as his mouth is lined with cotton and (probably) cheeseburgers. And, the scene where Brando plays piano along with his pre Mini-Me sidekick is a classic. Now, I know Brando refused to learn his lines for this movie and Kilmer is known for being a real ass to work with, but the in-production feuds add to the aura of this film. These characters aren't supposed to like each other and the tension fills the air. The special effects are top notch, albeit gruesome and a bit overdone. It all adds to the feel of the movie. I have this movie on tape and watch it again and again, alongside Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas, Taxi Driver, Rear Window and Dr. Strangelove. If you thought you shouldn't see this based on other user's comments, put your expectations aside and just enjoy! "},{"Title":"Fascinating mess of a movie","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"37 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  David Thewlis, looking like he's wandered in from another film, is totally miscast in this much-troubled version of the HG Wells classic.After being rescued by toothy vet Val Kilmer and taken to the eponymous location, our Mancunian UN hero comes across cat girl Fairuza Balk and the balloon-like doc (Marlon Brando), all pasty-faced and with an Ealing comedy accent. Marlon hasn't just been doing beached whale impressions on this exotic isle. You see, mad old Moreau has been messing around with gene-splicing and has created a race of humanoid beasts - courtesy of effects whiz Stan Winston.He controls them with electric shock implants and is so taken with his work, has little other defence when the beasts inevitably start running wild. In essence, it all goes a bit Jurassic Park. There are a few good points in this mish mash. A stunning opening titles scene - very necessary considering the lack of any adventure for the first 10 minutes; Thewlis' extraordinary presence; and an okay finale. In fact, any scenes without Brando and Kilmer are quite fascinating. This is partly down to the Richard Stanley screenplay which boasts some flashes of brilliance amid much re-worked studio editing and re-jigging. This is one of those films where the making of the movie is perhaps more intriguing than the final product. Stanley, the film's original director, was fired and banned from the set. He actually went back, dressed up as a dog man extra, and watched the rest of the production unfold. Had he been allowed to finish his directing chores and had final cut, the result would probably have been a thousand times better. However, John Frankenheimer does a fair job under the circumstances. "},{"Title":"Critically Pummelled Entertainment","Date":"7 January 2011","Score":"26 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Most people seem to dismiss it, if not hate it. Certainly the critics. But. really - we get a Brando performance that again displays his long-held dismissal of Hollywood-ism, we get Val Kilmer hamming it up joyously (even to the point of repeatedly doing Brando impressions), we get David Thewliss (a damn fine actor) actually playing the most important character with admirable commitment, we get cat-eyed Fairuza Balk (yum!), we get the great Ron Perlman, playing a beast yet again, pretty much stealing the movie, we get something that is Dr. Moreau's constant companion, becoming a pop-culture icon thanks to South Park - as Chef puts it what the hell are you supposed to be? You don't look like anything. Outstanding photography, effective tropical suggestibility (you can almost feel the humidity), excellent animal make-up, some truly memorable scenes (the birthing scene, the Hyena-Moreau confrontation) and even a sense of philosophical examination. And though the story of this insane scientist attempting to humanize animals has been done several times, only this one goes to the extreme of showing us that he's even created a bunch of tiny rat people! What a loon. Too much enjoyment for a movie so slammed. "},{"Title":"To go on two legs is very hard","Date":"3 September 2005","Score":"48 out of 79 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I'm not sure if that is the exact quote from the movie, but I think altogether too many reviewers of this film go on four. I really enjoyed this move for its story, the acting and the way it conveyed its many messages. One guy even had the gall to describe it as a bad Jurassic Park. Now that was a bad movie. Great special effects for the time perhaps but a paper thin story that failed to explore its subject and the implications thereof. This movie makes no such mistake. It explores themes of what it means to be human, whether ends justify means, and what is moral or immoral from different perspectives. It even explores the nature of good and evil to some degree. There are far too few movies, especially these days, that have this kind of depth and leave you, ultimately, to be the judge. Yes, it is disturbing; its meant to be. Yes, it is dark; its meant to be. It makes you think and leaves and indelible impression. It certainly has its flaws but if you can see past them, then perhaps you go on two legs, even though its hard. "},{"Title":"Messy but underrated","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This wasn't as bad as I had been led to believe and was often nightmarish as well as gripping. I understand it was a troubled production and that may explain the uneven lurches in action. This film was saved by the excellent and committed performances by the actors who played the animals, who were really heartbreaking. Wells himself had an ambivalent attitude to the human race and was said to have had certain facist sympathies. However, Any philisophical points tended to be drowned by the rather garish direction. Brando's accent seemed wrong for the modern day setting of the film as well. A sad and distressing film that is well worth a look. "},{"Title":"Well-produced but out of control","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"27 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" David Thewlis is very good as air-crash survivor who is taken to mysterious island in the South Pacific where recluse Marlon Brando mutates various animals with human genes; Fairuza Balk is Brando's daughter, Val Kilmer (in arguably his weakest performance ever) plays Brando's assistant. Uncontrolled version of H.G. Wells' horror story is crippled by behind-the-scenes strife and ego clashes. It opens well, sustains itself for about forty-five minutes, but then goes completely to hell afterward. John Frankenheimer is credited with the scrappy direction, though he stepped in mid-production and finished the picture after Kilmer had the original director canned. Too bad, with more focus this could've been incredible. Story previously filmed in 1933 (as Island of Lost Souls) and with Michael York and Burt Lancaster in 1977. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Very Interesting Re-Make","Date":"11 October 2006","Score":"18 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is a something different when it was released, yet not so in the film world as it was first made into a movie in the 1930s and was called Te Island Of Lost Souls. This re-make produced some fascinating and gruesome human- monsters. You can thank Hollywood FX wizard Stan Winston for these creatures.Meanwhile, Marlon Brando and Val Kilmer play God attempting to create perfect human beings. What is created instead are people you almost don't want to look at. It took me two viewings to be okay with it. The first viewing left a bad taste in my mouth, but I gave it a second (and a third) look because the story is so different and intriguing. I liked Brando's dialog, too. His role, as Dr. Moreau, was easily the best in the film.What else is a bit unusual is that almost all the main characters in this are killed off by the end, some with sudden surprise.Back in the '90s, this was one of the best-looking DVDs I had seen up to that point. "},{"Title":"don't believe the bad reviews","Date":"30 May 2003","Score":"20 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I still don't understand why this film generates such negative reviews. What is it people were expecting? Maybe people still don't get Brando. Brando doesn't act, he just IS and he's never been one for memorizing lines; it's never been about the words he says anyway, so why shouldn't he have the lines taped to the table, to the foreheads of other actors, etc. It's all about how he gestures and becomes the part and maybe just says whatever comes into his head as the character anyway.I will admit it took me two viewings before I got into the film myself, but I've seen it more than 10 times by now and it still holds up. It's beautifully photographed for one thing and the tension on the set between the actors -- especially Val Kilmer and Brando adds to the tension of the film itself. If for no other reason than to see the original Minnie Me in action, rent this and try to keep an open mind. "},{"Title":"Average adaptation based on H.G. Wells' novel  realized by John Frankenheimer and with remarkable makeup by Stan Winston","Date":"31 March 2011","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It's an excitingly produced remake of ¨Island of the lost souls¨ with Marlon Brando heading a solid casting as a nutty doctor who develops a process of transforming animals into half-humans at an desolated tropical island . Through DNA experimentation Brando has upset the balance of nature. By turning animals into humans, he's turned heaven into hell . It starts when David Thewlis is rescued at sea by Val Kilmer and brought to a strange island where he's terrified to discover the terrible genetic experiments realized by Dr. Moreau , a former prize Nobel winner .Passable horror-fantasy chiller that is developed up and down with some lousy moments and in other side contains eerie and thrilling scenes. It results to be a strong rendition of H.G. Wells' novel about an isolated scientific who has spent several years creating half-animals turning beasts into half-human . Good secondary cast as Fauriza Balk , William Hootkins and Temuera Morrison . Ron Perlman's sturdy acting , displaying a magnificent portrayal of one of the beasts . Watchable by excellent makeup by the late Stan Winston . Colorful cinematography filmed in Queensland , Australia , by the classic cameraman William A. Fraker and atmospheric musical score by Gary Chang . The motion picture is middlingly directed by John Frankenheimer and the director's cut version runs several minutes more . The movie will appeal to Brando devotees and Val Kilmer fans who will want to check out their excessive performances . Other adaptation based on H.G. Wells' known novel are the following  The classic of 1933 titled ¨The island of lost souls¨ by Erle C. Kenton with Charles Laughton , Kathleen Burke , Bela Lugosi and Richard Arlen ; and 1977 retelling by Don Taylor with Burt Lancaster , Michael York , Barbara Carrera and Nigel Davenport . "}{"Title":"HG Wells And The Acid House","Date":"10 January 2005","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I first became aware of this remake when a clip was broadcast on Barry Norman's FILM 96 . It's the scene where Dr Moreau ( Marlon Brando ) sits with his animal experiments and tries to justify himself to UN diplomat Edward Douglas played by David Thewlis . The reason the scene stuck in my mind was because Thewlis is best known for his work in British social realism movies so as Douglas points to the animals asking  What the bloody hell's this all about ? What's he supposed to be ?  I couldn't help thinking that Thewlis's performance had jumped out of a Mike Leigh movie . Even more bizarelly when Moreau replies  You expect me to condense seventeen years into seventeen minutes ... Brando plays the part exactly - And I mean exactly - as he did as Col Kurzt in APOCALPSE NOW , and all the time the camera intercuts with Moreau's creatures all of whom are giving embarrassed looks . I thought because this clip was shown out of context that may be the reason it looked so ridiculous but unfortunately after seeing the whole movie I can say this is one of the least ridiculous parts of the movie THE ISLAND OF DR MOREAU isn't as well known as some of HG Well's other books like THE TIME MACHINE or WAR OF THE WORLDS but it deserves to be remembered since it deals with humanism , genetic engineering and vivisection . Obviously these concepts were beyond the productions knowledge and we have a film that makes little sense . It goes without saying everything about the movie is bad , the directing is bad , the screenplay is bad and the acting is bad but the worse thing is the way the producers have tried to update the storyline by having much of the action take place in an acid house ! No seriously in order for it to appeal to a 20 something audience Val Kilmer's character ( Who's not really a character - He's just there to spout lines and be used as a plot device ) decides to have an acid house party with his furry friends . No doubt the animals favourite tune is Panic by The Smiths because they decide to hang the bloody DJ and install a new furrier music maker who then shoots anyone who either appears too sycophantic or too critical to his choice of music . The film ends with Douglas escaping after the animal experiments have killed one another in a shoot out Anyone reading this review without seeing the film will no doubt be phoning an ambulance for me . But the events take place on screen exactly as I described them and an ambulance would be better served by being sent to the house of the studio executive who was insane enough to finance this mess "},{"Title":"The line between animal and man has been evolutionized.","Date":"26 April 2005","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" An ocean plane wrecked diplomat is rescued and brought to an island inhabited by a Nobel winning now reclusive scientist and his children; the animals he has been genetically manipulating with human DNA in an attempt to create his vision of a pure species.When this film opened it was panned by the critics. I was never sure why. It opens strong, both visually and musically. The locale is beautifully claustrophobic, appropriate for a secluded tropical island. Stan Winston's creature make up is excellent. The body language of the humanimals is very interesting. The underlying commentaries on the savagery of society and the morality of biological scientific experimentation are intact. Marlon Brando makes a daring, and critics said poor, choice in playing his Moreau like an effete, physically feeble, unbelievably polite British University English Professor, more eccentrically insane instead of the usual madly insane. Val Kilmer, always a strong performer, as Moreau's assistant Montgomery, does a spot on impersonation of him toward the end of the film. Fairuza Balk, as Moreau's daughter Aissa and David Thewlis as the rescued diplomat Edward round out the over all well done performances given by all. Favorite line (spoken by The Sayer Of The Law/Ron Perlman Going on two legs is very difficult.Definitely worth a rent/buy. "},{"Title":"Mild spoilers follow ...","Date":"30 July 2015","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is adapted from the story by HG Wells in 1896, which was famously filmed as 'The Island of Lost Souls' in 1932, concerning animal/human hybrids.Initially, Douglas's (David Thewlis) disrespectful comments about Moreau's cross-bred children, whilst in their presence, grinds alongside their exemplary manners. Indeed, the agent is told there is not one note of malice in them. However, it soon becomes obvious that Moreau's control over them is far from humane, and the good doctor is &#x96; not that there was ever much doubt &#x96; insane.Marlon Brando wrestles with an upper-crust British accent and some outsized false teeth. The accent is perfect, the prosthetics less so, rendering occasional moments of dialogue incomprehensible. His performance though, is terrific. Dangerous and a lot of fun. From his first appearance, draped in white, outsized sunglasses and a full face smothered in white 'sunblock', he is delightfully bizarre.The film loses something when Brando's presence is removed, and events become a bit of a jumble. Val Kilmer's Montgomery, who takes Moreau's place, is good, but he's no Marlon Brando.Ultimately, 'The Island of Doctor Moreau' is a thoroughly enjoyable film. David Thewlis (who joined the film after shooting had started, replacing another actor) initially seems miscast as Douglas, but he soon proves himself as the talented actor he is. The same can be said for the various hybrids, most of who really take advantage of the excellent make-up jobs and imbue them with tangible emotion which would be lost if everything was achieved with CGI.It is difficult to ignore the critical mauling the film received, due in part to a series of unfortunate occurrences behind the scenes. Viewed almost 20 years after its release &#x96; and I speak as someone yet to see the original Charles Laughton version, so therefore have no other film to compare this to &#x96; I found it hugely enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Inconsistent and Intolerable","Date":"31 October 2012","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A confusing composite of make-ups and performances that border on absurd. Both Brando and Kilmer make their characters behave like they are in a comedy sketch while the rest of the cast and assorted monstrosities are caught in a nightmarish Horror Film.There is literally no depth or exploration of the genetics and cloning science or the morality of it all, just scene after scene of half-breeds running around looking as bewildered as the audience. This has got to be the Director's worst film as he strays wildly from his usual gritty political and crime action dramas and finds himself unable to get a handle on the material.The monster makeup ranges from pretty scary too silly and is as inconsistent as the rest of the proceedings. Nothing at all comes together and the result is a laughable and embarrassing take on the profound H.G. Wells story. The still definitive version is Island of Lost Souls (1933). "},{"Title":"Island of Dr. Moreau added to Doctor Rock's Essential Viewing List","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie, by definition, must be added to the Essential Viewing list if only to see Marlon Brando in what must be one of his last roles before the actual logistics of transporting him became an insurmountable problem for production. This combined with Val Kilmer as the drug dispensing Montgomery and being filmed in Australia, in addition to the amazing afro/counter rhythm strong sound track demands it a place in the realm of essential viewing. I feel confident that H.G. Wells would approve of the rewrite of his material too, in concept at least. Notable studies in concepts of ethics and mixed moralities.  "},{"Title":"Outstanding film, don't miss it.","Date":"25 July 2007","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" From the many ridiculous negative reviews it is easy to see this film pushes quite a few buttons. Frankenheimer was a master film maker and this one is no exception. Chock full of messages, metaphors and allegory on man's ignorance and arrogance, this film is very much worthwhile seeing. It remains one of my favorites after multiple viewing but it is not light fare or entertaining in the Hollywood sense. Brando and Kilmer are masterful. Cinematography and make up are superb. It will make many feel uncomfortable but give it a chance. This is not a snack, it's a serious meal and you have to be in the mood for that. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Cult Classic Must See","Date":"3 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Screw them negative reviews. This is one mind boggling tour de force with the likes of fat Marlon Brando channeling Colonel Kurtz and the Godfather all rolled up in a giant freezer of ice cream complete with hairy half human animals. The creatures costumes are a scream and a half. Val Kilmer plays his role with such serious intentions it makes a hilarious foil to Marlon Brando's over the top performance. Marlon creates an evil deranged Dr. better than the other 2 versions. Anything with Marlon is worth watching. Based on the HG Wells novel, this version would make old HG turn flips of hilarity in his grave. You will find this film astonishing, frightening and hilarious. I'm still giggling over the creatures outfits/hairdos/makeup. Imbibe while watching this and I promise a good time for all. "},{"Title":"What A Movie!","Date":"5 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Troubled adaptation of the H.G. Wells novel, directed by John Frankenheimer after he replaced original director Richard Stanly, who wrote the script. Marlon Brando gives an indescribable performance as Dr. Moreau, as if he's barely there at all, looking and acting like a phantom, though it is strikingly original! Val Kilmer is bizarre as his assistant Montgomery, playing it for camp, yet it is an amusing performance. David Thewlis is Edward Douglas, shipwreck survivor who looks every bit as bewildered as the character he's playing. Fairuza Balk is the panther woman Aissa, and she is quite effective, as is Ron Perlman as the Sayer of the law.Film is faithful in spirit to Wells, if not in execution, and though it is far from a success, there is some guilty pleasure enjoyment out of it, and has some striking end narration in its memorable finale.The type of film that was more entertaining to watch than it was to make, if the first hand accounts from the cast and crew are to be believed! "},{"Title":"Sick and Twisted in a good way","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I'm only 17 years old and love the movie, in fact I have liked it for years. Val Kilmer(for all you Kilmer fans, he is soooo cute in this movie)plays a great psycho and Marlon Brando gives a good perfomance like always. (Yes, even though he looks like a giant marshmellow.)  If you like Sci-fi movies then this one is a good one.  "},{"Title":"Strange but its not the worst","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I own this movie and I must say, Val Kilmer does show off his talent, as well as his looks. As for the plot, its sick but not as some movies that are out there. I was disappointed with the ending but other than that, the movie keeps me busy! If you are about to watch it for the first time, watch it twice. First time, just watch it, second time try to understand it. To sum things up, I thought the music was great and the acting was good. "}{"Title":"You be the judge. But this is a thought provoking film","Date":"20 September 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I will always search a film before I watch it. But after I will always forget what I've read and go watch it with a clear conscious. In my pre-viewing research I was warned to not waste my time. I feel it only fair now that I've seen it to convince you to use your time and go watch it!!! This is a thinking film. Much of the dialogue is well thought and convincing especially from the mouth of Marlon Brando (who is yet again another 'distasteful' character, though after reflection is merely a character with a different point of view on life).I really enjoyed the film. It provokes you into thinking 'what it is to be human'. What is moral and immoral. Is killing a rabbit for dinner as inhumane as killing a human? Go see it please! "},{"Title":"If We Can See Stars We Can Hear Voices","Date":"23 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Let me be the first one to admit I still don't understand this movie but I might add I enjoy it a lot none the same. It's frightening to say the least when we study what they teach us in University only to find that with all that might and power comes the inevitable mistakes. Somebody should be watching the Scientists closely it seems because we have come a long way from dynamite and steam engines... but just how far can we go before we end up where we began? There's the cycle of the seasons... it rains then it freezes then it thaws and then it goes away... and if you will how long before the rains come again and the sharks get us,but this is my tribute to The Island of Doctore Moreau and not a roast.I had seen this movie broadcast on TV many times but never had time to sit and watch some corny make-up artists version of Deerbeasts and Pigmen and the like until like all things it became available to me so I bought it and took it home. I must have been in the right frame of mind when I watched the whole thing or maybe it's just that well made a movie but I watched the whole thing without getting up for even an intermission.Moreau is a character created by a long dead authour of some remark whom wrote many books of far out fiction and social comment. This story as in the original must have been a little hard to comprehend in it's day and this movie although infused with late twentieth century technique and mastery is not a bad attempt at what I think is at best a difficulty concept for us all to grasp. There's the allegory of the whole thing like some thick books of old used to do... presenting a story if you will but all the while showing us all just how far wrong you can be with some things.And there's the joy of the whole thing... about escaping paradise and getting back to the five o'clock world but that would defeat the purpose of this review... which is too comment honestly about a movie and yet not ruin it for those that haven't seen it.. right? So i'll quote myself on this one and say... this is a movie you  should  have seen and as for the book keep reading. "},{"Title":"An Enjoyable Movie...","Date":"13 September 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  For whatever reasons, a segment of the higher-up film reviewing community did not like this movie. Following that segment's lead, countless others jumped aboard the bandwagon following their lead, and thus the film 's bad press was born. Being a film critic myself and not a big John Frankenheimer fan, I think I am capable of giving a fair review here and saying Frankenheimer's first theatrical effort in years was quite enjoyable. Suspense, tragedy and even humor all make it into this H.G. Wells remake about an exiled scientist played by Marlon Brando who conducts whacky experiments on DNA and animal cells to create an island of shunned species, half animal, half man. It plays like a good X-Files episode, with David Thewlis as our haggard Agent Mulder, playing a U.N. worker stranded on the island of classic Frankenheimer wide-lens shots. Val Kilmer tunes down his annoying level for most of the film as Moreau's right-hand man gone awry. The early firing of the original director may have worked for the better quality of the movie, but spawned several rumors of big friction between no-nonsense Frankenheimer and big-ego Kilmer and Brando. Good score by Gary Chang.  "},{"Title":"What Happens if you were created by the God of Monsanto?","Date":"19 February 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Give a serious look what happens if this were true given the facts. If you can imagine the horrors of GMO, micro-chipped Ape-Human, a crazy Dr. Moreau (a symbolism of Monsanto Corporation), create humans from animals using human genes with the likes of a B movie, and somewhat comedic lighter side of devastating effects bioengineering, all owned by Dr. Monsanto. Then what you have is the lighter side of Apocalypse Now but with deadly truth of inescapable fact that we may one day be genetically engineered and owned by corporations is not at all far fetched. Already Monsanto owns GMO Corn, Rapeseed and even pigs. Cows injected with Bovine Growth Hormone o produce more milk. What prevents them to own a pig face humans made from pigs with human genes added? It's the effect of that day of Armageddon and it strikes me what happens if one day Monsanto owned genes accidentally made their way into humans from contaminated GMO foods and courts demand we humans to pay royalty fees to the companies much like the case where GMO seeds accidentally made into an unfortunate farmer in Canada, as in the documentary The Future of Food, then you have a somewhat somber view of the movie in a new perspective and it's serious human perspective of the effects of bioengineering gone wild, with the legal protection of the court - the skies the limit. Why would the Island of Dr. Monsanto be confined to just this small island when Dr. Monsanto is already doing a great job in U.S. Canada and the world on a much larger scales. Could it be said that they have already done so with Monsanto being the patent owners of Pigs and Cows, with a human gene that produces a nutritious human milk coming straight from a cow? Well an agent from Monsanto told me they were inspired by this film. And inspire is something I need to make a second watching of this film a more serious look ant the possibilities. "},{"Title":"I liked this move.","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I actually liked this movie. I saw this before I read any reviews for it. I don't see what made it SO bad that it deserved a 4 out of 10? I would have expected a 6 or 7. I'm not saying this movie was great but it was entertaining. The cast was pretty good, Marlon Brando, Val Kilmer, Fairuza Balk, David Thewlis, and though the acting wasn't great but not the worst, maybe acting6/10. The story was like the book, personally I liked it but if you don't like science-fiction then you probably wouldn't like it. The makeup and special effects were awesome. Overall I would rate this movie a 7 out of 10. I don't see the reason for anything below a 5. "},{"Title":"very, very interesting","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I must say that this new version is maybe only a half as good as the 1977 version. But I have to give it some credit because its so different. Its very messy and could have been directed better but I find it very interesting. Especially the character Azazello. He was intriging in a way and I enjoyed watching his character throughout the movie. Even though this movie wasn't the best it could have been and doesn't compare to the novel or the original movie I gave it a 9 because its the type of movie I could watch over and over again.   "},{"Title":"A movie that will thrill you!","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I sat down on my sofa, turned my DVD player on and began to watch The Island of Dr. Moreau, a film by John Frankenheimer.(Director also of Ronin)The film began with an amazing background of genetics, the music is also brilliant, running through the cast and crew of this expedition. Then in the middle of the pacific, David Thewlis lay in his raft, after he was involved in a plane crash on route to Jakarta. He is rescued and taken on board a vessel carrying none other than Val kilmer who plays Montgomery. he return with him to Moreau's island, where there are some brilliant camera angles. he is locked up in a bedroom and kept prisoner, until he escapes and views the delivery of a monsters baby, who also monsters are delivering. It becomes apparent of Moreau's experiments of cross genetic mutation and in follows a tribe of Moreau's unigue children all with features of another animal. the Hyena of the group's friend is killed by Moreau's son and is burn't. Hyena finds the remains of a chip which is used to shock the animals. He begins to form alliances with other fellow mutants and wage's a battle against the doctor. There are many explosions in this film along with good plot twists. the film ends with Thewlis leaving the ill-fated island in a raft/dinghy recounting his thoughts of his involvement on the island. Unfortunately, not all of Brandos talents are shown in this film due to his premature departure, leaving Thewlis and Fairuza balk to continue the film, while Kilmer goes insane and ends up being shot while impersonating the doctor in his white robes in the animals underlair. Thewlis is brilliant, kilmer provides some good momentum in the film and Brando and Balk go a treat. Another actor, Ron pearlman also desevres some recognition in this gripping film. Although the film is 92 minutes long which is short for the storyline, the film is still wonderful. If you do see the DVD, buy it. Although unlike Region 1 which has Interviews, trailers and an extended runtime by 8 minutes, Region 2 has no extra's to moan of, but on it's own the film is still marvellous. See the film if you have the time and you will have a few questions at the end to puzzle over. An overall good Adventure treat. 7/10 rating. Email me if you want to know more about the film. "},{"Title":"Atmosphere is overlooked...","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Unlike most, I liked this movie. I felt the style and atmosphere were portrayed perfectly. The way the good characters die around David Thewlis is perfect. When Fairuza Balk (the cat woman) dies it is so simple, there is no mushy last words, and it happens so suddenly it gets you off guard. Simply she is hanged and gives one final yelp. I don't know why anyone would complain about the acting I thought it was terrific. David Thewlis played his role to perfection. Brando was also good, and Kilmer seemed very natural and flowing. Of course as others have mentioned the music was terrific. It is Moody, and erie. I hope people can look past the reviews that put this down and see it and decide for yourself. Remember movies would get boring if every one of them ended in a happy way.  "},{"Title":"Quite another view on a gem run over by a review truck","Date":"31 July 1998","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" All reviews and votes for The Island of Dr. Moreau judge this as a bad movie. I disagree!If you think positive characteristics of a film are - unconventional - no Hollywood sob - no bleeding heart romance greased all over the actual theme - explore the main theme (in contrary to films which have it all ) - offbeat - realistic within the predefined frame, this one is a gem. It is what I call a clean movie few cliches and lot of room for reflection. The action scenes at the end comes close to cliches but are plausible within the framework though and therefore spoils nothing.An example of a very unusual filming is that the main characters die without lingering close-ups, sobbing and famous last words. They die as they die because its on line with the situation and mind of the characters.The themes of gene manipulation, the persistence of instincts, morfologi, the flexibility of biology and human lack of broadsight (and insight) is handled with intelligence in a thought provoking manner - and that is rare in a movie.Dr. Moreau brilliantly portrayed by Marlon Brando may be mad in the eyes of everybody but he has a kind of broadsight (and insight) that is fascinating. If you have read and liked any books by the gene scientist Richard Dawkins (The Selfish Gene, The Blind Watchmaker, The Extended Phenotype) who has theories on biology as profound as Darwins theories, this film is it! "},{"Title":"Inside the Insides","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Marlon Brando can do little wrong in my book. Most people see a few giant performances followed by a period of excess and laziness, the only arguments being in when the shift occurred. But I see a genius who long ago exhausted the opportunities available in ordinary film opportunities, and who has gone on to invent others of his own devising.As far back as `One Eyed Jacks,' he started to work with metafilms films whose goal was to work not in the story within the film, but the story of the film, and all that surrounds it. For example, `The Freshman' wasn't concerned with exploring any character or situation in the story it presented. That story was the merest of excuses to allow him to have his own metadialog with the audience. That dialog was fully supported by the writer and director of the film. But here and in `the Score' he strikes out without their support or even knowledge.Sure, the film itself is a disaster - who cares? Check out the world Brando creates fully post-Apocalypse, but with actors as animals on Prospero's world `Bladerunner' meets `Mosquito Coast.'Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 4 Worth watching.  "}{"Title":"If You're Curious, Definitely Give it a Watch","Date":"23 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I just saw this film for the first time. I had always been a little curious to see it due to its great cast, but I was also aware of its infamy as a disastrous production. I've always gotten the impression that this is a universally hated film. Wanting to see it for myself and form my own opinion, I finally decided to give the movie a chance, admittedly having fairly low expectations. I guess I should mention that I know next to nothing about the H.G. Wells novel, and this film is the only adaptation of the story that I have seen. Anyway, I found it to be a pleasant little surprise! Before explaining why I enjoyed this movie, let me tell all you potential viewers something don't expect a Jurassic Park level film. I mentioned before that there are some really great actors in this movie. It's none of their finest work by a long shot. But who would expect these things going into this film, especially given its reputation? This is a movie where you just turn your brain off and appreciate what it has to offer. For one, it's well-acted. Brando is so ridiculous in this movie that it's great. Kilmer gives a vibrant performance, Thewlis is good, as are Ron Perlman and Temuera Morrison in their creature roles. And the creature effects are fantastic! Probably my favorite aspect of the movie. Bravo to Stan Winston, he was a master of his craft. I had no idea before seeing his name in the opening credits that he was a part of this film. Honestly, I expected some Spawn-level CGI in this movie, given the time it came out. There is one small scene with some pretty terrible CG effects done for some smaller creatures, but all of the other creatures are done wonderfully with full make-up and prosthetics. Of course, this movie does deserve some criticism. It has its flaws for sure. For instance, the script is nothing special, and the movie gets heavy-handed at points. Its not award winning material, but it's still a very fun watch. Don't let the overwhelming criticism of this movie scare you away! Give it a chance! You might like it. I would definitely recommend for fans of practical effects work and schlocky sci-fi to see it. "},{"Title":"Welcome to the Val Kilmer Show, sponsored by Magic Mushrooms and Jack Daniels - 40%","Date":"24 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It might be tempting to think that modern film-makers have a God-given right to remake whatever they wish simply because we have better tools with which to make films. From incredible CG characters like Gollum to Keanu Reeves dodging bullets in slow motion, it would be easy to remake a much earlier film and throw every digital trick in the book at it, expecting success and critical acclaim. Of course, it doesn't always work like that as there are any number of things that can scupper a production from backstage fighting, studio disagreements and lead actors' egos clashing. And when you have all three then you get The Island Of Dr. Moreau, a film so mired in issues that it's a miracle it was released or even finished. What's really tragic is that it had a really promising opening and could have been so much better. Instead, it descends into an absolute farce of a film with very little to recommend.David Thewlis plays Edward Douglas, a survivor of a plane crash drifting alone and almost dead at sea. Picked up by a man named Montgomery (Val Kilmer) and slowly nursed back to health, Douglas is taken to a remote island and made a guest of reclusive scientist Doctor Moreau (Marlon Brando). But the island hides a multitude of Moreau subjects - inhuman creatures that are monitored and kept under Moreau's control through implanted pain receptors. As Douglas desperately tries to escape the island, one such creature (Daniel Rigney) discovers the doctor's secret implant and removes it. As the mutants begin to rise up against Moreau and the others, Douglas realises that he must fight for his life before all hope is lost.Believe me when I say that this film really does start off well - the film offers a tempting mystery behind the enigmatic Moreau's jungle paradise and everything looks suitably ramshackle and intriguing. Then Brando himself appears, lording it up and caked in weird snow-white make-up and it's at this point that the film tanks like the Exxon Valdez. It goes from a promising sci-fi mystery with a slight horror element to a drug-fuelled Twin Peaks tribute, populated with dwarfs and jobbing actors covered in excessive amounts of make-up, prosthetics and facial hair. The only exception is Fairuza Balk as the pretty cat-hybrid 'daughter' who is there solely to provide a possible love interest to Thewlis. The cast do what they can with a dodgy (and hastily rewritten) script but none can hold a candle to Kilmer who, like the film, goes utterly off the rails halfway through. It also forgets what the story has established already - for example, the primitive and feral beasts call guns the fire that kills but within half-an-hour, they've learnt the word for guns but also can drive jeeps and reload an AK47. With claws and hooves. Riiiiight.The Island Of Dr. Moreau will probably ensure that this particular H.G. Wells tale won't be remade for quite some time. It isn't a long film but it feels like it, especially once the madness begins and Kilmer's character acts like a junkie mid-relapse. The only real aspect of the production I can applaud is the creature effects which are convincing enough, to a point. Certainly, they made me wonder whether Brando was wearing prosthetics as he looks grossly overweight and acts like a mere shadow of his previous self. I know that sounds harsh but his performance is not his finest hour, one of many that people had during this movie. But this is undoubtedly the Val Kilmer show and frankly, I'd like to know exactly what he was on at the time. As I understand, hardly anybody had a good time on set but never before has that despondency appeared on screen so spectacularly than it did here. The Island Of Dr. Moreau is the worse kind of movie, the sort that builds up your hopes and then knocks them back like that glamorous woman out of your league at the bar. It's more disappointing than it is bad, throwing away its promising potential and settling with being a stupid and moronic action blast. "},{"Title":"Troubled production is decent with flashes of greatness","Date":"12 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Ever wonder where Col. Kurtz would've ended up had he survived the end of Apocalypse Now? Well, now we know He exiled himself to a deserted island to create humanimals -- the horror, the horror.The 1996 version of The Island of Dr. Moreau was such a troubled production that articles, books and documentaries have been made about it, like the 2014 documentary Lost Soul The Doomed Journey of Richard Stanley's Island of Dr. Moreau. Stanley championed the project and wrote the screenplay, but was fired after a few days of filming due to conflicts with Val Kilmer, who wasn't in the best of moods due to being served divorce papers while on set. The production was so bad that Fairuza Balk (the cat-lady, Aissa) literally tried to escape the set, but was caught at the airport in the nick of time. Add to this Brando's well-known eccentricities - not helped by the recent suicide of his daughter, Cheyenne (!) - and constant rewrites and you have a formula for cinematic chaos! In light of the horrible production and the ensuing bad press you would think this would be a lousy movie, but it's actually not that bad. I can see WHY some people don't like it because parts of the third act are pretty insane and don't flow very well, but if you're a sucker for lost-on-an-island type yarns and appreciate the mood & insanity of films like Apocalypse Now and the original Planet of the Apes (It's a madhouse, a MADHOUSE!) you'll probably appreciate it. Don't get me wrong, it's nowhere near the caliber of either of those films, but comparisons are inevitable and it IS entertaining despite its flaws.WHAT DOESN'T WORK The flow of the movie seems off and, as such, the story isn't that compelling, which is mostly apparent in the mounting craziness of the third act, which tempts the viewer to tune out. However, it's not THAT bad. WHAT WORKS The title sequence is kinetic and dazzling, perhaps one of the best in the history of cinema; the score by Gary Chang is varied and all-around phenomenal ('nuff said); the plot is intriguing; the humanimal make-up and actors are quite good with Daniel Rigney's 'Hyena-Swine' standing out (Rigney would be dead a mere year after the film's release); the movie possesses an undeniable creative pizazz; Marlon Brando's 35-minute stint is as captivating as always; the inclusion of Dr. Moreau's Mini-Me is hilarious in hindsight of the Austin Powers trilogy; and there are definite flashes of greatness, like Edward's revelatory talk with Aissa in the third act. Marlon's Dr. Moreau is a variation of Kurtz (i.e. nutjob in the jungle), albeit twenty years later. For Brando fans it's enjoyable seeing him in his old age. This was one of his final films and it shows that he had his magnetic charm until the end.Furthermore, there are some interesting themes if you look closely The humanimals who get to live in Dr. Moreau's abode are more human-like in appearance than the animals living in the smelly humanimal 'village' in the forest; the most human-like one, Aissa, he even refers to as his daughter. Wouldn't this lead to tensions between the factions? While Moreau is a benevolent dictator he's still a dictator and dictator's are rarely good. When Hyena-Swine usurps the crown he immediately becomes a malevolent dictator. The original version runs 96 minutes and the DC 99 minutes. The film was shot in Cairns, Queensland, Australia. GRADE B- "},{"Title":"Strictly so-so.","Date":"31 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Third official version of the H.G. Wells novel was such a troubled production that it's fortunate it would be watchable to any degree. In any event, the story of its making is infinitely more interesting than the final result. For those not familiar with the story, it deals with a plane crash survivor, Edward Douglas (David Thewlis) adrift at sea and picked up by a passing ship, and ending up trapped on a remote island where the local mad scientist, Dr. Moreau (a hilarious Marlon Brando) has been busy turning animals into human like abominations. He's just in time to witness as the beasts start tiring of their treatment and stage a horrific uprising, while Moreau's second in command, Montgomery (an amusing Val Kilmer) goes bat *beep* crazy, and Edward becomes taken with a cat woman named Aissa (sexy Fairuza Balk). This film is indeed quite a mess, and is never terribly involving, but at least it manages to be a somewhat *intriguing* mess. The ideas at work here still make some impact, although it would have helped had there been a stronger protagonist. Thewlis, who has gone on record as saying this was a very negative experience for him, looks largely disinterested, unlike Kilmer and screen legend Brando (Brando looking very pasty faced and rotund here); they both ham it up something fierce. Balk is quite appealing, and there's also the always welcome presence of Ron Perlman, playing the Sayer of the Law. One good thing that can be said is that the creature designs by the Stan Winston Studio *are* indeed impressive, and the actors buried under the makeup all do a creditable job, especially Daniel Rigney and Mark Dacascos as the scary characters Hyena-Swine and Lo-Mai. This movie is beautiful in a visual sense, so it does have the look of quality, with production design by Graham Grace Walker and cinematography by William A. Fraker; it was filmed on location in Queensland, Australia. One can't help but wonder what could have been had original director Richard Stanley (the man behind the cult items Hardware and Dust Devil) not been fired. As it is, legendary political thriller master John Frankenheimer (The Manchurian Candidate, Seven Days in May), who was brought in to try to create something releasable, does a slick job, even if his heart wasn't really in it. Fans of the book would be advised to stick with the '32 and '77 adaptations; overall, this film does have good horror movie moments, and ends fairly well, but isn't too memorable when all is said and done. Six out of 10. "},{"Title":"Once More with Moreau","Date":"9 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Sitting through Prophecy director John Frankenheimer's pretentious horror fantasy The Island of Dr. Moreau, starring Marlon Brando and Val Kilmer, may be enough to turn anybody into an animal. Presumably, the financial success of recent genetic thrillers such as Jurassic Park and Species prompted producer Edward R. Pressmen to reanimate H.G. Wells' literary classic for its third rendition. Ironically, this deeply flawed but imaginatively updated version suffers a fate similar to that of the genetic mutants created by the titular villain on his remote island.The movie opens on three plane crash survivors who have been adrift in the Java Sea for days. Two of them are killed by a shark leaving our hero, Edward Douglas (David Thewlis of Naked), a United Nations peace negotiator. Douglas awakens to the sight of a sailing vessel hovering over him. He collapses from exhaustion and reawakens to find Montgomery (Val Kilmer of Tombstone) attending him. Douglas is too weak to do anything more than swoon. Eventually, the ship deposits them at an exotic island where the research center of Dr. Moreau is located. Montgomery persuades Douglas to join him, on the basis that they have a telecommunications system on the island that Douglas can use to contact the UN. As we soon learn, however, Montgomery is lying. The island is actually the home and refuge of Dr. Moreau, a brilliant geneticist who was forced into seclusion due to his controversial experiments on animals. Moreau has learned how to transform common animals into human beings, or almost human beings. Douglas finds himself trapped on the island, surrounded by Moreau's beastly creations. He tries to escape several times to no avail. First, he stumbles in on an ungodly birth scene, then finds himself in a half-man, half-animal zoo at an abandoned military airfield. Finally, Douglas meets Moreau. They argue about which way the scales of morality should tilt and dredge up Biblical passages to support their arguments. Moreau tries to explain how his experiments will help mankind. He reveals that he has discovered that the devil is a collection of genes. Moreau means to sort out those bad genes and produce an ideal human. He is even willing to accept a failure or two along the road to success, which accounts for the vast number of beast-men. Moreau keeps these ugly creatures under his thumb by means of implants which he uses to shock them into paralysis. Meanwhile, Montgomery keeps the creatures dazed and confused with narcotics.The inventive but predictable Richard Stanley & Ron Hutchinson screenplay updates the 1896 Wells novel and does a good job of establishing the action in the 1990s. The opening 40 minutes introduces audiences to everyone and everything they need to know about the plot. Sadly, the script packs no surprises. If you cannot figure out what's going to happen from one moment to the next in the film then you must be on horse tranquilizers. Suffice it to say, Moreau doesn't qualify as a date movie, (unless you never want to see your date again). Some of the gruesome looking creatures may even go on to inhabit the island of your dreams. Stan Winston's creature designs are impressive. His mutants look as convincing as mutants could possibly look. Sometimes, they are even nauseating. Typically, they retain the basic shape of the animal from which they were mutated so they have a beastly looking head, hands and feet, while the rest of them is hidden beneath their apparel to conserve on costs. The first grisly glimpse that Douglas gets is a multi-breasted beast mother siring an E.T. infant. The other animals are a hideous collection of mutants with claw hands and snaggled teeth. They gallery of beast men and women appears twice as grisly, gyrating their horrid bodies as Montgomery peddles narcotics to kill them happy. Marlon Brando treats moviegoers to another of his characteristically peculiar performances. There is nothing ordinary about Brando's brilliant but eccentric Dr. Moreau. Brando stages a dramatic entrance, swathed in white garments under a pagoda-style hat, resembling a Japanese Kabuki actor in sunglasses. He tolerates the steamy island heat and wears chalky make-up to preserve his delicate skin from the sun. Metaphorically, this sun allergy relates somehow to Moreau's moral infamy; he cannot stand up to the light of morality. He appears like the great white hope in the camp of the beast men. Brando adopts the same sissified voice that he used for his Fletcher Christian in the 1962 version of Mutiny on the Bounty. He also never appears twice in the same wardrobe. One scene finds him garbed like a nocturnal fridge raider while in another scene he appears bundled up like an Arab sultan. Audiences are meant to identify with the David Thewlis' narrator. Incidentally, Thewlis replaced Rob Morrow of CBS-TV's Northern Exposure. A similar air of mystery clouds Val Kilmer's Montgomery. Montgomery gravitates between moments of extreme clarity and apathetic zombie like drug dazes. Either the script is purposefully vague or (more realistically) the editors sheared Kilmer's performance to reduce the film's running time to 90 minutes so they could squeeze in more showings and parlay a quick profit. Ultimately, Montgomery assumes a Luifer-like character in his apparent rivalry with Moreau. Again, the script doesn't clarify this part of the story. Is Montgomery Moreau's rival? We never know for certain.The Island of Dr. Moreau ranks as an ambitious but flawed horror fantasy. Anybody who relishes Frankenheimer's version of Moreau can hope that someday New Line Cinema will release a director's cut that restores the lost parts of the film. This well-made but routine concludes with Douglas moralizing about how Moreau's island serves as a microcosm of the world and that we must all go in fear of man's unstable nature. The only thing that audiences can really go in fear of is the sequel that might lie over the horizon. "},{"Title":"Not that bad","Date":"18 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Minor SpoilerI haven't seen it in a while but I don't remember it being as horrible as everyone says it is.  I remember reading the book and I didn't really like the book that much either.  I guess it all depends upon personal preferences.  I suppose the thing that really sucked about this film were the performances given by Kilmer and Brando.  Honestly, Brando cannot talk to save his life.  And Kilmer's performance as Montgomery was just ugh, especially after he goes 'insane.'  David Thewlis, Fairuza Balk and everyone else were fine though.  I liked Thewlis because he's doesn't fit the classic model for a hero.  Maybe I would have liked it more if it wasn't so depressing, but the book was dark and dreary too, so I can't really say its bad. "},{"Title":"Watch this for Kilmer's Performance","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"    The Island of Dr. Moreau isn't a very good movie. However, it's worth a rental to see Val Kilmer's performance as the drug-addicted scientist Montgomery. His role is original, and adds an important feel of isolation to David Thewlis' character, on the island. Brando isn't wasted, but he doesn't have much screen time. The movie is very slipshod, and never seems to really go in depth on anything. The fate of the film is not to be blamed on director John Frankenheimer. He was hired after the original director left the project, and a source close to the film has commented that Frankenheimer was just hired to make it releaseable. I'd give this a 5 (always on the IMDb scale), "},{"Title":"Here, Fairuza! Here, kitty-kitty!","Date":"2 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" If I can have Fairuza Balk as my own pet - I mean, girlfriend - sell me a ticket to the island right now.Popcorn-worthy film has extra butter with resident mad scientist Marlon Brando making good in rampant experimentation, but his success rate is a rather dubious commodity. Soon his children become savvy to their father's insincerity and incite an uprising that a supernova would find comparatively synonymous. David Thewlis is caught in the middle while Val Kilmer is busy toking out what little brains he has left.Wild movie. Brando is great as usual, but it's ravishing Fairuza Balk who keeps me coming back for more, especially to see her beautiful body in a dance sequence.... ooh Ru, that's hot. "},{"Title":"An intriguing premise turns into a campy curio instead.","Date":"23 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" When U.N. diplomat (David Thewlis) gets lost at sea after surviving a plane crash. He gets found by an mysterious stranger (Val Kilmer) on a boat and he's been brought to the remote island in the South Pacific. This U.N. diplomat finds himself in a bizarre, fantastic but harsh experiments turning animal life into human-like beasts. The person, who's responsible for creating this barbaric goal is Dr. Moreau (The Late Oscar-WinnerMarlon Brando). Which Moreau and his assistant tries to created the perfect creation by crossing animal DNA with human DNA but things gets out of a hand.Directed by John Frankenheimer (Phophecy, Reindeer Games, Ronin) made an fascinating but flawed and sometimes unintentionally funny film to the classic novel by H.G. Wells (The Time Machine, The War of the Worlds). Which this film has plenty of problems during filming. DirectorFrankenheimer wasn't the first choice to make this movie. It was actually cult filmmakerRichard Stanley (Dust Devil, Hardware), who got fired during a few days of shooting. Once Stanley left the project, so did actorRob Morrow left the film as well and Thewlis replaced Morrow. The picture didn't go well during filming because of clashing with the stars, script re-writes and the studio kept inference with the final product.DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (2.351) transfer (also in Pan & Scan) and an strong-Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. This DVD is actually the Unrated Director's Cut by adding four minutes of additional footage. DVD includes Star Highlights from the cast in previous movies, on-screen interviews with the cast & crew, trailers and cast & crew information. Despite some flaws, this movie isn't all lost. Thewlis and Fairuza Balk as Moreau's mysterious daughter gives the best performances in the film. Four-Time Oscar-WinnerStan Winston's remarkable imaginative make-up design work on the creatures. Brando is a hoot in a small supporting role, which his role should have been bigger. This film has an strange sense of humour but even when it's not always indented. Over the years now, this picture has turned into a Camp Classic. This odd-ball curio is worth a look. Written by Richard Stanley and Ron Hutchinson (Against the Wall, The Burning Season, The Tuskegee Airmen). Super 35. (*** ½/*****). "},{"Title":"Over the top Brando and cool Winston FX make for fun time","Date":"29 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Much has been said about Marlon Brando's signature roles (eg GODFATHER, LAST TANGO IN Paris, ON THE WATERFRONT, etc)but it's his lesser seen performances that truly enhance his stature. The guys is always watchable and never boring and his role in MOREAU is just one of many examples. Weighing in at close to 300 lbs. and covered in white kabuki style make-up Brando's role in this is borderline insane and pushes MOREAU well beyond being just another late '90's circa FX filled action pix into something that over time will be considered a real cinematic oddity. My favorite sequence is when he is playing a piano duet with the world's smallest man, something that probably inspired Michael Myers to create the character mini-me in the AUSTIN POWERS series.Cutting edge FX (for the time) by Stan Winston and brisk direction by John Frankenheimer, in one of his last outings overall position MOREAU as an enjoyable 100 minute plus ride for fantasy film fans and a must for Brando-philes. "}{"Title":"I can see why it's got bad reviews but hey I like it! (so sue me!) SPOILERS FOLLOW!","Date":"17 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I've read a lot of critic reviews and a lot of reviews of the audience and I watched it, fearing the worst! Instead, I liked it on an overall scale. I've seen a lot worse like 'Jack Frost' (not the Michael Keaton version but the film about a killer's spirit trapped in a snowman and goes on a killing spree! I found that film so stupid, I turned it off after 20 minutes!) But then again, I saw the unrated directors cut and saw probably more gore and blood than the PG original version gives out. Okay, here's the story. The year is 2010. Edward Douglas (David Thewlis) is lost at sea being the soul survivor of a plane crash (there were two other survivors but you'll have to find out about them yourself!). He is rescued by Montgomery (Val Kilmer) and taken to an 'island paradise' operated by Dr Moreau (Marlon Brando). It is while Edward is on the island waiting for the communications system to be fixed (so he can call for help) that he finds out what the doctor's secret project is. This mainly all happens in the first 20 minutes but I wont tell you the rest!Okay, first of all, I can see why this film has been beaten and bruised by so many people (especially the critics). There are several flaws in each film. In between conversations there are several pauses and although this is meant to put in suspense, it just makes the film drag. Also, the truth over the doctor's project is revealed in the first 30 minutes so it seems that the next 1 hour 10 minutes are a bit of a drag. Oh and Marlon Brando in that gear&#133;. Sorry it doesn't work!!!!!. On an off note, I've got a feeling that the doctor and his little friend were the inspiration for the 'South Park' characters Doctor Maphesto and his little monkey friend. I could be wrong though!However, this film is NOT (repeat NOT) unwatchable. It's quite interesting. Although Marlon is the star billing (well not on IMDb.com but definitely on the DVD cover and film credits), David and Val stole the show hands down (Hey I found a Val film I like! Cool! I'm not counting 'Willow!' in that because that rocks anyway!) Seeing him play the insane role was cool and I have to admit he was sexy!As for David, his acting was amazing (as usual) I cant think of any other word to describe it! I cant work out his accent but from watching 'Naked', his accent in 'Dr Moreau' is Mancunian but its stiffer than that in 'Naked', like he was trying to be posh or he was bored or just had a stick up his bum! This is one of the great moral stories of all time. The original story must have got its idea of 'Playing God' from Mary Shelley's book 'Frankenstein. We have the doctor trying to play God and create the perfect species by injecting splicing animals with 'perfect' human genes. Similarily Frankenstein decides to create the perfect men with a high intelligence and beauty! However, in 'Dr Moreau', there is the modern fable that sometimes, from the way we act, we are not always men but resemble the beast. This is portrayed highly at the end of the film with the final narrative.Also, the title sequence is terrific!Overall, I give it a 7/10- good but could be better!H xxxxxx "},{"Title":"A dark Island","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  About Dr Moreau(Marlon Brando) is a geneticist who has been using science to turn animals into humans, in hope of creating the perfect life form. Edward Douglas(David Thewlis)is the only survivor of a fatal plane crash, he has no other choice but to stay on Dr Moreau's remote island in the South Pacific.  Hoping only to stay a little while, Douglas's stay turns into a nightmare when he finds the insane Moreau and the untrustworthy Montgomery(Val Kilmer) have been constructing brutal experiments that have turned creatures into human-like beasts that blindly treat Moreau as a god. When things go wrong and the beasts revolt, Douglas finds himself fighting for his life and the future of mankind!Now, for my opinion.)  After reading H.G. Well's book, The Island of Dr Moreau, I wanted to see how the movies treated the book in their adaptation of the cult classic story. I've found that this 1996 film brought the book to a modern day world, giving leave for Dr Moreau's technology to expand and venture even further into the unknown. I thought their own translation of Dr Moreau, Montgomery and Edward Douglas, were really quite believable.  The human beasts are pretty believable, but I felt as though they didn't quite have the eerie affect on me as the book had.  The music does help add depth the movie. The only thing that I was annoyed with when I first watched it, was I felt as though all the dialogue was rushed and the movie went to fast.  Second time I watched it, I was able to catch more and appreciate the plot without getting overwhelmed with everything else. Now as a warning on this film, Dr Moreau is obsessed with his work, becoming a god and having his 'children' obey him, this leads to him saying much about 'finding the devil in science', which he rather extensively explains in one scene to the troubled Douglas.  But I will say, I enjoyed it more than I thought I would, and wouldn't mind watching it again.  I think one of my favorite scenes was when Edward comes across Aissa dancing.  The choreography and music in this scene are just stunning!  "},{"Title":"not nearly as bad","Date":"19 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This film was not nearly as bad as judging from the comments by some Americans. Acting was good, dilemmas were relevant, only thing seriously lacking was contextualization. Characters weren't historically well contextualized to make their activities coherent. Action wasn't founded but happened unexpectedly out of nowhere . It gave a chaotic sense to the film. Calling this film boring is totally off base. This is not a boring film. It just tried to encompass too many complex topics into a relatively brief film animalistic brutality, confusion of origins, the frustration of many unanswerable questions to existence and suffering, the fragility of civil society and the often rigid adherence to laws to maintain a community. The film portrayed the dilemmas of human condition, suspended somewhere  between gods and animals. This film is definitely better than 90% of cheesy, brain dead, rubbish coming out of Holy wood.   "},{"Title":"I liked it.","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie reminded of Jurassic Park. This movie was I believe more realistic but not as good. 1) Jurassic Park's plot was based off this movie. How I know, DNA research. H. G. Well's book was written in 1899 or around there. Jurassic Park was written in the late 1900s.2) This movie I thought was a lot more doable. You can't take any mosquito and magically find just Dino DNA in it. It just doesn't happen. You can mix human and normal animal DNA more easily because of the fact they are both alive today.3) Yes, this movie was a whole hell of a lot more depressing. JP ended with a kind of sad but relatively happen ending. Now, face it, a lot of things in this world do not end happily ever after. The world is not a fairy tale. Things don't always end happy.4) The character's were majorly changed between the book and the movie of JP. The JP Owner was more of an a**hole in the book and gets killed. Certain other didn't die as they did in the book. The Island of Dr. Moreau had a mad scientist who was portrayed well, and had a Montgomery who you could tell was mad five minutes into the movie. Then there was Edward Douglas who played a role of being amazed by what the scientist was doing. To tell you the truth, his attitude wasn't out of line. If you telling certain people you are their father, why would you hurt your own children horribly more than they deserved. Montgomery and Dr. Moreau did not get along but ate together, which means they hid their differences when in a group of other people. Which is more of a professional way to handle a situation. Fairuza Balk played a very sweet person, Aissa, whom did not like the changes she was going through. I believe everybody did an excellent job in acting. I do agree with most of the comments that say that the killing of the father may have been a little too graphic. If I was in this movie I would have liked to played Val Kilmer's role. His role was hella funny. Both movies had the same motto. Life finds a way. You can't control everything.5) Everything in JP was theory. Things in The Island of Dr. Moreau could probably actually happen. They will probably never ever have a Dinosaur Park in this world at any time in the future. It wasn't an excellent film but wasn't horrible either. "},{"Title":"enchanting","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Forget boring. Forget wooden. Sometimes you just like a movie for its entertainment value. What can you do with this dated story of animals becoming human through medical technology? I know, put actors like Marlon Brando, David Thewlis, and Val Kilmer in it and let them go with their characters. Val in a skirt? David being introduced to the doctor's 'family' with utter seriousness? Marlon wearing a full ice bucket on his head to keep cool? Oh, he's plenty cool ). I laughed all the way through, and I didn't miss the point of the animal implants and mantras either. Excellent movie, much better than the first version which took itself too seriously. "},{"Title":"Dr. Moreau is a brilliant allegory about the duplicitous nature of Mankind and his struggle to balance the elements of god and animal within him.","Date":"1 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The Island of Dr. Moreau (1996)  You'll probably find it in the Science Fiction section of your video store, but as a Sci-fi Thriller, this movie seems pretty lame (don't they all).  However, as an allegory of the duplicitous nature of man and his role in the cosmic anarchy of post-modernism, it is one of the most brilliant, inquisitive, and socially relevant films of our times.  The movie is loosely based on the classic short story by H.G. Wells, but it surpasses its source in both scope and insight, while preserving the author's narrative style and thematic interests.  The story focuses on the work of a genetic engineer who escapes the restrictions of civilized society to create an island civilization populated by man-beasts of his own creation.  As the good doctor seeks to find and eliminate the gene that drives men to evil, his creations struggle with the duality of their natures.  Half man, half animal, they must choose between their primal urges and obedience to the law imposed by their creator.  Try to see the story through the eyes of the man-beasts and listen to the questions it's asking Where does man fit on the scale between god and animal?  What is the function of law?  Can there be law without pain? Can there be law without God?  Also look for parallel characters to God, Satan, and Moses.  Is there a Christ figure in the story?  If you don't like movies that make you think, skip this one for sure.  But if you can appreciate films that rock your worldview, this one is definitely worth your time.  Rated PG-13 for violence and general scariness.*  "},{"Title":"Brando - still pure genius","Date":"3 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I am in total agreement with one of the earlier posters who went into viewing this movie expecting rubbish and was pleasantly surprised by a gem. The premiere diamond in the rough here is the Marlon Brando, whom given the rarity of his performances at the end of his life, totally knocked this role out of the park! He is both disturbing and hysterically funny at the same time...effortlessly! It's no fluke, it's no mistake, it's truly a master at work exercising pure genius! This is a man that has played motorcycle thugs, rapists, godfathers and military demagogues and yet he still had the creative range, to play this Kabuki makeup'd, mu-mu wearing mad scientist with an overbite and British accent as authentic as any dowager auntie on loan from a Merchant/Ivory film! The way his character goes on about the heat (hello , it's the tropics) is worth a belly laugh alone. It's so old school British. Watching him I couldn't help but think he was having a ball creating this highly camp but incredibly plausible character. I dare say he much preferred this vehicle to The Freshman...ad to all those naysayers out there i challenge you to play both movies back to back and see which one you favor as a testament to Brando's latter day roles. "},{"Title":"Great movie. I do not care what others say, this was good","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I have no idea why so many people say this movie sucked. It did not suck. In fact, I thought it was one of the better movies I have seen. Now, unfortunately, I have not seen the original Island of Dr. Moreau, but if it's better than this, it must be one of the best movies ever made. And, contrary to popular commentary, Marlin Brando played his role better than any actor I can think of. He was the father of the creatures, and he acted like it. And that little guy. Oh, he was great. I just wonder who they got to play him. But the whole movie was really worth the two hours I spent watching it on TV. And it's worth the time to rent it.But remember, the best movies are the ones you go into unexpectedly and find out for yourself if they are good. Don't go by what anybody says, heck not even me. All you can do is watch the movie and form an opinion for yourself. That's the only way one can truly enjoy something. "},{"Title":"If only all films could be as complete as this","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Much like the story Lord of the Flies (by William Golding) this story/film touches on how humans are animals within. Surely that in so few words the film can be summarised but I truly recommend you to view this film ... should the lame superficial plot of the film distract you from the meaning then you are then odiously not the desired viewer of the film. Films of this nature seem to be overseen as they seem to have a distracting facia but on looking closer the story unravels and new meaning appears.  "},{"Title":"Don't listen to the critics","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I Started watching this film expecting the worst after reading the reviews for it and I ended up enjoying this film a lot. The photography is stunning in places which makes up for the weak storyline. Marlon Brando is great in this film it's a shame Val kilmer is disinterested in making a go of it.The Monsters are superb I especialy liked the the little guy who dressed like the doctor. 7 out of 10  "}{"Title":"An unjustly overlooked film...","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I can never understand why people jump on the bandwagon of hating a movie they really don't understand. This is a film which has a lot to say about society, a fact which more than a few SF slacker fans could not appreciate. This version of Welle's classic story was filmed in the mid-90's when the world was in uproar over the Bosnian conflict. I'm bringing this fact up because I think that this film --aside from the usual 'don't mess with God's creation' crap -- was trying to make a statement about international and domestic relations, about how the more governments try to interfere with international and domestic policies, the more they foul it up. Hewlitt's U.N. peace-keeping negotiator character reminded me of the U.N.'s inneffectual stance in Bosnia, something which I don't think was a mere coincidence. His character is laughably inneffective in dealing with the tensions at hand, just like the U.N. in real life.The mutated animals Moreau created have a suspiciously ethnic look to them...could it be that Frankenheimer was trying to make a statement about our governement's inneffectual domestic policies toward the underclass? How well-meaning liberals sometimes do more harm then good?I think that this film was overlooked by a segment of society that expected some cybergeek horrorfest. "},{"Title":"why don't anyone like this movie?","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I don't know why people hate this movie. I thought it was good. It's a good science fiction movie. The acting was good. The plot and the effects were good. It had some action in it. I especially like the ending. There wasn't really anything wrong with the movie. In my opinion it was a good remake. Why anyone doesn't like this movie I'll never know. But I do recommend this movie to anyone who likes a good Science Fiction movie, and liked the book. "},{"Title":"Unique, out of the mainstream, thought-provoking, great soundtrack","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If you are bored with traditional romance or adventure or horror films and want something different, something powerful, this is it.  The title sequence is amazing (huge vivid images of microscope views of bacteria moving, eyeballs blinking, all flashing rapidly through a sequence).  The acting is powerful.  The story is very thought-provoking and, given the time when the original story was written, not too unrealistic. The soundtrack is great - mysterious, powerful, unique - again, something you'd like if you're bored with modern pop music or rock or tear-jerker romantic string orchestras.  But the film does get vividly violent and may be *too* powerful and emotionally disturbing for some. "},{"Title":"Excellent film","Date":"2 June 2004","Score":"14 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of my favourite movies. I'm a fan of H.G. Wells' books and I think this movie is true to the book. It's much better than the 1977 version. Brando does a great job and Thewlis instantly became one of my favourite actors. Fairuza Balk is absolutely gorgeous!Wells' stories are surprisingly advanced and mature. Island of Dr. Moreau and War of the Worlds were completely believable, unlike some of the modern adaptations of his works (e.g. the movie Independence Day). Considering that this story was written in the late 1800s, it's held up quite well and is more relevant than ever.  "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"18 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have seen the devil in my microscope, and I have chained him. - Dr. Moreau (Marlon Brando)Hyena-Swine, Boar Man, Bison Man, Fox Lady, Sow Lady, Melting Bulldog ... this is the island that Dr. Moreau has sown (story by H.G.Wells)Brando (as the doctor) is an adamantly convincing godfather of animals. His daughter Aissa (Fairuza Balk) and his assistant Montgomery (Val Kilmer) must reap the fruits of his labor.Ron Perlman (Sayer of the Law) and Temuera Morrison (Azazello) add an extra spice that piquantly compliments the creator's vile kingdom.If in the mood for something off the beaten path - don't hesitate.  "},{"Title":"A fine afternoon movie to not take to seriously.","Date":"8 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Let me lead in by saying the value of The Island of Dr. Moreau jumps exponentially if viewed in conjunction with the documentary Lost Souls, which explores the ordeal of realizing this film from concept to fruition.That said, this movie is perfectly good afternoon monster movie fare, almost quint in its feel. While it embarks on a modern telling of the classic novel, so many elements remain timeless due to the nature of its construction that the timeframe can be oblique. As the movie was in the infancy of CGI, special effects are practical and rather impressive. The story itself it a bit mucked, and the acting of the three leads are practically phoned in, but it's still unique stuff. This is a fun, throw back movie that shouldn't be taken too seriously. "},{"Title":"Animal Crazy!","Date":"10 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The Island of Dr. Moreau (1996) Dir John Frankenheimer / Cast David Thewlis, Marlon Brando, Val Kilmer, Fairuza Balk, Temuera Morrison Remake of the 1977 classic about authority and power over a powerless medium. David Thewlis is boarded onto a ship where Val Kilmer takes him to an island populated by creatures that are half man and half animal. A device is planted within their system that controls them. Concept still works with much suspense but the climax is an ongoing battle that never seems to end. Director John Frankenheimer succeeds in the film's mood but he is hardly matching his work in The Manchurian Candidate. Thewlis fares well amongst the cast as a drifter becoming a prisoner but upon learning the process involved he sets his sights on survival. Marlon Brando is an interesting case as Moreau but his concluding scene was perhaps a tad premature. Val Kilmer is confusing towards the conclusion and unreadable before that. He locks Thewlis in a room and becomes like a different person. Fairuza Balk plays an animalistic female who attempts to help Thewlis but unfortunately her role is nothing more than a romantic tease and a violent dismiss. Whether viewers will prefer this over spending all day watching Animal Planet is up to them. The theme still works regarding our animalistic behavior that traumatize our society. Score 7 / 10 "},{"Title":"Go see it - it's worth it!","Date":"4 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie is likely to be the worst movie I've ever watched. It's not only incredibly bad work concerning special effects and make-up but also a lousy performance of all highly decorated actors. I can't believe that Marlon Brando accepted a role in such a project. He was awarded a Golden Raspberry for his performance and he deserves it. H.G.Wells novel contains a lot of social critics and critics on sciences and medicine. There's nothing left from Well's intentions in that adaption from 1997. I'd recommend reading the book rather than wasting time with that movie. But after all this movie is bad on such a level that it is already worth being watched! "},{"Title":"Island of Dr Moreau  Unrated Cut","Date":"4 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Essentially the  Directors Cut  or should say is the unrated cut ,scenes , such as the beginning of the beast peoples take over which is more blood thirty , the killing , of Dr Moreau , teeth biting into his flesh , also there is one  Hyena Swine  chews the doctors ( father, the) arm off with inter-cuts of various animal people's blood soaked teeth. I personally believe , how a few minutes of graphic shoots shown, in sequence , can make the difference . The reason for my mid rating is , the blu ray release , did not not have the any bonus features , no commentary track , extended documentaries or a retrospect of people who work on the film , I do not know if the DVD release , has the features I mentioned , I perused , one release online and there were no indication of any features . Though the picture are excellent on the Blu ray and likewise with the audio , I hope this will be of help , to interested parties of this much maligned film ....Thank you , for the opportunity .. "},{"Title":"Not a bad movie but you won't miss it","Date":"9 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I remember watching the movie trailer on TV when I was a kid in high school. The movie was sorta interesting especially it got Val Kilmer and Marlon Brando. Now that I've been able to watch it thanks to Comcast's on-demand, well I certainly didn't miss much. The movie pretty much was so and so. So many of the actors' talent was wasted by the director and I heard there was some clashes with the director and the cast. The art of the movie could use some improvement as well as the music and camera direction. Anyways, nothing was spent on watching this film but probably not really a film you wanna watch on Saturday night. I certainly want my 1 hour and 36 minutes back. "}{"Title":"Marlon Brando ticks off the production designer","Date":"10 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" and loses a death-match with dignity.Seriously, I can't think of any other explanation. It seems like they went out of their way to make him look silly, from the giant Mumu to the ice bucket on the top of his head.This was the third major attempt to bring H.G. Wells story to the big screen, and it really isn't an improvement over the other two. It fails in that Moreau's actions really make no sense. He seems to be mutilating these animals for the pure hell of it.They also shoe-in a love story between the protagonist and the panther girl, something all three movies did but H.G. Wells never would have done.Val Kilmner plays his associate, Montgeomery, and he at least has the virtue of being nuts from the drugs. "},{"Title":"there's a robbery at Woolworths........","Date":"5 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Hilarious for all the right reasons, the film is an oddity and well worth seeing, but not for the usual stuff you would expect, but for what was going on behind the scenes whilst it was being made.For what it's worth, the story consists of a man meeting Val Kilmer, who takes him to the titular place, meets Brando, who has combined humans and animals.Brando offers one of them a biscuit, they get vexed by tat, kill him, Kilmer impersonates Brando, Thewlis looks puzzled, and the worlds smallest man is in it. Absolutely crazy stuff.Brando is surprisingly sane in his role as the mad Doctor, and Kilmer, looking as withdrawn as Thewlis, is a hoot as Montgomery, who goes balls to the wall come the end.It's a genuine 'so bad it's good movie', lots wrong with it, but so right in a sadistic sort of way.Poorly edited, crazy narrative, and a feeling of funk all over it. It's worth a trip to this island, just to show how a crazy film set can influence the overall product.This film will be studied for years. "},{"Title":"Plays Much Better Today Than It Did When Released","Date":"30 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The Island of Dr. Moreau (1996)** (out of 4)Edward Douglas (David Thewlis) is found floating at sea in a raft and is saved when a boat being led by a man named Montgomery (Val Kilmer) comes to the rescue. The two men end up back on an island where all sorts of strange creatures are. These creatures, it turns out, are the work of Dr. Moreau (Marlon Brando) who is trying to creature the perfect mix of human and animal.When I originally saw this film in 1996 I was shocked at how bad it was and I couldn't help but wonder how it turned out so bad. Then we got a brilliant documentary by David Gregory, which explains what happened during the production so I decided to re-visit the movie and I was surprised to see that time has actually been rather kind to the picture. There's no question that it's still a complete mess, which is no wonder considering what happened during the production but at the same time there's quite a bit of good things to be had here.For starters, the special effects are actually wonderful and this is especially true for the make-up effects. The animal people's make-up is terrific and you actually feel as if you're looking at a real mix between humans and animals. Of course, these effects are a major step up from the stuff we had seen in earlier version. Another major plus is that the story manages to do a good job in the creatures problems with who they are. There are many scenes where they want to know if they're human or some sort of animal and I found these scenes to be rather intelligent.The performances are also something that took a beating when the film was originally released but outside of Kilmer phoning in his performance, what we get here is actually pretty good. Thewlis makes for a good leading man and Fairuza Balk is good in her role of the panther woman. The various actors who appear as the creatures do a very good job at well and especially how hard it is to act with all that make-up on. Then, there's Marlon Brando. I hated his performance the first time I saw it but I must admit that it worked for me on this viewing. I thought he did a rather good job playing the father to these and I actually liked the way he tried to parent these creatures.Of course, that doesn't cover some of the really bad stuff here including the entire sequence with the ice bucket on his head. Other decisions the actor made like the white make-up was also incredibly silly and just doesn't fit in the film. Another problem with the movie is the entire relationship between Douglas and the panther woman just doesn't work. There's also obvious issues with the production that shines through including a rather action-packed and silly ending. I'd also argue that it just seems like the original film wanted to be something more intelligent but that was scraped.THE ISLAND OF DR. MOREAU still isn't a good movie but at the same time it's certainly not as bad as it was viewed in 1996. I'm one of the people who really crushed this film when it was released but this latest viewing had me seeing it a tad bit better. Still, you can't help but call this a disappointment since the materials were there for something much better. "},{"Title":" None  shall  leave  the  island alive!    That  is  the  Law!  ","Date":"19 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" In 1896, H.G. Wells that incomparable English writer wrote the fantastic novel  The Island of Dr. Moreau.  Since then, no less than five film versions have emerged on the silver screen. Beginning in 1913, it was called 'The Island of Terror' and created both heated controversy and moral outrage. Charles Laughton and Bela Lugosi's version was called 'The Island of Lost Souls.' Burt Lancaster and Michael York did theirs in 1977. In this modern adaptation of the same name, we have the late Marlon Brando as Dr. Moreau, Val Kilmer as his assistant, while David Thewlis is the Englishman stranded on that mysterious spit of land. There, he is welcomed as a guest, but unexpectedly discovers a brilliant, but unhinged scientist who has been tampering with hideous DNA experiments. As a result, the entire island is now teeming with animal mutations bent on killing him. Led by noted actors like Ron Perlman as the Sayer of the Law, the movie becomes a fright-fest in terror. Detractors point out, Brando's less than convincing role and his obese size. Never-the-less, there is Stan Winston's extraordinary creations to frighten those not so observant. A good film for the interested audience. **** "},{"Title":"Utterly Pointless","Date":"10 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" One word to describe this film pointless. I mean, what was the purpose of this after all? So, cast away David Thewlis lands on this island whose habitants are animals with human characteristics such as speaking and notions of right and wrong, all of them created by the great interpreter of Colonel Kurtz (Marlon Brando), this time as Dr. Moreau, another crazy man living on a jungle who has his own view of the world. Oh, the horror...the horror wasn't here though. It's simply a dull project that has nothing to say and show.Basically, what comes after the arriving of this strange man is a rebellion from part of the creatures that seem to have more power than their father and this desire of being human, just like us. It's not given much of a reason of why they want that, why this is so important to them. It's very vague! I believe that films that involve science and questions about ethics, humanity and scientific progress versus religion, those films must, at all times, have something great to say, a plausible way to make viewers think What if such thing happens? How we would react?. Those insights are important but they weren't given here. I don't believe H.G. Wells would write a novel just to show an adventure, he must have made more than that, the film failed to capture this. It was nightmare to make this film (just check info at trivia) and it is a nightmare to watch it as well. If the creatures made by Stan Winston are the most enjoyable thing here, the rest is completely absurd by starting with the awful script (if there was one while making this thing), and ending with the waste of good actors like Brando, Val Kilmer (why he had to impersonate Brando as the doctor?) and Thewlis, reduced to playing scary expressions for the whole mess. Fairuza Balk deserves some credit for playing Moreau's creature/daughter, she was good and the actors who play the creatures as well. One of those flicks you can't wait for the ending to come right away once you started. I watched it and didn't like. If I were you I would skip this with no regrets. On the other hand, I know I'm regretting the missed hour and a half... 3/10 "},{"Title":"Boredom Island","Date":"1 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I could not make it to the end. The story is so ridiculous and the plot development is so slow that I rolled my eyes many times in a matter of minutes. The crazy scientist says lots of things but does not speak anything at all. They are all just vague sentences that don't interest the spectator. The only decent thing in this film are the special effects. Until the 55 minutes I watched, there is no such thing as horror or action, just a bunch of animal-people grunting and moving freaky. Marlon Brando is a waste; a good actor like him could've made a good film to avail his talent, but what can I do about it... "},{"Title":"I heard","Date":"1 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I heard that this movie was critiqued rather badly so I was slow to pick it up from the video shop. Now David Thewlis is one of my favourite actors and although this movie was canned by others I found it intriguing and well written (a criteria of mine) A frying pan into fire story as Mr Thewlis is rescued from the sea only to be kept as a prisoner on this strange island where man and beast are one. I love Fairuza Balk as one or Marlon Brandos 'children' Val Kilmer plays Marlons second in command with a sort of freakiness that he exuded in his role as Jim Morrison. The other creature/people successfully created by Stan Winston made me feel sad in their grotesqueness as they moved around on two and four legs both hoof and claw. Would we really behave this way if our DNA where intertwined? Is it the animal in us that would make us destroy? Take another careful look at your pet cat or dog. All in all a much under-rated remake and different from the original but still very enjoyable "},{"Title":"was a good start for me","Date":"8 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is the first movie I have ever watched in cinemas. It was ten years ago so far and as far as I remember I enjoyed watching the film. First of all the visual effects and the environment were so good that you cannot close your eyes one seconds. The ones who like the nature would like to see this movie I think. Make-up is a very important issue on cinema I think and I am mostly beware of this while watching movies. This film was good at make-ups really. The scenario was also nice at all, at least was not boring but as I said it was ten years ago and I don't remember too much. Marlon Brando in the cast is a plus for this movie. Anyway if you have chance someway watch this out. "},{"Title":"(It's not so bad)  And it has a meaning in a terrorist world","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Well, this film is not so bad, when it's free (when you watch it on TV). And I agree with those others who said the story line held up well for being 100 years old.I look upon the beasts as Palestinians who are mistreated and rebel. Yet they do so by destroying the society around them. There is the Ghandi appeal of the underground dwellers (the blind sage); but the wild killers win out and destroy much of what is there. And the few educated animals (again read Palestinians) are left without the society that an educated person needs and wants.And, like the Palestinian conflict, there is a cycle of violence that continues, even when there are moments where peace can prevail (when Brando pardons the killer creature).I guess I am writing for the moment, instead of for all time, but on the NBC news today and yesterday (Monday, July 10, 2006), an Iraqi woman (Sunni) whose kid is killed asks Is this Islam? A good question. I would say Yes, it is Islam. Although, if you go to Ireland, you could have a mother cry out Is this Catholicism? What is it with these poor, religious people who just kill one another? Get to a peace table already and start disciplining those miscreants who literally degrade society and their own lives by their violent, power hungry actions. "},{"Title":"Choppy story and uneven performances, but worth the trip","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I wish I were more familiar with the original novel so that I could better criticize how loyal this movie is to the original story.  The story is set in the present time and our hero is a UN representative surviving a plane crash.  There is technology that shows up in this film that probably was not possible in H. G. Well's time.  The rest of the story surrounds the evil doctor and his work which is the primary theme of the original novel. Brando is fantastic as the evil Dr. Moreau.  Kilmer and Thewlis seem to have problems when they show up on screen together.  Thankfully, they share the story with the mutant inhabitants and their tortured struggles with their own existence.In the end it is a great movie to see, but it could have been better. "}{"Title":"weird","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  this was a good film but it was spoiled with the animals they were too fake but other than that it was good,val kilmer brightened it up with his insane charactar its a shame he died at the end though.it goes down hill at the end it just gets a bit tiring "},{"Title":"Sub-par special effects and costumes, amazing plot and characters.","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The costume design was patronizing and would have benifitted from 2000-era computer animation, but I thought the film was wonderful. I believe many would agree with me that this was a classic sci-fi sleeper hit. It was edgy, visually interesting, and it avoided tired cliches and much other standard movie fair. It was to the point and grabbing the entire way through. Many people didn't like this movie because it was too edgy, or it lacked a plot. Many people called it garbage or a waste of time. But as all serious moviephiles know, you need to look deeper into the movies you watch. It's not just about being entertaining, it's about having an impact on the viewer. I highly reccomend this movie, simply because it's so different, so fresh, and so thought-provoking. "},{"Title":"Better than the novel","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Personally, I thought it was better than the novel. The costumes were great, but it was a little bit too gory. I think the scariest aspect of this film is that the story was originally written in the late 1800s. Val Kilmar is sexy as usual and Marlon Brando is a villain to be pitied.  "},{"Title":"May God Have Mercy On Your Soul","Date":"5 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I got together with a friend and we made a HUGE MISTAKE. We watched The Island of Dr Moreau. I don't think either of us will recover. We looked into the gaping maw of cinematic Hell. But enough about Marlon Brando's mouth. I have never seen.. I .. I am speechless. The train wreck, the carnage.. the .. OH THE HUMANITY! There is a scene where a little naked mutant dude with a butt-penis shows up, he is like Brando's mutant mini me. He has a look on his face as if to say yea I know! How can I exist? WTF am I? I'm as dumbfounded as you are over my existence in this movie. what can you do?I'm stuck here just like you are, but cut me some slack, you're only watching. I am in this thing! Throughout the movie this little thing is just sort of there. At one point he's lounging around and flashing his mutant butt like we are at a photo shoot for midget mutant porn.Midget Mutant porn would be a better thing to watch.This movie is a crazy train going off the rails into a black hole that is at the center of a volcano populated by insane clown posse demons. Kilmer and Brando.. appear to giving us, Hollywood, Earth, and reality itself a huge F*CK YOU. Sarcasm mode on.My friend and I both agreed, however, that the decision to have Val Kilmer play 13 different characters who all dressed the same and went by the same name was brilliant! the only way you could tell he was different is how he would behave completely different, and then you said aha GENIUS! he's playing one of the other characters now! Sarcasm mode off.OK so Brando is there in one scene with his body slathered in white crisco, and a weird outfit on, and a f*cking bucket on his head that is being filled with ice and water..sitting in front of a piano..OK reread that last part. I dare you! That's 100% real. That's what was going on. OK now take a deep breath and read forward if you dare. I warn you though.. your head might explode.. only keep reading if you read this out loud first with a legal witness I, state-your-name, will forbid my friends and family from suing IMDb.com if my head has exploded due to reading about/watching The Island of Dr Moreau (1996). OK still here. Well don't say I didn't warn you. Fine. Read on. Idiot.Greased up Brando starts playing the piano and butt-penis mini brando plays the tiny piano on top of brando's piano and they were dueting or whatever.At that point I think part of my brain actually died. I forgot how to drive a car, how to shave, and how to use a fork. later on the movie continued to wipe out various other abilities that I used to take for granted. right now a surrogate is typing this out, I am in a bed with tubes snaking through me and various machines regulating various things.I don't think you can use points to rate this. You need to rate it 1 crisco brando plus 4 mini-mutant-butt-penis-Brandos. And may God have mercy on your soul. "},{"Title":"better than most people said","Date":"26 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Maybe most critics panned The Island of Dr. Moreau because director John Frankenheimer has been known for the likes of The Manchurian Candidate, so everyone expected more from him. The truth is, the movie isn't any kind of masterpiece, but not bad at all. Granted, some scenes do seem a little silly (and Marlon Brando looks weird wearing a muumuu), but the movie does take a scathing look at science. Maybe in later years we'll take a more serious look at the movie. Brando, Val Kilmer, David Thewlis, Fairuza Balk and Ron Perlman all do a pretty good job in their roles.So are YOU ready to try and turn animals into humans? "},{"Title":"Hard to evaluate","Date":"27 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film has been savaged by most everyone that has seen it. I haven't read the book or seen any of the other versions yet so I have no other references. I actually found the movie relatively interesting considering the negativity surrounding it and was reasonably enlightened by the film's main theme of the consequences of man playing God. Marlon Brando was just bizarre as Moreau though it isn't out of the realm of possibility that a man like that would be exceedingly eccentric. His relationship with his mutant daughter is disturbing and moving. Val Kilmer's character is a bit of mystery. David Thewlis does quite well in portraying a character in an unimaginable situation. The special effects and makeup to create the grotesque human-animal hybrids was done quite well I thought. I want to see the other versions to see how this film really handled the material. "},{"Title":"Val Kilmer is best!!!!!!!!!","Date":"3 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I've seen this movie and it's not great but good. The first hour is a 5 of 10 and the last 36 minutes and great. Val Kilmer is best (He is that in every movie he played in). "},{"Title":"Watch for Mini-Marlon, Buckethead, and Val's Brando!","Date":"21 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I didn't know what to expect, as I sat down and started watching a VHS of this with some friends several minutes into the movie.At first I thought it was a movie about how a spoiled-rotten Englishman might learn a thing or two about life from a swarthy, island-hopping character played by Val Kilmer. The Englishman goes on about how cute a rabbit is, so Kilmer snaps its neck in his face, that sort of thing. That's right about where I started watching. For a few moments I thought Kilmer was going to preach about the desolation the seemingly innocent rabbit can bring to a beautiful island if its population goes unchecked, but then he broke its neck (and I never figured out why).Then I thought it was going to be a movie about teaching the spoiled Englishman how to loosen up and have a good time, when Kilmer allows him to discover the belly-dancing girl. A lot goes wrong; the Englishman exotifies the woman and alienates her at every step, and I kept thinking she was trying to seduce him to get close enough to smack him around or hurt him for being so inhuman in such a rottenly subtle way. Instead, she sees Kilmer watching from nearby and runs off. I thought Kilmer said something to the extent of bringing her some pudding upstairs, and my impression was that the Englishman was able to make himself comfortable with the thought of her as a toy, but still having no idea why he was on the island with Kilmer.Then the Englishman wakes up in some kind of jail, and running around discovers -- almost as if he was directed to -- a little zoo inside the mansion on the island. And then as he's walking around the little zoo, he discovers there are doctors taking a screaming, bloody, animatronic baby out of pregnant woman wearing a pigface out of Kubrick's The Shining. Then he freaks out and runs around. The scene of him running or falling into a zoo happens again, later, and my impression was that the Englishman was receiving some sort of moral lesson for having not helped some small monkeys free another small monkey from a cage, on an island where obviously you're supposed to do something humane to balance out all of the things that make English people uncomfortable.Instead of learning to be less spoiled and learning to enjoy and share the company of the strange animal-people, the Englishman decides to always freak out and alienate and threaten everybody around him. When he gets his hands on a gun, it's really the pivotal point of the movie. At the perfect moment for the Englishman to say oh, I didn't know you were all buddy-buddies living under the careful watch of a fat man pretending to be the Empress of China, instead he waves the gun at all the animals and starts a power-imbalance that eventually unravels the island's entire social structure.Eventually there is a trial where a monster who particularly scared the Englshman is used as a scapegoat for the Englishman's crime of failing to help the boatload of little monkeys release their fellow little monkey from its cage. The Englishman's lawyer tries to defend him by stating that nobody is allowed to escape, but not until after he persecutes him by stating that nobody's supposed to act out violently. So, the scapegoat is given the opportunity to show how fierce of an animal he is towards the fat transvestite, who shoots him. The post-trial atmosphere is that the scapegoating has bought the alienating, rude, obnoxious Englishman some more time to live and think about what he's done, but that soon he's going to have to pay the price for his violence; that, or attempt to break the law of never escaping, and get killed in the process.Then something totally unexpected happens, one of the animal-people sniffs around the burned remains of the scapegoat and pulls a bone out and appears to be ready to eat a piece of charred flesh when instead he stabs his fingernails into his guts and pulls out some kind of little black box. Evidently this frees him from the island's mind-control network, and from then out the movie makes little sense.Despite not making sense, the movie has three great scenes later on 1. the fat transvestite playing a baby-grand piano, with a small version of himself sitting on top of that piano and playing his own, smaller version of a grand piano. Then, there's a scene where the alienated girl pours stuff into an inverted bucket on the transvestite's head, and he scolds her for making it too strong. Then he convinces her that being like him isn't so great because his behaviour is so strange. The best scene in the whole movie is when Kilmer dresses up in enough clothing to cover his form and sits down dictating in the voice of Marlon Brando. He sounds just like Brando in Apocalypse Now when he was talking into his recorder in the jungle. Then he turns around and because his form is so hidden he looks like the little guy from the piano scene. So it came across like the little guy was pretending to be the transvestite in the transvestite's absence. It was so ridiculous that even the Englishman ran out of the scene screaming laughter.That's what the movie was about. "},{"Title":"Although It's Not As Horrible As I Was Expecting It To Be, It's Still A Below Average Film.","Date":"8 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" After being rescued and brought to an island, a man discovers that it's inhabitants are experimental animals being turned into strange looking humans, all of it the work of a visionary doctor.Considering how much I really like John Frankenheimer, I decided to watch this movie, despite that I wasn't expecting much from it. While its not as horrible as I was expecting it to be, it is still a below average movie. The Island Of Dr. Moreau started off pretty promising, but around half way through the movie, it began to get really hokey, and then it just went down hill from there. After seeing this movie, I decided to see what happened during the production, and considering all of the problems that this movie went through, it kind of isn't really surprising that it turned out like this. Frankenheimer directed this movie like he didn't care, which was basically the case, as he stated that he had a horrible time making it, and the acting itself isn't all that good, and I really hate to say that, considering how talented Marlon Brando and Val Kilmer are. Oh well, when you have lengthy careers, you can only expect even the most talented actors to have some slip-ups every know and then.Marlon Brando starred in numerous classic movies over the course of his career, and sadly, in this movie, his talent was wasted. He tried, but it he seemed to me like he could have just telephoned his lines in and it would have worked. Val Kilmer was especially wasted, and to top it off, I did not like this character. David Thewlis also tried hard, but he too, wasted. As I mentioned earlier, Frankenheimer directed this movie like he did not want to direct it, and also like I sad, that was exactly what happened, as he absolutely hated directing this film, and he especially did not get along well with Val Kilmer. Afterwards, he said that he would never work with Val Kilmer again. But like the actors involved, I won't hold against the man, as I still regard him highly.All in all, while I would not rank this movie as one of the worst movies ever made, it is still a below average film. Basically, if you enjoyed H.G. Wells' novel, then you probably will not like this movie, as the movie is different from the story, and in addition to that, it has some rather hokey dialogue and plot inconsistencies. However, Frankenheimer would make up for this movie just two years later, as he would direct this awesome Ronin, and he also had previously directed classics like The Train, Black Sunday, and The Manchurian Candidate. So while this could have been worse, it is still not a good movie, and unless you have some time to spare, then you are probably better off watching a movie that's much better.4/10 "},{"Title":"interesting turns ridiculous","Date":"3 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" UN peace negotiator Edward Douglas (David Thewlis) survives a plane crash and other survivors in the Java Sea. He is rescued by Montgomery (Val Kilmer)'s ship. Edward is dropped off with Montgomery on a mysterious island. He meets Aissa (Fairuza Balk) and then Dr. Moreau (Marlon Brando). Moreau has been on the island for 17 years obsessed with animal research.There are some interesting makeup jobs. I think Thewlis is miscast for Douglas. He should be more of an innocent and maybe younger. The start is kind of interesting but then a white-out Marlon Barndo comes in with his Popemobile. It turns something interesting into something ridiculous. It's like Brando insists on being stupid looking. It just deteriorates from there on. The movie loses all tension as the plot meanders. Thewlis is such a cool customer that he can't project fear from the mounting danger. It's also not campy enough to be funny. "}{"Title":"Genius!!!!!!!","Date":"28 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" While this film has been written off by the filmerati types, that is only just the start of its appeal. Marlin Brando is unleashed here, and with absolute effortless extracts from his repertoire a delicious, eliding performance that dominates the film. However the transcendance of medium achieved here relies on David Thewlis and Val Kilmer as well. Each of main leads bring their own rich flavour of campiness. The happless Thewlis brings a turn of the century stilted formality to pay at least part homage to the original work, which is otherwise deservingly massacred. This arch patina of homoeroticism is in turn burnished up to a flashy sterile veneer by Val Kilmer's fleckless self prostitution. The dynamic between the two, compelling in itself, is both eclipsed and illuminated by the pure radiating light that is Brando. The three form a constellation of pulsing chaos that drives the film though its myriad of clichés punctuated with whatever viceral imagery stayed off the cutting room floor. The result shows film, even in the vacuum of commericality and popular culture, can attain an artistry as rich as any other form in history. "},{"Title":"Abysmal","Date":"31 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" H.G. Wells would punch John Frankenheimer right in the mouth if he could see this Godawful adaptation of his novel. Poorly designed and beyond daft, this terrible film wastes the interesting premise and settles instead for hammy performances, lousy make-up and Val Kilmer. True, there's a speck of entertainment value to be scraped from Marlon Brando and David Thewlis, although their performances both belong in a different film, or possibly a different reality. Those two aside, there's nothing good to say about the movie. Any pretence it has to being thought-provoking or intelligent dissolves within the first five minutes, and before long the whole thing has descended into an overbaked mess of poor CG effects, heavy-handed direction and a near-delirious tone. What should have been a dark horror film about the dangers and moral implications of genetic engineering is instead &#x96; well, let's not mince words, it's a piece of shite. "},{"Title":"Pointless Mess","Date":"18 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Balk smolders. So what? Brando emotes. Interesting. Kilmer embarrasses himself. Perlman growls. Thewlis tries. Worth watching just to see how bad a movie with a great cast and a great director can be. Gratuitous violence, but tame by today's standards. Doesn't help. The 1977 version had Barbara Carrera, so we forgive that. The original (Island of Lost Souls), even in black and white, with a low budget, is far better. This cast makes the ailing, hammy Bela Lugosi look like Oscar material. Brando, for all his talent, doesn't touch Laughton. Frankenheimer makes a couple of points. Men and animals aren't that far apart. The law is determined by the point of a gun. And artistic pretension doesn't make a bad movie better. Of course, that's just my opinion. I could be wrong. "},{"Title":"A relatively entertaining romp","Date":"3 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I was in a game shop the other day and say this DVD named the island of Doctor moreau. I read the blurb and it seemed like an interesting film. But when i saw that Marlon Brando was in it. I thought to myself. Why. This is Marlon Brando. A film legend if you remember A street car named desire and the gangster epic the godfather. But i just bought it and sat in and watched it.I was moderately entertained. Marlon Brando was quite good and everyone elses performances were good.The story is about a man stranded at sea who is brought to an island where animal DNA is fused with human DNA to make hybrids. Eventually some of the mutants begin to rebel and thats it really.Story is very good but obviously they could have done a whole lot better on acting and character development. "},{"Title":"Interesting Plot Line","Date":"24 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Although I had heard of this movie for many years, I had never known what it was about. I guess I had it mixed up with a 007 movie. The plot line of the movie was interesting and could be done so much better than it was in this film. The costumes looked like costumes. Imagine what could be done if they redid this movie with today's technology! I thought that the plot line was very interesting and fits right into today's society of research. Combining human and animal species embryo's to make a half human, half animal being. The acting in this movie was mediocre at best, no one gave a stellar performance. I did enjoy the scenery and thought much of the filming was well done. So much more could be done with this movie that just wasn't available at the time this movie was made. "},{"Title":"It could have been better...","Date":"24 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I was a fan of the original film from the 70's and read the original HG Wells novel back in high school. When I heard New Line Cinema was gonna bring out a new version, I couldn't help but do a little happy dance. But then I saw it on opening night and I ended up walking out of the theatre shaking my head and wondering What the heck was that?!. The movie was... was... I dunno... broken. The pacing was all goofy and disjointed. Val Kilmer totally messed up things with his bizarre performance. I definitely did NOT need to see the pig lady (barf). And Dave Thewlis's performance certainly did not give me any reason to really give a dang about Douglas. And some of the animal character voices, like Asassimon, sound so cartoonish. I could be wrong, but I think Frank Welker did some of those voices.There are a few good things about the movie, though. I really like Brando's eccentric take on Moreau. Stan Winston's effects, while hideous for the most part, were rather brilliant. Hyena's regression from near-man to snarling beast during the extent of the movie was a nice touch. And while lacking in story, the movie is quite the visual feast.In conclusion, if you find the DVD on sale somewhere for like $5, I say pick it up. "},{"Title":"now, Val's Brando imitation was pretty good.","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I thought the casting was very good, though I think it would have been better if Thewlis and Kilmer had switched roles.  Thewlis has a sort of oily quality. Balk makes a great kittycat. Movie was a bit overlong. Worth seeing, but not exactly scary.  "},{"Title":"Hilarious! Instant Cult Classic.","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This unintended comedy provides more belly laughs every time I see it - 7 and counting.  Whether parading around as a giant powdered donut spouting (lisping) biblical quotes or teaming up on the piano with his adorable mutated sidekick, Brando's tongue-in-check self-parody is also a jab at the industry that made him a legend.  One of Hollywood's all time greats, Brando deliberately turns this movie into a Box Office and Director's nightmare. His genius shines through from the getgo, even if that of his character never does.  Most laughable scene - Brando has his half-creature daughter pour ice into his caloric converter, i.e., a giant steel bucket attached to his head.  Prithleth.Kilmer is almost as good as the stoned Montgomery, formerly a brilliant neurosurgeon but now Brando's rebellious beastkeeper.  He quirks, quotes, and smokes his way through while wearing some pretty silly island gear. Kilmer's hilarious mockery of the good doctor almost matches Brando's mockery of himself, but in the end it's Brando's joke. "},{"Title":"Interesting but irratic","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  On paper this project must have looked like the real thing. A great novel being made into a film starring Val Kilmer and Marlon Brando. But in reality, this film turned out quite the opposite. It is rather pointless and boring, which hurts me to say, because I rather enjoyed the book. The many problems this film has are supposedly due to infinite clashes between the studio and the director, who eventually abandoned the project, leaving a vacancy for John Frankenheimer, who finished the picture. I guess it must be hard to finish a project that you haven't been involved in from the start, and it really shows. The scenes with Val Kilmer are painfully over the top, and David Thewlis and Fairuza Balk are not quite sure what they are doing either. The plot is practically non-existent, but it must have something to do with cloning, since they have an island with a giant laboratory on it for the purpose of designing new species of animals. Which brings me to few redeeming features of this film, being the phantastic special effects and animatronics (kudos to Stan Winston) and a truly dazzeling central performance by Marlon Brando, who seems to be born to play the role of the God-like Dr. Moreau. He delivers his (what appears to be) unrehearsed dialogue with such stunning ease, that it reminded me why he truly is one of the best actors of his generation. But apart from these highlights, some stunning photography and an unforgettable scene between Dr. Moreau and a midget (later successfully spoofed by Mike Myers in The Spy Who Shagged Me), this film doesn't really have much going for it. Which is a shame, since it had so much potential. "},{"Title":"Brando Goes Gonzo...","Date":"15 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" So absurdly over the top, you can't not enjoy it! TIODM (yes, that acronym is only a few letters shy of idiotic) is one of Marlon Brando's last and most flat-out enjoyable movies. He's the title character, whose island of macabre experimentation is visited by shipwrecked David Thewlis. Thewlis rightly thinks he's gone insane when he sees what Brando (and crackpot side-kick Val Kilmer) are up to creating human/animal hybrids and then attempting to keep them under control by implanting shock devices under their skin. Gonzo is the word for John Frankenheimer's adaption of the HG Wells classic. Brando looks even more ghoulish than the monsters he's created driving around in what appears to be a clown car waving to the grotesque throngs. Kilmer is a hoot as well, doing a brilliant Brando impression! The striking Faruza Balk plays Brando's daughter and Ron Perlman is the sayer of the law. Much, much more enjoyable than the mid-70s version featuring Burt Lancaster & Michael York. "}{"Title":"I wanna go to Dog Heaven!","Date":"12 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Where to start with this bizarre modern-day retelling of the H.G. Wells' classic? In many respects, The Island of Dr. Moreau is a train wreck of a movie. On so many levels, it's an unmitigated disaster. The problems on the set with the cast and crew are legendary. People getting fired, others getting mad and walking off, and some distracted by personal issues &#150; it must have been like living a soap opera. Maybe it's all these competing issues that helps to make what should be an unwatchable mess so interesting. For all its faults, The Island of Dr. Moreau is actually quite an enjoyable experience.Bizarre would be a good word to describe much of The Island of Dr. Moreau &#150; and I'm not just talking about the events in the movie's plot. The characters are just plain weird. Each appears to be competing with the other to be the most bizarre. David Thewlis' Edward Douglas goes through range of emotions including fear, lust, anger, and disinterest. If it weren't for Marlon Brando, Val Kilmer's Montgomery would be one of the strangest characters in movie history. He's like some sort of butch game-keeper with a death wish. But Brando is in the movie and his Dr. Moreau tops everyone. The scene with Brando in a muumuu and an ice bucket hat is a sight that must be seen to be believed. Words cannot do it justice. Add to that the variety of half-man, half-animal creatures on the island and you've got one strange collection of characters.Speaking of the creatures, the make-up effects are the film's strongest assets. Some, like Hyena or the Sayer of the Law, are as good examples of creature make-up as you'll see. These effects do add a certain creepiness to the whole thing (that is if you can keep from laughing at Brando's latest get-up).Despite enjoying much of the movie, I cannot call The Island of Dr. Moreau a particularly good movie &#150; not in the traditional sense anyway. The movie has too many problems to do that. The movie is terribly paced, any attempts at drama or horror are usurped by the ridiculousness of the characters, some of the special effects look like they came from a Nintendo 64, and, frustratingly, none of the characters demonstrate anything remotely resembling common sense. As much as I hate to do it, but because of my mixed feelings, I feel forced to give The Island of Dr. Moreau a very wishy-washy 5/10. "},{"Title":"The Island of Good Intentions.","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is a fairly good movie. It's got your interesting story, nice cinematography and reputable actors; unfortunately it's also snagged some-not-so impressive half-man/half-beast costumes and a varying level of success from said actors.In many cases Dr. Moreau's creations were bulked up too much and didn't move with as much agility as their computer animated counterparts would have you believe they possess. The effects crew would have been better off to tone down the muscles mass and concentrate on giving Moreau's creations more character. I enjoyed the wise goat-man get-up; although, how they passed up the idea of an owl-man with a graduation cap for that part, I'll never know.As for the acting, David Thewlis was great and provides an excellent lead character. He's an incredible actor and is currently holds my nomination for the position of Coolest British Accent.Marlon Brando joins us from his own far off island where his Big Mac funds were no doubt running low. I know that sounds cruel and Marlon, God knows I love ya, but this was far from a crowning achievement. His performance was okay but you'll forgive me if I expect more from freaking Marlon Brando. C'est la vie.Now, onto Val Kilmer. I'm not a big fan of Mr. Kilmer. His huge ego shows through in all of his work. I've enjoyed him in movies in which his character is *supposed* to be a tad on the egomaniacal side - specifically, Tombstone and Willow - and while his character, here, is supposed to have a fair-sized ego, this could well be one of his worst performances. He seems to spend the entire movie trying to impress Marlon Brando. You see, Brando has a tendency to improvise small things into his movies that really work; for example, in Last Tango in Paris with the gum on the balcony, or in On the Waterfront when he puts on the glove that his lady friend dropped. Here, Kilmer's varied improvisations tended to lean more towards the pointless and irritating side. Twirling the flower around in his mouth, balancing a radio component on his head. What's up with that? Oh, your character is supposed to be a little crazy too, huh, Val? That's great. Smack this upside the head for me, will ya, Mar? Thanks.This movie had the potential to be a excellent film but fell short. It's still an entertaining picture and worth watching but as far as stunning films with political and/or social statements go, Hollywood wouldn't be my first stop.  "},{"Title":"Dr. Buckethead","Date":"27 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*There are two scenes in this movie that remind you who was the driver of this runaway train. One scene has Brando playing a piano duet with a very small man/dwarf/midget/Mini-Me the 1st. Weird to say the least. The other scene has Brando with a bucket of ice strapped to his noggin. He's cooling off as only Dr. Buckethead can. These two scenes are the only ones that will stick with you long after having watched this movie.Brando is totally out of control as Dr. Buckethead. He acts as loopy as he likes and the movie spins off into oblivion. The rest of the cast must have taken their cues from him because the overacting was everywhere. Somewhere in this mess was a story about half man/half beast creatures on an island. Dr. Buckethead and his love for ice overpower that story. After watching this, I feel like I've been kicked in the groin. I think I need some ice too.  "},{"Title":"Great film!","Date":"23 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The Island of Dr. Moreau is a great and entertaining film that has a great cast including Marlon Brando, Val Kilmer, Fairuza Balk, Temuera Morrison, Ron Perlman, David Thewlis, Daniel Rigney, Marco Hofschneider, William Hootkins, Peter Elliott, Mark Dacascos, Miguel López, and Nelson de la Rosa. The acting by all of these actors is very good. Brando and Kilmer provide really good performances in this picture! I was surprised how well they did together and by their selves in this picture! Balk was good. The mystery and thrills is really good here and a lot of it is surprising. The movie is filmed very good. the make up and special effects are really amazing by Stan Winston! The music is great by Gary Chang! Great directing by John Frankenheimer! I love how the movie begins when the credits are seen. The film is really good and the movie really keeps you going until the end. This really an entertaining, exciting, and thrilling film. If you like Marlon Brando, Val Kilmer, Fairuza Balk, Temuera Morrison, Ron Perlman, David Thewlis, the rest of the cast in the film, Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller, Action, Drama, and interesting movies then I strongly recommend you to see this film today! "},{"Title":"A wonder to behold through parted fingers","Date":"27 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A fascinating train wreck of a movie. Everyone should see it and marvel at the shambles. There are very few studio flicks where you can actually see the cracks and seams of a film, and the seeming awareness of the actors that the movie is falling apart. You can't help but wonder by points what the hell Marlon Brando and Val Kilmer are doing, their behaviour seems so absurd. Either Frankenheimer lost control or just went along, I don't know. This is one of the those bad movies that is infinitely more interesting than an average one. There is a good chance Apocalypse Now could have turned out this way if Francis Ford Coppola hadn't kept it together, some of the difficulties and possibilities of disaster seem similar. Apocalypse Now skirted disaster, Moreau did not. I'd love to see an honest making-of film about this one. "},{"Title":"Bears Some Great Elements But Fails To Deliver In Spite Of Itself.","Date":"12 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I wanted to love this, and I worked hard to do so, but I just never could get there.With Frankenheimer as the director, Marlon Brando and Val Kilmer as your stars, and Stan Winston on the creature effects, for what more could you ask? Well, the film is a mess; an enjoyable mess, but still a mess. Brando gave an unstable arrogance to Moreau I wasn't comfortable with, Kilmer was less than the hero Michael York was, and Frankenheimer dropped the ball on camera angles, and atmosphere.The one awesome element was Stan Winston's creature effects, but even his excellence cannot carry a film, alone. All in all, I was more than disappointed. This could have been astounding.It rates a 5.6/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Pretty bad","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Marlon Brando is the mad scientist who tries to breed a race of creatures that are part human and part animal with horrifying results. Val Kilmer is an eccentric assistant (he was originally supposed to be the film's hero but his divorce prompted him to switch parts). David Thewlis is the hero who gets caught up in all this nonsense. Fairzu Balk is the ill-fated heroine. Ron Perlman is the Sayer of the Law. Based on the book.Alas, this is one of those films that just doesn't come together. An ambitious film, yes, but ultimately an unsuccessful one. Even the normally reliable Val Kilmer is bad here, and that's saying something. So is the late Marlon Brando, though David Thewlis, Fairzu Balk and Ron Perlman aren't too bad. I can only imagine that the film suffered from off screen turmoils, such as the many changes in writing, directing, the now legendary off screen problems between Val Kilmer the late director John Frankenheimer; I can only assume that Kilmer's inner pain from his divorce must have gotten in the way.Point of interest the film features three men who have been involved in comic book adaptations. Brando was Jor-El, biological father of Superman in the 1978 Superman film, Kilmer was the 5th actor to play Batman, and Perlman later played Hellboy. Seeing the three of them together may just be enough to merit a rental but not much else. "},{"Title":"Fun trash *Spoilers*","Date":"25 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I knew what I was coming into when I started watching. I'd heard everything about how horrible it was and how it was so bad that even the cast hated it. But being a big fan of horrible movies, I had fun watching this from start to finish.The effects were really, really cheesy. The scene in which Douglas meets the rats in the boat, wow. That was really bad. The creatures on the island looked like Sesame Street rejects. And Dr. Moreau's original Mini-Me, well, that part where he dances naked on Montgomery's car is going to stay with me far into my nightmares.David Thewlis almost saved the movie with his performance as Edward Douglas, the hapless captive. But even as great as he was, this could not be salvaged. Sadly, this is the first movie I've ever seen Marlon Brando in so now I know that when I do get around to seeing the Godfather, I'm going to remember how I thought he was an ugly woman the first time I ever saw him on film. Because when Dr. Moreau shows up for the first time, I did believe him to be a grotesque looking old woman. Val Kilmer...what the heck happened with him at the end? That just got bizarre. He was pretty good at the beginning when he and Douglas were on the boat and he was mysteriously intimidating. But at the end, the craziness just got to be too much. Fairuza Balk was pretty good as the love interest Aissa but she had this on-again, off-again accent going that was a bit distracting.All in all, the story was bad, the actors were either hamming it up or mortified looking, some of the scenes had me screaming, Why are you doing that? Idiot!! at the screen, and the effects were hysterical. Tons of fun. Plan 9 From Outer Space for the 90s.  "},{"Title":"Sped-up, cliched SF","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The only thing to bother with in this movie is the special effects. Stan Winston does a good job with animal-men, though he predictably gives the more intelligent ones more humanlike features. The film is cliched, both for its playing god theme and the create the perfect human race theme. Surely one of the oddball parts of the film is Moreau (Landau), who is ludicrously detached (not to mention attired /) from what his actions have created, living in his lavishly furnished jungle estate and insisting that no one is to eat meat, even though characters based on carnivores are evident in the film.The real crime of this film, however, is that everything seems to be in fast-forward mode. The movie is squeezed into is timeframe in such a way that it left me wondering if parts had been cut out. So many things occur in a quick fashion. A good example is Montgomery (Kilmer). He slips over the edge for no apparent reason, shortly after Moreau is killed (in another laughable scene which fully illustrates what little attention Moreau pays to his creations; he prattles on to a team of rebelling creatures intent on killing him and ends up being partially devoured in his hammock). Thewlis's character (his name escapes me at the moment) discovers the lab on his first night on the island, after picking a lock and sneaking into an unlocked laboratory (!)Montgomery and other major figures, including Moreau's daughter and a hyena-man who led a revolt against Moreau, die pointless deaths near the movie's (anti-)climax. Thewlis's character escapes, albeit not with a powerful message, or much of anything.  "},{"Title":"Marlon Brando perfect, Val Kilmer very good - but not in this movie","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Marlon Brando is a perfect actor, that's for sure, but if you've seen The Godfather or Apocalypse Now (or even Don Juan de Marco) you won't believe this is the same actor. I was very disapointed in him because he acts in such bad movies. Also Val Kilmer is a very  good actor, he was good in Top Secret and The Saint, so I can't see why he acts this character in this movie. Wasted time, FORGET IT! "}{"Title":"Condensed Hatred in Movie Form","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Now, I should have known better. This movie has gotten bad reviews left and right. I have been warned by family and friends not to see it. Nonetheless I felt it was my job, nay, my sacred duty to watch this movie to see how bad it was, and warn you of the dangers.I tried to stay strong, I tried to watch the whole movie in one sitting, but in the end I couldn't do it. I was forced to stop in the middle and watch two good movies to recover enough to be able to watch the rest of it. In the end I got through it, but at what price?My peace of mind? My sanity? My very soul?At any rate the special effects were decent, but as in Jason X that's not enough to save it. The characters in the movie left me with the feeling that I was coated with a thin layer of slime. Especially Mr Kilmer's character, who was repulsive to a startling degree. Not that I fault Mr. Kilmer.Well yes I do.The story lost whatever meaning it had when it was translated to film, and became just a rather bitter glance at people.So please, don't see it, for the sake of your very being, run!  "},{"Title":"big laugh!","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  how can somebody honestly dislike this movie? to dislike something you must take it serious, and I can´t think how somebody can take THIS serious. I mean, this movie is in the tradition of those 70´s horror schlock-flicks like CANNIBAL HOLOCAUST or ZOMBIE FLESH EATERS, just without the gore. brando gives the most laughable performance in his career, kilmer is boring as usual, balk is absolutely unconvincing as brandos vulnerable daughter, temuera morrison ( once were warriors) cracked me up as rasta-ape-henchman, perlman & thewlis really try to be serious in this unintended hilarious misfire. and all those punk-rock chewbaccas really take the cake. all in all you can have a great time. "},{"Title":"What was that?!","Date":"15 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" What exactly did I just watched here?To be honest, the movie started of promising. It seemed to have some nice actors and character and above all the movie made SENSE. However the movie started to go down hill rapidly and I mean really down hill!This movie is real wasted potential. The premise is good and interesting and good enough to raise some provoking issues. The actors are also good and so is the visual look of the whole movie (with the exception of its early special effects), with its Stan Winston make-up effects, settings and cinematography. Yet somehow they messed everything up and all of its potential is wasted in this messy, confusing, weird cinematic piece of garbage.It sounds ironic but from the moment when Marlon Brando's character appears in the movie, the movie becomes all quirky, weird and extremely messy. The movie starts to become very unbelievable and toward the end also very far from understandable. Marlon Brando and Val Kilmer are of course great actors but in this movie also unintentional funny and not credible as persons who like to play God. The act like a bunch of idiots in this movie and they do some weird things, Marlon Brando especially, who also looks totally ridicules with weird make-up and odd clothes. In one sequence he even wears an ice bucket on his head! Ice bucket helmet...I rest my case. I think that says enough about how this movie is like. The ice bucket sequences is iconic for the rest of the movie. He is also accompanied by a small dwarf like creature, who wears the same clothes and sits by his right side. It obviously formed the basis and inspiration for the character of Mini-Me in the Austin Power movies. It makes these sequences even more unintentional hilarious to watch.But yet it are still the well known actors who give the movie still some 'watchability level'. David Thewlis was perhaps not the right choice for the main character, he isn't charismatic enough for that but nevertheless he's a great actor of course. Marlon Brando doesn't plays such a prominent role as you would expect. He actually appears quite (too) late into the story. Val Kilmer perhaps delivers the best performance of the movie, until the moment when his character goes crazy. The movie further more features well known actors such as Ron Perlman, Temuera Morrison and William Hootkins in unrecognizable roles.I wish that the movie made more sense. It would at least had made the movie more entertaining to watch. It instead now offers very little entertainment, even to the most objective and open viewers. The way the story is told makes it far from interesting, compelling or thought provoking. If I had to tell what the story is about, I would say; about a bunch of weird like half human-animals who want to break free from their master and 'God', played by Marlon Brando. Everything else gets muddled into the messy story. It makes the movie look like a ridicules potential-less Z-movie from the '50's.Really not worth seeing. I only have one more thing to say, that should sum it all up; Ice bucket!3/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Weird and wonderf.....no actually just weird","Date":"28 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" If New Line Cinema had a theme park in the tradition of Universal, (former Paramount Canada's Wonderland) and Disney's MGM studios, I think The Island of Dr. Moreau would make a sensational ride. Based on the novel by H.G. Wells, The Island of Dr. Moreau is supposed to explain one of the key differences between man and beast, man has the ability to create law and order. That said, I personally think it's important to acknowledge that man is not separate from the animal kingdom. We too of course are animals. Sir. Darwin knew it a hundred and fifty years ago, and modern science knows it. Even the church knows but won't accept it. Such a theme has been touched before of course, and actually The Island of Dr. Moreau is the last film I'd recommend to get the message across. this b-grade sci-fi flick is occasionally interesting, and potentially freaky (in the sort of way that dark fairy tales are) but generally, its just reckless and dumbThe curtain rises with a sensational aerial shot of a life raft adrift on a soft blue sea. Three souls are on board, two kill each other in a fight and the third, Mr. Douglas (a UN representative) is left in nature's hands. He is picked up by a small ship and taken to a lush jungle island, where he finds out that the once famed Dr. Moreau has been hiding for seventeen years conducting bizarre experiments of a rather hairy nature. What could the old doctor possibly want with an ordinary guy like Douglas, and why is it becoming increasingly evident that the island ain't gonna let him go.The set-up is very good, but after about forty minutes, the scenario becomes kinda pointless, starting from when we meet the old Doctor. So this where Marlon Brando's career ended up in the last years of his life. The actor who delivered two or three of cinema's most memorable performances ends up dressed like Miriam Makeba, and doing a terribly inept David Attenbourough impersonation. I'm not even sure I'm that sympathetic personally. Val Kilmer and David Thewlis are equally lazy and sloppy in their performances. some of it also has to to with the atrocious dialog they have been given.I'll gives props to Stan Winston and his make-up department for the weird and wonderful beasts on this crazy island. If anything they are a step up from those goofy apes in Congo, (made the precious year). Here, there is a variety of forms and styles, almost as many as there were dinosaurs in Jurassic Park. The creatures themselves are rather emotionally confused it seems, but they all share the wish to be human, like 'the father'. Well, the film favors them in one manner. They get to deliver dialogue as equally cheesy as that of the few humans on the island. It might have been nice if the story got us to care a little more for these guys. There may have been some thematic values there too, a chance to explain how one cannot be judged by its looks. Perhaps the film's intention is to do the opposite, and get us to see them as what they look like; savage beasts. It's really not something worth dwelling on.The Island of Dr. Moreau is a little over ninety minutes, which is about the average length for these sort of movies, but it feels surprisingly short. Among many other things, it is definitely in need of a couple more scenes which focus on character rather than chaos, or motif rather than monstrosity. I think I'm being somewhat generous to The Island of Dr. Moreau. Though not terrible, it is very silly indeed, and perhaps the money would've been better spend on making it a theme park ride after all. "},{"Title":"Both good and bad","Date":"19 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The Island of Dr. Moreau has both good and bad points. The main strength of the movie is the scientific warning to our community that it provides this could happen to you. Despite the strength of the gene manipulation, the characters are often supposed to be scary but come across more humorous than frightening. The plot has a few holes. Up until Aiessa asks for Edward's help, there is no real drive in the main character. He finds he cannot help her, but he's more concerned with what he finds his use was going to be his DNA=a permanent stop to her regression. Then abruptly she is hung in a fight, and soon after he gets to leave. You see that he has bonded with the races upon the island at the end, but there is no lead in. It is disputable, in fact, because Edward says to Aiessa that if it weren't for her, he would say the Dr. failed in his goal completely. Now she's gone and he likes them? What is that? Now don't get the wrong idea, I definitely think it's a good movie to prove a point to scientists, but I don't think it has a strong plot line. Read the book. "},{"Title":"Tries to be good, but falls short","Date":"23 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I like the work of John Frankenheimer. I think the cast was more or less to die for. And H.G. Wells wrote some of the most enduring tales of science fiction. so why does this movie feel like a cheap rip-off of Jurasic Park? David Thewlis is a dependable actor in his role of a U.N. official lost at sea. Val Kilmer steals every frame he speaks in with his role of the resident doctor, who slowly goes insane as the animals take over. Marlon Brando is like a nicer, but crazier version of Colonel Kurtz. But somewhere in the midst of the movie, it all gets lost. It disintegrates into something of the animal that is depicted in the film, savage, brutal, and unappealing to the rational mind.4/10 "},{"Title":"Great beginnings do not a movie make","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I don't know where it fell apart - maybe the Hyena, maybe the rats in the little boat.  What ever it was somewhere in there a great movie turned the corner into B movie land.  Brando, ever expansive, gives us the mind of a god-wanna-be dealing with mortality.  Val Kilmer lives the life without limits.  David Thewlis is - the everyman from the outside who passes judgment without understanding.  There is a lot there, but there is no spark. "},{"Title":"Why, just WHY would you want to watch this...","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" ...when the 1977 version, and especially the first adaptation of HG Wells' novel, 1933's 'Island of Lost Souls,' are much, much, MUCH better?Don't get me wrong, 1996's film isn't all bad.  There are at least a few noteworthy scenes, particularly those where Dr. Moreau (Brando) or what's-his-face (the guy from the sea - pardon my poor memory, but I just watched all 3 versions within a few hours of each other, and I can't recall names from each, especially when one version was far superior) make commentary on scientific vs. moral values, blah blah blah.  Well OK they're not that noteworthy (hence my blahs).  There's really not too much reason at all to watch this one.Moreau's creations are an outright farce compared to those in the earlier films; these look downright cartoonish at times.  A lot of scenes in the film are written so poorly that I nearly gagged watching them (especially the one near the end - I won't elaborate much for those who haven't yet seen the film - which ends badly for Hyena).  I will say this - Kilmer, Brando, and - to extent - Balk all performed quite well in their respective roles.  And some of the cinematography was a treat for the eye.  (On the other hand, perhaps visuals were ultimately the death of the film.  It almost seems as though make-up and special effects technologies of 1996 took precedence over the story, which was done the best in 63 years before.  A pity, really...)Well, enough of my comments.  I could say much more on the subject, but here's what you need to know-Watch the 1933 'Island of Lost Souls' first - and perhaps, also last, after you've watched the other two.  Moreau is far more sinister in that film, the story is better done... it's just a much better film overall.  And Laughton definitely gave the best performance as Moreau, no question..  Rating 10/10-The 1977 'Island of Dr. Moreau,' though inferior to 1933's, is also pretty good.  It's certainly far better than this one, in nearly all departments.  I almost feel like I should like it more, but not only is it nowhere near the level as 1933's, but there's also some scenes and small details about this one I don't like.  That said Rating 6/10-'Island of Dr. Moreau,' 1996 the story is lost among the visual presentation.  This film really could have been so much more...  I'm disappointed that an update of such a classic turned out so poorly.  In my mind, the chief reason to watch this one is to compare it to the other two.  Rating 4/10 (maybe I'll drop it lower with time?  Who knows...) "},{"Title":"Bye, Val...","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Oh, my...oh, MY, was this flick BAD!! I sat there, incredulous that even Marlon Brando could sink to something like this. The story was boring, the costumes and makeup was ludicrous, nothing is remotely scary, there is not one redeeming thing about this film. I suppose Val Kilmer has gotten some work since this debacle, but his career basically ended with this piece of crap. Don't put yourself through this, it's too embarrassing and painful. "},{"Title":"This is a bad movie!!!","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I recently watched the movie The Island of Dr. Moreau, and I think it was one of the worst movies ever!  I watched it because I read the book and I wanted to make a comparison.  The movie followed the very basic outline of the book, it seems like all they did was read a brief synopsis of the book then make the movie.  I recommend that you should read the book, and not watch the movie.  I give this movie 1 out of 5 stars "}{"Title":"a Hilarious film for MST3K purposes","Date":"16 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Some spoilers.Great MST3K material.  The story revolves around Dr. Moreau turning animals into humans on his private island and how everything comes undone.  The costumes used to create the illusion of semi-humans are just pitiful.  Not quite godzilla pitiful, but very close.  The performances of Brando as Moreau and Kilmer as his assistant are bizarre.  Instead of being grand, Brando comes off as an absent-minded diva.  Instead of being menacing, Kilmer is smirky and chipper as he wanders through the plot looking for something to do besides mumble some expository info.  Thewlis looks &#133; embarrassed to be there, both as an actor in a disaster and as character that just wandered into a colony run by a flamboyant moron and his aggravatingly dim mutant pets.The source material itself is questionable.  Why would anyone want to dramatize the great colonial father trying to civilize the natives? Because this is such a squeamish thing to talk about these days, Wells' story is eviscerated and retold as an almost antique B-movie rerun about a mad scientist who plays god and how humans are more beastly than animals.  And, yes, and the poor narrator solemnly intones these Vincent Price genre cliches at the end of the film.  There are hints that the screenwriter was working within Wells' theme - many elements of the story and art direction suggests a third world tourist trap and military client state.Kilmer does a really endearing Brando impression.  The editing and narrative pacing in this film is almost as bad as Battlefield Earth. Almost.  "},{"Title":"Bad horror, but interesting effects.","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Some users might wonder why I give this flick a four in spite of the trouble it really has, but I would like to start with this comment  This movie has one of the best opening credit sequences ever!  The writhing and squirming micro-organisms have you itching in your seat before the movie even starts.  That said -  This show has some very mediocre performances from some of the greatest actors.  Val Kilmer almost gives his icky character some appeal before vaulting into a demented drug trip, but Marlon Brando does nothing to redeem the evil Dr.  In fact, I'm hoping the whole time, the poor castaway - the only appealing fellow on screen - will jump back into the ocean from whence he came and the whole place sinks to the bottom of the sea.  But, if you want to know the real ending, I suggest you read the book. "},{"Title":"Island of wasted time and talent","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  H. G. Wells' novel concerns a mad scientist who turns animals into men, more or less.  Director John Frankenheimer turns Wells' story into a turkey.Marlon Brando plays Moreau as a Kabuki drag queen; even Charles Laughton, who played Moreau in the 1933 adaptation Island of Lost Souls, didn't go that far over the top, even though he hammed it up deliciously.  Otherwise a good cast utterly wasted  Davis Thewlis, so sympathetic in Restoration, so nasty in Dragonheart, is pop-eyed and foolish as Douglas, our frightened protagonist.  Douglas is probably the most undiplomatic U.N. delegate in the history of that organization after several of Moreau's children, feral-looking but tuxedoed, have politely introduced themselves, Douglas rudely scolds Moreau for having these monstrosities in his house!  Val Kilmer as Montgomery, Moreau's assistant, is on hand for no other reasons than to dispense attitude and make himself inconvenient (just like real life).  And the very busy Ron Perlman is unrecognizable as a ram-horned Sayer of the Law.  Much as I like Mr. Perlman and the quirky movies in which he tends to appear, Bela Lugosi he ain't.  Of all the cast, only Fairuza Balk is well-used as the cat woman.  Ms. Balk, who was a lovely child when she appeared as Dorothy in 1985's horrifying Return to Oz, grew up to be a beauty, and the camera gives us numerous close-ups of her haunted green eyes and full red lips.  Even the sharpening of her teeth, as feline regression sets in, doesn't mar her beauty  I'm hideous! she sobs, but it'd take a rudely-applied pan of battery acid to make the word hideous applicable to this face.  The many extras who play Moreau's other experiments are buried under latex false faces which, while ingenious, are nowhere near as effective (i.e., frightening) as the understated pointy-ears-'n'-teeth of the 1933 original.  And the story quickly becomes muddled, episodic, and incoherent, losing all momentum and every trace of one-thing-leads-to-another as it stumbles on to its end.  A major disappointment and a big-budget fiasco. "},{"Title":"Everything downhill after opening credits","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It's ironic that the coolest opening credits of that film year give way to one of the most disappointing movies of the decade.  It's a sad commentary when you have people like Brando, Kilmer, Thewlis and Frankenheimer, and you end up with a silly flick that lumbers into a final third that's as hackneyed and trite as anything you're likely to see.  So...rent the movie, watch the opening credit sequence, rewind, then watch something else. "},{"Title":"Good idea awfully screwed up!","Date":"10 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The only good thing about this film is the work of Val Kilmer. The story is told much too quickly, which causes it to be unconvincing. The beasts that appear (we're told they are half man, half animal) all look like chewbacca the Wooki. After seeing the superfluous performance of Marlon Brando, I'm even more convinced than I was that he should have retired after he played Kurtz in Apocalypse Now, who by the way he tried to be one more time. David Thewliss nagging makes me want to beat him up...if you agree with me, please go see Naked, a film that really shows what he can do. "},{"Title":"What the hell happened?","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  One of the things which has always puzzled me is how a film with such a plethora of talent as the Island of Doctor Moreau turned out so badly. Here we have a top notch director (Frankenheimer), Brando ('nuff said), Val Kilmer (who has his moments, and is anything but wooden in this), Thewlis (underrated actor), Balk (underrated actress), a good score, good effects. Sure, most of the actors chew the scenery with glee, but that comes with the cinematic territory. Somehow, this all adds up to a really bad movie. How?I blame the screenwriter(s). For those of you who have seen the definitive Dr. Moreau movie, Island of Lost Souls, (which Wells hated, I might add), you will see how well this works. OK, question 1 Who is the antagonist? Dr. Moreau, right? Well, in the 1996 version, he dies about 30 minutes in. So the bad guys become the Dr's creations, who in every other version of the story are innocent victims of the antagonist (the Dr.) just like every one else. The message of this is that we should fear the animal people because they are different, not a particularly enlightened view. Question 2 Who is the hero? In the 1996 version its Edward Douglas. Makes sense, right? Except for one small detail Douglas in every version of the story is a closed minded, moralizing holier-than-thou prick. There is just no way to get around it. If you think about the 1933 version, the real protagonists are the animal people, especially the Sayer of the Law and Aissa (she is called something else in that version), who GIVES HER LIFE to rescue the others as the other creation's desire for revenge on the doctor accidentally destroys the island. THEY are the moral compass of the movie, and they are more kind hearted and human than the human characters, who all in all are a pretty rotten bunch. Their only crimes are their ignorance and their circumstances. By contrast, the humans are actually evil Moreau is a self centered psychopath, Montgomery has sold his soul, Edwards is an ungrateful pontificating ass. By contrast, Aissa and the Sayer of the law (in both versions) are polite, respectful of their creator and each other, brave, and helpful to those in need.  Can that be said about any of the human characters? By making a person like Edwards the protagonist and moral compass of the 1996 version, the film essentially endorses his rather nasty attitudes and ideas. Also, by portraying the creatures as motivated by a lust for destruction and power AFTER the Dr's death, it kills the sympathy the audience should feel for such tormented and abused beings.  "},{"Title":"Brando still the Best, can't carry film","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is the first film I've commented on, and the reason I chose this one is that it is one of the worst I've seen.  I'm a big fan of the genre, as well as HG Wells and Brando, but the film is just silly.  The mutated life forms running, ranting and raving impart no feeling or emotion at all, except maybe laughter.  Val Kilmer is underused, as is Brando, their performances the only bright spot in the film.  The scenery and locale are pretty.  The foreshadowing spoils the plot, making the movie both predictable and confusing, quite a feat!  The allegory is also too thin, with an ending tacked on, just in case you didn't get it! "},{"Title":"A crying shame","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this film at the worst possible time.  I had just finished reading the original H.G. Wells novel.  Bad move.  The novel had completely arrested my imagination and kept me turning page after page for three days.  The images and wonderful thought provoking concepts were still heavy in my mind.  So, my brothers had gone out to rent movies, and this one was in the stack.  I should have taken the hint when I noted that Val Kilmer and Marlon Brando were the stars.  Kilmer is probably one of the most disgraceful, unpleasant, unnatural and wooden actors I have seen since those awful 1950s romance pictures.  And Brando's talent is long since spent, and he makes a disgraceful spectacle and mockery of himself parading around in rediculous kabuki makeup draped in tarps.  Laughable.  I was to find out that these were the best parts of the picture.  When beginning the movie, I thought to myself, This is the 90s.  Surely they can make this film with integrity and special effects to serve the story.  I have hardly ever been so wrong.  The monster makeup was vaguely reminiscent of Wal Mart during Halloween season with lurid and cheap masks leering from all sides.  The special effects were slipshod and offensively cheap in appearance.  What bothered me the most was the updating of the plot.  Why do we always have to make things current?  The thing is so much more effective as an 1800s tale of vivisection and domination rather than DNA splicing and computer chips.  Next time, just follow the book.  It would make so much more sense.  If it ain't broke, don't fix it.  The film comes to a climax (?) involving some killing and some of the worst and incontinent editing yet in motion picture history.  The film grinds to a halt getting bogged down in a jumbled mess of MTV flashes of dancing (!) animal men in some kind of techno - monster club.  As a film, this is repellent.  I read the book in three days, but got bored after the first half hour of this.  I think this is very high on the list of movies to be buried deep within the earth and forgotten.  Shame on everybody involved, and I hope that Hollywood gets some good sense and sticks to the novel next time they attempt this story.  Repugnant!  If I could give a negative rating I would. "},{"Title":"boring,disgusting,ridiculous...","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have to admit that the island of Dr. Moreau is a completely bad, very bad film. I found this movie boring, uninterested, ridiculous and sometimes quite disgusting. When I went to the nearest video club I saw in the movies' picture Marlon Brando and Val Kilmer. At first I thought that it could be a good movie. Then I saw that the director was John Frankenheimer. Without loosing much time I took it. After four hours I realized that it was not a good choice. As a matter of fact it was a bad one! The directing was quite damnable and the script completely mischievous. As far as all the performances are concerned they were undoubtedly grotesque!  "},{"Title":"Why must people butcher Wells' stories?","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  H. G. Wells was a brilliant author of science fiction. Unfortunately, most of the movies done based on his work are truly horrible.I believe that it is because they see fit to change the author's work, to modernize it. They moved 'the War of the Worlds' to America. They made 'the Empire of the Ants' a movie about giant insects. Similarly, they butchered 'Moreau.' Kilmer did well playing the drunken biologist Montgomery, but the overarching poorness of the script, mixed with the unfortunate need to modernize (DNA instead of vivisection) led to just a bad film. I really wish they'd never made it. "}{"Title":"What was Brando thinking?","Date":"23 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is just horrible.  One has to wonder why a great actor like Marlon Brando would have signed on to such a ridiculous project.  His character, Dr. Moreau, was the best in the movie, but that isn't saying much.  After he dies, I had to fight off the overwhelming urge to turn the movie off.  The story is horrible and the special effects are second rate at best.   "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies of the decade","Date":"6 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Everything about this movie is terrible. The special effects, the actors,  the plot; the movie is bad, that's all I have to say about it. "},{"Title":"About midway through, it starts to become really, really stupid...and then it only gets worse.","Date":"2 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" During the first portion of this film, I was confused. After all, I remembered when the film debuted and just how scathing the reviews were--yet it didn't seem that bad. Aside from revealing secrets way too quickly and not exactly being original, it was a pretty decent film. But then, to quote Marlon Brando, ...the horror. What went wrong? I have no idea. All I know is that it looked as if the famed director, John Frankenheimer, must have given up and let his cat direct the film. And, as for the writing, it must have been left up to his dog...because this film truly is a dog! What surprised me is that although his appearance was weird and ghastly, Marlon Brando wasn't bad. Later in life, he seemed to often 'phone in' his performances--and he strayed very, very far from the scripts (which he was famous for not learning or memorizing). Here he might have done the same, but it worked. Val Kilmer, on the other hand, made absolutely no sense and looked as if he was on acid for most of the latter portion of the film. He must have felt pretty embarrassed by all this...or just didn't care (which it really appears to be). I could say more, but Mr. Kilmer is still alive and I'd hate to make him cry. But the biggest surprise I talked about above--Frankenheimer. How could the genius who directed classics like Day of the Jackel and Seconds make this mess?! Too often instead of brilliance, he gave us explosions, gun fights and bloody guts. What happened?! Why the appeal to stupid people and the sense of nihilism?!By the way, what did I think was the best moment in the film? Well, actually, there were two. First, when Kilmer's character was killed. Second, when the closing credits began to roll. Yes, the final half of the film is THAT bad! It's especially bad because it took a heck of a lot of money and the film STILL turned out this awful. "},{"Title":"Dr. Moreau is Dr. Ridiculous!!!!!!!!","Date":"12 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The Island of Dr. Moreau made a mockery of the late Marlon Brando's talent & legacy. H. G. Well's incredible novel adapted to the Hollywood screen was better served in the 1977 version than this utterly ridiculous 1996 version. The story is based on an account by ship wreck survivor Edward Douglas(David Thewlis), English diplomat on a peace settlement. Montgomery, vet & Moreau confidant, finds Douglas adrift in the Red Sea adrift a bloody raft. Douglas arrives on Moreau's Island, where he soon learns what the good doctor is REALLY doing in his seclusion. Douglas is told that a radio is available to call for help & a ship will arrive shortly. Douglas meets the beautiful Aissa(Fairuza Balk), Moreau's daughter. Douglas is shown to his room by Montgomery where he is locked in for his own good. Having escaped, Douglas creeps up on a horrible operation & many caged animals. What Douglas discovers is the horror of science realized in half human/half animals created by Moreau. These poor creatures are subdued by shock implants & live by Moreau's pseudo-moralistic Laws for Men. The group of creatures are led by Sayer of the Law, a Ram headed blind man who preaches Moreau's rules of conduct to the masses. Dr. Moreau is creating monsters with science, being the same man who received the Nobel Peace Prize for inventing Velcro?!? Go figure!!!! As the doctor preaches the Law to the beasts on man's good behavior, a beast kills a rabbit & consumes it voraciously. Dr. Moreau finds out & holds a mock trial to flush out the culprit. Lo-Mai the Cheetah, guilty & frightened, lashes out at Moreau. Moreau shocks Lo-Mai into submission & forgives him. Lo-Mai takes a bullet to the head by Azazello & now the beasts realize that violence equals power. Hyena-Swine goes to the kiln where Lo-Mai is cremated & finds a shock implant on the cheetah's femur. Realizing what he found, Hyena-Swine pulls out his own shock implant & knows he can no longer be forced into submission by Moreau's shock control unit. With a few other aggressive animals with him, Hyena-Swine plots to kill Moreau & control the beasts on the island. All the while, Moreau continues his work despite the turmoil surrounding him.Douglas tells Moreau at dinner that his work is destruction & debasement of the worst kind. Moreau defends his work stating that I have seen the devil in my microscope & I have chained him. Metaphorically speaking, I have cut him to pieces. I am closer to perfecting the human species than you could possibly imagine, sir. Of course, Montgomery adds insult to injury by requesting rabbit fricasse instead of the usual vegetarion diet practiced on Moreau's island. During a routine med distribution, Montgomery realizes that Hyena-Swine is a loose cannon when the torn away shock implant is shown. Hyena-Swine runs & teaches his cohorts to rip out their shock implants. Planned & carefully executed, Hyena-Swine & friends invade Moreau's main house to let him know that the animals will be taking over. Dr. Moreau is attacked savagely & is murdered. Douglas threatens Montgomery to give him the serum to stop Aissa's regression to no avail. Montgomery is subsequently murdered by Azazello who was ordered by Hyena-Swine. War is declared, with Douglas (David Thewlis) & Aissa(Fairuza Balk) fighting for their lives. Aissa was Moreau's finest work but her cat animality was taking over. With no serum, Aissa's womanly appearance begins to take on a feline persuasion. Jealous of her favor with the Father, Aissa was murdered by her brother Azazello, leaving Douglas to fend for himself. Captured by Hyena-Swine's minions, Douglas is brought before the devious hyena to convince the animals of his superiority. Knowing of Hyena-Swine lust for power & yearning to be a god, Douglas tricks Hyena-Swine into the trap of his own lust for power & turns his brethren against him. The mad hyena is beaten by the others & throws himself into a fiery building. With a following day of raft building & supply gathering, Douglas prepares to leave Morea's island. Monkey man Assassimon begs Douglas to stay & Sayer of the Law refuses help to reverse the scientific damage caused by Moreau. According to Sayer of the Law,To go on two legs....is very hard. Four is better, anyway. Douglas finally left the island with a warning for all those who would follow in Moreau's footsteps. ...and I go, in fear.Brando's Dr. Moreau was simply dreadful, as well as Val Kilmer's completely assonine performance as Montgomery, the beast people's jailer. Thewlis & Balk were surprisingly good in their performances with the rest of the cast floundering in the jungle abyss. Such a waste of acting talent & film!!!!!!Unless you just like to be insulted by horrible remakes & silly beast make-up work, grab your popcorn & soda. But remember, I warned you!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"There is no pain, there is no law!","Date":"8 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Horrible, yucky, and riddled with imperfections only begin to scratch the surface of possible words to describe this film. From the opening scene until the very end this film was doomed because of one insurmountable flaw, the actors and director just didn't care. There is a point in a film when you can literally look into someone's eyes to see if they are interested in this film, or just collecting a paycheck. Kilmer and Brando were collecting paychecks with this film. It says something about the film when the lead, David Thewlis, refused to see the final version because he knew that it would be bad. That is someone on the inside reviewing the film and pointing out the flaws, now we all know that can't be good.From the small person next to Brando to the unquarkiness of Kilmer's part, this film never went anywhere. I kept waiting for this pivotal moment where suddenly it would just click, but it never did. The monsters, if you dare call them that, were unfrightening and dull. They seemed to be a cross between Burton's Planet of the Apes and leftover garbage. Sadly, these horrible costumes overshadowed the possibility of some interesting symbolism. Oh wait, I think that was all Brando's fault. I realize that he was trying to play God and bring some religious moments into the film, but failed because Brando forgot to build his character. I don't mean to jump on the bandwagon here, but this was a horrible film. The story was cheap, the set was even cheaper, and the actors felt like a cheap leisure suit. It works, but you know the quality just isn't there.I will go with others and say that this film was bad. I couldn't watch it in one sitting, and I do not feel as if anyone else should. This is a classic case of a Hollywood blunder that chose to stick with it instead of pull out for the better of everyone involved.Grade * out of ***** "},{"Title":"The Island of My Butthole","Date":"18 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I am utterly surprised this isn't the lowest rated movie of all time. This movie eats more ass than any other movie ever made. What the hell is the matter with you people!? From Justin to Kelly couldn't possibly be any worse than this piece of garbage. Mighty Morphin Power Rangers couldn't hold a candle to the sheer awefulness displayed by this movie. Marlon Brando AND Val Kilmer both signed on for this rag, not David Schwimmer and Christopher Lambert. There is no possible way this movie can average a 3.9.Anybody with a brain would have given this at least a 1. In fact, IMDb should create an entirely new rating of zero solely to accommodate The Island of Dr Moreau. You wanna know who ruins the worst rankings of all time? Its the one occasional retard who thinks the creatures are cool. You sir, deserve death. For all the 1's and 2's afforded this movie, you just have to give it an 8. Someone please track down this drain on society and smash his computer. "},{"Title":"Not natural. The evil doctor must defend his way of making life.","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  John Frankenheimer directs another adaptation of H.G. Wells novel. Critics and most movie goers agree this Richard Stanley screenplay leaves a lot to be desired. Hollywood giant Marlon Brando plays the strange Doctor Moreau, who on a remote South Pacific island experiments with humans and animals. Of course the results end in a clan of special children for the egomaniacal doctor to defend along with his own quirky life style.Beautiful scenery and haunting background music; but the total weirdness of the story and sluggish dialogue does not a classic make. Brando does nothing more than is expected of him. And in this juncture of his career...all that is required for him is to show up, I guess. Forget about the great actor he was. Val Kilmer does the best he can with what he gets to work with. Sometimes smug; sometimes flat and boring. Also featured are Fairuza Balk, David Thewlis and Ron Perlman.This is really an experiment in viewing. So beautiful and fantastic a vista; but then so crude and ugly the experience becomes. A powerful movie for a special breed.  "},{"Title":"Looks like Moreau's geneticists mutated the movie too!  Ha ha ha!  I kill me!","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I'm not going to get too elaborate here.  You've got Marlon Brando looking like a bloated Powder in a truly baffling performance.  You have the original Mini-Me.  You get to watch a four-breasted woman give birth to a dog-faced boy.  If ANY of this piques your interest, you rent this movie and you'll get your money's worth. "},{"Title":"Dr. Moreau's summer camp...And I do mean CAMP","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Eerie suspense tale from H. G. Wells about stranded traveler washing ashore on a remote island. Well, bearing this in mind and witnessing a long 96 minutes of this movie, makes one wonder just exactly what went wrong? Something did go terribly wrong, and I don't mean the good doctor's experiments, either. What proceeds to spew forth from the film is a jumbled, loosely-knit, campy collection of scenes strung together. The only things this film has going for it, is the some good special effects. The music by Gary Chang is haunting and bizarre. The rest of the movie, you can pretty much skip. Of course, we know this isn't exactly John Frankenheimer's fault, as the first director left before the project was completed. Don't even bother to look for a hint of continuity, or you will go as mad as Brando's character is supposed to be. Speaking of the marvelous Marlon, where DID they dig his costume up? He was a wig short of impersonating Divine. I had to ponder what effect this portrayal would have on the sale of muumuu's. Between lengthy bouts of unintelligible dialogue and unintentional humor, this version of THE ISLAND OF DR. MOREAU may, at best, achieve cult status. "},{"Title":"An Unfortunate Waste of Potential","Date":"7 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  During the opening credits, I was very excited and looked forward to a movie that delivered, if not on the potential of the original story, then at least on the excitement the credits promised. What I watched unfold before me was an embarrassing, haphazard botch-job. When Brando's character was killed, I was very upset (he was the only character I felt much interest in or sympathy for), and wondered how the rest of the movie could possibly hold up. But when the cat woman got killed, the idiomatic camel's back was broken. What followed was horrible maelstrom. Both my friend and I were very close to leaving early (which I have never voluntarily done), but we both stuck it out, in what in retrospect could only be described as pure masochistic fashion. Again, this was a very embarrassing film considering the talent involved. I traditionally love Brando and Kilmer; Balk was another wasted treasure. I would have to point out that the cinematography was superb. As far as our director is concerned, he quickly moved on to the masterful Ronin (I didn't see the George Wallace film). Try Island out for as long as you care to, then go watch Ronin. "}{"Title":"A major disaster.","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The Island of Dr Moraeu is one of the best HG Wells novels, and it has been filmed quite successfully as Island of Lost Souls and under its original title in 1977. This version is a stain on the book; indeed, it is a stain on the cinematic releases of 1996.The story of a shipwereck survivor (Thewlis) ending up on a weird island peopled by half human, half animals creatures created by experimentations by Dr Moreau (Brando) retains some of its old interest, but is critically undone by the childish tone and truncated editting. Frankenheimer has directed some wonderful films, but here he seems lost (either that, or the studio has tampered with his production and made a mess of it). The actors appear to have barely any understanding of what's going on. Worst of all, the monsters don't come across in the intended fashion as examples of science gone awry instead, they look like childish creations aimed at the toy shop market. "},{"Title":"Has Brando replaced June Allyson for Depends Undergarments?","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film is proof positive of what a mediocre actor Marlon Brando is.  This movie defies description.  It is like the Mardi Gras with Marlon camping it up in diapers, a mumu and kabuki make-up.  The scene where he plays the piano with one of his creatures is something out of John Waters.  My favorite scene is when he sits with a bucket on his head while his daughter fills it with ice.  I'm sure the director hope that the chill my startle a performance out of him.  Brando is an actor who has given a handful of extraordinary performances due in most part to the fine writing that he was given.  When one looks at his career it is loaded with bombs in which he sleepwalks through.  It is easy to see why he is so admired by the current generation of actor's his lazy, undisciplined and self-indulgent behavior is the same traits that many of them have adopted.  One must go back and look at Spencer Tracey, James Stewart and Barbara Stanwyck to see actors whose work was a craft whose professionalism and dedication is apparent in all the performances.   Val Kilmer is execrable.  And John Frankenheimer should have never put his name to this debacle.  It's an embarrassment across the board. Shame.  Shame. "},{"Title":"Just plain bad","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is one Wells book I have not had the pleasure of reading. Like the 1977 version this one does a woefully inadequate job of explaining what Dr Moreau thinks he is doing. Surgically changing animals into humans certainly needs some explaining. Why a Nobel Prize winner would waste his talent on such hare-brained nonsense needs explaining. This is the kind of sad thing Brando was doing towards the end of his career. This is well-mounted and the surgically offended animals truly and foolishly abused. Val Kilmer is very good in spite of having to perform the silly scene which ends in his death. Wells would, no doubt, find it amusing that after a life pretty much devoted to Fabian Socialist thought, he would be characterized as fascist. He did indeed think humans were, if not perfectible, they were at least improvable. I guess I should read the book and get his take on th Doctor's motivation. I would like to thank the makers of this film for having the nerve to be clear what the Doctor's daughter was not human. "},{"Title":"A sorry spectacle","Date":"10 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I was one of those privileged to see Brando on stage in A Streetcar Named Desire. It was an experience not to be forgotten and impossible to describe -- a searing, blue-flame performance which could not be fully realized in the film version, fine as it was. And now it has come to this! In his first appearance he looks like Buddha in clown white improbably garbed in a nun's habit. The remainder of the performance is a passable imitation of Sidney Greenstreet in The Maltese Falcon having a chuckle at his own expense. For some reason Brando seems to be having a jolly time displaying his monstrous corpulence in this monstrous travesty of a film. The pity! the pity! the pity! Still there is that formidable presence. Like the proverbial train-wreck it is horrible to see but impossible to look away from. As for Kilmer and Thewlis, they were present. The virtuoso work of the make-up department should be noted as a plus. They did create some truly monstrous creatures.The film at times becomes almost incoherent due to some strange lapses in the stories continuity. For instance, for a time Kilmer seems to be the only rational person on the island (even though he wears a sarong left over from a Dorothy Lamour flick. And then without any sort of transition he is as mad as a march hare. If you care to see a number of significant talents crash and burn this is the film for you. "},{"Title":"Marlon's Freak Show","Date":"21 September 2008","Score":"8 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This expensive remake of the Paramount classic, The Island of Doctor Moreau fell on all fours in the telling. It looks like the inspiration wasn't Moreau, but rather Tod Browning's classic Freaks.The film was not done on the cheap either either, shot in gorgeous technicolor in a tropical location in Queensland in Australia, replacement director John Frankenheimer did the best he could, but he had a couple of runaway actors in Marlon Brando and Val Kilmer who just went completely over the top. And the computer graphic creations made me think that Narnia had gone over to the dark side.This was once again one of Marlon Brando's Christian Defense Fund films made to pay the lawyer's for his son's murder trial. It was during the filming of The Island of Dr. Moreau that daughter Cheyenne Brando committed suicide. I'm not sure what anyone could have done with Brando at that point.Of course I'm not sure what Val Kilmer's excuse, was except that he might have seen this was going to be an expensive turkey and he might as well cut himself a slice or two of ham. Brando's three hundred pound albino Moreau reminded me of Dale the Whale from the Monk series and he seemed to recycle bits of Colonel Kurtz from Apocalypse Now into his performance. Then Kilmer decides to do an imitation of him.When we first meet Brando he's being carried through the jungle on what looks like the Popemobile and dressed all in white and giving waves and benedictions to the crowd of his creations looked for all the world like the Pope going through St. Peter's. If this was to inspire awe, it missed the mark, I laughed myself silly. This version of The Island Of Dr. Moreau had to bow to advances in medical science since Charles Laughton and Arthur Hohl were operating in the House of Pain. What Brando is doing is injecting human DNA in various amounts in different creatures, creating his freak show. Still Laughton's sadistic experiments gave us more genuine terror than what Brando was doing.This one will make you nostalgic for the old House of Pain. "},{"Title":"a muddled, messy, mutated pile of mush...","Date":"21 January 2006","Score":"8 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A lot of slag has been thrown in the direction of John Frankenheimer's Island of Dr. Moreau, and with good reason this is a film (brought to the screen on 2 other occasions, in 1933 and 1977) where nearly nothing goes right over the course of its run time. It's a jumbled mess of a thing, based on the H.G. Wells novel (which I have not read), but astoundingly lacking in the intellect department. White-faced, mountainous 'Godfather of Manimals' Marlon Brando conducts DNA experiments on a remote island, crossing men with cheetah, buffalo, etc. in an attempt to craft a perfect race; Val Kilmer is his constantly overacting assistant; and David Thewlis is the Daft Git who washes ashore and acts completely irrational every step of the way. While trying VERY hard to make profound statements on man, mutation, the manipulation of nature, all we have conveying these themes are gibberish on some 'Law' and Brando being referred to as 'Father.' While the creature effects by Stan Winston are well-done, the movie is so amazingly inept (comeplete with a Cannibal Holocaust-style ending pondering man's savagery) that it doesn't even resonate in a 'so-bad-it's-good' setting... Locate the infinitely superior Island of Lost Souls (1933) for a better telling of this material. "},{"Title":"Worse than bad (or better?)","Date":"23 November 2003","Score":"17 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Here's a rare case of a film that's not only bad, but incompetant (Only The Avengers comes to mind as another recent example). The fact that original director Richard Stanley was fired only days into the shoot, and that a pouting Val Kilmer was allowed to run loose pretty much self-destructed this film. It's obvious that the heavily altered script was either slapped together, written on the fly, or at the very least not well thought out. The tone of the picture changes dramatically as it progresses (especially after its relatively assured beginning) but its not until we see Val Kilmer doing a Brando impression (certainly one of the most inexplicable scenes I've ever come across) that we realize no one seems to be in control of this incoherent mess. If this was just a schlocky b-movie there wouldn't be much to consider, but given the excellent cast, a capable director, and good makeup work, the occasional bits and pieces that register with the audience just make the film see that much more disjointed. For a big-budget action picture, Island of Dr. Moreau is a unique experience. It isn't as much bad as a mess, a cacophony of sights and sounds lacking a coherent narrative, and occupied by two egotistical stars too caught up making their own movie in their minds to bother with what's in the abysmal script. The one positive thing that I can say of Island of Dr. Moreau is that it does have value as a curio. It's almost fascinating to watch what happens when a film just plain goes bad, and makes you start to take for granted witless moronic fare that at least makes a bit of sense.  "},{"Title":"The island of over acting ...............","Date":"21 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Sometimes a movie gets an undeserved bad reputation. Unfortunately, The Island of Dr. Moreau earns it's bad reviews the easy way , by being a real stinker of a film. Picture Marlon Brando as a jumbo albino geneticist who controls a nice assortment of grotesque creatures with a TV remote. Do not be confused by any attempt at logic, because there is none. You get Marlon Brando as some sort of huge white god, and then to make matters worse, after his demise, you get Val Kilmer doing a weak imitation of Brando. The best way to describe this film is a bunch of visuals, with atrocious acting, chop shop editing, and a story that makes no sense. - MERK "},{"Title":"Dull and pointless.","Date":"20 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It works better as a freak show or as an example of how a big budget movie can be really a mess.I watched this movie in the theaters and to be honest, I can barely remember how I exactly felt when it ended but something for sure it was an uncomfortable watch. Why? The movie is dull, not interesting at all although the plot is a remake from a well known tale.The freak show term shouldn't be considered that much for this movie because the plot is much more complex.The production values are very well but that mid 90's vibe makes it look very generic, repetitive.Marlon Brandon looked very uncomfortable in his weird role. That should give you an idea of how pointless the movie is... "},{"Title":"By turning animals into humans, man wants to become God (and fails)...or is searching for his own distinction (and succeeds in finding it)","Date":"27 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is a totally unnecessary movie, with bad storyline, bad dialog, bad special effects. Original director Richard Stanley was fired and replaced by John Frankenheimer (who was, at best, a capable director and at worst, a hack which shows here). Marlon Brando could have been an interesting Dr. Moreau (given he could have remembered his lines) but completely hacks it up. The special effects by Stan Winston are awful. The feel one gets from watching this is to look at a storyboard turned into motion (which goes for a lot of movies nowadays). Instead of watching this, look for The Island of Dr. Moreau directed by Don Taylor (1977) with Burt Lancaster (not flawless either, but at least interesting) and especially for Island of Lost Souls directed by Erle C. Kenton (1933) with Charles Laughton; his portrayal of Dr. Moreau still remains definitive and the movie has an unsettling atmosphere which is closer to the book. Better still just read the novel by Herbert George Wells (written more then 100 years ago but still modern) ! "}{"Title":"Complete mess of a movie","Date":"22 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I'm not being unfairly vindictive here in giving it a 2/10. Its just that this barely resembles a quality movie you'd associate the names Brando and Kilmer with. Prior to seeing it I was extremely excited on hearing the premise of the story, and learning that it was a remake of an old H.G. Wells novel I even went as far as to read the first 3 chapters of the book to psyche myself up.Bitter disappointment. The story of mad scientist creates half man half beast is the sort of fantasy I dreamed of as a kid, but in this movie it makes a mockery it. Voice acting is often dodgy, sometimes pretentious, costumes and physical acting seem primitive by today's standards, plot and pacing is all over the place. Surely the book couldn't have been this bad.I was particularly interested in this film because I've been doing some reading on Darwin and watched the excellent PBS documentary series on his life and legacy. I thought this would be the great 'next step' in evolution, something akin to Jurassic Park. Nope. Just a mess of a movie. "},{"Title":"The theme","Date":"22 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" While waiting for a table at Applebee's tonight, I watched a bit of The Isle of Dr. M. with the sound turned down and closed captioning on. It was much more interesting like that, since I could interpret a lot of the Dialogue any way I wanted. I especially loved the occasional Random Growling or hungry grunts or panting wildly. While trying to explain the movie to the hostess (who had never heard of it), I think I discovered the theme. I'm not saying that the theme is all that deep nor that I am so smart to have discovered it. I'm just saying that I had a thought about it. Anyway, perhaps the theme is that we all have a little animal inside us (evolutionarily speaking) and why should we always try to repress it - as the animal/human hybrid had to do in this movie. Sometimes, don't you just want to throw away all the laws that Doc M. has laid down and be just a little carnal? "},{"Title":"Uglier than the creatures in it","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I can't even begin to tell how excited I was about this years before even it started shooting. The second re-make with Burt Lancaster was one of my favorite movies, incredible make-up job especially on the baboon-humans on that one. I thought, with the make-up techniques and Marlon Brando as the good doctor, well, how can you go wrong. And then... Along came Val Kilmer... Although the film starts off strongly (incredible opening credits), it just spirals down into oblivion, it is as if some 5-year old is directing it, and all of the actors are drunk. There is nothing but chaos in the second half (what is that thing of Val Kilmer imitating Marlon Brando???). The second half is one of the few occasions when I thought to myself There absolutely, positively is no script whatsoever, how can there be? I heard of Val Kilmer wreaking havoc on set, firing crew members and the original director John Frankenheimer, and he was initially supposed to play the protagonist. David Thewliis is terrbily miscast as the hero, and so is Val Kilmer. It is obvious that the production troubles can to some extent be blamed on Kilmer, but I'd take a shot by shot Psycho-type remake of the second remake to this garbled mess any day of the week. It is so sad to see such good source material torn apart. Even the make-up is nowhere near the original remake. * out of ****. "},{"Title":"Just watched this again, so unreal..","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I'm currently rewatching Val Kilmer films, my favorite actor. Saw most of them when they came out, including this unbelievable mess of a movie. But NOOO!!! I had to watch it again, being the masochist I am....I sat here last night, just mesmerized by how awful this movie is. Brando with a friggin' upside down ice bucket on his head that his daughter dutifully fills with ice. I almost died laughing, but I don't think they meant it to be a comedic scene.You can certainly tell the actors playing the main human characters weren'ttaking it seriously at all, while the animal cast worked their asses off in hot and heavy fake suits, jumping around on all fours and trying to emote thru tons of makeup. They must have lost a ton of weight sweating like overworked beasts of burden. I hope these guys got paid well! What a thankless, exhausting shoot this must have been for these poor people!In the pivotal scene where Thewlis and Kilmer go to blows with each other and they have a confrontational shoving match, at the highest point of tension, at the climax when he's face to face with Kilmer, Thewlis (the actor, not the character he's playing) actually tries to hold back his laughter but doesn't quite make it. He's actually laughing! Kilmer just sits there trying to contain himself too. I can't believe the director chose to use this particular take. The character is fighting for his life and the actor playing him is laughing at the absurdity of it all!Too funny. Crappy movie all in all, but if you want to watch high camp and some inspired costumes, I guess you couldn't do much better.And this particular plot point really bugs me...... Moreau's been doing thisresearch for 17 years, so how come there's animal characters that appear to be very elderly and the entire community of animal freaks seem to have been there for many generations? Only 17 years?Friggin' ice bucket on his head...... YYYEEEAAAHHH!  "},{"Title":"Two words sum up this movie quite well","Date":"19 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It stinks. Or, if you prefer the cliché approach If you see only one movie this summer, see something else. Or how about Wonderful, marvelous, a cinematic spectacle years ahead of it's time are words I would never associate with this movie under any circumstances. The Must Miss movie of the year. Bad, uninspired acting by Brando and Kilmer doom this movie. Honestly, Kilmer has never been the same since he portrayed Jim Morrison in The Doors and Brando had to either be bored, broke or owed someone a favor to do this movie.Again It stinks. Period. "},{"Title":"one of the worst movies I've ever seen","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Why did Marlon Brando take part in this trash movie? This is garbage at all levels, often falling off into unintentional ridiculousness, and if you've been taking it as a funny movie for all of its length, the final scene will make you think that there's something wrong with the man who created this film. Not recommendable even to Brando's die hard fans; the man doesn't leave a mark as always, here he's just another actor. Horrible. "},{"Title":"Please God, take me now...","Date":"9 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is quite simply the worst movie ever. I would not have stayed for the dreadful conclusion of the whole debacle, but the friends who drove to the theatre would not let me leave. There are children starving in the Middle East and someone spent money making this film. "},{"Title":"Ghastly!","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Take a cast of fine actors, a classic horror story from the guy credited with having invented the genre of science fiction, amazing effects and some startling cinematography and you come up with a winner, right?  No. This is a stinker of a movie.  Why?  Because they screwed up the script with a lot of absolute nonsense which completely misses the point of H.G. Wells orthogensis of animals forced into human form.  The classic Island of Lost Souls with Charles Laughton and Bela Lugosi's haunting Are we not men? is absent from this parody of a tale, as is the seamy remake with competent performances by Burt Lancaster and Michael York.  Terrible performances by Brando and Kilmer matched by the hammy struting of Thewlis coupled with this garish script add up to a disappointment.  I have to look hard for any pluses and can only think of Balk's gorgeous, provocative Balinese dancing interrupted by Thewlis, and Brando's remark, upon hearing the monsters banging on the piano, that it sounds like Schoenberg.  But, partners, that's pretty thin fare for the price of a ticket these days.  "},{"Title":"Revolting, perverted and stupid...and funny in a sick way","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  My choices for the sickest motion pictures of the '90s are Natural born killers, Fear and loathing in Las Vegas and The Island of Dr. Moreau. These movies are sick in dissimilar ways. Natural born killers was an ode of violence, Fear and loathing in Las Vegas was one big and grotesque drug trip and The Island of Dr. Moreau is nothing more than just a twisted trash.It's actually quite refreshing to watch a truly disgusting flick once in a while. It's fun to follow how much you can stand. In the beginning this movie is actually quite fascinating and I did wonder why all the reviews unanimously claim it sucks. After a while I noticed why - it's absolutely impossible to take The Island of Dr. Moreau seriously!It was very interesting to find out how stupid this movie would eventually be. Pretty damn stupid. Plot is irrational, most of the scenes are loathsome and the end of the film is simply terrible BUT there's no reason to deny it Marlon Brando is just awesome as Dr. Moreau!Still, when I watch the scene where enormous Dr. Moreau plays piano with an ugly and repulsive little freak in a matching white suit (pretty hard sequence to forget by the way - especially for a Brando-fan) I had to wonder why the hell did Brando wanted to take part in this ridiculous spectacle!? It's funny but inconceivable! I know everybody warns about this movie but I positively recommend it! Total bulls***, hideous classic! "},{"Title":"Sad self-parodies by Brando -and Frankenhiemer","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"              What happened to John Frankenhiemer? Is this the same man who made that most perfect of darkly comic thrillers, The Manchurian Candidate? The man whose Television biography of George Wallace was one of the best things ever put on Television? Who, indeed was responsible for some of the greatest dramas of the golden years of TV. The director of Birdman of Alcatraz? Seven days in May? Could such a fine director have declined so much that he produced this grotesque, self parodying film? And it is a film full of self-parodies..just look at Marlon Brandos parody of his performance in Apocalypse now.It had moment of dark comedy..fully worthy of Frankenhiemer at his best..still,  disgusting, revolting film. I wish I could say it was  forgettable'; sadly, it remains all too well emblazoned on the memory "}{"Title":"Horrible embarrassment to filmmaking!!!","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was no way as good as the original. This film was a mistake to remake the original Island of Dr. Moreau. It has has some good acting from Marlon Brando and Val Kilmer, but otherwise it's weird and too many people die which leaves you depressed. It's not great and I gave it a 2! "},{"Title":"Ignore This Monstrosity!","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  And the 1977 remake also; watch and relish the original 1933 classic, The Island of Lost Souls instead, you won't regret it.  The two inferior remakes make a mockery of the original; for instance, where is the exotic, but eerie atmosphere of the remote island, captured only as it could in shadowy Black & White?  Where is the campy, but exquisite performance by Laughton as the amoral Doc?  Where is the fabulous Bela,as the Sayer of the Law? Where is the morbid, gruesome ending where Doc gets his just due at the hands of the manimals in The House of Pain?  And so on, ad nauseum.... "},{"Title":"Oh Dear Me!","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is a shocker! Some poor efforts can be entertaining in their struggles, but this has nothing to recommend it. David Thewlis seems embarrassed by every moment of the film, and he has a point. Val Kilmer is as wooden as ever, and as for Marlon! Brando is like Barbara Cartland's older sister. He acts like some drunken puff-ball covered in Tippex and achieves the almost impossible by being sillier than the collection of supposedly frightening animals on the island. The sign of a good film is if you care about any of the characters being portrayed...here you have more empathy with the trees on the island than any of the disinterested characters. And the trees are less wooden! "},{"Title":"prepare to be bewildered...","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Once upon a time Brando was enormously gifted. Sadly, in the history of Hollywood there is no bigger story about squandered talent. Brando's stew is basted in self-indulgence and narcissism. To track Brando's increasingly absurd petulant behavior get ahold of the book Brando by Peter Manso, which Brando didn't want published. It catalogs Brando's kinky, neurotic, isolationist, aberrant diva behavior.This movie is pure junk. Stan Winstons latex humanimal costumes are laughable. Why should Brando portray Dr. Moreau as a powder-faced drag queen dressed as a dowager empress? Well he's the coddled Mr. Brando and even at his most assinine he's good for a headline or a scandal. But mostly it's for the most maturbatory reason of all because he can... No director can curtail his ridiculous musings if Brando doesn't want to make the movie.The opening credits are amazing because a different source produced them. "},{"Title":"* out of ****","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film not only had bad special-effects, it also had terrible make-up effects by Stan Winston.  This was his worst effort yet.  Aside from the technicalities, it was also a pointless, annoying film.  Nothing surprised me and I left the theater completely disappointed. "},{"Title":"awful movie, awesome title sequence","Date":"18 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Most of the components that make a film watchable such as, interesting plot, character development, quality acting, beautiful or innovative cinematography, are missing from this version of The Island of Dr. Moreau.In contrast, the title sequence done by Imaginary Forces (the same folks who did the titles for Se7en) is amazing. Jittery, animated typography over colorful, microscopic views of biological stuff. It completely outshines the movie it precedes. As a matter of fact, I recommend renting this movie just to see the title sequence.Hopefully someone will put together a compilation of title sequences that includes this one. I would gladly purchase it!  "},{"Title":"*Shudder*","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  After warning against the horrors of Lawnmoyer man 2, I felt the urge to continue my crusade and let my feelings be known of the second worst film I have ever sat through. This film puts the aw(dear god no!!) into awful. Stay away!0/10. "},{"Title":"Treat yourself to Brando being eaten...","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  You won't be surprised to learn that he offers a complete three course serving for a large number of actors, including doggie-bags to go. The beasts are dressed in discarded costumes from the musical Cats - here used to cover up mutated crosses between humans and animals.You also get to see Val Kilmer imitating Brando in Apocalypse Now; and Brando imitating Anthony Hopkins, including a session at the piano before the great Brando gets chewed up by his animal critics.Thewlis has no idea what he's doing in the movie, but that's OK, since he's fallen out of a plane and ended up on the island by chance.The director has no idea what he's doing WITH the movie - and that's not OK, though you wish he'd fallen out of the same plane, on the way to the shoot.It's kind of distressing to realize that the film was made by John Frankenheimer. Let's hope they had a lot of fun after each shoot day - though since a lot of the scenes are at night, they probably didn't, since nights were spent shooting. And days were spent regretting what they just shot.They shouldn't have bothered. If I ever get hold of another of H.G. Wells' invention, the Time Machine, I'll use it to go back to when this mess premiered in LA. The reactions from an astonished and perplexed industry, while watching this, must have been at least as rewarding as they were during Battlefield Earth.This is, truly, one of the worst films ever... "},{"Title":"Unredeemable Turd","Date":"16 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Don't listen to the apologists--with all due respect to Stan Winston's special effects (which were very good but wasted in this film), this was excruciatingly awful. The people who construct defenses of this film by referring to the message and admittedly interesting premise seem to forget that you don't need to watch this film to get either, since there are two other film versions and (whoa!) a classic novel as well. In other words, there's no reason whatsoever for this waste of celluloid to have been released on an unsuspecting public...or even for it to have been made in the first place.OK, wise-guy--what's so bad about it, then? Everything except the costumes. This was Brando's return to the full-blown inmates-running-the-asylum lunacy of Apocalypse Now, except there's precious little talent involved (save Brando's own long-squandered acting chops) or anything resembling an artistic vision to guide the horrible mess. What we get instead is a morbidly fascinating ego pile-up fueled by drugs and chaos--and did I mention that it's ineptly edited as well? You could start a whole new drinking game based on the inexplicable lingering blank looks, awkward pauses, and perplexing continuity gaps. Every time something happens that makes no cinematic sense whatsoever, shout WTF?!? and down another shot. At least that way, you'll pass out halfway through the movie and spare yourself the horror of watching the rest.OK, wise-guy--how about some examples? Fine. What's with Kilmer doing his freaky Brando impersonation when his character temporarily takes over the island? It would almost make sense except that it's Brando's Godfather character that he's doing(!). Why didn't anyone on-set have the cajones to tell Brando to quit f***ing around and take the g-ddam champagne bucket off of his head during the stupid hat scene? Why do the occasional chase scenes lack any suspense or excitement and just sort of end? Why do all the actors seem like they're completely blitzed on quaaludes and heroin? The inevitable impression one takes away from this movie is that no one was in charge, and the resulting film feels like watching a grown-up kindergarten populated by furry things who are all amped up on superhuman quantities of narcotics...and did I mention that the teacher's called in sick? Spare yourself. If I could give it a zero, I would--there are lots of movies on the IMDb 100 Worst list that I'd much rather watch than this thing. Ugh. Poor Frankenheimer... "},{"Title":"Unwatchable.","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  How bad is the 1996 remake The Island of Dr. Moreau? Unwatchably bad. That's how bad it is. I like Val Kilmer (Heat, Top Secret!) and Marlon Brando (Apocalypse Now, The Godfather), but this movie is not only messy, strange/abnormal and downright boring, it is...I don't know, I just despise it with a vengeance. Probably one of the worst films I have ever seen.0/5 stars -John Ulmer "}{"Title":"just terrible, one of my ten worst of all time","Date":"16 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Poor Marlon Brando. The animals, the tragedy, the horror of it all. I can't believe I'm actually bothering to write anything here. It was just a ridiculously bad film. What were they thinking? Maybe I missed the point. Did they mean to say that Dr. Moreau was God? Was a religious metaphor film? Well it was still terrible. Just bad, bad, bad. No acting. No dialogue that was believable. Absurd in a bad way musical-style costumes and plot lines. I rank it up there with Congo and the Apes movies as to be avoided due to poor primates dressing up to slur other primates and have other primates watch and believe. Oh lordy... "}]