[{"Title":"Interesting & Nostalgic...","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"30 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Grace Of My Heart is similar to Valley Of The Dolls because the characters, in both films, are loosely based on actual people showing their rise & fall in show business. Illeana Douglas plays singer/songwriter Edna Buxton who becomes Denise Waverly. She's based on Carol Klein who became Carole King. A New Yorker who churned out hit after hit in the famous Brill Building. Where some of the action in Grace Of My Heart also takes place. John Turturro is based on record producer Phil Spector (complete with bad toupee & the wearing of sunglasses indoors). Matt Dillon fronts The Riptides (The Beach Boys). The Luminaires are based on girl groups like The Shirelles & The Chiffons. Bridget Fonda portrays teenaged angst-ridden, big-haired, bubblegum idol & lesbian Kelly Porter. There's no question that she's based on Lesley Gore. Interestingly, Lesley Gore wrote the tune Bridget lip synch's in the film, My Secret Love (which is a homage to Lesley's You Don't Own Me). The music in this movie is very good & has that 60's, 70's feel to it. I just wish the soundtrack album had included the tunes Hey There & Grace Of My Heart by Kristen Vigard who did the vocals for Illeana Douglas. If you like nostalgic movies about pop music like The Idolmaker, Grease, That Thing You Do & Hairspray you'll like this too. "},{"Title":"beautiful movie","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"37 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  First of all, this was NOT a Carole King biopic.  The character is called Denise Waverly, NOT Carole King.  The character was loosely based on Carole King, just as other characters were LOOSELY based on people from the era.Secondly, phony soundtrack?  Ummmmmm . . .ok, wanna check out the composers on the soundtrack??Finally, calling Ileanna Douglas a dog or ugly was perhaps the stupidest comment I have EVER seen on IMDB, and believe me, I've seen many stupid comments.  Not only is she beautiful, she is also a wonderful actress who does an amazing job in this film.  AND even if she was ugly (not my words), why should that hinder your enjoyment of the film?  Give me a break.If you don't like a film, at least do us all the favor of giving good reasons and at least ATTEMPT to make intelligent comments rather than the half-baked crap we see here.This film was excellent.  The soundtrack was amazing, the actors were even more amazing.  10/10 "},{"Title":"Grace of My Heart is a wonderful movie","Date":"22 December 2005","Score":"25 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I was reminded of how really good this movie is today when I saw it on T.V. (with commercials ugh) I've seen it a few times before and every time I watch it, I bawl like a baby and I'm a guy. A really tough guy. But this movie goes straight to my heart and puts a squeeze on it through the wonderful music, the sweet nostalgia and what a cast!Illeana Douglas is beautiful and she really plays her character with great talent. She's supported by a strong cast and how can you go wrong with Turturro playing Phil Specter? The first time I saw this there was something familiar about the music; the songs, like God give me Strength. As much as I like Elvis Costello, that scene of Illeana performing it for Matt (Brian Wilson) Dillon was such a unique delivery of a pure and powerful vocal. I later found that the 'familiarity' is Burt Bacharach and the 'voice' is Kristin Vigard Wow! Back in those days there was such an explosion of music and creativity and Burt Bacharach was truly a pop force.I loved the Brill Building scenes, especially when they were working on the songs. I thought the movie lost something when it moved west to California but was deeply moved by Douglas and Turturro 'having it out' at the empty poolside. The final song with the flashbacks and her crowning achievement of recording that one great album had me weeping again. I really like this movie so I ordered the DVD online. "},{"Title":"I can't believe more people don't know about this great movie!","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I rented this movie a couple years ago because I like Illeana Douglas.  I ended up buying 20 copies of it to give to friends as gifts for Christmas that year.  The story is compelling, the cast is amazing...I can't believe more people don't know about this movie.  The original music is great, too. The film moves seamlessly from the fifties through the seventies due in part to the talent of the actors, but also due to the impressive costume and makeup work and the wonderful original music written for each period. Y'know how people often say of good movies, You'll laugh/You'll cry? Well this is one of those. "},{"Title":"Behind every idol is a song...","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Illeana Douglas portrays songwriter Densie Waverly in a film loosely based on Carole King. It is more like a sneak peek into the lives of the 60's pop composers at the famous Brill Building(Neil Diamond, Jeff Barry, Ellie Greenwich). Most of the characters are based on real life rock and rollers. John Turturro plays a Phil Specter like producer named Joel, who discovers Denise. Matt Dillon does a pretty decent portrayal of a producer, not unlike Beach Boy Brian Wilson. Some parts are a bit too dramatic, but the songs in the movie--composed by the Brill writers make up for it. The highlight is Douglas's lip sync(sung by Kristen Vigard), written by Burt Bacharach and Elvis Costello. Good rock and roll movie. If you like this try *La Bamba *That Thing You Do *The Rose "},{"Title":"Personal rock-n-roll story.","Date":"15 December 1998","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Grace Of My Heart is a great rock-n-roll movie. It is also a very good character based drama. The cast is very good with Illeana Douglas and John Turturro turning in great performances. The director, Allison Anders, has made a very tight and well constructed story. The music is great and I also enjoyed Matt Dillon's performance as a paranoid musical genius. This is a very good movie. "},{"Title":"Awesome Love/Rock Story By Awesome Writer!","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Grace Of My Heart is an excellent movie with many plot twists and a great storyline! Kudos to Allison Anders for another FANTASTIC story!! I have not seen anything from this multi-talented writer that I have been disappointed in yet! She always provides a unique point of view in her stories and deals with valid issues. A Great triumph! AWESOME music as well! An absolute 10 in my book! I would suggest this movie VERY highly! Congrats to Allison! Keep on writing! "},{"Title":"A truly terrific & delightful slice of rock history drama gem","Date":"1 March 2006","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" The chronically under-appreciated Illeana Douglas gives a characteristically glowing, winsome, totally spot-on performance as aspiring singer/songwriter Denise Waverly, who during a very turbulent and wildly eventful fifteen year time span goes from being a frustrated, creatively stifled behind-the-scenes magic maker to eventually acquiring the clout and courage to branch out on her own to sing her own material in a strong, assertive, independent female voice. Learning under the expert tutelage of cranky, eccentric, misanthropic Brill Building impresario Joel Millner (a fabulously freaky John Turturro) and enduring a steady succession of unsuccessful romantic relationships with footloose, insecure, insensitive bohemian songwriter Howard Castatt (a perfectly jerky Eric Stoltz), conventional married disc jockey John Murray (a typically fine Bruce Davison), and brilliantly innovative, but paranoid and temperamental surf-rock composer Jay Phillips (a splendidly spaced-out Matt Dillon), the extremely intelligent and resilient Denise uses her bittersweet life experiences as prime fodder for her ever evolving and emotionally charged songs.Flavorfully documenting rock music's growth from effervescent girl group pop to trippy psychedelic experimentation to intensely personal singer/songwriter confessional tunes, Allison Anders' simply sensational feature, loosely based on the real-life exploits of Carole King (besides the obviously King-influenced Denise, most of the other characters are clearly composites of various actual rock people as well) and executive produced by Martin Scorsesse, crackles with all the joyous vibrancy and infectious exuberance of the marvelously dynamic and exciting music scene its set in. Anders' deft, assured direction and sharply perceptive script, both keenly tuned in to the mercurial zeitgeist of the 60's and the then burgeoning women's right movement, works as both invigorating rock music history and inspirational pro-feminist tract alike. The splendidly catchy and melodious Larry Klein-produced soundtrack, Jean Yves Escoffier's smooth, agile, gliding cinematography, a story which manages to be genuinely touching without ever lapsing into mawkishly contrived sentiment, an absorbing, minutely detailed backstage glimpse at the pop music songwriting and recording process, and the uniformly superlative acting -- Patsy Kensit as Denise's longtime songwriting partner and loyal gal pal Cheryl Steed, Bridget Fonda as awkward closeted lesbian pop singer Kelly Porter, and David Clennon as a flaky hippie shrink are especially terrific -- round out this positively radiant and utterly delightful gem. "},{"Title":"Grace of My Heart is my all time most favorite movie!","Date":"9 July 2004","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  As a former singer with a female group from the 70's, called SOFTOUCH, I could really appreciate the movie, Grace of My Heart. I thought the movie was very authentic in its presentation of the artists' struggles with becoming a singer in his or her own right, as well as a writer. It was not a popular position to be in in the 50's and 60's. I love Ms. Douglas. I thought she did an exceptional job with the material and the singing. John Tuturro was great as the manager and provided great comedic relief. Since his performance, I have gone out of my way to see everything he has performed in. He is an awesome actor! Most importantly, I enjoyed the music of Burt Bacharach. There is none other to compare. His songs are historic! My only concerns are these 1) I would have appreciated the female vocalist, Kristin Vigard recording the hit God Give Me Strength. I thought her voice was much more haunting and convincing. 2) Where can I purchase the Song Book for the sound track? I am now a teacher of middle school students in the arts program, and there are several clips from the movie that I have been able to show my students - and they love this movie! I cannot show the entire movie for the obvious sexual content however, they get a kick out of the music, storyline and the progress of the time including the wardrobe changes.  "},{"Title":"Pure Entertainment","Date":"5 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Just a reminder, folks, that not all movies are supposed to be, nor do they attempt to be, Oscar-contenders. Some films are merely entertaining. I enjoyed this film for exactly that reason -- ENTERTAINMENT. If a movie makes you laugh or cry, it has accomplished its mission. Great soundtrack too, by the way (which I bought). Oh, and a little note to those of you who are trying (in vain) to be the next Gene Shalit or Roger Ebert Some of your reviews are exasperatingly immature, e.g., she's ugly. Illeana Douglas is an excellent actress with a unique beauty. I'm guessing the she's ugly comments come from a big fan of Baywatch and Pamela Anderson? Since when do a person's physical looks have anything to do with their ability to act?  "}{"Title":"About a great song","Date":"7 May 2004","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I just want to write a few words about one of the best songs I've ever heard, a song that appears in this movie and that is part of a work made together by Burt Bacharach and Elvis Costello. God Give Me Strengh is the central theme of the movie. A pity that the version sung by Kristen Vigard doesn't appear in the movie album, but just listening to it (dubbing Illeana Douglass) during the movie is worth watching the movie...Costello's version is also great, by the way. It's part of an album made together by he and composer Bacharach later in 1998, titled Painted from memory. The movie is just entertaining, Illeana plays an amazing role. "},{"Title":"I love this movie!","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I love rock and roll movies set in the 60s, and this is a fun one.  Illeana Douglas is wonderful as Edna Buxton/Denise Waverly, and yes, she's only loosely based on Carole King (makes me think a bit of Carly Simon, too, since she's an heiress).  I think John Turturro is a hoot as Joel Millner, of course, he's always great.  Eric Stoltz and Matt Dillon are impressive, too, although the movie loses some impetus and impact when Denise moves to California with Jay (Dillon's character).  Still, it's one of my favorites--I just received my DVD the other day and watched all of the special features that evening.  It's a fun (albeit sometimes sad)movie!!! "},{"Title":"There's no justice in this world...","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  That Allison Anders film wasn't seen by a wider audience is a realshame. The film is excellent, it has a real heart to it, and thesoundtrack is possibly the best I've seen in a film about making music.Illeana Douglas is totally convincing as songwriter 'Denise Waverly',the support from Turturro is both amusing and weirdly moving.  It's hard not to have the suspicion that if this film had been made bya man, then he would have been widely feted as THE next big thing.The moment where Douglas sings the song God Give Me Strength to MattDillon in the studio makes my hair stand on end even as I type this. AndI'm wearing heavy duty wax in my hair "},{"Title":"Hugely Entertaining","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Just watched this movie over the Festive season and boy did it add to my enjoyment. No synopsis here boys and girls. It was just a very entertaining movie, great soundtrack and acting. And by the by, whoever said Illeana Douglas is ugly should visit the local optican. "},{"Title":"Understated but wonderful","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Tremendous pop film- why can't they all be like this? Loosly based on the life of Carole King, terrific acting and a great story combine to make this one of those 'never heard of it but must see' films. Do yourself a favour and make sure you see this one.  "},{"Title":"Combines Freshness and Nostalgia for the Early Pop Days of Rock 'n' Roll","Date":"19 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" What fun at Grace of My Heart to pick out the cinema a clef references! Evoking early rock 'n' roll as nicely as one of my favorite rock movie American Hot Wax with wonderful cameos by Chris Isaak, Shawn Colvin, the Williams Brothers, J Mascis all playing others recognizably. The audience came out all discussing who was whom and the accuracy of depictions despite the fictive disclaimer.And this must be the first movie where the writer/director thanks her child care providers and lists them! It will be worth getting this movie on video just to slow down the credits. (originally written 11/14/1996) "},{"Title":"Must-see Musical","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  A refreshing treat in the barrage of movies from Hollywood.  This movie manages to be a musical without being a musical.  That is, the story is not overwhelmed by the music (think  Newsies) but is complemented by it.  The story of a young woman with a dream to make it in the music business, it follows the up-and-downs in her life and the industry over a ten year period.  I'm sure all Grease lovers will be just as enthralled with this movie.    "},{"Title":"Inspirational story with some great songs","Date":"9 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Grace of my Heart is directed by Allison Anders and is loosely based on the life of real life singer songwriter Carole King.It's shockingly underrated and features some brilliant songs. The film stars Illeana Douglas, John Tuturro and Matt Dillon.Beginning in late 1950's aspiring singer Edna Buxton(Illeana Douglas)is entering a singing competition and does not sing what her rich uptight mother (Christina Pickles) tells her to.Edna wins the competition and gets a recording contract.Moving to New York she meets famous song manager Joel Millner(John Tuturro)who helps her on the road to stardom and becomes her lifelong friend and confidant.Changing her name to Denise Waverley she writes a number of hits and becomes a famous and much sought after name in the music industry.She faces a lot of personal tragedies but she overcomes all the hardship and tries to get her life back on track.Also starring Eric Stoltz as her co writer boyfriend and Christine Pickles as her mum.Grace Of The Heart is a beautiful and touching film filled with great music, some of my favourite songs are Born To Love That Boy and Living In Another World.If you haven't heard of this one try and find it on DVD it's well worth watching and is filled with fantastic performances. "},{"Title":"A good film, but a little underdeveloped","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I get the feeling that this was cut quite severely at some stage. It seems that the film wants to dip a toe in as many plots as possible - the romance with the Beatnik, the romance with the Brian Wilson style tortured genius, the older man, the commune phase, etc. Some of these plots could have done with a bit more flesh. But excellent performances all round and a fascinating soundtrack to boot. Well worth a look, but I feel it could have been much more. "},{"Title":"Surprised to hear Bermuda by Bell Sisters, my aunts","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I really enjoyed this film, and have been thrilled by the Elvis Costello/Bacharach collaboration that resulted.  But what totally surprised me was the use of the song Bermuda by the Bell Sisters during the scene in which Matt Dillon's character is in the bedroom listening to the song my mother used to sing to me.  My aunts wrote and recorded that song in late 1951 and thanks to Grace it is still earning her royalties to this day. If you remember the song and liked it, write and I'll get you the link for their web site.Also check out Backbeat - a fictionalized account of the birth of the Beatles. "}{"Title":"Illeana Douglas finally gets to headline her own movie, but results are messy and unfocused...","Date":"8 June 2006","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Character actress Illeana Douglas is such a reassuring presence on the screen that she ALMOST makes Grace of My Heart worth-seeing. In a thinly-disguised biography of Carole King, Douglas plays a singer-turned-songwriter in the early-'60s who feels the pressure of being a female under the thumb of powerful males in the music-biz but makes no major decisions about it; she's a strong woman, but also a go-alonger, and eventually she gets her chance to shine. The movie has some great scenes, but they aren't strung together smoothly, and the narrative keeps getting interrupted by half-comic bits of romantic confusion. Eric Stoltz (filling in for Gerry Goffin) cuts a nice figure in his shades and suits, but he has no personality; when he treats Douglas cruelly, there seems to be nothing at stake for her beyond raising their child alone (certainly she could do better). Several key supporting roles are wonderfully filled, particularly by John Turturro as a record producer and Bruce Davison as a radio-host (both are charming). Much of the music is dead-on in its nostalgia, the production values are fine, and Douglas is simply terrific (her toothy smile and wide eyes are endearing); yet the film hits a bump just before the final act and never recovers. Interest wanes, and that's too bad because Douglas works engagingly hard at creating a character we should care more about. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie and amazing soundtrack...","Date":"11 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I love this movie and watch it EVERY time it comes on TV, even better when it's on a premium movie channel and you don't have to put up with ridiculous commercials. Ileana Douglas is an amazing actress with both comedy and drama ability. Beautiful woman with the most amazing doe eyes. She portrays a woman struggling (as we women always seem to have to do) in a mans world to be a music writer. With a bad marriage under her skirt and several other issues, she knows pain and heartache all too well which gives her the ammo she needs. Not doing too well with recording her own music she needs a little more courage to put herself out there. Well, it's a great portrayal of a woman who can't seem to get a break in her personal life but flourishes as a song writer. The music is great, going from the 60's to the 70's and for someone like me who was born in '59, appreciates when music was music and you could actually stand to even listen to a little pop music. Sure, there are a few comparisons to real musicians, writers and producers like Jay (Brian Wilson), Denise/Edna (Carole King), Joel (Phil Spector)but it takes on it's own story line and you just to have to come to your own conclusion. I appreciate the story and music and hail Alison Anders as an excellent director and phenomenal writer. Go figure, this good of a movie, written and directed by a woman. Wow, imagine that! "},{"Title":"Sharing Her Heartache With the World in Hit Songs","Date":"25 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" A wonderful performance by Illeana Douglas is the main attraction of this roman a clef of what might have happened if Carole King and Brian Wilson had become a couple. Not entirely successful but much more than a chick flick romance.Parallel to this version of the early days of rock and roll, the undervalued Laraine Newman plays another Carole King avatar in American Hot Wax, a heartfelt tribute to Alan Freed featuring Screamin' Jay Hawkins, Jerry Lee Lewis and Chuck Berry playing themselves 20 years earlier as well as a goofy Jay Leno. Warner Brothers record producer Richard Perry eerily channels Lou Reed in the Phil Spector role John Turturro has here. "},{"Title":"Pop Movie Hits All the Right Notes","Date":"21 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" One of my favorite movies of any genre. You may be put off at first by the efficient TV movie opening which quickly and perhaps a bit glibly sums up the relationship of a domineering, aristocratic mother and quirky daughter who yearns to break free of her privileged suburban upbringing to become a pop music singer. But hang in there. A few scenes later you realize the rapid pacing and concise storytelling is the director's unusual and apparently risky choice of creating a film in the manner of it's subject the breezy and innocently naive world of pop music of the late 1950s and early 60s. You will soon become captivated by the plucky That Girl adventures of the heiress turned streetwise bubble gum songstress (played to perfection by the creamy, otherworldly Illeana Douglas) as she defers her dreams of pop stardom to write some of the biggest hits of the girl (and boy) group era. The ensemble is brilliant, including the lovably domineering John Tuturro as the Svengali-like visionary producer and the pouty, preening ego-maniacal boyfriend and writing partner (Eric Stolz). The rest of the characters are amalgams of many of the legends of 60s pop music our heroine meets on the journey toward finding her own voice. And if any of this seems too familiar, it is loosely based on the amazing life and career of Carole King. In some ways, this is the female bookend to another great, under appreciated movie about pop music of this era, The Idolmaker. But don't go dismissing this as a girl's movie, just because it's director Allison Anders is perhaps the finest female auteur in the business. This is a story that crosses sex, age and all other boundaries. For anyone who has ever felt they didn't fit in, who tried to please everyone and played it safe, waiting to follow their own dreams until the time was right, and then woke up afraid that it was too late ... this is a story for you. And the soundtrack. My God, the soundtrack. Far from parody, slavish recreation or disco-influenced revisionism, Ms. Anders has wisely chosen some of the heavyweights of the era to create pop hits that easily could have been hits on their own merits. The film is chock full of wondrous, alternate universe creations by such composers as Burt Bacharach and King's real-life partner Gerry Goffin, and even one by her daughter Lousie Goffin. This film is a joy from the first frame to the last. More than an homage to an era, it is an important addition to its story. But what if I can't just write another song? Keep your eyes and ears open ... everyone is in pain "},{"Title":"i loved this movie","Date":"3 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" i don't expect everyone to love this movie. I do think that while it isn't a masterpiece that it has one of the best story lines ever. I loved it pure and simple for the musical it wanted to be and the drama that it was.best Illeana douglas act i have seen.haven't seen her since goodfellas but i think she did wellhad it been by some large star the movie would have been hugestill im disappointed i'm struggling to find this movie in Aussie format on DVD for my sister this Christmas. she loves the movie.someone suggest another movie to find. or give me details of where to get it in PAL format "},{"Title":"I love this film","Date":"26 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I came across this film one late night several years ago and I thought it was excellent. I just finished watching it a few minutes ago, and it stood the test of time for sure. It was every bit as good this time as it was the first time I saw it.Since the movie is loosely based on the life of Carol King, one of the things I enjoy about the film is trying to figure out what real life singing groups and songs were represented in this film. This film really has it all. Great acting, great music and a story that is definitely a tear jerker.I highly recommend this film. I would definitely include it in an evening of chick flick film watching! "},{"Title":"Song writer creates career and family and loves over the fifties or sixties to present time.","Date":"21 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This flavor of an era, the spirit of a moment, sensitive treatment of a fictitious woman based on some models from 20th Century pop music and New york history. The acting was excellent and the music left me wistful, relaxed and energized. It was well written. I particularly like Matt Dillon as her second husband, third lover. I saw a boyish brilliance that made her love for him totally believable. It was fun, a little spiritual and nice costumes and local flavor of New York and California. I wanted to know more. Of course, we know it was loosely based on Carol King and Carly Simon but that is besides the point. It was a movie that a young adult or middle aged woman could watch without shame. Ileana Douglas and the rest of the cast did not have to imitate life. "},{"Title":"What the last two people said!","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is one of the best films I've seen in a loong time. I can't really improve on the comments of the previous two reviewers. (Oh, wait, I'm not supposed to say that in case the position changes. But they loved it too.) I have in fact just told a friend to see it with the words 'You'll laugh, you'll cry.' You'll also rush out and buy the soundtrack. Some of the most excellent actors around at the peak of their form, topped by a virtuoso turn by Matt Dillon and an absolutely fantastic performance by Illeana Douglas. Director Allison Anders is a genius. It's brilliant. Rent it NOW! "},{"Title":"Loosely based on the life of Carole King","Date":"11 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This psuedo-biography brings together, in it's excellent soundtrack, several teams of composers.  Each team consists of one composer from the Carole King Tin Pan Alley days and one more modern songwriter.  One example of this type of partnership is Burt Bacharach with Elvis Costello on the wonderful song God Give Me Strength.  King's own ex-husband and writing partner, Gerry Goffin, also co-wrote several songs for the film. "},{"Title":"Great performances in good film.","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Just a quick little note to try and encourage people to see this film  If you love great acting and wonderful songs, then this film is for you. Miss Douglas gives a stand out performance in this Carol King-esq story of riches-to-rags-to-artist. Check this one out!!!!!!  "}{"Title":"Needs bigger star to lead","Date":"22 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Edna Buxton (Illeana Douglas) is a steel heiress from Chestnut Hill, Philadelphia. She wins a local singing contest in 1958 with a promised contract. However it's a struggle to get anywhere when producer Joel Milner (John Turturro) takes pity on her. She becomes successful as a songwriter renamed as Denise Waverly. She later marries songwriter Howard Caszatt (Eric Stoltz) and they have a girl together. Joel hires brit songwriter Cheryl Steed (Patsy Kensit) who would become her friend. More personal and professional challenges follow. She divorces Howard. She follows Jay Phillips (Matt Dillon) to California.There are some good moments but the movie is trying to cover too much of this character's life. For example, I like the fluffy pop singer played by Bridget Fonda who turns out to be gay struggling in her private life as she hides it in her public life. Of course, she comes in and then fairly quickly, she's gone. It becomes like a long string of random fictional events happening to a character that isn't particularly compelling. I do like Illeana Douglas but she's not really the lead actress type. She's a great character actress but she can't anchor a movie like this. She and she alone has to lead the audience through the various characters that come in and out of her life. She needs to be a bigger actress. Allison Anders has written a lot of things for Waverly to deal with but as a director, she doesn't have the style (or the money) to make this cinematic. The music isn't particularly memorable but they fit the era. Certainly this movie could use some great songs. "},{"Title":"Straight up entertaining storytelling AND a grand metaphor","Date":"19 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Grace of My Heart is a wonderful flick. I might have normally given it a hard time as a little too expressionistic/over-the-top, but there's something about an expertly acted and produced mock-biopic about the music biz that makes me throw those concerns to the wind, let go, and just relish the moments.And there's at least one great metaphor, here As the flick progresses, you're fed a stream of images. It starts with a succession of beautiful successes, then we're shown some, uh, other stuff. And it's that hemming- in that makes us reflect on an interesting aspect of true artistry. The highest attainments of artistry integrate soul *and* knowledge.And there are plenty of other lessons along the way, and just lots of really, really heartwarming stuff! Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Maybe I put too much of myself into my songs.","Date":"23 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" It's Martin Scorsese day. he didn't direct this one, but produced it, and it's a winner. After 3 and a half hours of Bob Dylan, I was enchanted by the songs here. The soundtrack is a real tribute to love in all it's forms and fashions.Writer/Director Allison Anders, who started accumulating award nominations from her first movies (Border Radio; Sugar Town; Gas, Food Lodging) gives us a beautifully flowing story of a singer trying to break into the business, but settling for a career as a songwriter. It featured a lot of singers from the era, including one inspired by Lesley Gore, a favorite of mine, and who helped write songs for the movie.Illeana Douglas (Stir of Echoes, Happy, Texas, Cape Fear) was magnificent as the Carol King-inspired lead, as was John Turturro (The Big Lebowski, Fear X) as her manager.If you like the music of the sixties, and you want to see the first time a woman's water breaks on film, then this is it. A good use of your time. "},{"Title":"Beautiful film!","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I finished to see this film yesterday night and I just start to write my comment on it. I think Grace of my heart is an excellent movie good performance by all the actors/actress, good direction but especially the best thing in this movie is the soundtrack; in my opinion one of the best musics I ever heard inside a movie , surely it is due to Elvis Costello work about lot of song inside the movie.I want give to this film 9/10 ratingLet you see it.Domenico "},{"Title":"17 years later and it's still a yawn","Date":"6 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I saw when it came into the theater, and I thought it was okay. I saw it today and it's still okay. Personally I think it could have benefited from some editing. The main character,played by Ileana Douglas wasn't strong enough to carry the movie. She was mousy, and if it were not for the extremely talented supporting cast, it would have been a total snooze. I lived through the 50's and 60's. I loved the way the film showed the the evolution of rock and roll. I was disappointed not in the music, which was spot on, but Edna's role. John Tuturro was magnificent as always. Although Eric Stolz was good, if I was editing, I would have cut most of his scenes. Fast forward to the caught in bed with another woman scene. The script really was totally predictable. The affair with the married man; Matt Dillon's suicide, no surprise there. But the most disappointing was Ileana Douglas. A better actor could have carried the movie. She is not star material. The 4 stars were for John Tuturro and the song, God Give Me Strength. "},{"Title":"Started to watch it....","Date":"3 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Just wasn't my cup of tea.I didn't care for Ileana Douglas's acting.Also, I think that the time has passed where Hollywood needs to hire an actor that needs to be dubbed. There is so much talent out there who can sing AND act. It just didn't seem well done to me. Sort of like a cheaply made-for-TV movie. I didn't like the strange accent that John Turturro was doing for his character. I've seen other films that depict past years of the music business that I liked better such as Coal Miner's Daughter and Ray and What's Love Got to Do with It I would recommend those to anyone who want to watch a similar premise. Just my opinion. "},{"Title":"Started to watch it....","Date":"2 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Just wasn't my cup of tea.I didn't care for Ileana Douglas's acting.Also, I think that the time has passed where Hollywood needs to hire an actor that needs to be dubbed. There is so much talent out there who can sing AND act. It just didn't seem well done to me. Sort of like a cheaply made-for-TV movie. I didn't like the strange accent that John Turturro was doing for his character. I've seen other films that depict past years of the music business that I liked better such as Coal Miner's Daughter and Ray and What's Love Got to Do with It I would recommend those to anyone who want to watch a similar premise. Just my opinion. "},{"Title":"Feels Like a Made-For-Television Docu-Drama","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Grace of my Heart, looooosely based on the life of Carol King, feels like a made-for-television production for the Lifetime Channel.That is not to say that there wasn't a tremendous amount of work that went into this movie. It is easy to see that the people that made it cared about the subject matter. But the awkward line that the film walks between fact and fiction never allowed me to sink into the story. I was always trying to pin down the characters (Don Kirshner? Leslie Gore? Cindy Weil?) instead of being engrossed in the story. And while the music tries to capture the magic, (Goffin even penned a few tunes) it ain't the original. No song in the film comes close to King/Goffin's `Will You Still Love Me Tomorrow?'Illeana Douglas does a credible turn in the title role, John Turturro struggles a little with the schizophrenic record-producer, cut-throat businessman, creative visionary, but-friend-in-the-end role he's tasked with. I would have rather seen a film that was free enough to be pure fiction, or honest enough to be more factual.  "},{"Title":"Comments from Leslie Gore","Date":"27 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Interviewer I wanted to ask you about Grace of My Heart. I've read that Bridget Fonda's closeted lesbian teen character Kelly Porter was based at least partially on you.Leslie Gore Well, I think that's what they were trying to intimate. Was it true? I don't know, everyone seemed to be based on somebody and yet the stories weren't absolutely carved in stone. There was sort of a Carole King character, sort of a Brian Wilson character. So I think that was their intent.Interviewer Did you have any input when they were developing that character? Leslie Gore You know, I really didn't. They called me up to write one of the songs and I felt good that they called me, and then the next thing I knew, I received a song in the mail written by two guys, whose names I can't even remember, and I was so disappointed that I wasn't brought in on the ground level.And basically when I heard the song, I thought it was kind of terrible, so what I wound up doing is what I call doctoring, which is making some changes to make it a little more palatable. There were things that were totally unmelodic, and there were some lyrics that were just horrible, and I wound up making it, to my mind, a little bit better, and then I got a third writer's credit. And then they had the nerve never even to invite me to the opening when it premiered in New York. So I say screw them. So if it was meant to be me, they didn't handle it very well. There may have been some exploitative motive there--I won't second guess it--but that's what I suspect. "},{"Title":"Ho-hum","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  A rather strange programmer. The acting does not get a chance to blossom regrettably as this could have been an interesting realisation on the ups and downs of one section of the music business.The story dwells a little too much on the cop-out soap opera angle while simultaneously trying to reveal an unconventional life. Sure, people are pretty much the same no matter what their experience but it rests far too heavily upon this one thing we, in my view, see far too much of in films. The life and loves of a musician is not a good enough reason to make a film.It also appears that the director was trying a little too hard to make a film that would be different. I would say that films such as Stardust or That'll Be The Day conveyed the life of the music business successfully; and I do not consider those films 'great'. So, I give this film a humble 5 out of 10 solely for its value in offering something to watch on television on a slow night. A great cure for insomnia. "}{"Title":"Ugh!","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie instantly jumped onto my top ten worst movies ever - the top of which has been held for years now by Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band.Weak directing and poor acting start to finish - I never thought John Turturro was capable of this bad a performance - he seems to know that the project is ludicrous and so camps it up way beyond what the shallow character created for him can sustain.Just about every scene in this film rings completely false; each scene seems painfully contrived to hit us over the head with some supposed step in the main character's development (or lack thereof).  And while these concocted scenarios are supposed to place us in a particular situation in a particular era, they all seem to point to a sloppy and badly distorted cultural chronology; this is the music industry and pop-culture-in- general regurgitated as if by some cheesy television production.The film is very obviously about Carole King - except when it finds it convenient to be completely off-the wall fictional.  In this story she marries an undisguised Brian Wilson - or maybe it's not Brian Wilson because this bad actor walks into the ocean and drowns. (Oh the obvious/odious Good Vibrations recording session - it's by the Riptides! - get it?  That's the sad level of half-baked analogy this film resorts to throughout.  Ugh!)And then there's the beatnik stuff, the hippie commune, the Brian Wilson guru character - I could go on and on... but I'd rather start trying to forget this cinematic bludgeoning I experienced last night.  (I still shudder to this day when my brain, against my will, brings back to mind George Burns bursting forth with  For the Benefit of Mr.Kite in that other, above-mentioned, waste of film.)P.S. Elvis Costello and Burt Bacharach should have kept their amazing God Give Me Strength away from this shallow project. "},{"Title":"What exactly did you like about my record?","Date":"4 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Shooting at just under two hours, this is one of those films where you nearly feel winded after watching it in its entirety. Not that it is a bad thing to have so much happening in just a short amount of time, but with Grace of My Heart it felt like a solid blow to the gut. The lack of air, the whoosh of intense pain, and the increased blurred vision due to the excitement of the punch were all experiences that I had while watching this film. For those that can sit here and claim that this was a perfect film, I really beg to differ, but I will be a very brave advocate towards the originally average. This means that there were elements that I completely loved, followed in suit by elements that made me awaken at night in a pool of my own sweat. Grace of My Heart was one of those classic cinematic tug-o-wars that ultimately ended in a stalemate, but had fans on either side waiting for the final results.Beyond the cryptic comparisons that I make above, there were moments of honesty, especially when I was thinking about the elements that worked and those that did not. You cannot talk about this film without giving Anders the credit that she deserves for the music. This film could not have survived without the talent that was behind the musical moments. The energy, emotion, and cultural independence were ravishing. Literally, it could take your breath away and you wouldn't have even realized it. It set the tone and created the atmosphere for this film. As a viewer, you could close your eyes, ignore the spoken words of this film, and get completely lost in the music. The way that Anders incorporated established, modern singers to bring this era of the 50s, 60s, and 70s to life were brilliant. She deserved the accolades that followed the musical footsteps of this film, sadly &#133; I don't think she quite had a firm grip on the rest of the story.What I mean by this is that while the songs established the film, the story and characters hurt it. Illeana Douglas does exceptionally well with the material presented to her, but she just doesn't quite drag you into her life. You never quite feel as if you are right there with her experiencing her sorrows, excitements, and pain as she trudges through this man-infested life of hers. You watch her go through the motions, but you never feel that tear erupt or couch-excitement brew. It just doesn't happen, and why &#133; because 1) she never ages throughout the course of 20ish years (only gets thinner and thinner) 2) her voice is semi-whiney through the entire film causing us to feel like she was a bit sour and finally, 3) her consistent need for a man in her life. This latter I blame Anders. She never defines Waverly's character throughout the film. Is she a feminist? Is she as independent as we all thought? Does she create or simply steal from other's misfortunes? These are simple questions that should have been answered throughout the film, but instead we are nearly forced to explode (as stated before) as more and more information is jammed down our vision. It is nearly sickening. While Illeana doesn't carry the weight of disaster completely on her own shoulders, there are other characters that just didn't seem to fit the mold of the film. Bruce Davison and Matt Dillon seemed to be completely miscast in their respective roles, again constantly reminding us that we were watching a film, not immersing ourselves in a vivid story.The only character that I can give credit towards is John Turturro's Joel Millner. Turturro took his bit part to a new level always giving enough so that we constantly waited for him to reappear on screen. He was like an animated cartoon that brought more to the screen than any of the other characters mentioned above. That is sad to see for a film of this caliber, but it is what occurred. So, you take the grandiose excitement of the music and couple it with some sub-par acting and what do you get? Grace of My Heart in its purest form.Overall, it is never good to use more than one Fonda in your film. If you find yourself going with more than one, you should really be reconsidering your options. Matt Dillon completely ruined this film for me, while my keen eye had a blast picking out today's artists in this film. I just wish more was developed with Douglas' character. Why did she continually fall into love with the wrong men? Did anyone else catch that her creative songs were developed from the suffering of others? Finally, why did we bring up her family's fortune if it was never used throughout the film? I kept waiting for her to use her family money to build upon the climax of the film, but it never happened. I felt cheated, as I did several times during this film. It wasn't a bad movie by any means, but it just wouldn't stand out in a crowd. Grace of My Heart is the wallflower of the cinematic world.Grade ** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Didn't they find anybody else?","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  A few musicians' biography. Quite nice, yet nothing new &#150; the usual artist problems drugs, death and flops. The songs fantastic! But Illeana Douglas, that woman in the leading part &#150; what does she do in this movie? She destroys everything. She can't act. Actually, the role of Denise Waverly is not so difficult to play. I don't believe they couldn't have found other, better actresses. Publicity was not the reason &#150; nobody knows Illeana Douglas. Her voice was not the reason &#150; she doesn't sing her songs herself. Maybe she was the producer's girlfriend?The other acting performances, especially Matt Dillon's and surprisingly John Turturro's save the movie. Usually, his characters (even the one in `Barton Fink') are rather flat and one-sided. His crazy costume and toupe may be the reason why he does such a good job here.Only 6 points out of 10, thanks to Miss Douglas.  "},{"Title":"Phony Maroney","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Gee Whiz and Oh Boy! I just had to take a dekker at this whizzing movie, having heard all the super-dooper stuff from other reviewers. And, having seen it I have to just add... you are all kidding, right??There's one word alone which expresses what this film is - and that word is PHONY.  Phony sixties atitudes, phony sixties songs, phony story, phony phony phony.I mean, I think it's great that all the top movie stars are not stunning beauties, there should be ugly movie stars just as there are ugly people in real life, the only trouble is Carol King was actually quite a good-looker, so the point in having her played by such a dog is a little beyond me. Why no Carol King songs?  Did the makers think that, hey, anyone can write sixties type hits, that doesn't matter, we'll work those out as an afterthought.The whole point about Carol King's and Goffin-King's success is that they wrote some really - I mean really - great songs.So a Carol King biopic without any Carol King songs is kind of like a godfather movie without any bullets - it just doesn't workYeah, that's my summing up of this load of phony rubbish - it just doesn't work "}]