[{"Title":"A Ballistic Buddy Movie","Date":"13 September 2004","Score":"92 out of 101 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is by far my favorite action movie. But what makes it work is not the elaborate Renny Harlin explosions and shoot-em-ups. It's the Shane Black script and its deft delivery by Geena Davis and Samuel L. Jackson.The chemistry between the two principals merited a sequel. Thank God it was never made. Too much danger of marring the original.'The Long Kiss' checkerboards from quotable scene to action scene to quotable scene and back again. Never a dull moment. This has to be Jackson's funniest role ever, and the amazing thing is that he is playing one of the most normal characters of his career. No quirky Tarantino hit-man, super-cool Shaft, or borderline psycho soldier. In TLKG, Jackson is the everyman we identify with. The poor schmuck gets dragged along on this crazy woman's odyssey to uncover the dangerous secret of her past.Though the story claims that Davis's character, Samantha Caine is suffering from amnesia, the writer and director treat her condition as if it were a multiple personality disorder.Samantha Caine is not just a new identity taken by the amnesiac Charly Baltimore -- she is a separate, fully-developed personality. The traumas suffered by Samantha in the first half-hour of the movie help the submerged dissociate personality of Charly to emerge again.The materials of her past life excavated by Jackson's detective Mitch Henessey facilitate Charly's resurfacing. Good timing, too, considering the target Samantha makes of herself.But Charly has to fight herself to remain the dominant personality. One gathers from bits of dialogue that the warrior personality (Charly) developed after her father died and she was recruited by the Chapter.In the eight years Charly was buried in the psyche, though, her Samantha identity developed into the dominant personality. (She's even funnier that Charly.) This was probably due to becoming a mother, because it's the reunion with her daughter that breaks Charly's struggle to suppress Samantha, leading to their apparent integration by movie's end.It's impossible to choose a best quote from this filmNow you're a sharpshooter?I saved your ass. It was great!Continue dying. Out.I sock 'em in the jaw and yell 'Pop goes the weasel'.And a couple of dozen more, many too raunchy to quote here.Geena Davis looks great, and comes off as an action hero without glossing over the fact she's turning forty. (Listen to Charley's history, do the math).Fantastic soundtrack, too. Santana, Muddy Waters, Elvis, LaBelle, Marvin Gaye. I give 'The Long Kiss Goodnight' a 9, only because I don't believe in a perfect 10. Seen it a dozen times, and it still stays fresh. Nice twisted holiday flick to place on your shelf next to 'It's A Wonderful Life.'  "},{"Title":"Clever dialogue gets me every time (no spoilers)","Date":"17 August 2004","Score":"103 out of 125 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Definitely a movie for people who ask only to be entertained and who do not over-think their movies. Lots of action, lots of great dialogue (e.g. fun to quote), a little intrigue, and stuff blowing up all over the place. Samuel L Jackson and Geena Davis had great chemistry. Violent, but not gory. The fact that the female part was the competent action lead is a pleasant turn-about.Have seen the movie more than a dozen times and still enjoy it enough to put it back in my favorite films rotation every 3 or 4 months. I initially rented the movie because Samuel L Jackson was in the film, but was caught up in the events surrounding Samantha's quest to regain her memory and have never looked back.All you cerebral folks out there -- suspend disbelief for once, take yourself a little less seriously -- you might actually enjoy yourselves!  "},{"Title":"MUCH better than you'd expect","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"114 out of 150 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Not a box office success; no-one really knows why.  It may have failed simply because of its title.  It looks as though you need a two-word tough-guy title to attract a sufficient proportion of the idiot crowd - Die Hard, Lethal Weapon, Hard Weapon, Die Lethal, etc. - talking about the long kiss goodnight will get you nowhere.  But for once Renny Harlin has made a GOOD action movie.  A large part of the reason for this lies in the fact that the central character, Samantha, earns our affection and interest early on.  As she becomes Charly again, we're torn we certainly want Charly to thwart the bad guys, and all that; but we don't want her to lose touch with Samantha in order to do so - even though we like Charly, too.  Geena Davis bestows all of her considerable charm on both halves of the central character.  Samuel L. Jackson plays second fiddle for a change.  It turns out he's good at it.  That was a compliment.Intelligent, far superior to anything in the Die Hard series - if I were more cynical I'd add, it's not surprising that it didn't do well, but I don't really feel that way; it IS surprising that it didn't do well. "},{"Title":"Definite must see for all action fans.","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"81 out of 98 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Why this movie did so poorly is beyond me.  With movies like the Waterboy and anything else Sandler does making millions, you have this true gem of a film. Geena Davis is radiant and I feel, convincing in a very physical action role.  Step aside Sigourney. Samuel L. Jackson is and always an asset to what ever project he works on.Sit back and enjoy.  But with all movies of this genre ,place tongue firmly in cheek, because WHOA, there's some stretching going on in here.A true action fans delight. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"You Either Love it or Hate it","Date":"5 June 2004","Score":"55 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a film that in no way reflects the real world. Nothing in this film makes any real world sense or has any real world logic. It operates entirely in its own little world and your ability to accept it or not  will determine your love or hate for this film.I love the film.Somewhere at the very beginning I bought into the completely unreal premise of the hit woman regaining her memory as the past comes back to haunt her. There was a moment early on where I remember accepting that this was going to be one of those movies where the heroine was going to know nothing until it was needed, despite all logic that it wouldn't happen that way. Oh its one of those films I said to myself and was hooked as the film took off on a wild two hour chase.This is an action film with brain and brawn as things follow there own internal logic and you actually have to pay attention to follow some of the twists and turns. I like this a great deal and am pleasantly surprised when I bump into people who feel the same way too. People either love it or hate it, if they've ever heard of it at all.If you like action films this is a film to definitely try. You may not like it, but it certainly worth the effort to find outAnd as always, leave reality at the door. "},{"Title":"Yes, Have a Good Night","Date":"24 November 2005","Score":"67 out of 90 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A small-town schoolteacher (Geena Davis) slowly begins to realize that she has suffered amnesia and really use to be a secret government assassin! Soon, there are men after her and a small-time private detective (Samuel L. Jackson).This was action-packed, with some great special effects and really funny one-liners (especially from Jackson). Although the action may get a little silly at times, who cares? After all, aren't movies meant to be a good time?Craig Bierko is fun as a ruthless villain. The movie itself was an all-around good time. Just don't expect to have to think too much about it because then, if you take it too seriously, then the movie actually won't be fun but stupid instead.This movie doesn't deserve to be called stupid or any other bad name. "},{"Title":"MORE than a GREAT action film","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"51 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Having read some of the criticisms of THE LONG KISS GOODNIGHT, I am beginning to wonder if we all saw the same movie.  There is NOTHING in this film, NOTHING more implausible than anything in even the BEST James Bond film. WHY would Daedalus (David Morse) be alone, when he is the head of a terrorist syndicate?  The answer is CLEARLY revealed in the movie.  Why doesn't Samuel Jackson bleed to death when he's shot?  It's COLD and SNOWING, blood pressure drops and blood coagulates easier. My gosh, you could have a similar criticism about Leonardo DiCaprio and Kate Winslet in TITANIC! I've watched TLKG  FOUR times and I am still LOOKING for the plotholes I keep hearing about, and I have marketed scripts in Hollywood.  I believe TLKG is the BEST action film ever made; the only thing which comes close is DIE HARD!  TLKG, while never dull, builds slowly to a virtual nonstop crescendo of action.  The music is both powerful and incredibly touching.   The film has memorable performances, most notably, Geena Davis and Craig Bierko. Bierko creates one of the screens most memorable villians.  One would have to go back to Russell Crowe in VIRTUOSITY, or Alan Rickman in ROBIN HOOD or DIE HARD! to find another as memorable (JAMES BOND producers take note!)  But more than this, the film transcends the genre of action film by it's underlying themes of duality and femininity (not feminism).   Samantha Caine (Geena Davis) is a pretty typical 90s woman; a single parent, a school teacher, a homeowner, and engaged to a pleasant, if bland, fellow school teacher.  Only one thing keeps Samantha's life from being perfectly normal.  Eight years earlier Samantha woke up on a beach, pregnant, suffering from a head wound and amnesia.  For eight years, Samantha has been trying to rediscover her past; she lives to regret that decision.  For Samantha is actually Charlie Baltimore, an assassin for the Central Intelligence Agency; and the people who left her on that beach eight years before want her dead.     Samantha begins a horrendous journey in which she risks not MORE than her life. Samantha Caine risks losing her identity forever in the person of Charlie Baltimore.  And Charlie? What a piece of work! Charlie Baltimore is the most cold-blooded antihero I've ever seen in a movie. After all, what other hero ever plotted to kill her own child to cover her tracks?    Charlie, short blond hair, angular figure, sexual predator, could have easily have been a man.  The masculine Charlie holds the feminine Samantha in contempt.  Yet, it is only by integrating Samantha and Charlie that enables Samantha/Charlie to prevail.  This is more than the equivalent of Jekyl needing Hyde or Superman needing Clark Kent.   This is about the integration of the masculine and feminine sides in each of us to create a whole identity.    No where is this integration more apparent than when Charlie wrecks the truck containing the chemical bomb.  He/She says Well s***k my d**k!   IMMEDIATELY after that line, Charlie submerges into Samantha.  But not the wimpy domestic of the early film. A strong, self-reliant, but ultimately humanistic Samantha.  One simply has to experience THE LONG KISS GOODNIGHT to understand this.  This is one excellent film, the only movie I've ever given a 10. "},{"Title":"Sit back and enjoy the ride","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"46 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I feel extremely sad for some of the people who have been reviewing this film.  It is apparent that their standards are so high that they will never be able to enjoy a film just for enjoyment sake.  Or, perhaps, their enjoyment is derived from the act of picking films apart;  looking for any reason at all to dislike them?The Long Kiss Goodnight is an action film, in every sense of the word. Sure, there are holes in the plot big enough to drive a semi through, but none of them are enough to stop the flow of the film itself.  I have never been a big Geena Davis fan, but I was impressed with how she was able to create two very different characters, Samantha Cain and Charlie Baltimore. In my opinion, it wasn't even necessary to have changed her physical appearance to differentiate between the two...her acting was more than enough to do the trick.More than anything else, though, this film was Craig Bierko's.  In another's hands, the character of Timothy could've been just another interchangeable villain.  His decision to play him with a more casual approach was just the right counterpoint to all of the action scenes.  It isn't often that you find an actor who can express himself so well with just his facial expressions...point in case the scene in the freezer with Charlie and her daughter.  Where most films would've cluttered the moment of revelation with unnecessary dialogue, Bierko's eyes told the whole story.The basic plot?  Thin, to be truthful.  A seemingly average housewife who suffers from amnesia slowly discovers that she had been an assassin.  As her memory returns, so do the people who want the assassin dead.  Is she really Samantha, the cookie baking housewife, or Charlie, the cold blooded assassin?  Or maybe a little bit of both?  For me, The Long Kiss Goodnight was an enjoyable journey to find out. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Thriller","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"42 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was about to go to sleep while I flicked through the channels one last time and happened to catch the beginning of The Long Kiss Goodnight- perhaps I missed the first minute or two. But I remembered I had marked the movie to watch and thought what the heck- I'll watch. I can honestly say that I really enjoyed those two hours. The scene with the truck was definitely fun, and at the same time terrifying (as you know the purpose of the truck and who's in it, I won't spoil it for anyone). The humor was great too, and the acting of the four leads (Davis, Jackson, Zima and Bierko) was quite enjoyable- as is this entire film. "},{"Title":"High octane, bug budget action thriller. Very entertaining nonetheless.","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"37 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Long Kiss Goodnight is an enjoyable and very cool action thriller, and a career breakthrough for Geena Davis. The plot is very familiar to that of The Bourne Identity but so what. The fight scenes are a real treat for the eyes and the plotline is strong enough to keep you engaged for the 2 hours.It's directed with a slick sense of style and avoids most action cliches. Geena Davis is great as an action chick and gets past her usual good wife role. Samuel L. Jackson is good as usual as the supporting player. The film's baddie is overly cheesy though and you can tell what's going to happen to him. It breaks away from the usual run-of-the-mill actioners such as Commando and On Deadly Ground and is definetly one of the best actioners in years. Good fun and good popcorn entertainment. 7.4/10. "}{"Title":"A Great Film","Date":"29 December 2007","Score":"28 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I disagree with the reviewer who said this film is not for the cerebrally-minded. I happen to be somewhat the cerebral type, and I think this is a great film; I love it and have seen it many times.For me, the great things about this film add up to a woman with a full-on assertive, resourceful personality. Of course the drama is all about the wonderful mother and teacher discovering something else true about herself - and learning to merge the two once she remembers herself. In the end, her love for her daughter and the tender nurturing person she is merges with the resourceful assertive person who is willing to fight and not give up. Even her daughter has taken on the don't give up when Mom is down. I would think there's a part in many of us women that can relate to all of this. And that might explain the box office failure and the rerun hit women had to discover what I imagine was billed as a pure action filmSamuel L. Jackson is his own type of hero, flaws and all, and nobody could say enough about him. He's another complex character down-to-earth with a street reality perspective, lower than the average poor man's detective and fairly desperate himself. And yet heroic in the clinch and full of his own kind of love and respect for what he values in women. He's just the man to take her on, and let her know when she's -not- okay. The characters pair in a sort of perfectly out-of-the-box way. So, this cerebral type says that this is great writing in terms of characters and storyline. And the violence is an integral part of those characters and story, not added flash or excitement that doesn't tell us anything about their lives or the urgency of their experiences.And, last but not least, this is a comedy! Great dialogue (and I don't know who else could have played it like Jackson). So take that glitzy action as part of what makes a comedy work here! "},{"Title":"So Underrated Yet So Great","Date":"8 June 2006","Score":"20 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I have seen this film probably a dozen times since it was originally released theatrically. Anyone who calls this movie trash or horrible just doesn't understand action films or recognize a good one. Perhaps to some the incidents and outcomes may seem far fetched, but in my opinion screenwriter Shane Black ( Lethal Weapon/ Kiss Kiss Bang Bang) crafted one of the most well thought out action adventures you will ever come across. Over the top or not this film flows like clockwork and the action just keeps coming. The final action sequence is one of the best I have ever seen in any film. The cast in this film crackles. Genna Davis gave a tremendous performance and its a damn shame there was never a LKG sequel. Samuel L. Jackson is hilarious as her sidekick Mitch a down on his luck private eye trying to help her discover her lost past and make a few bucks. If Baffles me how anyone could not like this film. It packs so many thrills and its so funny. The wisecracks in this film still make me laugh just as hard 10 years later. In my mind the first Matrix film and the Long Kiss Goodnight were easily 2 of the best and most original action flicks of the 90's. Incidentally Shane Black made a fortune when he sold this script. At the time it was the highest selling screenplay and its worth every penny. It's so sad that audiences never gave this movie a chance, cause they would have witnessed Renny Harlins best film and Genna Davis like you have never seen her before. Long live The Long Kiss Goodnight!! "},{"Title":"The perfect blend of Action, Suspense, Drama and Comedy","Date":"11 February 2005","Score":"20 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I hadn't planned on leaving a review, but seeing some of the other dreadful reviews for this movie, I had to say something.I'm not going to give away the ending or anything, but I do give away some important plot points in this review, so you should be aware of that. The short (non-spoiler) version of my review - Samuel L. Jackson and Geena Davis both kick butt in this movie, and it's a lot of fun. Watch it.This movie is one of my favorites of all time. Geena Davis is perfect as the action heroine, torn between her existing life as a housewife and mother, and the memories that are resurfacing of her former life as a CIA Assassin. Her performance is superb as she plays both facets of this relatively complex character perfectly.Samuel L. Jackson's performance is, as always, also excellent, as the Private Investigator that Geena Davis' character hired to look into her forgotten past. He does a great job of playing the unwitting sidekick to Geena Davis' tough character. Some of the lines he utters in this movie are the best he's ever used in any movie he's been in.Seriously, if you haven't seen it, do. It's a fantastic story with lots of unexpected twists and turns, and it's extremely well directed and acted. "},{"Title":"What All the girls really thought!!","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"36 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is a great rampage of action and comedy, it gets right in to it right from the start, there's no boring build up.  The chemistry of the leading roles adds to the excitement and anticipation of the ending, even though my suspicions were not satisfied.  The special effects worked brilliantly and were believable! Would have liked a different ending but it still had me reeling in emotions.  The story line unfolds well however it is a film you have to watch from start to end carefully to pick up on all the details, to fully understand and get maximum enjoyment. "},{"Title":"The Anti-Formula Formula","Date":"28 September 2008","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" There is a serious scene in this movie. A scene that lets you know that his film won't be pulling many cheap punches. It takes place in a crowded train station and the protagonists are ambushed by assassins with automatic weapons. They make a break for it and just manage to get out in a hail of gunfire. The main hall of the train station is now filled with corpses of innocent people that were caught in the crossfire. Some would call that too sad and/or grim to put into what is supposed to be an enjoyable action flick. I call it honesty. Most action movies tend to lean toward the safe side of showing violence and plot elements. This mostly means that in spite massive shootouts innocent people tend not to die or at least we don't see them die. The violence is all purely the good guys versus the bad guys with mainly the bad guys dying. A bit of common sense clearly shows this to be absurd.Renny Harlin showed a hint of this in his first (and sadly only) hit, Die Hard 2. The villains intentionally crash a plane full of people to get their point across. The scene was also filmed with a backup scene of a cargo plane with only a few people on-board going down, but the grimmer and probably more realistic scenario ended up being used. However, to fit the spirit of the first film, Die Hard 2 was mostly a fun action movie. Here, that grimmer and more convincing edge is pervasive. The violence is bloody. The one liners are hilarious, but with a certain style that more echoes natural human sarcasm than clichéd film wisecracks at key moments of action. The plot is also packed with more malicious intent than most action films. The villain is not just some rogue out for revenge or a mad grab at power. It is less ridiculous, but also more frightening than that. From recent films, the Bourne trilogy almost gets there with its less cheesy than usual action film style, but this film is from 1996 and 7 years before The Bourne Identity with Matt Damon made it to the big screen.Another interesting aspect is that the main hero is actually a heroine. And this is well before the movie version of Tomb Raider became a hit. What's more is that this heroine genuinely looks like she could take down John McClane and then take his still lit cigarette. This movie marks Geena Davis's second action-heroine role and she still didn't manage to score a hit. While Angelina Jolie stars in Tomb Raider years later and scores a hit. The reasons are beyond me. Completely.Lastly, this movie isn't all dark edged. There are many outrageous and spectacular set pieces that one can only see in an action film. The climatic explosion of a chemical bomb is an absolutely spectacular display of movie pyrotechnics, with more than one law of physics taking a convenient break. Thus, there is formula here, but it is the Anti-Formula for the everyday Hollywood Action Movie Formula. --- 9/10BsCDb Classification 13+ --- violence, profanity "},{"Title":"Samuel Jackson and Geena Davis add to their resumes","Date":"29 May 2005","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" 1. How many times does Geena Davis have to be in a movie where she dies or is almost killed in a car accident? Does this effect her insurance rates? 2. How long will it take for the ebony/ivory buddy movie idea to become scripta non grata with Hollywood? Why couldn't Geena's character have been played by an African American woman? 3. What does the CIA do for a living and why is every scriptwriter allowed to rake them across the coals? 4. Why have my 15 year old daughter and I fallen in love with this movie? We've watched it dozens of times and never failed to be entertained.5. Why do I think that the studio didn't know what to do with it, the distributors had to work with bad PR and awful trailers, and the actors will be very pleased to have this thing on their resumes 20 years from now when all the other mindless fluff from this era has blown away? 6. This movie is not for everyone. I understand that. For those of you who like it, I think we have an understanding that while this film is not fine art and it is not great literature, it is a live action graphic novel that fulfills the basic requirements of such things.7. You don't have to leave your brain in neutral to watch this, but helps if you just sit back and watch. The thinking will come later.8. Any time diverted watching this on VHS or DVD is better spent than watching almost anything else on cable or broadcast.9. If you liked it well enough to watch a second time, then by the twelfth or fourteenth you'll be in love.10. If your friends or family don't like it, let them get up off the couch. You'll probably enjoy not answering any questions as you have it all to yourself. "},{"Title":"Geena rocks!","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I had never heard of this film till it popped up on cable TV and I can't understand why. Geena outdoes Arnold as an action hero in this film! Geena is an ex-CIA assassin who is brainwashed and given an identity as a schoolteacher with a quiet family life in a rural town. She continues that life for 8 years with a husband and daughter. Clues start coming to her that she may have been someone else, especially when someone tries to kill her. It seems that her former employers have discovered that she never died and want to make sure that she does. She hires Samuel L. Jackson, who is a former police officer. Together they form a pair that is as entertaining as Mel Gibson & Danny Glover. When Geena finally regains her memory she undergoes a transformation into the killing machine she once was with the song She's Not There playing in the background. What follows is Geena and Samuel have to go after the bad guys and hopefully stay alive. All through the rest of the film Geena has to decide who she really is. The killing unfeeling machine? The mother/schoolteacher with the quiet family life? Or a combination of both? Especially, since the bad guys grab Geena's daughter. Great action scenes that rank up with any of the Die Hard movies! "},{"Title":"Die Hard with a Difference","Date":"30 May 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Christmas Eve? The wrong place at the right time? Sound familiar? The Long Kiss Goodnight could quite easily have been a third sequel in the action series Die Hard. Just substitute Bruce Willis for Geena Davis, put him in Niagara Falls where a group of 'black ops' are planning some terrorist activity and wammo, there you have it. And director Renny Harlin should be quite aware of the similarities.Having helmed the second in the trilogy, Die Harder, and being the man who directed Stallone's career resurrecting Cliff Hanger, Harlin seems to be just the man for the job of guiding wife Geena Davis and Samuel L. Jackson (probably the hottest property in Hollywood at the moment) through their paces in this new action extravaganza, The Long K.G.. Though if you ask New Line Cinema they may tend to disagree, after all they have been in court trying desperately to get out of a multi-film contract with Harlin and Davis after their Cuthroat Island did a big bellyflop.Plot from Shane Black concerns a deadly femme (cross Sigourney Weaver's Ripley with Linda Hamilton's Sarah Connor and Anne Parillaud's Nikita and you might be close) whose severe amnesia has her believing she is a mild mannered school teacher from Pennsylvania, rather than a cold blooded assassin from the CIA. But when Charlene Elizabeth Baltimore finally remembers who she is............... well boom! You can guess the rest. In fact you really can guess the rest, as predictability sets in from here on. Hey, forget about that though, this flick ain't about storyline, its about action, and there's plenty of that to go around.Harlin's experience in action pics shows as he sets up some fine pieces for our viewing pleasure, while both Davis, Jackson and the support cast get some good lines. Otherwise the leads aren't asked to do too much, and considering their acting capabilities (Davis in The Accidental Tourist and Jackson Pulp Fiction) this is well below their standard. Samuel L. in particular seems to be finding it hard to shake off the shadow of Jules Winfield, the philosophical hit-man from Pulp Fiction, that is if his opening scene is anything to go by. Some may call it homage, but I don't know about that. Mr. Jackson probably doesn't mind too much either way.Special f/x are nothing short of top dollar, though editing may have been a tad under done. Cinematography is superb, hardly being able to miss with Niagara Falls as a target, while Harlin has used the end credits to throw in a sweeping, panoramic shot. Alan Silvestri provides the music.In short, one can easily look past the numerous plot holes and enjoy a romping good time with invincible heroes, and two dimensional, obvious villains with too much charm and not enough brains.Thursday, January 30, 1997 - Village Centre Melbourne "},{"Title":"Very entertaining","Date":"11 November 2003","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I first saw the `Long Kiss Goodnight' I found it passable . Despite an intriguing premise and some good scenes , the movie was lowered down by an overdose of profanity and suffered from an unbelievably over the top ludicrous finale in which the leads are shot repeatedly without dying (Halloween 's Michael Myers would envy them) and a stream of improbable cartoonish action scenes that made Starship Troopers seem like a serious and realistic documentary !!!   This film was way too campy to like it . It may have had a good start but the final 20 minutes just killed it . Oh well it was a fun ride I guess for its most part and it was nice seeing Geena Davis achieving a great performance . Repeated viewings improved my opinion about the movie . Not much , but sensibly . Although the finale is still unbearable the whole plot is much more comprehensible and a few of my questions were answered . Let's start with a plot outline . The basic concept alone is very fascinating . Samantha Caine (Geena Davis) is a young teacher who lives in a quiet little town . She suffers from amnesia and the only thing she remembers is the last 8 years of her life . There are no tracks of any other family , husband , employment or any hint of her past for that matter . When she woke up in a hospital 8 years ago she was pregnant but of course the child 's father is unknown to this date . The detectives she hired over the years couldn 't find anything . Samantha seems to have settled down with her new adapted life . She is an active member of the PTA , she has friends, she is a good cook and bakes cookies , her 7 year old daughter Caitlin (Yvonne Zima) is a cute and obedient child and for the last couple of years Samantha is seeing a calm ordinary little guy called Hal (Tom Amandes) . Hal and she are getting along and it seems that wedding bells will ring soon enough . Until one day when Samantha shows some strange features of behaviour as if she has a split personality . Samantha has visions of a blond woman named Charlie who speaks to her in her dreams , summoning her to `join' her . You have already seen the props or probably know the story , so I don 't think that I will give away anything by saying that Charlene `Charlie' Baltimor is Samantha 's real name and she had an entirely different identity pre-amnesia . Charlie was a blond bitch , a rough tough mean killing machine . She was a trained professional assassin working for the government . After she had amnesia she was presumed dead and not even the powers that be knew she was alive . Unbeknownst to her , there are people who still want super agent Charlie (Samantha) dead . The first is an ugly bald convict called Jack and the other one is a young but ruthless criminal called Timothy (Craig Bierko) . Soon they track down Samantha and a killing expedition begins . Samantha's latest detective was Mitch Henessey (Samuel Jackson) a cheap loser who stages fake adultery incidents to make a living out of blackmails since his business has soared out . Much to his good luck however , he finds some clues about his amnesiac client which seem to point to a former fiancé Charlie once had . So Samantha and Mitch take a journey to find clues about Charlie 's past while a small army of bounty hunters is behind them . Meanwhile , Samantha 's alter ego emerges slowly but steadily . There are a couple of twists which make the movie interesting . The idea behind the script is very good and I believe the handling made by the writers and the director was competent . The progressing personality change and the flashbacks are nice and give a few hints of a psychological thriller as well as some biting `funny' scenes like the `professional chef' vegetables chopping or the scene where Charlie dispatches her torturer . I believe however that 75 % of the success of not only Samantha's depiction but the whole movie as well , is accomplished by Geena Davis . She gives a splendid performance pushing both of her character 's aspects to the edge . As Samantha , Davis performs her best Shelley Long impersonation . The sweet , ideal muffin-baking housewife who is born to run a house and raise kids . Charlie is the agile , shrewd , chain-smoking , gun toting female Rambo . Davis is more than adequate as both characters . Samuel Jackson is very amusing as the detective who gets caught in a situation he can't handle , with powerful criminals popping out of nowhere wanting to kill them and at the same time watching a clean suburban housewife being transformed to a fatal blonde agent . He spouts way too many vulgarities but nonetheless some laughs are inevitable . Something else that saves the movie from being another forgettable shootemup are the cameos . First we have Brian Cox playing excellently an old agent who wants to help Samantha dig up her true identity . He is the reliable mentor and although he is old he still seems capable of getting the hang of weapons . Now , what can I say about David Morse as Luke , Charlie 's old fiancé ? Words fail to describe him . The man is just COOL !!! He appears shortly but his contribution to the movie is huge . The rest of the cast is passable like Samantha 's daughter , Charlie 's former boss or Hal who has a short role as the boyfriend . Craig Bierko as the main villain Timothy acts very well too . He is quite realistic as a hitman/terrorist who simply wants to complete the mission and behaves as an `ordinary' killer , with no psychotic laughs or morphasms . Despite his young looks he is quite threatening . Harlin also directed some unforgettable action scenes like the one you have all seen in the trailers  Davis firing on the icy surface of a lake while jumping off a window . There is also a memorable scene with a takeover of a Phone Station and others . I would also like to state that one viewing is not enough and you may lose some details . For example I didn't notice what was the fate of the deer at the beginning and I certainly didn't remember some hints on Mitch 's past . The movie has some problems . There are some very corny one-liners and too much swearing at times . There are also some plot holes . People tend to be extremely cruel to the scriptwriters of Halloween H20 about where did Jamie Lee Curtis find the time to raise a 17 year old son , be a member of AA , attend psychiatrists AND be the headmistress of a private boarding school but how on earth did Samantha become a TEACHER (and raise her daughter) while she didn 't remember her past , seems to have escaped you . At least Laurie Strode did go to college . Secondly it is obvious that the conspiracy described in the script was huge . They would never EVER take the chances of being exposed therefore Mitch 's family would have been murdered at a glimpse (and Samantha's beloved ones as well) . But what really gives on my nerves is the unspeakable ending . Be warned that there are SPOILERS TO FOLLOW *******  After Davis blows up the building , Mitch not only is blown up in an impossibly cartoonish manner but he hits badly on a tree and eventually he lands on earth , UNTIED and without ANY injuries !!!!! That 's not the worst though . Later Davis drives the track full of explosives through a brick wall . Maybe , just maybe we can accept the fact that the explosives couldn 't be detonated until the countdown concluded but after this nasty accident Davis and the girl also don 't have the slightest injury . Lastly a shootout battle follows and Davis survives despite the bullets she gets and the bleeding . WHAT THE HELL ???? ******END SPOILERS .  I still cannot digest the final 15 minutes (except of course for the nice showdown between Timothy and Samantha ) . If I had the power I would have reshot the whole denouement . I know that it cannot be done but at least an editor could have hacked the crappy stuff and left us with less bang-bang which would have at least make the survival of Charlie convincing. I am really not a nitpicker . I can always accept a campy scene . All of us regard Batman (1989) as a classic , although the Batwing being gunned down with just one shot by the Joker is laughable . Goldeneye (1995) with Pierce Brosnan is also a solid action film even if it contains a corny action scene in the prologue (you know what I mean) . But in here there are improbabilities which just PILE UP and almost ruin the whole thing.The Long Kiss Goodnight is a good action film with an engaging premise , some funny gags , satisfactory (for the most part) direction and some brilliant performances. The last 15 minutes spoil the whole thing though so I cannot consider it a classic . If however you want a blockbuster for a fun Saturday evening then rent it . There is some healthy entertainment in this Renny Harlin action fest . THE LONG KISS GOODNIGHT      8 / 10 "},{"Title":"Waving the bloody shirt.","Date":"25 December 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When you put a combination like Renny Harlin and Shane Black together, you get the kind of action flick that's not only pulse-pounding, fully automatic machine gun funk, but also highly intriguing. This movie came out in 1996, a few years after the OKC bombing and the first WTC attack. The C.I.A had close involvement with both tragic events, the movie chronicles at least one if not both of those points, which are fact. Then the plot roles like this, Geena Davis is an assassin working for the C.I.A, she's almost caught and killed, but escapes. Has amnesia from a fall/gunshot wound, only to emerge and take on the life of a small town mommy, with no recollection of the thrill kill past she's lead. Samuel L. Jackson plays an ex-cop turned private eye with a hot tip on the past lives of G.D. It must be noted the Sam L. performance in this movie is nothing short of amazing, just about every line he has is absolutely awesome, That's a duck not a dick, and his banter with Cox and Davis is great stuff. Budget cuts in the white house force the company to hire mercenaries to pull off a huge killing that will see the pockets of the elitists enlarged. Explosives are packed into a sixteen wheeler, with the intention of setting it off, on Christmas, in midtown America, AND it will be blamed on the Muslims, they've got a middle eastern guy on ice ready to plant near the scene. The F.B.I, A.T.F all of them got huge bonuses after both attacks on the WTC as well as the OKC bombing. Seriously, why does the C.I.A exist? Grab a book about the company and you'll find massive organization done in Latin America, the Middle East, everywhere, to topple governments and expand control. Their budgets swelled allowing covert operations to continue and expand. Destabilization politics, create the enemy, manufacture the lie, provide the solution. Top notch Harlin action with a great cast, crisp writing and much comedy, truly a great among greats, ten stars, doubleplusgood. "}{"Title":"Greatest female action actor -ever- bar none","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have always liked a good action movie with a woman lead, Linda Hamilton comes to mind in the Terminator series, of course Sigourney Weaver in the Alien series, and Laura Linney in The Congo,(another one of the Micheal Crichton renditions) was an excellent strong female in an action movie. But none can even come close to Geena Davis in The Long Kiss Goodnight. She quite simply blew me away ( as well as an incredible amount of bad guys) with the way she handled her business in this flick. I gotta tell ya- I will love this woman forever as the result of scenes from this movie-like when jumping from what? six-seven flights up, simultaneously firing an automatic weapon in a circular pattern in order to break a hole through a frozen lake surface-at the same time dragging an incredulous Sam Jackson out the window with her. Yo, this woman, this movie is the Boom Diggie!! I could probably go on extolling this movie for at least 25 to 30 thousand words, but you know, I'd rather look at this movie than write about it, so I'm off. My advice to you is go rent Stuart Little, in case you're one of those weirdos that don't have your own personal copy at home, then follow it up with Cutthroat Island and then finish your evening with Long Kiss Goodnight and I guarantee you it will take every bit of will you've got in ya to keep from stalking this woman-not to mention I only found out today she was born on the exact same date as my own, 1/21/56-an Aquarius on top of everything. (Getting a little weird on ya but I had to find some way to throw that in)Don't worry Geena I am happily married with a houseful of happy Geena fans at home right now watching Mr Little! To anyone who hasn't had the pleasure, get out there and rent this film today- you will not be disappointed-to say the least! Finally-you match up Arnold vs Geena based on this movie-and you gotta go with Geena Davis-hands down- This babe is bad!This flick is sweet! "},{"Title":"One of my favorites!","Date":"7 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" As previously noted in other reviews, the title is probably what originally made me skip this movie, much like Rob Reiner's The Princess Bride did; it sounds like a chick flick. Luckily, my sisters turned me onto the Princess Bride, and I likewise accidentally happened upon The Long Kiss Goodnight on HBO or some other Premium channel years ago. I've since seen it at least 10 times, probably more. Geena Davis is wonderful as she transforms from the perfect little town soccer Mom type back into Charly. The return of her skills along the way make it a great action movie, and Samuel Jackson plays a great sidekick, and has some great one-liners on top of the regular banter of his already smart ass conman character. Supporting actors are great, as well. Highly recommended guy (and gal) action movie. At this point, it's probably as cheap to buy as it would be to rent for an evening. Buy it; you'll watch it more than once. "},{"Title":"One of my Favorites...watch it at least 8x a year!","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Everything I read said that this movie was a reel stinker...but my sister convinced me otherwise and we watched the whole thing together one night. We laughed ...making an assumption makes an ass out of you and umption., we were nervous (won't spoil that part) and we cheered our butts off (won't spoil that part either).Jackson's lame jokes are so bad that they're funny. And when Charly exposes herself for medicine, I almost peed my pants laughing. I liked it so much that I bought my own copy and watch it almost monthly. It just keeps getting better and better... "},{"Title":"Excitement, Entertainment & Escapism","Date":"9 December 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Action thrillers are designed to provide their audiences with excitement, entertainment and escapism and The Long Kiss Goodnight certainly meets all of these criteria. A sequence during which the movie's two main protagonists race down a corridor followed by a rapidly accelerating fireball and escape by leaping out of a high-level window exemplifies this perfectly, as the stunt, which is obviously far-fetched, is extremely exciting to watch as well as being laugh-out-loud funny. The stunts, explosions and chases in this film are all brilliantly staged and together with its very witty script and lively pace, contribute to an end product that's really enjoyable.Samantha Caine (Geena Davis) is a schoolteacher in a small town in Pennsylvania who enjoys a very pleasant lifestyle with her good natured fiancé and her young daughter. Her only real problem is that she can't remember anything about her life before the occasion eight years earlier when she was found on a New Jersey beach suffering from amnesia. Things start to change however, after she's involved in a car crash and a blow to the head triggers some disturbing flashbacks and she suddenly displays a level of dexterity with a knife that leads her to believe that, in her previous life, she must've been a chef!! Mitch Henessey (Samuel L Jackson), a private detective that Samantha had hired to check out her past, arrives at her house with some information just after she's been involved in a fight with a one-eyed convict who'd escaped from prison after seeing TV coverage of her taking part in her town's Christmas parade. This violent man obviously held her responsible for the loss of his eye and was out for revenge but the extraordinary combat skills that Samantha uses in subduing him shock both her and her fiancé.Mitch's information leads to the discovery that, in her past, Samantha had been a government assassin called Charly Baltimore who'd succeeded in preventing some corrupt CIA personnel from detonating a bomb at Niagara Falls and blaming the atrocity on terrorists in order to elicit more funding from Congress. Unfortunately, Mitch and Samantha / Charly also learn that a new group is planning to carry out a similar attack and that, as they're seen as a threat to that group, their lives are in immediate danger. Their only option is to go on the run and this leads them into further violent encounters when amongst other things, Charly gets tortured, her daughter gets kidnapped and Mitch gets seriously injured.Geena Davis and Samuel L Jackson work well individually and together in this movie. They make a great team as she excels in her role as an action heroine and he provides a whole series of marvellous one-liners. The humour that runs through the movie is also pivotal to its success because it makes the most unbelievable action sequences seem totally acceptable and induces its audience to cheerfully overlook inconvenient details such as how someone with no background and a made up name could've had the necessary formal qualifications to get a job as a schoolteacher. Similarly, the potentially negative impact of the film's high body count, strong violence and swearing is also successfully mitigated and made more acceptable because of its clever use of comedy. "},{"Title":"One Incredible Action Opus!!!","Date":"4 September 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Hollywood's favorite spy plot in the post-Cold War era has ultra-secret agencies trying to justify their mission by fabricating new villains to replace the Soviets. In director Renny Harlin's high-octane actioneer The Long Kiss Goodbye, Geena Davis and Samuel L. Jackson, the Central Intelligence Agency fakes a terrorist attack at Niagara Falls so Congress won't slash its budget. What the CIA doesn't count on is the return of one of its top assassins, long-believed lifeless, who doesn't take anything lying down. New Line Cinema has cast the Thelma & Louise star as New England school teacher Samantha Caine who suffers from amnesia. Eight years earlier, she washed up on the New Jersey coast two months pregnant without a clue to her own identity. Since then she has paid a number of private eyes to recover her memory. When the CIA learns that she is still alive and breathing, the company dispatches a gang of assassins. Meanwhile, sleazy private eye Mitch Henessey ((Samuel L. Jackson of Pulp Fiction) is a detective who specializes in blackmail. He has found traces of Samantha's past when she was Charlene Baltimore.Scenarist Shane Black, who wrote Lethal Weapon (1987) and The Last Boy Scout (1991) and more recently Iron Man 3, penned a trim but improbable screenplay that neatly knits together all the loose ends and packs one hell of a wallop. The dialogue crackles with blasphemous irreverence. Finnish helmer Renny Harlin (Cliffhanger and Die Hard 2 Die Harder) shows that he still has the knack when it comes to orchestrating knock-out action scenes. Harlin and Black kiss off any sense of credibility as their protagonists survive too many crashes and look too cool riddling the bad guys with bullets. Davis acquits herself well as the super-heroine in a gender reversal of James Bond. This is the kind of free-for-all, tongue-in-cheek action epic that media watchdogs like to condemn for its cartoon violence and inappropriate behavior. When Caine becomes Charlie Baltimore, she spews profanities of the worst sort, laps up liquor like ice water and puffs on tobacco cigarettes like a chimney. If you're tired of cooking and watching men destroy the planet, The Long Kiss Goodnight is just the kind of rollicking nonsense to set your sights on when you're looking for something memorable with lots of audacious combat sequences. The scene where our heroine is strapped to a water wheel is terrific. Craig Bierko and David Morse make venomous villains. The Long Kiss Goodnight never wears out its welcome and it ranks as one of Geena Davis' best action flicks. "},{"Title":"Excellent example of the genre (action/comedy, people!)","Date":"28 July 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I've read the reviews which panned this movie because it is unrealistic (as opposed to, say...Star Wars, the Bond franchise, the Bourne franchise, Dusk Till Dawn, Indiana Jones, Batman...you name it).I've read that there's too much action, not enough plot (but Fast and Furious number X is knocking 'em dead at the box office--and the plot is...?) I've read that amnesia doesn't work that way (but Bourne and Memento were okay--how about the old B&W classic Random Harvest?). Me, I never watched the thing for a lesson in abnormal psychology or traumatic amnesia, and I didn't watch Bruce Willis and Steve Buscemi fly out to an approaching asteroid to learn about space science or well drilling technology, or even Physics 101 (you want realism, the fragments would have destroyed planet Earth, The End).I've read that our or our allied governments would never stage or allow a contract false flag or large scale pre-emptive attack as portrayed by Chapter, in TLKGN (but it was okay in Three Days of the Condor, or in the Tonkin Gulf and a dozen other more recent historical actual events, for that matter).This is nonsense. Someone very high up didn't like the premise and Hollywood came down hard on Shane Black's story (perhaps because they were planning something very like that). It was action/comedy not dissimilar to the Die Hard, etc. franchise, but it was made an example of. If you want to watch a realistic documentary-style production featuring intelligence agencies, then watch The Company or a half-dozen other offerings, NOT an action/comedy romp full of explosions and some of the wittiest dialog since Gross Point Blank. I might just as well complain that documentaries and docu-dramas deserve a 1 out of 10 because they are not funny and move too slowly.I give this movie (which I and my partner own and have watched many times just for the acting and darkly comedic dialog, timing, and delivery) a 10 on it's own merits. Not because some reviewers overseas found it too Hollywood, or some thought it appealed to 14-year-olds (like 14-year-olds shouldn't be allowed movies aimed at them), or some refused to watch it yet still felt qualified to vote and express an opinion, all the other usual suspect reasons for panning a movie and trying to sound outraged or intelligent, or whatever. Even Ebert was upset that the hero and heroine outran a fireball--see, they never put that in action/comedy movies because everyone knows it's impossible to outrun a fireball. (So what do we do, Rog, just end the movie there? They blew up, The End.) Please, reviewers, if escapist Hollywood action/comedies are not your thing, stop reviewing stuff which offends your literal sensibilities, or which you did not bother to watch. Go review Heidi, or Wuthering Heights, or A River Runs Through it. But what's the point in comparing this sort of thing to Hitchcock and Bergman all the time? This movie is older than the age-group it was written for, and still stands out as a classic of its type (which includes Die Hard and Lethal Weapon). Ten out of ten. "},{"Title":"A film that mixes aptly different genres as action, comedy, drama and intrigue","Date":"3 May 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Long Kiss GoodNight is a film that mixes different genres aptly as action, comedy, drama and intrigue. Geena Davis plays Samantha Caine, a teacher who has lost her memory. After hiring a private detective (Samuel L. Jackson), discover her ancient and violent life as a CIA agent.The script of the film slightly resembles the legendary saga Bourne. In the 90s it was unusual to see a woman as the star of an action movie. At that time, the action film was exclusively dominated by men, and has a great merit that Geena Davis broke the norm with this movie, and one year earlier with Cutthroat Island playing the Pirate Adams Morgan. After The Long Kiss GoodNight Geena Davis got consecrated as action heroine, something unthinkable at the time. And she did 40 years ago, when it was not young girl.The best of the film is the tandem Geena Davis and Samuel L. Jackson, who exude a good chemistry. Geena Davis was extremely sensual and attractive and did her performance in the two facets of her character, as a housewife and mother on the one hand, and as hard spy on the other. As Samuel L. Jackson, his character adds some touches of humor to the film that is fantastic. The script begins with a thriller that traps, but with the passage of minutes the action is completely taking over the film.In conclusion, the film is well made, it is entertaining and exciting. It's not a pretentious film in no time, and it has some scenes to remember. "},{"Title":"An action flick for viewers sick of vapid, special-effects spectacles","Date":"27 September 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I won't try to push this movie too hard but I find it nearly impossible to believe it only rates 6+ stars. I think it's too touchy-feely for your average action fan and too violent from most rom-com connoisseurs. I guess it falls into that narrow gap reserved for thrillers with snappy dialogue and just a touch of seemingly far-fetched and yet ultimately believable romance. Although I am not the kind of moviegoer who enjoys repeat viewings of a film, I have seen this movie five times over the years and it still entertains me thoroughly. Certain bits of dialogue between the two main stars are unforgettable and quotable, and while the plot may be fairly hackneyed, it contains many elements of a classic tragedy &#x96; questions of identity, revenge, uncommon heroism, and self-sacrifice &#x96; which have stood the test of time. Beyond that, it ups the ante on most action films through the brilliant comic timing of Geena Davis and Samuel Jackson, its two main leads, who are both as brutal and nonchalant with each other as a couple of teenagers.The one thing the movie clearly lacks is fancy special effects, but when a movie has great actors, great dialogue, and great fun, it hardly seems a deficiency. "},{"Title":"I really like this film","Date":"5 September 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Perhaps there is spoiler here....Everybody went wild for the Hunger Games this year, but films like Geena Davies ones, in particular this one and Cutthroat Island, were way ahead as far as women assertiveness and freedom go. I see Geena Davies as the female Bruce Willis, she has that sardonic smile and look that make her film fun. Angeline Jolie is another of my favourite action heroins for the same reason.My favourite line in the film is when she is locked up in an industrial refrigerator at -50C and her little daughter asks her Are we going to die mummy? and instead of the usual dribbling series of reassurances a mum would give she says Noo!.... they are. I also like how when she still doesn't remember who she is she switches from nice sweet little teacher to quick kick ass spy reflexes without even knowing what she is doing.In short this might not be an intellectual film but then again neither Die hard * are, and I find Geena Davies a quite good action actress. "},{"Title":"Terrific spy thriller with unusual premise","Date":"7 March 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I am not a big Geena Davis fan. She doesn't really do it for me. But this movie is terrific, and she is terrific in it.I'm always pleased when I encounter films which are based on an idea which is not run of the mill, which I haven't seen variations of dozens of times in other movies. And here, the central conceit - that an absolutely deadly assassin, turned into an utterly conventional homemaker wife and mother by amnesia, is reawakened by her old organisation, with violent results - is a pleasingly different variation on a familiar theme.Assisted by a seedy, down at heel PI played by Samuel L Jackson (cast partly against type), housewife/assassin Sam/Charly wreaks various species of havoc on those responsible for turning her life upside down in a number of pleasing set pieces.The action is great, the story is great, the effects are great and the performances are great. This is highly recommended. "}{"Title":"First there was Ripley, now meet Charlie","Date":"25 November 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Action movies for many years had been targeted at the straight male audience. Also they almost always featured a male in the role of action hero. Well it was time for this to be laid to rest and for the opposite sex to get a piece of the action. In 1979 Sigourney Weaver turned heads in her first feature film role as the very first female action hero, which led to others in the years to come. Renny Harlin, no stranger to the genre, introduced the world to another strong female character who is easily on par with the characters Arnold Schwarzenegger and Sylvester Stallone are famous for.Pros Cast is game. A good story, something you won't find in too many of these big scale blockbuster type films. Exciting score and great soundtrack. Moves at a roller coaster pace almost the whole way through. Has a good helping of humor. Amazing set pieces and stunt work. Nice winter scenery. Director Harlin proves once again he can make a great Action movie.Cons You really have to suspend disbelief with this one. A little longer than it needed to be. Pretty silly at times.Final thoughts This isn't art here folks, but rather good old fashioned popcorn movie fun. The makers of the film accomplished what they set out to do and sure know their audience. Geena Davis makes an awesome action heroine and if these kind of movies are your thing, then you should enjoy watching this as much as she obviously did making it.My rating 4/5 "},{"Title":"Geena kicks ass and Samuel saves the day","Date":"18 May 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a movie that was panned by critics, but it is truly one of the most enjoyable action movies of all time. Geena Davis is a schoolteacher/mom/fiancée, living a normal suburban life. The movie begins with her voice-over telling you that she woke up from a coma eight years before, with no memory of who she was. But she was pregnant, (the daughter plays a pivotal part in the movie) and she knows she was a schoolteacher. This was actually her alternate identity when she was a CIA agent, but that part of her memory is gone until events start happening around her that force her survival instincts and her assassin training to surface.Geena Davis is a true athlete, as evidenced by her real-life near-Olympian level archery skills. Whether she is kicking tail or getting her tail kicked, she is ultimately believable because you just know she is truly capable of doing the damn hard physical things she does. Sure there were doubles for some of the scenes, but Davis has such strength, dexterity and grace that you watch in awe as she does so much of the tough action work herself. She is all woman, and a woman with a good heart, but she has been trained to be a ruthless killer. She plays that difficult role with absolute perfection.Now team her up with Samuel L. Jackson, a low-rent private eye whom she hired as a last resort to help her find out who she really is, and you have a tremendous pairing. As her CIA persona starts surfacing, it is causing dissension in her life. At the same time Samuel Jackson lucks into some info about her. Because her persona starts fragmenting, she is desperate to learn her true identity. So she pairs up with Samuel and starts a road trip to follow up on the puzzling clues he's uncovered. It's an unlikely but ultimately very believable partnership. The dialogue is peppered with biting sarcasm, but is tempered with wit, intelligence, well-placed obscenities, and just enough poignance. They are wonderful together. The plot is great, and the action throughout is really first rate.This movie is basically why we bother to go to, rent or buy movies in the first place. We want to be thoroughly entertained, and The Long Kiss Goodnight does that as well as any film there is. "},{"Title":"A woman as the hero.","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I think this is a great film for one big reason It acknowledges women's capability of being an action hero. You don't have to be all muscles to beat the bad guys! I really can't understand why (some) people don't see that. Or what's the reason why this film hasn't received the glory it deserves! This is Harlin's best film ( so far)!!!!!!!!!!  "},{"Title":"Geena Davis is one tough cookie!","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie, which surprised me. I thought Geena Davis wouldn't work as a tough guy, but, as I like Samuel L. Jackson I decided to give it a go. Two hours later I'd found myself another one of those little gems that had escaped me on its cinema release (like the superb Grosse Pointe Blank). I'd recommend that anyone who enjoys the escapist type of action adventure movies (Die Hard, True Lies etc) stop at the Long Kiss Goodnight very soon, because as you will find out ...chefs do that! "},{"Title":"Great Action Thriller","Date":"21 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Samantha Caine (Geena Davis) is a school teacher who suffers from amnesia, she hires Mitch Henessey (Samuel L. Jackson) a dead-beat private detective, and together they set out to discover her past, before it comes back and kills her. She discovers that she is in fact Charlie Baltimore, a highly trained secret agent and killer; and so begins a great thrill ride.Geena Davis plays the tough all action star convincingly, bringing a fresh take on the action genre. Samuel L. Jackson is the bumbling sidekick, and he is fantastic in the role, taking a break from the cool character we're used to seeing.This movie somehow failed to impress at the box office, and i cannot imagine why; it has all the right ingredients. The direction is solid, the script is both funny and interesting, the characters are believable, the acting is first class, the action is plentiful and really exciting - need i say more? 8/10 "},{"Title":"Action, adventure and Lots of Laughs","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I enjoyed this film immensely. I'm really into films where females kick lots of butt, so this film already had my hopes up for some decent entertainment. My hopes were met and exceeded less than 20 minutes into the film. The action, humor and wit this film contained easily made it one of my favorite films of all time. It had Sam Jackson and his undeniable screen presence, Geena Davis as I've never seen her before, demanding your respect and flat out taking it even if you don't want to give it.Geena plays Samantha Caine, an amnesiac desperate to remember something about her past, but quickly realizing, the more she finds out the more she wants to forget and eventually becomes consumed until finally Samantha is so more and Charly is all that's left. But now, can Charly and Sam, two completely different women, possibly exist in the same body? We have characters that pop in and out of the film that nurture each side of Sam/Charly, like Sam Jackson, and Craig Bierko. Craig is also irresistible as Timothy, the sexy bad guy with no conscience.This film was perfectly casted, and perfectly acted, over the top and wonderfully entertaining. You watch the impossible happen and applaud when it does. SO worth your time. Watch it, you won't be sorry. "},{"Title":"Perfect humor and action for both her and him !!!","Date":"1 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one broad action movie that I never will forget, Seen it 8 times and discovers new things every time. Great to show the different actions of the same women. Also Great to see that women is not portrait as a wimp but of possibilities! Action and humor throughout. Both men and women should appreciate it! It tickles your nerve and fantasy without giving away the plot! And isn't too scary! To bad that the scene where she goes from the Sleigh to the Truck, in the end, is cut away. Also that it isn't available on DVD ! Geena Davies is also fantastic in her Pirate movie!!! Humor and a 'sparkle' in her eye shows you that she really is alive ! She is only surpassed by the mother in the Exterminator in the scene where she flees from the mental hospital !  "},{"Title":"fast and furious!","Date":"22 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" First off let me say this isn't really my type of movie, seriously. Like Domino< Pulp Fiction and the like, I hate films where human life is so cheap! That said this is a really cool flick. Renny Harlin knows action. Geena Davis plays Samantha Caine, a seemingly normal teacher with a young daughter and erstwhile boyfriend, but she has amnesia. Soon it becomes clear she was a trained assassin! Yikes! Sam Jackson, so great he steals this movie, is the detective who helps her out.There on the run and dangerous. The stunts are awesome, granted people can't really outrun fire, but who cares? Later Sam, now Charly Baltimore, finds her target, played icily by David Morse. Captured he tortures her on a water wheel! Great sequence! Geena looks great in her underwear and the pacing is real!I held my breath along with Charly in these shots and its awesome.Later Charly changes her look and attempts to seduce Sam Jackson, but he knows she's just scared because she really cares about her little girl. They go up against the bad guys in one of the most awesome bridge scenes ever! Note Sam Jackson's line, Thats right, you can't kill me Mother- Cool.There is an ugly plot twist near the end, but its well handled and note this is a hard R rating, but still a good action flick. "},{"Title":"What one of the 'girls' thought of this movie","Date":"25 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is right at the top as one of my most favorite movies! To quote a line from another favorite movie... 'First there is ooooh-ing and aaaah-ing. Then running and screaming...'Great action flick! Geena Davis is way cool! In fact, this is one of my top five favorite Christmas movies as well as simply a fav movie. Of course, the others in that top five are Die Hard 1 & Die Hard 2 (great for trimming the tree!) and The Santa Clause.Simply all around good, fast action, with great pyrotechnics. If you've not seen it, you've missed a fantastic movie. (Adding enough linage to post here...) Gillian "},{"Title":"Superb action film made memorable by touching mother - daughter sub plot","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I expected The Long Kiss Goodnight to simply be a high octane action thriller delivered at breakneck pace with lots of Samuel L. Jackson dialogue. I was right, but Long Kiss Goodnight give so much more as it included a wonderfully touching sub plot and some wonderful character transitions in Geena Davis' character, all of which she handles superbly. I notice a lot of criticism has been aimed towards this film and I really struggle to understand why there isn't more love for this film. It rates extremely high on the entertainment and, although very far fetched, the plot is conceptually fantastic and well conceived. The general plot is familiar to Timebomb with Michael Biehn and of Bourne Identity with Matt Damon but the mother &#150; daughter sub plot is what really makes this stand out as it is in extreme contrast to the violence and mayhem that is going on.Long Kiss Goodnight begins somewhat unspectacularly with a narration containing mediocre dialogue for exposition purposes but luckily doesn't last particularly long. It would have been better of the narration occurred during the credits but after the patchy start, the film really goes off with a bang. Before you know it, you have just witnessed a car accident complete with blood, fire and a deer with a snapped neck! Harlin does a great job at illustrating the bond between Samantha (Davis) and her daughter before Samantha goes off to discover her past which makes Samantha's relentless transformation in to Charly very surprising to witness. Once Charly has fully emerged, the set pieces never stop and the audience is barely given a chance to breathe. The ending is very climatic and although at is predictable, it by no means is boring! There is also a conspiracy theory that develops throughout the film as the audience are left uninformed regarding the mysterious 'Honeymoon Project' which helps add to the tension.Geena Davis is awesome in this film. She starts as this character with amnesia who reminded me of her character in The Fly, very friendly and happy, and then transforms in to this super sexy bad ass. She pulls off both personalities very convincingly and shows a phenomenal range within this role. People may argue that a role playing a slightly crazed government assassin is easy but the role in its entirety requires a lot of depth. I think this is Geena Davis' best role, more so than Beatlejuice and Thelma and Louise as she was the focal character on a massive scale. I like Samuel L. Jackson but I think he is a victim of his own success as writers and directors like giving him lots of cool dialogue but it often leads to him chewing scenery and taking away from the main point of the film (Pulp Fiction got away with it). Here this doesn't happen as Davis doesn't let him and his character is a lot more sensitive than his usual roles. The rapport between these characters is very effective and gives some light relief to what is going on. Craig Bierko is a great villain he has that innocent charm that makes him look like he wouldn't hurt a fly. He constantly maintains this ice cool exterior despite the fact that his past is catching up with him and disturbing his plans. Yvonne Zima as Samantha's daughter, Caitlin, puts in a very mature performance for a 7 year old and is very effective at pulling at the heart strings of the audience.With the director of Die Hard 2 and the writer of Lethal Weapon on board, Long Kiss Goodnight had a great team behind it and this is why the action is of such great quality. The gratuitous gun play and excessive violence do not disturb at all because everything is so theatrical making it entertaining rather than shocking. There seems to be plenty of evidence of money well spent as I'd much rather see money spent on pyrotechnics and stunt scenes than on CGI. This is what makes it so disappointing that the film did so poorly in the box office.A film that has undeservedly been overlooked, Long Kiss Goodnight is a great, sexy action thriller that has a touching human story embedded in the plot. I could definitely watch this film over and over again, especially if I skip the opening scene. Geena Davis and Samuel L. Jackson both deliver great performances and both give the film a massive attitude. Great film. "}{"Title":"Top-notch 90s action from genre masters Shane Black and Renny Harlin.","Date":"13 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Contrived in places, ridiculously OTT in others, The Long Kiss Goodnight is a perfect example of hi-octane 90s action cinema&#x97;screw the logic, let's blow stuff up!!With both screenwriter Shane Black and director Renny Harlin at the top of their game, the film is a roller-coaster ride of explosive set-pieces coupled with a smart and sassy script, and great performances from leads Geena Davis and Samuel L. Jackson.Geena plays Samantha Caine, a woman suffering from amnesia living a peaceful life in small town America. When Samantha is involved in a car crash, she begins to recover her memories and discovers that in her previous life she was top government assassin Charly Baltimore, now believed to be dead by the authorities.After Samantha is spotted on TV taking part in her town's Christmas parade, it is not long before those that originally wanted her dead are back to try and finish the job. Enter Jackson's sleazy private detective, Mitch Henessey, who teams up with Samantha to help battle the bad guys.Black's witty script, containing just the right mixture of snappy dialogue and blistering action, ensures that the story rattles along at breakneck speed leaving highly quotable snippets of dialogue in its wake (whilst also managing to throw in some elements that will be of interest to conspiracy theorists around the world). Harlin, no stranger to this kind of fare, also delivers the goods, littering the screen with bullet-riddled bodies and huge explosions.The cast throw themselves wholeheartedly into the fun, with Davis convincingly managing, at turns, to be homely, sexy, and deadly. Jackson is as reliable as ever. Also worth mentioning is Brian Cox, who delivers some of the film's best lines as Dr. Nathan Waldman, the man who trained Charly to be a ruthless killer.If glossy, big-budget action fare is what you're after, then you could do a lot worse than to pop this one into your player. "},{"Title":"Needs historical perspective (even tho it's only 7 yrs old)","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was one of the bridges to the contemporary action movie that has no plot at all and is unabashed about that fact. It is the melding between the 90s attempt at plot and the ever-increasing tendency for all violence all the time with some hot babe shots thrown in. Viewed from the perspective of today's movies with their plasticine-looking heroes and heroines, Davis and Jackson come off as nostalgically genuine and charming.There are some real laugh out loud moments in this movie, though, and there's a sense of joy in the script and the performances, as if they were having a good time. Action movies/TV today seem like somber enterprises where everyone takes themselves much, much too seriously.  (Jennifer Garner projects, for example.)The movie is a lot of fun and pretends to be nothing else. It was even advertised at the time as a fun movie (tho I've just now watched it, I've seen the previews recently.) I don't understand the poor reviews that seem to compare it to great, serious filmmaking when it was not even marginally aimed at that genre.  "},{"Title":"GREAT Movie!!!","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Rennie Harlan has only made three good movies in his career and this is one of them (the other two are Ford Fairlane and Deep, Blue Sea). Great action, great stars and a LOT of fun. Also, someone else stated in a comment that Geena Davis wasn't hot enough for Jackson's character. BULL!! She looks VERY hot -- and tough as nails -- in this film. I was very impressed with her acting and her character. I suggest you see it if you haven't already.    "},{"Title":"A fun romp that is worth the time","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have a blast watching this movie.  The lines are witty, the chemistry is fun to watch and is not forced, and the story line is believable in the sense of the classic spy movie.  I would love to see a sequel of this movie, though I know that will never happen, I would be first in line to watch.  "},{"Title":"Actiion packed drama of many themes","Date":"4 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The gist of the story is set out in the comments of others. There are many themes in the film. This distinguishes it from so so many other action films which have a very narrow base. Lovers of Terminator and Rambo type films and the latest action tricks need read no further. Those who demand more will find themselves amply rewarded. There is an adroit mingling of small town family life role of children with their parents and the Christmas festivals, small time private detective trying make some cash no matter how. This played out against the highest echelons of American secret service power. Here it is the CIA and the President. Other themes are family love, searching for ones identity, sophisticated guns, knives and techniques of professional assassins, the traditional American values of taking your own responsibility, essential to being a good member of your community. The there is the usual CIA corruption and international terrorism. All these themes of a film of 1996 played out against a panorama of intelligent intense action scenes. The acting of Geena Davis is marvelous at 40 years of age, though having then no children, she portrays the mother with keen sensitivity, switching suddenly to the role of professional killer that was repressed into amnesia (see other comments) until released at intervals that took everyone, on screen and the public, by surprise. Geena Davis showed acting of great quality - many different facial expressions and emotions, which Terminator and Rambo action actors could never aspire to. On might guess that she was also got extra help from her director, her husband at the time. Samuel L. Jackson, so wonderful as the small time private detective in the small town who rose inspirationally from a shady type to a worthy and courageous man by the end. One sees how he is influenced by the moral principles and values of the Geena Davis character fighting evil, protecting family, doing right by oneself. fearless in saving her child and thwarting the CIA corrupt plans. Her fighting to establish her eight year lost identity then became of course ruthless as she reverted to her assassin status in the CIA. The actors of the evil forces act most convincingly. The music weaved in and out of the intense drama magnificently. A film to be re seen many times for its action momentum, family and human values of importance, international issues as terrorism, corruption in security services, even though this is a theme of many other films, here it is only the backcloth of the breathless action scenes, not the main issue, which by now has become rather banal. And definitely for the superb acting of Geena Davis and Samuel Jackson, supported hand in hand by the music. All this with beautiful photography. "},{"Title":"Much better then expected","Date":"18 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I have just seen this on UK TV. Great action movie. Wonderful role reversal with Geena Davis as the hard guy and Samuel Jackson as the buddy when the initial set-up was designed to show SLJ as the lead/hero. The way in which Geena transforms from the ditsy American housewife to a truly frightening persona in the first minutes is a bit Jason Bourne like but gripping all the same. When Samantha finally becomes Charlie, it is a not unexpected but nevertheless surprising transformation. It takes the whole movie to a new level of suspense and excitement.The bad guys are really bad and you don't mind them meeting their just desserts. At the same time you want the heroine/hero to survive at all costs and that gives it the edge over other action movies. As a Brit, I rate Die Hard and Lethal Weapon as A1 action movies - the Arnie Schwarzenegger as A2 and Steven Seagal Seagal as A2/3. This is A1.5 in my view. I love Renny's dialogue/character development/imagination as well as the usual bangs and flashes - so I think it will become a classic in twenty years time "},{"Title":"This movie ROCKS","Date":"10 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I am a happily married 49 year old female, who just happens to LOVE this movie to death.Geena Davis' character is strong, smart and kick ass...............I thought she did an excellent (thats an understatement) job in this movie.I'm not real big on action movies, but i thought it was sooooooooooo sexy and entertaining.She is my alter-ego.............when she starts putting that assault rifle together in the old hotel room.....................i got chills...............she did it like she knew what she was doing............thats one of my MANY favorite parts in that movie........i think she deserved an Oscar for her acting and physical roles........I'm going to have 'CHARLY' tattoed on my back..............I'm one of those girls who will NEVER BE A VICTIM......................I'm like her...............(shhhhhhhhhhhhhh secretly........and isn't that oh so sexy?) "},{"Title":"Smart, Fun, Sexy, Unabashed","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just saw this movie again after seeing it twice when it came out. And I'm convinced all over again that this is a great sexy action movie with wonderful dialogue, which also very smartly works to complicate and undermine gender and racial stereotypes.When the movie first came out, I was astonished that it didn't do very well. It didn't stay in the theaters long. And critics condemned the movie by writing it off as forgettable and poorly realized, rather than at least doing the movie the favor of outwardly hating it. (The most powerful way to dismiss a movie, I've realized, is to give it a middling review--hatred already suggests there is something which deserves a reaction.)I felt and still feel The Long Kiss Goodnight is as good as any of the great and long remembered action movies, such as Terminator, Indian Jones, etc. In the end I concluded that it could only be plain misogyny that motivated the failure of this movie.The Long Kiss Goodnight, presents a powerful female lead, who is unabashed about her power, sexy, smart and doesn't renounce her power in the end (like the sad and pointless suicide in the end of Thelma and Louise). At the same time, Davis' character is not superhuman (like the Angels in the Charlie's Angels movies). She beats her evil (male) counterpart in The Long Kiss Goodnight not by being stronger, but by being faster, smarter, more daring, and more determined.What is more, The Long Kiss Goodnight shows Davis getting badly bruised and bleeding. This is generally a big no no with female action heroes. It's one thing if they can fight. But they still have to be pretty all the time.Also, it is one thing for a woman, in movies, to rise to an occasion (Alien, every teenage slasher movie). But usually in order to do so the woman/hero has to be chaste and she has to renounce her power in the end of the movie, returning to a more traditional role. The Charlie/Samantha character in The Long Kiss Goodnight, on the other hand, hybridizes the sexy, powerful sides of her personality with the mother, family character, and retains all of these elements.So in the end, I could only conclude that the failure of this excellent action movie had everything to do with the presentation of Davis' character. If she had been a man, this movie would be a classic (again in the vein of Terminator or Indiana Jones). But because she is an unabashedly powerful woman dealing with the difficulties of being a powerful woman in a sexist world and being good at it, the movie had to be forgotten. What a shame to realize that we live in a society that's still this misogynistic.The Long Kiss Goodnight, through Samuel Jackson's character, also does a lot to complicate racial stereotypes about black men. He is a good father who's not given a chance, but that doesn't mean he's not sexy. He's humiliated by the powers that be, but he fights back. And in the end he's duly rewarded and respected for his troubles (unlike the person of color in movies who is so often cast in a character who reforms himself but only to die--because we can't seem to imagine that a person of color deserves to live happily ever after and be rewarded for his or her troubles).What a shame that The Long Kiss Goodnight was so poorly received and never got its due. What a shame that we live in a society that is still not ready for this movie. The Long Kiss Goodnight is so much more liberated than Charlie's Angels could ever be. Why are people so afraid of respectable happy people of color and genuinely unabashedly powerful women?  "},{"Title":"Overlooked, under-appreciated, Geena Davis headlining an action flick with Samuel L. Jackson as her wisecracking, foulmouthed sidekick.","Date":"13 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" 1996's The Long Kiss Goodnight was the second movie in a row that director Renny Harlin made with his then-wife Geena Davis. Davis played a pirate in the previous year's Cutthroat Island. Harlin previously directed The Adventures of Ford Fairlane and Die Hard 2 which were edited simultaneously and released just a week apart. Die Hard 2 was a huge hit and Ford Fairlane starred Andrew Dice Clay. Harlin started his career by directing Finland's most expensive film and the slashers Prison and A Nightmare on Elm Street 4 The Dream Master. The screenplay was written by action movie pioneer Shane Black who also wrote Lethal Weapon, Lethal Weapon 2, The Last Boy Scout and The Last Action Hero. Alan Silvestri composed the Original Music and the Cinematography was by Guillermo Navarro.There are rumours and rumours of rumours that a sequel to Renny Harlin's The Long Kiss Goodnight is in the works. I inexplicably missed the original when it came out and dismissed it as just another action flick. I was more than surprised at how prescient a movie it was at the time. The nineties was an adventurous time for filmmaking. Increasingly influenced by music videos, a lot of the art showed dark overtones, in bright colours and quick cuts. Quentin Tarantino's Reservoir Dogs brought a sense of low-budget high-octane fun and breakaway banter back into the movies. He also expanded on the naturalistic acting styles in Barry Levinson's conversational film Diner that let everyday small talk happen while allowing the plot to move along as it might. On the surface, The Long Kiss Goodnight is a fast-paced adventure movie with a quick wit, an accelerating pace, famous locations, and a female hero that performs too many impossible physical feats. Underneath it is an allegory to the growing paranoiac conspiracy theories that are now flooding into the mainstream. The movie references the 1993 World Trade Center bombing and Samantha Caine's transformation into the regrettably-named Charly Baltimore can be seen as an allusion to sleeper-agent multiple personality assassins. "},{"Title":"The last time I got blown, candy bars cost a nickel.","Date":"29 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Geena Davis and Samuel L Jackson were on fire in this film. The premise was totally unbelievable a small-town school teacher one minute and the next coolly declaring to an enemy ''You're gonna die screaming. I'm gonna watch.'' That was the story. Seven years of amnesia and now she is back to finish her job. There is more action in this film than in in any Bruce Willis action flick. Director Renny Harlin, who also directed Die Hard 2 Die Harder, learned and outdid himself. Jackson and Davis really meshed as co-stars and made the film that much more enjoyable. If you like you action fast and hot, then this is a not-to-be-missed adventure. "}{"Title":"Why did this film not get a stack of awards?","Date":"9 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Geena Davis plays Samantha Caine, an ordinary housewife who cannot remember anything further back than eight years ago. She has a daughter Caitlin (Yvonne Zima) but cannot remember who the father is. Despite the amnesia, she has built a fulfilling life with a new partner.Following a car accident, she begins to remember parts of her previous life. It's complicated. She was Charly Baltimore, an assassin working for the US government.Samuel L Jackson plays private detective Mitch Henessey who Samantha has employed to try to find out about her past. He joins Caine/Baltimore as they become one of the best double acts in the movies.Brian Cox is brilliant in his brief role as Dr Nathan Waldman, who helps her reconstruct her past and has some of the best lines. Though Jackson comes a close second. You like comedy? Some of this stuff is laugh out loud funny. You like action? This is better than Die Hard. You like tough female leads? Check out Ms Davis.Why did this film not get a stack of awards? "},{"Title":"Highly under rated.","Date":"10 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I watched this movie a couple of days ago as I have had it in my DVD collection for years. At first I thought it was a female Bourne Identity rip off and then I realised that this came first! The long Kiss Goodnight is packed with witty one liners that would make James Bond proud and it is quite chilling the idea of the West blaming others for terrorist atrocities that they have done themselves. I am talking before 9/11. The movie is smart believable great one liners and a great chemistry between Gina and Samuel. In fact I like this movie so much as soon as I finish this review I am going to watch it again. For those who compare this movie with Bourne, you have to remember that the lost memory angle and being a spy is the only similarity. Okay they are major similarities but Long kiss is light whereas Bourne is a very serious movie. Bourne works hard to make sure innocent bystanders are not caught up in the killing whereas in Long quite a few bystanders bite the dust. Any how well done Gina and well done Samuel I thoroughly enjoy this film and I am extremely happy I have it in my DVD collection. "},{"Title":"Reliable mix of writing and explosions","Date":"10 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I don't think Samuel L. Jackson was ever cooler than he was in The Long Kiss Goodnight. Sure, he's a lowlife with a pure heart, but is working at maximum likability here. A lot of it is owed to Shane Black's dialogue (my god, the one-liners in this movie), but also because of his repartee with Geena Davis. Speaking of Davis, she nails it as both a loving mother and a badass chick. Great acting from both leads, but she's terrific in the role.The movie's got a great hook (amnesia proves irresistible for spy movies; how cool would it be to wake p and find you have knife skills?), and a flair for the big action set pieces, but this feels like a Shane Black movie all the way; the wisecracks, the violence, the Christmas setting. It's a pretty good action movie, but works best if you're a fan of his work.7/10 "},{"Title":"Great throw back to the old Mae West comedies","Date":"19 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A spy, thought for dead, but in reality alive, and suffering from amnesia, buys her cover story as her true reality and goes about life as a PTA volunteer/ homemaker for 8 years, before a bump on her head and a chance encounter with a past target, trigger memories of her earlier life as a top secret government assassin (Bourne Identity anyone?). Great pairing between Davis and Jackson, whose back and forth banter is a great throw back to the old Mae West comediesSamantha Easy, sport. I got myself outta Beirut once, I think I can get outta New Jersey.Mitch Yeah? Well, don't be so sure. Others have tried and failed. The entire population, in fact. "},{"Title":"Smart Alecks With Bloody Faces","Date":"5 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" For the first 30 minutes, this otherwise amazing action movie seems to be targeting me personally for itemized torture. There are certain things that make me cringe, and either cover my ears, or avert my eyes, depending on what's going on. Now, there is no quicksand in the film; nor does a dog lick a person's face while the person seems to like it. Fair enough--but even with that really horrendous stuff not making a showing in this film, I am forced, instead, to endure the following (1) A character slices her finger with a knife while chopping carrots (this sort of thing, or someone cutting himself shaving, gives me the creeping willies). True, gratuitous blood oozing on the finger is kept to a polite minimum, but on to (2) A character is forced to mercy-kill an injured animal by twisting its neck (practice for the same maneuver naturally being applied to a villainous human). Always a toughie for me, and this is one where the hands fly to the ears.(3) A character takes a tumble on some skates, and cracko goes a bone. See also THE DARK KNIGHT. Again, I'm supposed to feel let off the hook, somewhat, because we don't actually see a bone snapping and jutting out of a limb (see, for this, DEEP RISING, or THE FLY (1986); also starring Geena Davis, who seems to be some kind of marker for films ready to snap bones). But by this time I know that what is lacking in the visuals is being made up for in a sort of sound assault, exacerbated by(4) Villain brandishes pretty much the evilest-looking knife on the planet while threatening a bound torture victim. This is of course a lead-in to a rather terrible sound as this blade from hell is finally put to use. Why do I tell you all this? Why turn a review into a Sickens-Me-Most List when I should be commenting on action, or pace, or characterization? Well, the movie's constant desire to make a squeamish viewer cringe using odd and sickening gimmicks--even sounds--is a good way of saying that the film has a personality unique in spy flicks. Especially when you throw in a Shane Black script as directed by Renny Harlin. Nauseating sounds, disturbing scenes, faces washed and scrubbed only to be bloodied again in the next round of action...it's hard to concentrate on the wickedly playful script. The film sometimes seems to be poking at the viewer, sticking toothpicks under the fingernails and lighting matches between the toes, and having Jim Carrey somehow present even here to provide The Most Annoying Sound In The World, in brief spurts, all while it zings along at frog-tongue speed and fits the cool repartee in between pain sounds.It is so uniquely and unrelentingly nasty in its effect that I find I love it. It also helps that a few of my favorite people worked on this film. Samuel L. Jackson--well, he helps immeasurably in moving this up several subsections of notches. David Morse plays it so calmly and devilishly compared to all the frenzy bouncing around him, that he's a welcome quiet talker. Brian Cox fits into these spy films effortlessly, seeming like a guy who could have trained a killer, or hired a killer to solve a problem--and he gets some terrific lines. G. D. Spradlin--never out of place, and here gives a quick but tough-talking turn as the US President. And as for the homemaker turned spy herself--Geena Davis--while I confess that she is not one of my all-time favorite leading ladies, I loved her in THE ACCIDENTAL TOURIST, and here at the opposite end of the Universe known as THE LONG KISS GOODNIGHT, she gives us one of the best female action heroines in a movie. Basically playing two characters in one, she successfully burns the scented candle which is really a stick of dynamite at both ends.Plus, I'm never one to disrespect an Alan Silvestri soundtrack...though I would say that jarring, rabbit-punch of sound he likes to apply only adds to the general edginess of the noise factor present in this film.As for Renny Harlin; hey, he has his detractors and I'm not one of them. Over and over a again, when I need a fun time with broken brakes, I watch CLIFFHANGER, DIE HARD 2, DEEP BLUE SEA, MINDHUNTERS, and of course THE LONG KISS GOODNIGHT. I love his snow and his gunplay and his carnage. I love his pace, and that ham-fisted impishness that gets stamped on things. This particular film shows that with a great script and a twisty spy premise, he can spin gold. Even if it does make me grit my teeth at something kind of vile every 10 minutes. "},{"Title":"kisses - long ones for this flick.","Date":"12 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Put your brain at rest, forget about intellectual analysis - just sit back and enjoy the hell out of this outrageously exciting, funny movie.First of all - its stars. Geena Davis and Samuel L. Jackson are outstanding whether they are blowing up anything nearby or tossing some really funny one liners back and forth.As for the action, it is almost never-ending. Lots of shootouts, lots of flame and fire, lots of car/people chasing, and lots of the infamous 'f' word, used as often as the 'the' word. Well, what the 'f', it's in Webster's Dictionary and, for that matter, so is the maternal version.Anyway, I highly recommend adding this one to your library. Unless you're a marshmallow you'll want to see it again - and again - and again.Curious. One of the songs in this movie was by Jars of Clay, a very well known Christian vocal group. Jesus might treat them as he did the money changers. Oh well, money talks. "},{"Title":"The Bourne Identity with a Feminine Twist","Date":"31 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I was interested in seeing 'The Long Kiss Goodnight' largely because the premise of the movie, an amnesiac CIA assassin on the run from his/her handlers, was similar to that of one of my favourite movies, Matt Damon starrer 'The Bourne Identity' and also because I had seen the recently released movie 'Salt' which is also about a lethal woman who's not all she seems. The movie follows Samantha Caine (Geena Davis) a schoolteacher suffering from amnesia who does not remember anything about her life before waking up on a beach in New Jersey eight years ago...not even the true father of her daughter Caitlin, with whom she was pregnant with at the time. Nevertheless, Samantha has buried the past and has all but 'kissed' her former self 'good night' when the trauma of a car crash causes her to suffer from illusions of a darker version of herself and she begins to rediscover lethal fighting skills she could never have believed she had. With the help of a seedy private detective Mitch Hennesey (Samuel L Jackson) she discovers that she is, or rather was, Charlene 'Charly' Baltimore, an assassin working for the CIA who went missing years ago after failing to execute her target. And when her old enemies catch up with her and attempt to torture her to death, all her memories and her old personality come flooding back, and our gentle and warm protagonist is transformed back into Charly, the cold blooded lethal femme fatale who has no compunctions about killing anyone who gets in her way, and who shuns the 'mundane' life of Samantha Caine. Charly embarks on a mission to uncover a conspiracy by her former handlers and her old nemesis and target Timothy to 'fake' a terrorist attack in order to convince the President of the US to increase the CIA's budget (a nefarious scheme which will nevertheless result in the very real deaths of hundreds of innocents). With the clock ticking towards disaster, and hit men chasing her, will Charly succeed in saving the day? And will she ever accept the life of Samantha Caine again?My feelings about this film are kind of mixed. This film clearly stands out from most other amnesia stories in that that most amnesia stories are about the protagonists trying to uncover their forgotten pasts, whereas here, the protagonist discovers her past pretty early on and has to instead deal with the ramifications of this discovery. However I did find the treatment of the Samantha/Charly conflict to be a bit superficial to say the least. What should have been an inner psychological/philosophical conflict about life and identity became the mere distinction between a sweet schoolteacher with long brown hair who doesn't smoke and a borderline psychopathic 'badass chick' with cropped blond hair who curses, smokes and kills (preferably all at the same time!). Also the changes in the characters attitudes and behavior seem a bit too rushed and forced too me-Mitch for instance, goes from being this totally unscruplous cheat of a detective to being this nice guy who becomes very nearly overprotective of Samantha. And there were about a dozen minor details which weren't made all that clear in the film. Like for instance, how exactly did Charly discover that her 'name' is Samantha Caine in the first place? And why did she sleep with Timothy anyway, seeing as she was going to kill him? The first half of the film was supposed to explain these things, and more, but somehow it ends up being a bit of a drag with all the Christmas scenes and a few somewhat rushed action sequences, not to mention some flashbacks and expositions we're supposed to make some vague sense out of. Its in the second half when the plot really kicks in and we have ourselves a fast-paced thriller that can almost rival any Bond film.On the whole, this film may not be a masterpiece, but its certainly worthy of a try. Just don't keep your expectations TOO high and all will be well... "},{"Title":"Under rated action thriller","Date":"19 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Given that this film has some great action and plenty of funny lines it is a surprise that it isn't more popular. Geena Davis plays teacher Samantha Caine who has a good life in small town America despite having no memories of her life before she was found on a beach eight years before. Something happens however when she is involved in a serious car crash; she quickly dispatches the injured deer she hit and once home appears to have developed an unusual skill with a knife. She thinks that this is an indication that she might have been a chef... however when a prisoner sees her on television, escapes from prison and tries to kill her it becomes clear that she isn't a chef, chefs don't snap the necks of attackers as though its no big deal. Around the same time the sleazy detective Mitch Henessey, played by Samuel L. Jackson, has found a lead as to who she might be. As the two of them pursue the leads it becomes apparent that she was a CIA assassin who went missing during an operation and was believed dead. Unfortunately for her her old target is now working with her former employers and both want her out of the way so they can carry out a terrorist attack which will be used to justify more funding for CIA operations. The more she finds out about her past and struggles to survive the more the personality of Samantha is replaced by that of her former self Charly Baltimore... the change is quite a shock for Mitch. If losing her memory and being unsure who is a friend and who is an enemy wasn't enough for her to contend with terrorist Timothy kidnaps her daughter; now Charly must both rescue her daughter and prevent a major terrorist attack in Niagara Falls.Geena Davis was great in the lead role as her character gradually changed from teacher Samantha to killer Charly, Samuel L. Jackson was on good form as the wise-cracking Mitch and even though he only had a small role Brian Cox was as good as always. The action scenes were pretty good although I think the final action scene was rather over the top and somewhat chiché. I definitely recommend this to fan's of the action genre, each time I watch it it is better than I remembered. "},{"Title":"You foxy bitch!","Date":"17 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Samantha Caine, schoolteacher, mother, suffering from amnesia, suddenly finds the impetus to track down her former life after an attempt is made on her life. It's going to be explosive......Absolute preposterous nonsense laced with explosions, cringe worthy dialogue and Geena Davis as an all killing assassin bitch. Is it any good? Oh yes indeed! Directed by Mr Unsubtle-Renny Harlin Davis' then husband and written by one Shane Black Lethal Weapon, Last Boy Scout & Kiss Kiss Bang Bang, is it any wonder that the Long Kiss Goodnight is ear splittingly loud and funny as hell?Davis plays Sammy home-maker Caine who teams up with a superbly seedy Samuel L. Jackson as ex-bent copper, ex-convict, Mitch Henessey. Their mission, which they choose to accept, involves rekindling Samantha's past life as an assassin called Charly Baltimore and unearthing shady government conspiracies. Shot against a bitter winter backdrop on the East Coast, with the Christmas setting oddly adding potency, our wonderful duo take us on one hell of a ride. Davis excels as a sexy action heroine while Jackson is content, and impactingly so, to let Davis basically kick buttocks as he plays perfect side-kick foil. Harlin, this after the critically savaged Cutthroat Island, knows how to construct action scenes, check out the train station scene and a tanker on the run heart pumper. But it's with Shane Black's screenplay that the film primarily entertains. Full of one line zingers and role reversal put downs, you should be laughing as your eyes and ears are assaulted in popcorn bonanza.Mindless all action fun. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Well worth a look for its execution of thriller genre film-making and development of its female lead, but the narrative is left wanting.","Date":"18 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" There are reasons to like The Long Kiss Goodnight, but there are additionally reasons to get highly strung over the picture. The film offers, on one hand, a quite riveting tale of espionage; chase; good vs. evil; self-discovery and noir although it is rather desperately seeking a final act of some sort. What's good in the film works really well, what doesn't comes across as somewhat laborious and will leave you with your arms folded and your head shaking, forever left to wonder why on Earth they included such content. But the positives just about out-weight the negatives, and The Last Kiss Goodnight minutely triumphs as a piece exploring different characters and roles within a well worn genre.From around the time, director Harlin helmed various American action films such as Cliffhanger, Deep Blue Sea and the second Die Hard instalment. I wouldn't argue too frivolously with those that regard The Long Kiss Goodnight as his best work amongst these other examples, as he substitutes basic, action-driven causality for a raw character study, that of his female lead. When the film does arrive at an action sequence it feels more welcome than usual, given what happens in the first hour or so in regards to build up and study. In this film, for the best part, he delivers action as a consequence of character actions; rather than as a consequence of the demands of genre.The lead is played by Geena Davis, Harlin's then-wife. He casts her as two different people, two very different and distinct people. Harlin projects this sharp indifference by implementing ideas onto the screen from the outset. The film's title sequence is one of those shadowy, dark, echoing flashback-types that sees knifes and other mêlée weapons swipe through the air while sniper rifle-wielding individuals do their business. This is juxtaposed by a number of family photo albums and more typical heart-tugging mise-en-scene, setting up the two different persona's the film will explore.The somewhat drab, snowy isolated town-confined Samantha Caine is first gazed upon by us, the viewers, as a smiling and bubbly woman dressed as Santa Claus riding a float during a Christmas parade in which everyone is happy and having a good time in what is a very friendly atmosphere. We later find out her to be a loving mother, husband and diligent school teacher, aiding children in their studies and giving something back to society in that regard. The film's point of attack comes and goes in as fluffy-manner as you like, but it's all deliberate on Harlin's behalf. The setting of the film at Christmas aids in this brainwashing of the audience, establishing an atmosphere that is warmer and more 'together' than what it might have been had it unfolded at another point in the year. The distinct shift in tone from the credits sequence is somewhat jarring, and a degree of menace further bites back when a rough and somewhat angry looking inmate at a prison not-so-far away gets rather agitated upon seeing her on television.Samantha's world is thrown into disarray when this inmate escapes and comes looking for her with the intent to seriously maim. Upon successfully defending herself, Samuel L. Jackson's Mitch Henessey enters the equation as a man hired by Samantha to aid her in finding out the truth behind these skills in knife play, self-defence and the ruthless ability to break dying animals necks. As the film plays out, it seems her past has a somewhat shady list of ingredients linked to government agents, officials and assignments. The film, penned by Shane Black, is a half-triumph; half-failure. Samantha's gradual transition from nice and easy housewife to super assassin isn't the primary source for the film's kicks. Throughout the opening; a mysterious but thrilling atmosphere is toyed with as one person asks for help from another; two people together search out clues as to someone's identity; a shady character by the name of Nathan Waldman (Cox) enters the equation; characters seek to escape while others chase and all manner of things that make good, old fashioned genre film-making as entertaining as it is are played out.But it comes at a cost. Due to Samantha's transition into hard-bodied action lead Charly actually driving the early stages of the film, the piece is in desperate need of a narrative to progress it to its conclusion. There's a point it realises this, and it occurs at a poignant moment when one of the characters, whom made the first act so thrilling, is removed from the text by way of drowning. Samantha is nearly drowned as well, and when she is at her most raw; her most vulnerable; the point in which she is closest to death, you get the sense whatever transition was being unfolded occurs there and then, and she's somebody else thereafter. I like the way Samantha is submerged, but it is Charly that 'resurfaces', so to speak. If we think back to Andy Tennant's 2008 film (God forbid we do very often, mind) Fool's Gold and remember how the director took the lead female from independent and strongly-willed woman filing for divorce to bikini-clad subservient to the male archaeologist lead, then The Long Kiss Goodnight is the polar opposite.I like the way the film has its male and female leads share the lead status; Jackson actually holds Davis' hand through some of the early scenes but the amusing thing is he's somewhat as frightened and confused as she is. The climax is in desperate need of a re-write; with hindsight, it'll remind you of that terrible scene towards the end of 2001's 3000 Miles to Graceland when a guy attached to a bungee wire came flying in with dual machine guns. The ending here lacks subtlety, and the tired good vs. evil routine complete with 'bomb will go off in location X' plot is most unwelcome. But for a while, it's good stuff and worth the time. "}{"Title":"Long Kiss Goodnight - Slept on 90's action classic","Date":"30 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I love this movie and watch it every couple of years on DVD. I think it's one of the most slept on action thrillers of the 90's.Renny Harlin is a solid action director (Die Hard 2 & Deep Blue Sea)and you can recognise it was written by the excellent Shane Black.I think it has one of the best roles ever played by Sam Jackson, he's amazing in this as a private eye but it does have it's downpoints.1) It's a bit too long - they could have shaved off 15 minutes.2) The lead bad guy was good but David Morse is more physically imposing and would've been better in that role. Craig Bierko (too much of a pretty boy to play a badass) should've played the guy she was meant to target.3) It's not clear enough about her family - how many kids does she have? Is the guy she lives with her husband? The kid's dad? This isn't explained properly until halfway through the film.4) The story has flaws - the bad guys did not even need to get involved with trying to kill her. They could have carried out their scheme anyway.I rated this a 7/10 on IMDb, would have given it an 8 but I always struggle to watch it in one sitting. The action set pieces are cool and the dialogue is amazing. Some of the lines by Jackson are brilliant - I'm always Frank and Earnest with women... "},{"Title":"The Long Kiss ..... is Fantastic!","Date":"1 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I love this movie. I first saw this when it came out in the movie theaters here in the Philippines back in 1996 (I think). So when I saw this film again in Cinemax recently, I was thrilled! This probably Is the best film Renny Harlin has ever done so far. But then again, maybe the credit should be given to Shane Black who wrote the screenplay. The dialogues are fantastic! The chemistry between Charlie (Geena Davis) and Mitch (Samuel L. Jackson) is great! Here are some of my favorite linesCharlie I'm leaving the country, Mitch. I need a fake passport and I need money, lots of it. Mitch Well why didn't you say so? Hold on a minute while I pull that outta my ass. Charlie They're gonna blow my head off, you know. This is the last time I'll ever be pretty. Charlie Were you always this stupid, or did you take lessons? Mitch Henessey I took lessons. Mitch Henessey ...everyone knows, when you make an assumption, you make an ass out of u and umption. Mitch So, you cold? Charlie Yeah. Freezing. Mitch Turn on the heat. It doesn't work, but it makes a very annoying noise - distracts from the cold. See the Memorable Quotes link for more. This film is a great watch, so don't miss it! "},{"Title":"Harlin's masterpiece... possibly a classic","Date":"30 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Reviewing Mindhunters on these boards I stated that Long Kiss Goodnight was the only Renny Harlin's masterpiece, only to emphasize how Mindhunters isn't. Now, after probably the tenth time I've seen this Long-Titled Movie I can stand by that statement with sincerity. Just like Die Hard series this piece of film-making manages to stay fresh and much more pleasurable to watch than many newer action flicks.I can't really pinpoint why is this so but I can take a guess. For, when you start analyzing, you find many things in it that are really out there and not in a good way. The plot is complex and illogical, the dialog is convoluted at times (in order to explain things to audience), even the witty one-liners often seem forced, and generally the movie tries to be too smart for its own good, thus departing from pretty straightforward and laid-back Die Hard scheme it obviously relies upon.Having said that, this is still one of the best rides ever filmed. Kind of like a story of a superhero, but with plausible powers. An ordinary housewife, the proverbial Hockey Mom, discovers she is a vicious assassin, with an important mission at that. A set of events trigger her former forgotten self and she begins a journey to discover who she is, accompanied by questionably tough and faithful detective sidekick. Her transformation and the way her family and the detective witness it never runs old and that's why I'm watching this movie even today. Add a gripping pace and a couple of outlandish but remarkably made action scenes and there it is. A constant reminder how not long ago the movies were made to be thrilling. "},{"Title":"Campy,vampy and violent,the mutt's nuts in every respect.","Date":"6 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I saw this brilliantly entertaining movie in a multiplex back in 1996 and it appears regularly on UK TV channels so you have absolutely no excuse for not watching out for it in the listing mags.Even on a super - size HD Plasma surround sound model you cannot remotely approach the impact of the theatre showing,but those who were unable to catch it first time round will get at least an idea of what I am raving about. The Long Kiss Goodnight is a supercharged Jekyll and Hyde story with Miss G.Davis absolutely outstanding as the whitebread schoolteacher with a very funky alter ego. Former Jekylls range from the outstanding (Lon Chaney) to the mediocre (James Nesbitt) but none can match Miss Davis for her reliance on subtle facial changes to suggest her possession by the second of her dual personalities and the sheer physical and mental agility she gradually acquires that surprises even herself. She hires threadbare ex - cop/jailbird Mr S.L.Jackson to delve into her background and he opens a Pandora's Box.Her past is filled with double and triple crosses,assassinations and rogue CIA agents.As the dauntless pair proceed to confront her demons they are opposed by a series of remorseless and seemingly indestructible foes. These are the bare bones of a consistently exciting and entertaining movie that affronted the critics on its release presumably for daring to show Miss Davis as a sexually confident woman ready and able to commit murder and mayhem - previously strictly a male province. The Long Kiss Goodnight is a high energy movie replete with car crashes and a huge body count;it is not for one moment to be taken seriously,nor was it meant to be.It is,however,one of the great action movies of the 1990s,and I await its every reappearance with eager anticipation. "},{"Title":"Female revenge? Great dialog? Gritty stunts? YES PLEASE!","Date":"19 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is one of my all-time favourite action movies, simply because it doesn't follow your usual tough-guy-beats-bad-guys-and-gets-the-girl storyline. Geena Davis looks like an action-hero pro; as if she's never done anything else before. Excellent. Samuel L. Jackson delivers funny scenes, as well as moral support as a truly congenial guy. The villain Craig Birko is charming, handsome and evil - the perfect modern bad guy. And little Yvonne Zima proves that there were already good child-actors at a time when the omnipresent and almighty Dakota Fanning was still soiling her nappies. Whilst 1996 was still lacking all the CG (computer generated) special effects that we are so spoilt with today, The Long Kiss Goodnight nonetheless delivers non-stop entertainment, excitement and a few laughs along the way. Watch it! "},{"Title":"Cool!","Date":"1 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Geena Davis and Samuel L. Jackson make the perfect team in this action-packed thriller. Davis plays a woman who was once an assassin, who lost her memory earlier. When things start to come back to her, it's trouble all over again! Jackson plays Mitch Henessey, a detective who helps the woman remember everything she does. I liked the part where Davis' character goes into a transition from brunette to blonde, and Henessey recovers from his attack. I remembered the part where Charlie says to Mitch to Take a look at this. The flashing will get any man's attention, and it's permanently effective! That part is very funny. All the gun-shooting is very intense, and for Jackson that big .357 Magnum really put some attitude in the movie as well. Somehow, I don't really care how the critics feel about this one, I thought the movie was excellent. The plot was great, and the action was totally non-stop. I found nothing wrong with it. Rating 4 out of 5 stars! "},{"Title":"Prime class popcorn action","Date":"7 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Maybe Renny Harlin's best flick so far, this movie is a school book example of how to make a good popcorn action thriller.A school teacher in the form of Harlin's wife at the time, Geena Davis, suffers from amnesia hires a small town private dec (Samuel L Jackson, a standard Harlin choice ever since) to investigate her past. Suddenly unconscious flashbacks start to reveal her violent past and the results her detective friends presents gets more and more curious. Finally the past catches up, when an assassination attempt at her is made at her home. Jackson & Davis continue an action packed adventure filled with things blowing up, guns blasting and knives flying, leading all the way to a secret CIA mission and the kidnapping of Davis' daughter.The film is very well executed and acting is superb. Davis, at the time best known from Thelma & Louise and Fields of Glory, is a top notch choice as slightly the schizophrenic wimpy school teacher/coldblooded assassin. She carries out the role with grace and a lot of balls, and apart from many female action stars, this girl can actually act. Jackson is rarely a bad choice for anything, and even though his performance might not be worthy of an Oscar, he adds a second dimension to the film.The script might be a bit cheesy at times, and uses every cliché in the action dictionary, but carries it out with style. The film keeps you on the edge of your seat at all times, though the middle part is a bit dreary. The ending climax is a masterpiece of action filming. Let's hope Harlin's upcoming collaboration with Jackson is equally nice.- Respect the Humpp! "},{"Title":"Who knew? An entertaining dark comedy.","Date":"29 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Even though it was made in 1996, this movie plays more like a recent release. Geena Davis stars as Samantha Caine, school teacher and mother of a young daughter. But she has a big issue -- she cannot remember her past before 8 years earlier. While she has a relatively happy life, with her daughter and a very nice boyfriend, she still wants to know her past. She even hires detectives here and there to help her figure it out.Enter Samuel L. Jackson as Mitch Henessey, one of those low priced detectives. Also a scam artist, Mitch has spent his time in jail, thanks to a theft of some drugs, later found in his place.There is quite a bit of violence and 'blue' language, but get past that and you have a very funny movie that tries not to take itself too seriously. Davis and Jackson are very good together. My wife used to make fun of me for thinking that line in the old song went I'm not talking about the linen, and we both laughed when Jackson said the very same words while singing along in the car. Davis told him, 'That song isn't about linen!' That kind of goofy humor all through the movie made it enjoyable.Spoilers Follow. Davis' character really was Charlene 'Charly' Baltimore, a highly trained assassin, working for the US government, but who was thought to have been killed 8 years earlier. When she is seen on TV news in a parade as a female Santa, everyone begins to hunt her down, as she slowly begins to realize who she was, and that she must have had some really good martial arts training some time in her past. As this kind of movie would have it, Mitch and 'Charley', against all odds, prevail and kill all the bad guys. "},{"Title":"The best movie that i had ever saw.","Date":"24 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" THE LONG KISS GOODNIGHT is the best movie that i have ever saw GEENA DAVIS is a great actress.she played a good part as the so called school teacher,but she played a great part as a CIA she was awesome and SAMUEL L JACKSON was also great ,together they both made that movie.I like how the movie ended with her back at home with her daughter,It was so sad when she was looking through the scope on the gun just to see her i was crying and when Caitlin was skating and she told her life was pain just get used to it.I like the part when she was tied to that spinning wheel and Douglas kept putting her under the water and when she came up with that gun and shot Douglas in his knees just like she said she would.It was like so real and the part at the end when she told the man die screaming mother f***er.I think every movie she plays in is great.She is a very beautiful woman and i know her birthday just past and i must say she looks great for her age.I thought she was like 34 or so.Geena if you do get a chance to read this i must tell you that you have the looks,great acting skills,money and fame and i must say you deserve every bit of what you work for. congratulations on your golden globe award!!!your the best at what you do.your fan Tina "},{"Title":"Great show, very dramatic.","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Geena Davis shows a different side in this movie. Strong, smart and physically active and kicks butt! And then there is Craig Bierko who is very easy to look at. Samuel Jackson is funny and serious as always. 2005 and I'm just now seeing this movie and I really enjoyed it! Cannot believe it didn't do well at the box office. Ironic how this show was made in 1996 and kinda goes along w. the terrorist attacks we are reading about today in the news in 2005. Geena Davis makes a Mom realize just how far she'd go to save a child. This show makes you realize when you think you have nothing left you can find some more to give. "}{"Title":"Fun action roller-coaster","Date":"12 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the most-viewed tapes in our small library. The casting is incredible, the actors play their characters to the hilt (without overplaying them), and the plot is close enough to believable that nothing threatens suspension of disbelief.Samuel Jackson, as usual, excels, giving an outsider's perspective on the movie's interesting world of spies and counterspies.Geena Davis flip-flops between nice-girl Sam and bad-girl Charlie effortlessly as her original personality starts (early on) to reassert itself.The patter comes fast and flawlessly, with a bitter sort of sarcasm that fits the characters well. (Although, I really wanted to hear Geena Davis say chefs do that a couple more times, it's such a wonderful tagline.)I'm not one for blockbuster action movies, but this one drew me in from the first line and held me fast until the end. In traditional blockbuster style, sometimes the laws of physics turn a blind eye to events in the movie.On the other hand, unlike in many action movies, it's quite clear that the standard blockbuster fare (getting shot, stabbed, blown up, and so on) HURTS these characters. From a realism standpoint, keep track of Samuel Jackson's character, and the punishment he's put through you'll find that it shows on him quite realistically by the climax.I find myself repeating choice lines of dialogue (usually Jackson's), thrilling to scenes I've seen dozens of times before as though the climax was in doubt. This movie does for me what movies should do it takes you into its world and keeps you there until it's over.  "},{"Title":"Far ahead of its time...","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can recall back in the mid-'90's, when Geena and Renny-bashing became fashionable with CUTTHROAT ISLAND, and the timorous release of LKG by New Line Cinema, who treated this like a four-month-old used cloth diaper that missed the pail. You would think that it was Geena's and Renny's loss, but actually it was New Line's idiotic bungle.Looking at Halle Berry (Jinx in DIE ANOTHER DAY and Storm in X-MEN), Angelina Jolie as Lara Croft and Jennifer Garner (Electra in DAREDEVIL), amongst others, you can trace this new trend of hot-looking, fearless female super-action heroes right back to Geena's Charlie Baltimore, who kicked major ass as a lead action heroine over five years before it even became fashionable.Jamie Lee Curtis may have been one of the first to fight back in HALLOWEEN, but it was Charlie (aka Samantha Caine), who dared to bleed, cuss, shoot, run, and take and give punches with every bit as much ballsiness and gusto as Mr. Yippee-Ki-Ay himself, John McClane, on any good day. Small wonder that Bruce's co-star in DIE HARD's third installment, Samuel L. Jackson, is here with her, giving one of the snazziest performances in his career. (Too bad the same can't be said of his more recent ones.)LETHAL WEAPON series scribe Shane Black transports the audience with a plot that is pure, manic, comic-book heaven Deliciously deadly black box operative Charlie Baltimore is shot during a botched mission, and presumed dead. But she wakes up with no memory of her identity or her past, save the persona that was to be her temporary cover homemaker, teacher and PTA member Samantha Caine.Samantha has adjusted well to her new life, with a handsome fiancee, and a daughter she was pregnant with when she woke up, to what she felt was her new life. But not for long. Charlie is far from dead, especially for the people in her past who won't appreciate knowing that she's still breathing. And as they come back for a little payback, she finds that her only hope is a hard-bitten private dick named Mitch (Sam Jackson), who is about to discover that he's not just in over his head on this one, but he's as deep in ca-ca as anyone in an action-thriller can get...unfortunately for him.Renny Harlin staged some of the best action sequences in his career, and Geena was game for every single one of them, which were even more physically demanding than the ones in CUTTHROAT ISLAND. Not to mention that besides the great chemistry she shares with Jackson, they are backed by a great cast, (all of whom have distinguished themselves since LKG's initial release), including Patrick Malahide, Brian Cox (SUPER TROOPERS and L.I.E.), David Morse (PROOF OF LIFE and THE SLAUGHTER RULE), and in a stunning, breakout performance cast completely against type, THE THIRTEENTH FLOOR's Craig Bierko (who also did THE MUSIC MAN on Broadway), as one of the best-looking yet nastiest villains ever commended to celluloid.Ironic that in this new trend of bitchin' babes with lethal moves, the lineage can be traced right back to a heroine in a movie that New Line would most likely want you to forget...as completely as Charlie forgot herself.If the studio suits had any sense, they would re-release this as a special version on DVD with all the bells and whistles, and give the world another look at Charlie B.-- a pioneer years before her time.If you're an action buff ready for something absolutely different and surprising, get this movie NOW. "},{"Title":"Starring Geena Davis and Samuel L. Jackson","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  spoilers Samantha Cain (Geena Davis), later know as Samantha Davis, suffers from Focal Retrograde Amnesia.  One morning, Samantha woke up only to find that she could not remember her past.  She was three months pregnant and didn't know by whom.  She couldn't remember her name and didn't know where she lived.  The cause of her loss of memory was from a direct blow to the head, knocking her out and rendering her unconscious.    After Samantha woke up, she came to the conclusion that she couldn't remember her past. No matter how hard she tried, there was no use.  She quit hiring expensive detectives and started her new life and forgot about her old life.She become a school teacher, married and began her life over.  Later in the movie, Samantha is involved in a fatal car accident killing one persona and ejecting her from the vehicle.  She crashed through the windshield, flies through some trees and eventually landed in a snowy embankment.  When she awoke, she showed a drastic change in personality and began to have flashbacks of her past life. After uncovering her past with the help of detective Michael Henasea (Samuel L. Jackson), she ties up the loose ends of her old life and begins her new life over again, kissing her past life goodnight.This movie takes place in a Christmas setting.  A time when many are with their families, Samantha is off fighting to find answers to unanswered questions, while simultaneously endangering herself, her husband and her child as her past life as a lethal CIA assassin comes back to haunt her. The director Renny Harlin, incorporates dry humor, irony and explosives to keep the film interesting.  Bone chilling stunts add suspense and interest to this action packed mind provoking thriller. This movie shows the thought processes behind Focal Retrograde Amnesia and how it affects the person as a whole and the people involved.  I recommend this movie to anyone who wonders how the brain works, who has a thrill for action and who likes a movie with a surprise ending.  "},{"Title":"Oh yeah!","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  From beginning to end, this non-stop suspense/action/comedy delivers. The one liners were great, the action was unsurpassed, and the acting was wonderful. This movie was a damn blast! I laughed, I was confused, I laughed some more, and then I became a Geena Davis fan. Please see this flick. It will not disappoint you! Ignore all negative user comments! See this. NOW. )  "},{"Title":"One of the best action movies ever made.","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The film is great. The kind of action movie I love -- the characters in the movie have personality and not some kind of lifeless chariographed-to- the-shoelace models (like Matrix 2... let me digress for a second just to say what a horrible crap it was. I liked the 1st one though).But getting back to Long Kiss Goodnight, I gave this film a 10/10 because it's got the feeling of completeness and it doesn't lack anything or has anything extra that I could say should have been improved.I think this is Geena Davis' and Samuel L. Jackson's best roles. "},{"Title":"Solid Action Movie","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Small spoilers (lines and scenes from the movie mentioned) within.  With such a tame beginning, one might expect a humorous movie, maybe a little romantic, with some non-violent action thrown in for kicks.  This movie is anything but that.  It's pretty violent with impressive action sequences.  You have to suspend disbelief, sure, but it's well worth it.  With humorous dialogue (No, it's not a fantasy! I'm in the goddam PTA!) at the appropriate lulls and an atypical but effectively sadistic villain, the film is reasonably respectable.  Jackson adds to the film's character as the cheap detective (I never did anything right my whole life.  Not one damn thing.  That takes skill!).  The score and sound effects, which blend together in a Herrmann-esque fashion, enhance the action and suspense.  While it's always clear who's going to win, this is not one of those movies where the heroes are bulletproof--Davis and Jackson are both hurting by the end of the film.  You gotta love when Davis zips up a line of Christmas lights using a flaming body as a weight.  While the film over-emphasizes her looks (or lack thereof), it's not too in your face about it.  Some inane lines are not annoying but just remind you that you're watching an unabashed action flick.  Not stimulating or intelligent at all, but achieves its modest goals of excitement and action.  7/10 "},{"Title":"There ain't nothing finer then a chick with guns.","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie opening weekend. It was my first date. With out any prior knowledge to what the movie was about I thought that it would be some type of romantic comedy staring Meg Ryan and Tom Hanks. Boy was I wrong. To my relief it was one of the best action movies of 1996. Sure, it has its faults. I won't give any spoilers. Let me just say ith T2 being almost 4 years old when this was released I think it was good timing for a leading Female action role. Both Davis and Jackson pulled their role off very well.  8/10 "},{"Title":"a bad mix of elements","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie has great action.  Sure the special effects are not always 100% believable but that's OK because there's so much action you're definitely getting your money's worth.  Despite comments I had read about Geena Davis not being a good fit I thought she pulled it off well. To me it was the screenplay that was bad.  What bothered me most about the movie was the inappropriate mixture of guns, violence, truly sadistic villains, torture and bloodshed with a silly, slapstick humor and, even worse, an eight year old child who is in the middle of all the violence and gets to hear and see the villains up close and personal. This left a bad taste in my mouth, like mixing a fiery salsa with a chocolate "},{"Title":"Die screaming...","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Saw this film on TV just now for the first time in ages and realised what makes it so good...SAMUEL L. JACKSON'S WARDROBE.Throughout the film, Sam sports a frizzy lime-green bunnet, a dark green blazer, a checked green suit, and a yellow-green polo-neck sweater.  No Oscar for costume design?The scene where Geena Davis pushes him out of the car after realising she doesn't need him any longer is great - he simply lies in the middle of the road with a world-weary expression and lights up, oblivious to the cars speeding by or the undeniable pain in his back.  Fantastic.Great action, explosions and shoot-outs, just what you'd expect from the man Renny, and a hilarious script by Shane Black.  RECOMMENDED! "},{"Title":"La Femme Nikita Lite, Sorta...","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ahh, Geena...I'm probably one of the few who liked Geena more with dark hair over blonde.  My first thought when seeing the poster and the previews was Man, she looks kinda creepy with that blonde hair.  Turns out there's a good reason.Anyway, this was a fun action movie.  Lots of gunplay, a fairly straightforward plot, a little bit of MacGuyver improvisation, and the team of Geena Davis (one of my own personal Dream Women, so excuse me if I'm a little biased) and Samuel L. Jackson.  One of the things that also struck me about this movie is that Davis and Jackson have some of the better lines I've heard in an action movie - very witty.If you're looking for a cerebral, touching, or meaningful film, keep looking.  On the other hand, if you're looking for some Government Conspiracy Lite, people shooting at each other, and stuff blowing up, you could do a lot worse than The Long Kiss Goodnight. "}{"Title":"The Great Unguarded Border of Canada!","Date":"1 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Overall good flick, Davis is great as the touch assassin (and the blond look was VERY Nice) Jackson as always has some of the best lines in the movie. Great action scenes, the dialogue wasnt too contrived which is amazing for an action flick, and the pacing was pretty good as well. Only a few slight problems...The Great unguarded Border of Canada..ok so most of us Hate Niagara Falls but we still guard it (to humor the Americans) with more then Christmas lights and empty pay tolls.The touching scene with the kid in the meat locker and at the Canadian border.. Too much but the thought was there.Innocent people getting killed in train stations and other public places.. Um a more subtle approach to public assassination would have been a nice touch.Um where were the local cops during this movie?Other then that Overall good flick  "},{"Title":"Great Action","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you don't like action films, you'll hate this one. But if you do like them, this is really a must-see. We decided afterwards that the film is actually close to the Terminator 2 niveau.Samuel L. Jackson plays the obligatory shabby private detective and macho. It is one of the funniest characters I've ever seen in this genre.The film itself is stuffed with action and stunt scenes so it never gets boring.The only drawback are some explosions where the fire spreads so slow that everyone can drive/run away from it. Well, nobody is perfect... "},{"Title":"Could be a whole lot better","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  In the beginning I really really like this movie. The whole idea of a woman being born eight years ago and her thoughts about who she was is very interesting. Good is also the things happening in the behind, convicts escaping, secret phone calls being made when Charly suddenly appears in a Christmas parade, everything is really set for a great movie.However... the stupid one-liners like Chefs do that! and all the exaggerations and impossibilities that the movie contain (not to mention the extremely stupid comment in the end of the movie Don't hit the cars!) really makes the overall rating drop.I usually like Renny Harlins movies, but this one wasn't half as great as it could be, unfortunately.  "},{"Title":"Action, action and action","Date":"23 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well, if you're looking for THE action movie, that's the one. Great stunts, great explosions, great killings and it's all fun! "},{"Title":"History will be much kinder to this film...","Date":"26 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Incredible elements. A Renny Harlin film, which essentially means that, after the film is in the can, either the director or the audience will be a candidate for a rubber room, one or the other. Geena Davis in what (unfortunately) seems to have been her attempt to get back in the game by betting it all on a wacky High Concept script with a wacky director (Sharon Stone did the same with her she-man Italian western, also in my IMDb reviews). And Samuel L. Jackson doing what he did best by this stage in his career -- essentially playing himself. (Cinephiles in the future may argue to whether his character was even needed in the story, but no matter). The film is uneven. But to steal a line from early in the last century, even when it is bad, it is very very good. Davis, a trooper if ever there was one, put everything she has into this project and it shows. There are bits here which rank with the very best of the iconic films of old -- such as the set piece in the kitchen where amnesiac Davis does things with a knife not even Ronco ever imagined, and then concludes with the unforgettable line, Chefs do that! And the scene where a former student of Davis' accidentally bumps into her when she is in her alternate persona, and reprimands her for smoking .. well, the word brilliant does not come close. Highly recommended, warts and all, more fun than a barrel of hammers. "},{"Title":"Geena is fantastic!","Date":"3 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Geena Davis, Samuel Jackson and Craig Bierko star in The Long Kiss Goodnight, a 1996 film that had a woman in the Arnold Schwarzenegger role for a change. Maybe that's why some people didn't like it, but I loved it. I thought it rocked, and I thought Davis did a terrific job as Samantha, an amnesia victim living with her husband and child and working as a school teacher. After a horrible accident, elements of her old self start to emerge - a facility with knives, strange behavior - and then people start trying to kill her after she appears on television in a holiday parade. A detective who's been trying to dig up info about her (Jackson) has found out some information - and Samantha has to leave her family and go on the road with Jackson in search of her true self. Gradually, all of the danger that she's in forces her old self to completely emerge - Charley Baltimore, government assassin.This film will keep you glued to the TV. It packs in a lot of action, a lot of excitement, and a lot of suspense. It also has some wonderful performances. Craig Bierko plays the most evil man who ever lived, I swear - and this guy was the Music Man on Broadway. Samuel L. Jackson is excellent as the detective who had no idea what he was getting into. And Davis is incredible - a sweet mom one day, with flowing locks and a radiant smile - to a cold-blooded, foul mouthed killer the next, with short blond hair and artillery. As someone mentioned here, the script treats this not as amnesia but as a real split personality. Davis and Jackson are dynamic together, playing off one another beautifully. I mustn't forget the great comedy embedded in this film and the witty dialogue. The sound track is great.The plot is also fascinating, given that this was made in 1996. The premise is that a government agency, in order to get more funding, is going to launch a terrorist attack, killing 4,000 people and blame it on the Muslims. References are made to the World Trade Center bombing in 1993. Doubt this film would be made today. Apparently this bombed at the box office. They say most films are made for 15-year-old boys in Thailand. Maybe they don't like seeing a woman in charge. For people who complain it's not a plausible script, right, and I suppose all of Arnold Schwarzenegger's were. Don't miss it. Geena makes The Terminator look like a wimp. "},{"Title":"The Bourne Crew's Favorite Movie??","Date":"2 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" SPOILERS -- I just saw this movie on cable, and I was stunned how much the seemingly unique and signature hand-to-hand combat action sequences of the Bourne Supremacy series films (which post-date this one) are similar to the action in this terrific film. Check out the first such scene where Gena defeats at home, against overwhelming odds, an anonymous attacker who's armed with a powerful weapon. Gena gets realistically knocked around, just like Jason, is very unexpectedly creative at critical moments (throwing her kid through a hole in the wall to save her) just like Jason, uses and throws household items (including a refrigerator door, kitchen supplies and a pie) against the attacker to fend him off just like Jason, and ultimately displays incredible personal combat and killing skills that come out of nowhere related to her amnesia, just like Jason. I'm sort of bummed, because until I saw this great action movie, the Bourne films struck me as being really different and creative in this respect. Guess not. OK, no one does car chases like the Bourne crew, but this film was an eye-opener at what a trend-setter Harlin was. Or maybe not. I'm sure somebody out there will be more than happy to tell me who Harlin allegedly copied for his personal combat sequences . . . "},{"Title":"Absolutely terrible - I love it","Date":"8 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is absolutely terrible and I can't refrain from watching it when it's on because it's so bad. It has to be one of the most over the top movies I have ever seen. The explosions are ridiculously huge, the situations are totally unbelievable to the point of being stupid and don't even get me started on the acting. At one point I almost expect Geena Davis to come out with the line Christina! Bring me the axe! You'll know it when you see it. I get that suspension of disbelief is a major part of watching action movies but some ask you to do it a lot more than others. The action in The Bourne Identity or a film like Ronin, while exaggerated, is for the most part possible in real life, just not very likely. The action in this film however is almost cartoonish. But that's what makes it so great.If you like a clichéd, over the top action movie with equally over the top acting from the lead you'll probably like this. I had to give it 7 stars for pure entertainment value. "},{"Title":"Some of The Best Stunts Ever!","Date":"7 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Long Kiss Goodnight has gotten a bad rap since it was first released. Mostly because of the Geena Davis/Renny Harlin marriage/collaboration that created this and the much-maligned Cutthroat Island, which was released the previous year. That was too bad, because The Long Kiss Goodnight is by far the best of the 2, and an incredible film.Davis plays Samantha Caine, a sweet school teacher who lives in a town in New England with her boyfriend (Tom Amandes) and daughter (Yvonne Zima). The only wrinkle in her perfect life is the fact that she has no inkling of her past life. She was found unconscious and pregnant 8 years before. Samantha's life at this point is as bland as low-fat cookies, until a car accident triggers memories and skills. Soon, someone shows up at her door, attempting to kill her. What could possibly be the reason for this? Seems that sweet-as-sugar Samantha is really deadly-as-cyanide Charley Baltimore, government assassin. With the help of Mitch (The excellent as always Samuel L. Jackson), Charlie begins to discover why particular persons want her dead, especially the mysterious Timothy (Craig Bierko).The film has some fantastic scenes. 4 of my favorites 1) The shootout at the station. When Samantha and Mitch take a dive out a window, and she shoots through the ice so they can land in the water instead of splattering on the ice. Great! 2) When Samantha regains her memory. Samantha is tied to a waterwheel, stripped to her slip, and being dunked into freezing cold water. You see her change each time she is dunked, from helpless Samantha to killer Charly.3) The Rebirth of Charly With the cool song She's Not There being used to good effect, Charly is going through a makeover, changing her hair, putting on the makeup, and putting the moves on a confused and bruised Mitch. And the thing she does with the shot glass? Cool! 4) The bomb at the border. The sheer magnitude of the explosion boggles the mind as you watch Mitch, Charly and her daughter trying to outrace it.This is one of Harlin's best films and it's gotten a bad rap. This film is worth looking at. If you ever decide to have a Harlin film fest (And somewhere, someone may.), then this should be on it. "},{"Title":"quick reviews!","Date":"26 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Another underrated action flick, this is one of the best of its type of the decade, and features some of Samuel's best lines. Geena's character suffers from amnesia, but her memory begins to return after her kind suburban home is attacked by gunmen, who want her dead. Helped, to a certain degree by Samuel's taxi driving, quick witted character, she goes in search of her past, and realises she must stop the bad guys etc. The plot is not original, but the dialogue and action more than makes up for that, and Davis proves she is a strong, varied, talented actress becoming cold blooded secret agent halfway through the movie, much to the surprise of Jackson. Her character is one of the strongest female action figures, not quite up there with Sarah Conner, or Ripley, but much more effective than Lara Croft, Charlie's Angels, or any other recent shams. She will protect her family at all costs, not letting any man stop her from living the life she has chosen, and although that sounds weak, my words do not do her justice. It's not entirely serious, but it is in my opinion better than all of Harlin's previous efforts, including Die Hard 2.  8 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Geena Davis Shines in Underrated Action Film","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Saw a comment that began senseless and useless and couldn't disagree more.  This is a highly entertaining action - adventure.  Honestly the time seems to fly by when I'm watching this one ... not really a dull moment.Geena Davis gives a very credible performance as both Samantha Caine and Charly Baltimore.  The viewer is never in doubt that she _is_ both of these women.  Great integration of the two personalities by Ms. Davis.Samuel L. Jackson as her sidekick Mitch is wonderful.  A great showing for him and good chemistry between these two actors make the film even better.   Jackson's portrayal of Mitch is just right, throughout the film.Craig Bierko as the enemy turned friend turned enemy gives what is probably one of his best performances.  Great screen presence and good chemistry with Geena Davis.   I would recommend this film any time of year, but if you're looking for a different type of  Christmas film, this one's for you.  "},{"Title":"Nice action flick","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The combination of humor and action is excellent!The movie begins great and it's too bad that later on it becomes a macho style action movie with very unbelievable stunts and unlikely situations. Maybe with a different director it would have been a better movie and maybe then I would rank it higher on my favorite action movie list.Nevertheless the movie is still entertaining and worth watching which is mainly because of Samuel L. Jackson's character, his one-liners are pure gold! Also Brian Cox's character is more then excellent and both provide the funny and the best moments of the movie. Geena Davis however is not the most talented actress I've ever seen but she pulls off the action sequences quite well.The movie also lacks some good villains and their motives are a bit unlikely even for an action movie.Nevertheless still better then the average action movie and the movie ends with one of the most spectacular explosions I've ever seen. Yep, Renny Harlin sure knows how to use and make explosions (also see Cutthroat Island and Die Hard 2 to know what I'm talking about)Nice action flick!7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Renny Harlin and Shane Black make and enjoyable action flick","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Certainly a vast improvement over the legendary debacle of Cutthroat Island , the previous collaboration of the then husband-and-wife team of director Renny Harlin and star Geena Davis, this overblown action thriller starts out very strong but fails to pay off in a satisfying conclusion. Acting really isn't the hallmark of the action genre, so suffice it to say that the cast is what is required of a fast-paced pulp tale littered with corpses and explosions They grunt, grimace, and grit their teeth with appropriate determination when firing a weapon or jumping from great heights. It's the script by Shane Black that makes or breaks a film such as this, so it's a pleasant surprise that The Long Kiss Goodnight  starts off with an inventive high-concept twist, developing a character nicely. Sadly, it then morphs somewhere in the second act into a routine series of percussive beats and a predictable government espionage/conspiracy/paranoia tale. If their project had delved into the issues of identity as thoughtfully as those action epics based on the works of novelist Philip K. Dick, the filmmakers might truly have had something not only viscerally exciting but intellectually fresh and stimulating on their hands. My final thoughts on the movie are The Long Kiss Goodnight was one of the better action films released in 96. Shane Black who been away from the buddy genre came back hard with this action film that features the sexy Genna Davis as an ex-spy. Samuel L.Jackson provides great comic releif though I didn't like the way he was beat up in the movie. If you want action and comedy with a female hero this is the movie for you.  "},{"Title":"My all-time fave action/thriller flick","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Yes, it's over-the-top. Yes, it's an orgy of sound, bullets, blood, and exploding buildings. Yes, it's got more muscles than sense. But heck, that's why I love it.The Long Kiss Goodnight is a tempest of action, wit, identity crises, maternal love, murderous hate, undying friendship, and let us not forget Samuel L.Jackson's fantastic outfits. Jackson plays Mitch Hennesey, a private eye, who in his own words, has never done a thing right in his life. He's trying to reconnect with his estranged family while busting small-fry criminals in a thankless job. That is until Samantha Caine comes crashing into his life.You see, Samantha is a girl with a problem -- and her name is Charley. Charley's who Samantha *used* to be, eight years ago; a vengeful, tough-as-nails professional killer who's been buried deep in Samantha's amnesiac psyche until now. Sam has built a life for herself away from Charley and all that she stands for. She has a beautiful home, a loyal if bland fiance, and an adorable daughter. But a freak accident awakens Charley, and Sam grapples with losing who is she to who she used to be.Worse yet, she *needs* Charley's skills. You see, Charley's old employers are hot on her heels, and they're intent on disposing of this embarrassing relict of the Cold War once and for all. The delicious Craig Bierko plays Timothy, the male version of the femme fatale that's such a staple of action movies. Nasty as he is handsome, as cold-blooded as Charley, Timothy is also damn near unkillable. Don't miss his interrogation scene with Mitch, easily one of the highlights of the picture!Whoever said Geena Davis wasn't sexy enough to play Charley doesn't have eyes. I'm a straight female, and even I couldn't take my eyes off her. Charley's all business, bad as I want to be! persona is not pleased with the baggage Samantha's tied her down with, especially not an eight-year-old named Caitlin. The young Yvonna Zima as Caitlin is that rarity in action films -- a child who actually contributes to the plot! While her lisp got on my nerves, she did look the part -- which becomes important when she meets up with Daddy Dearest about half-way through the movie.This is one of the few moves a female character gets to do more than stand around and scream helplessly. Charley breaks necks, breaks bones, and breaks hearts in a role perhaps too threatening for some viewers. With her impressively buff physique, Charley makes you believe you wouldn't want to meet up with her in a dark alley. Her alter-ego Sam is just as engrossing, and a lot more sympathetic. Sam and Mitch's dialogue is another highlight, and never seems forced or unnatural. And how can you not love a movie with dialogue like this?Caitlin Mommy, are we gonna die?Charley No, honey. We're not going to die. They are.OrAgent Charley's taken the truck and is headed out of town. I'm hurt pretty badly sir, I think I'm dying. Out.Timothy Continue dying. Out.I'm not going to give away Mitch's lines; you'll have to see them in the movie. By the way, what are you waiting for? Go rent/beg/borrow/steal The Long Kiss Goodnight! "},{"Title":"Forget La Femme Nikita!","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Not since Thelma and Louise since Geena Davis has gone to theextreme! Davis stars as Samantha, or Charly as the CIA knowsher. Samantha is an amnesiatic housewife who, after a brutalattack on her and her family by a deranged killer, realizes thatshe was once a cold-blooded assassin as well! So, Samantha hiresa wisecracking, blues-singing p.i. by the name of Mitch (playedby the always-awesome Samuel L. Jackson) to help her recover herpast memory. On the way they run into trigger happy terrorists.The Long Kiss Goodnight is one of those bloody exploitationflicks that has a pretty good storyline going. Sure, it mightsound absurd, but the plot works. Plus, Davis and Jackson are agem together, along with Craig Bierko as the psycho Timothy. Thepyrotechnics are spectacula "},{"Title":"Y-A-W-N","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A disappointing waste of time, especially considering the talent and money involved.Action master SHANE BLACK (Lethal Weapon, Last Boy Scout) was paid nearly $4 MILLION for writing this screenplay.  The studio then gave $65 million to director RENNY HARLIN (Cliffhanger, Die Hard 2) to use in producing the film.At first the story concept seems promising... an emotional, stylish, sexy, action-packed cross between La Femme Nikita and True Lies, mixing a dark tragic past of espionage assassinations, with a present of domestic suburban family bliss.  When these two opposite lifestyles are thrown against each other by a sinister powerful conspiracy, the heroine is wrenched physically and psychologically through her most challenging adventure ever, and must take out all the bad guys AND deal with her past, if she's ever to be restored to her family.Hmmm.  Sounds decent.Where did this movie go so terribly wrong?(If you doubt that it went wrong, consider that this movie was a failure at the box-office, barely reaching $30 million, meaning that the studio lost a fortune, and never approached the $100+ success they had hoped for.  This also means that audiences didn't care enough to bother watching Long Kiss Goodnight, and those few who did, didn't care enough to get their friends to go.)Right off the top, the SCRIPT is simply not worth $4 million.  The characters are bland cardboard-thin cartoons.  The violence is run-of-the-mill and often implausible.  The villains' plot is dull and uninspiring.  Yet look at what James Cameron did with his True Lies screenplay 2 years prior... another tale of a secret agent whose unaware suburban family gets torn up in the villains' violent conspiracy... yet True Lies was far more imaginative, clever, stylish and amusing.  Why couldn't Shane Black write up to that level, especially for a $4 million paycheck?The Long Kiss Goodnight is not original... If you gaze back at Shane Black's earlier screenplays, you can easily recognize that Long Kiss Goodnight lazily rehashes plot, scenes, and characters from his other movies.  The heroes in all three scripts are a pair of wisecracking black-and-white mismatched buddies whose troubles with their families are worsened by thugs and corrupt government officials.  In all three, the exhausted sarcastic hero barely survives an assassination attempt in a city's late-night neon-lit alley, and is later tortured in a watery environment, only to surprise and kill the torturer.  Then while the hero heads out into the wilderness to track down the villains to rescue the hero's captive daughter, the male sidekick watches from afar with a sniper rifle to protect the hero, only to be captured by an offscreen villain who sticks a gun to his head, thus eliminating the protection and enabling the hero to be captured with daughter.  Trapped with the daughter, the hero figures a way out using the daughter's toy as a device of violence.  They blow the crap out of the bad guys.Shane Black's writing seems to go through this formula over and over and over.Don't get me wrong.  I've been a Shane Black fan since the beginning.  He was a great writer when he started, fast and furious, clever and cruel. But after seeing several of his movies, I've gotten used to his cliches and would appreciate him trying something new, rather than just regurgitating the same-old same-old.Watching Long Kiss Goodnight was boring because there was nothing new we hadn't already seen before in dozens of good movies, bad movies, and run-of-the-mill TV episodes.  The movies it copies, were all better movies. La Femme Nikita was much more sincerely emotional in its exploration of a lady assassin wrestling her destiny between villains and romance, so that its sentimental portrayal of the heroine's dilemma was genuinely tragic and heartbreaking.  I felt no genuine emotion towards the heroine here.CHEAP, LAZY lack of visual style...And while Lethal Weapon and Last Boy Scout were both very stylish in their slick visuals, Long Kiss Goodnight looks very bland and generic, with cheap-fake FX and dull camerawork.  Renny Harlin used to be stylish, but here he's very lazy.  The visuals in this movie are never as glamorous and colorful as Cliffhanger, Die Hard 2, or even his previous Geena Davis action-heroine stinker Cutthroat Island.  I don't know where Renny spent the $65 million budget, but it was not on camera gear or lighting or special FX, all of which look bargain-basement in this movie.And the casting bites.  Wow, here's a major area of screwing up.  I can't believe that when Shane was writing the screenplay, he was visualizing GEENA DAVIS in this role.  She's nice and talented when she wants to be, but never nearly as drop-dead mouthwateringly sexy as the other characters' treatment of her seems to indicate.  Based on the way she's presented, the role needed to be cast with a superstar actress who's much more glamorous and gorgeous, almost to the point of being a supermodel.  Granted, a prettier actress like Kelly Preston or Catherine Zeta Jones might not have been famous enough at the time to be cast as the main star here, and Julia Roberts would never condescend to be in a piece of action rubbish, but Geena Davis was still a poor choice for this movie because her flicks had all been flopping recently (Speechless, Angie, Cutthroat Island) which would seem to indicate that as a main star, she was never going to lure the large crowds to the multiplex no matter how much the studio hoped she would.Her on-screen husband is also a dull casting choice here, an actor who's a nice guy and pleasant, but also unknown and not particularly interesting. So when the heroine is taken from him, their departure is hardly as heart-breaking as the lost lovemates in Lethal Weapon, Last Boy Scout, or La Femme Nikita.Samuel Jackson is merely OK as the sidekick Mitch.  He's following in the footsteps of Danny Glover and Damon Wayans, but since we'd recently seen Jackson in Pulp Fiction and Die Hard With a Vengeance, this character seems a little stale, just another knockoff.The villains are also blandly cast.  The villains in Lethal Weapon and Last Boy Scout were distinctive and memorable in their sliminess.  But the villains in Long Kiss Goodnight are watered-down knockoffs of their predecessors.  Mr. Joshua (Gary Busey) and Milo (Taylor Negron) would have eaten these villains for breakfast and still had room for more.All in all, I was VERY disappointed that so much money was wasted for such drivelous results.  I'd rather re-watch any of the movies it copies, rather than sit through this hodgepodge wannabe ever again.  All of its phony-looking digital explosions, rumbling subwoofers, and machine-gun surround sound FX can't mask the fact that this movie is fourth-rate in every category.  Released the same year as The Rock, Long Kiss Goodnight pales in comparison, without any of the same wit, style, creative excitement or character-depth emotion. "},{"Title":"Unbelievable action","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The makers of this movie have one request for the audience Please - leave your brain at home when you go seeing this one. The plot is so disconnected and unrealistic that you simply cannot ignore it. For instance* How did Sam/Charly and Mitch first find the home of Daedalus? Did they just drove by or what? * Is it possible that a big time crime boss is completely unguarded and is standing chopping wood at his house?This is just covering 5 minutes of this movie and I could go on and on taking the plot apart, but I will spare you.I know that this is an action flick but they could at least *try* to make the plot believable and connected. It seems to me that the main objective was to make the explosions and special effects look very impressive and after that they thought Hhhmm - what should be the story between explosion 1 and explosion 2?? Anybody?? OK - we move directly from explosion 1 to explosion 2 with no story in between.And because it is an action flick I will not switch my brain totally off - there has been made action movies that actually is very well connected and somewhat realistic. This one is not. Rating 4 of 10. "},{"Title":"Interesting twist on the amnesiac spy genre","Date":"15 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Comparisons with Ludlums the Bourne identity are inevitable, but this is far better than that movie. Dialogue between the two leads sparkles, and the action shots just keep on coming.Go see it! "},{"Title":"A mind is a terrible thing to lose...","Date":"25 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If one were to go along with Hollywood and the TV industry, there are more amnesiac people than what we thought were possible. This is a ploy that writers use a lot to present a story that could not be logically explained otherwise.I didn't see this film when it was originally released but caught it on cable. Renny Harlin, its director, is a product of Hollywood whose work includes more interesting tales than this one. The film is not helped by Shane Black unintelligible film treatment. Yes, we all understand that it's an action flick, but please, give us more credit to realize that most of what it's presented on the screen bears no resemblance with anything actual, or dreamt.The best thing in the film Samuel L. Jackson. He is an actor that always delivers. As far as Geena Davis, I kept thinking about the Uma Thurman character in the Kill Bill saga. Obviously, this film came out before, so maybe it was an inspiration for Quentin Tarantino, who knows? It's incredible that what Charlie/Samantha and Mitch went through, at the end of the movie they're in one piece and laughing all the way to the bank. No doubt they must have earned a bundle for appearing in this film as well as to what happens to them in it. Hooray for Hollywood!With the exception of Craig Bierko, the rest of the actors are totally wasted. Brian Cox and David Morse don't have anything to do.  "},{"Title":"Pacing is all wrong","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  After the fourth or fifth climax, I wondered when the movie would end.  It seems odd to blame a movie for having too much action, but this one is it!  Too much action might not be a bad thing if more time was devoted the the setup, though.  The film clocks in at 2 hours, and I figure they could snip twenty minutes off of the melodramatic ending, give ten to the first act, and have a decent 110 minute movie.It is never quite clear why Samuel L Jackson's character contacts Samantha Kane (Geena Davis)- first he's pretending to be a policeman, than he is a PI, apparently.  Nor is it clear why Samantha accepts his aid.  A scene was obviously left on the editing room floor where the PI introduces himself and offers his aid.The girl that plays Samantha Kane's daughter is one of the worst child actors I have ever seen.  She helped ruin the movie for me.  Geena Davis wasn't so great, either.  I wasn't totally convinced by her low, threatening tones when she turned into 'Charlie Baltimore.'  It was almost that she was trying too hard to be bad.This movie isn't an entire waste.  Samuel L Jackson is utterly hilarious, and Geena Davis has some good lines, too.  The action towards the end is just too implausible and drawn-out...4/10 "}{"Title":"Lots of problems--but good, mindless fun","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  An amnesiac woman Samantha Caine (Geena Davis) finds, after 8 years that her past is catching up with her.  She was actually a hired assassin for the government!  Detective Mitch Henessey (Samuel L. Jackson) tries to help her discover her past while villains from her past start closing in on her...There's lots things wrong with this movie It's utterly ridiculous; it's VERY loud; chock full of casual violence; has TWO sequences in which people outrun fireballs (it's impossible); has an 8 year old girl (Yvonne Zima) being put in danger and in severe psychological trauma; it's fatally overlong; one subplot involving Jackson, his ex-wife and kid is brought up at the beginning and totally abandoned till the end and has HUGE plot holes.  Still, I DID enjoy myself.The script is silly (with bad dialogue) but the action and stunts are just incredible--and there's PLENTY of them.  Also the script does have some large doses of humor (mostly from Jackson) which shows nobody was taking this TOO seriously.  Also Jackson is very good (considering his character is constantly being beaten up) and Brian Cox turns in a fun, short performance as Nathan Waldman.  Also Craig Bierko is incredibly handsome, muscular and lots of fun as one of the main killers.  When he's on screen the film REALLY gets a punch in the arm.  Davis, however, is LOUSY.  She's not believable for one second.  She DOES deserve credit for being in great shape to do all the stunts she does.  Maybe she was too close to the picture--she was then married to director Renny Harlin and was an uncredited producer.  Maybe that was too much.  Still, it doesn't destroy the movie.So for a violent, stupid, but fun movie you could do worse.  I was never bored and Bierko was just SO gorgeous!  I'm giving it an 8.  "},{"Title":"Supremely cretinous thriller.","Date":"21 January 2007","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The CIA fakes terrorist attacks - and pins them on the poor, innocent Arabs - in which thousands are to die, just in order to get more funding from the government. After all, the president himself plans to re-allocate the CIA budget into health care! (How PC.) Hell, if the president really feels that way, then we'll (CIA) just have to blow up a couple of thousand of Americans, and pin it all on the Arabs... That'll teach him. Wow! This movie has the dumbest premise I have ever come across, and I've seen my share of bird-brained films! The plot is something right out of Libya's government newspapers' headlines. It's as though Ghaddafi himself was responsible for writing this garbage of a story. Trust Hollywood to get the good guys and the bad guys all wrong...While the movie's title bares no relevance to anything at all, my suggestion for a title is far more appropriate The Cat People. It seems that all of the main characters have nine lives here. The extras and the side-characters will all very humbly and obediently snuff it the moment they get shot, run over, or whatever. But our main characters are, for want of a better word, immortal; they can survive fire, extreme cold (without even catching pneumonia), jump out of buildings, survive multiple body injuries, cuts, bruises, and bullet-wounds without any difficulties. Furthermore, they can be thrown out of cars, drowned, blown up, and tortured, and they will emerge not only very much alive, but with a good mood and their humour intact.The unheard-of and never-before seen absurdity of what goes on in this film easily surpasses any one of James Bond's most outrageous escapes and adventures. The one-eyed convict recognizes Davis on TV, and immediately escapes from prison. The writer wants us to believe that this guy can plan out an escape so quickly, and will so spontaneously escape, whereas he wasn't motivated enough before to do so - though, naturally, he could have escaped anytime he wanted to. I mean what's a little jail, a few uniformed guards, a wall, a fence, dogs, flying bullets gonna do to stop him? I mean, come on; ANYONE can escape from jail. Steel, stone, barbed wire, and uniformed men, that's all. This convict then makes the town's Christmas choir sing in front of Davis's house. Why? Why?? Why??? No logic, no reason; the choir is simply there. A little later, CIA guys attempt to kill Davis in a very public and crowded place - a station. Why? Why?? Why??? No logic, no reason for the CIA to be so unsubtle and foolish. I could really go on and on with the details. Part of the idiocy is also the incredible number of amazing coincidences.Now, all these dumb things can be forgiven to an extent because the film often doesn't take itself too seriously, and the humour is there to prove it. On the other hand, in the second half that changes the film starts taking itself seriously, in spite of the fact that the preceding stupidities simply don't allow for that. This should have been light-hearted (though very violent) until the end. Instead, the writer wants us to both enjoy the action AND believe in it. Sorry, no chance.It's a pity that the story is so savagely stupid, and blatantly left-wing and paranoid. The action is good, the humour is solid, the film moves at a brisk pace, and Jackson is very good. This could have been a great movie. Instead, it's just another dumb thriller. "},{"Title":"the not so great Renny Harlin strikes again with another bad movie.","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  i would love to meet the people in hollywood who think that Renny Harlin is a good action director and keeps giving him money to blow on horrible films.this is another example of how out of touch Mr. Harlin is with  directing skills and decent script choices.the plot and action scenes are as ludicrous as they come in this film. it starts out with a fairly promising idea and quickly turns into a complete turkey.i don't know if Geena Davis is still married to Renny Harlin but they were married at the time of this movie and probably the only reason why she appeared in it. samuel jackson looks like he can't figure out why he accepted this project.avoids a 1 ONLY because of a couple of chaotic but well done action sequences near the end, but that's about it.bad, bad, bad................rating2 "},{"Title":"Kissed off","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"13 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Charmless, dim, and entirely unloveable action trash with an unsympathetic protagonist, a style-free script and a pair of non-actor leads . . . but what about its bad points?Mainly, it lacks the sense of the ridiculous that makes many equally silly actioners (eg the Terminators, Die Hards, Lethal Weapons, etc) far more enjoyable. Any humour it possesses comes in the form of crude wisecracks and comedy violence, while it plays its puerile scenario and story-line with dog-faced seriousness. On the side of positive unpleasantness, much of the action appeals to sheer sadism - one sequence combines torture with a wet-lingerie show - and there's something not far from fascism in the way it assumes our unquestioning willingness to root for a government assassin.None of this is helped by Geena Davis's perky, smug punchability or Samuel L Jackson's standard recreation of a groovy-black-perp supporting role from an old episode of Kojak, but better performances by more likeable players would have been a waste of talent and craft. That Long Kiss Goodnight died at the cinemas like a louse in a hobo's beard is the only remotely enjoyable thing about it - it suggests that it's still possible to lose money by insulting the public's intelligence. "},{"Title":"great movie that you can watch over","Date":"1 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" complete nonsense done with great style and excess. better than 'bourne' because it has humour and the story isn't banal. edges 'diehard 3' (forget the rest of that series) because it has two unusual heroes and one of them is a women (yes I know that SJ is in both). good story (although silly at end - Hollywood) with very good script and very good leads. bad guys are bad, the in-betweeners don't last long and the good guys are both good and bad. if only they could make nonsense with such humour and style these days.......... perhaps even once every five years. if only (again) the 'has been' and 'want to be' genre movies could achieve this level of proficiency and entertainment. always a favourite and way beyond the average rating in IMDb. don't believe the nay sayers, particularly the professional media who don't rate it. they clearly do not understand the genre nor are they interested in watching this kind of stuff - they have to! go watch it! "},{"Title":"One whopping great ride","Date":"12 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When I first saw this movie I expected a lot and was quite disappointed with it. I was prepared to leave it behind as a dull movie, but for some reason I ended up watching it again and I enjoyed it. Having watched it a second time I came to realise that this is quite a witty and clever movie, and it seems that Harlin (who directed Die Hard II) as been influenced in a good way. Please also note that this was originally written in 1996, so some of the comments made in this review are relevant to when it was written. I simply cannot be bothered rewriting the whole thing again, and have decided to leave it as is with only a few modifications.The movie is about a lady, Samantha (Geena Davis), who woke up one day on a beach pregnant and suffering from amnesia. She became a school teacher and found a nice man and moved in with him. Eight years later a nasty criminal sees her and breaks out of gaol to get her, and a private detective (Samual L. Jackson) has found some stuff belonging to her. She also suffers concussion after a car accident and finds that she can do stuff that she couldn't do before.After digging in a little deeper she comes to realise that she used to be a government assassin and was in the middle of a job when she was shot in the head and left for dead on a beach. Things have changed in eight years though, and those that were the enemies before are now allies and are in the middle of a project to raise some funds for the organisation. When agencies talk about fund raising they talk about faking terrorist activities to tell the government that they are needed.This brings up an idea of what the cold war was all about. It was a war were intelligence operatives would live a luxurious lifestyle funded by the paranoia of a nation believing that the Red threat, if not contained, would destroy the world. This is one of the ideas behind the origins of the cold war, and this is pursued in this movie. Now that Russia has opened up, and that we know that they were never really a threat, the need for internal security has vanished. The only problems are with terrorists, and even then very few attacks seem to hit the United States. The threats do not seem to come from the outside, but rather from inside the country. The last true terrorist attack at the time of writing was the Oklahoma City bombing, and that was allegedly caused by a right winged American acting alone, though this is debatable (and when you consider the connection with Waco, it does raise the question of whether McVeigh did act alone). The Columbine massacre was not a terrorist attack as such, but it highlights the fact that threats to the social stability of America comes not from religious fanatics, but from those who are being forced by society to conform, and when they do not want to they are harassed until they lash out at the system that forced them into this situation.Obviously, things have changed a lot since this movie was released, with the September 11th terrorist attacks, but once again it goes to show how the ideas behind this movie hold true to form. The belief among many was that September 11th was pretty much what this movie was about, a set up designed to scare the American people, and congress, into providing funding for the intelligence community, and to given them further powers to intrude into people's lives. Personally, I do not think it was a set up per se, but rather a deliberate blinding to an event that could have been prevented. The idea of being asleep at the wheel is also brought up, once again to enable Congress to reinstate funding to support the intelligence community.Back to the movie. It is a great little movie. The action is good, but what gives it its edge are the characters. Samual L. Jackson is the coolest character as he is s small time detective, or more like a con- that gets caught up in something way over his head. He is a liar and a cheat, but finds himself in a problem too deep when he agrees to help Samantha. When I first saw it, I did not like it, but now I do and recommend it to anybody.Favourite Quote that dog and my meal do not go well together. It has been licking it's butt for over three hours. Whatever it is trying to dislodge is either gone for good, of there to stay. "},{"Title":"Must see )","Date":"5 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I was told to watch this movie long ago, but I was dubious about worthy of watching it because I'm not a big fan of action movies. After all, I watched it at last week, and I was caught up from the beginning. The plot is gripping and funny, with its holes, goofs and clichés. With its twists sometimes the film looks like 'Kill Bill', 'The Bourne Identity', though it was composed much earlier.. A schoolteacher from suburban suffers from amnesia. She was found at the seashore eight years ago with shot head and 2-months pregnancy and she couldn't remember how she had got that way. She can't remember what was her real name, what did she do, who she was engaged and who bumped pelvises with. Suddenly after an accident she discovers unique skills of using knives so she is thinking she used to be a chef in the former life 'Chefs do that!' Meanwhile, assassins do that pretty well... she is going to meet her past soon and to have to restore her killing skills in defence of her present life. Young Samuel L Jackson is hilarious in this movie as low-paid private-eye with his hot ones. David Morse (he is well known as Tritter from 'House MD') is inimitable as a former-fiancé. Ivonne Zima was the best choice as a nice and sweet girl, she acted well and she really had pretty eyes (oh, I realized that thing about her eyes too early!). And Craig Bierko is unforgettable as Timothy, ruthless but young and charming hit-man you won't forget even if you lose your memory. PS. The only shortcoming are looks of Geena Davis, the main heroine. The bleached blonde hair and loud make-up don't fit her at all. She looked like a clown, especially at the end. Nevertheless she was really like the energizer bunny! "},{"Title":"Bourne Identity with humor","Date":"18 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I just watched my DVD again and realized that the Bourne Identity - which came out years later - uses essentially this same plot but in all seriousness.I think this is one of Geena Davis' better movies - Unlike Jason Bourne Geena is a suburban housewife who can't remember anything about her life more than 8 years ago.The reaction of her boyfriend to her new found skills (particularly the knife and the tomato) is worth the price of admission.Gradually with the help of Samuel Jackson her old skills come back - to the point Bourne would be no match for her ;-) Writing more of the basic plot seems silly after 12 years except to say this is probably an under appreciated movie and one of the better action flicks "},{"Title":"Really good movie!!!","Date":"19 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is an awfully good movie. Geena Davis and Samuel L. Jackson are excellent. This movie is the first time I saw Craig Bierko. Loved him in this film. It's really cool to watch Geena Davis transform her physical appearance in the movie. We need more good female action movies. Kiss The Girls and Double Jeopardy are two other movies which are in this genre. Ashley Judd is really good at these strong women roles. Angelina Jolie is also great in the Lara Croft movies. I haven't seen Geena Davis in anything in a while. I hope she gets back in the game soon. My husband and I watch it, at least, once a year. If you've never seen it I suggest you do. I don't think most action movie fans will be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Old skool shooter with great dialogue - 74%","Date":"4 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Eleven years. That's how long it has taken me to actually sit down, shut up and watch this film from start to finish. I missed it at the cinema, I was always working when TV decided to screen it and I couldn't find the DVD anywhere for love nor money. Stumbling across this all-action spy thriller whilst channel-hopping last night, I was determined I was not going to miss it. And while I was enjoying this film, I was slowly starting to forgive the gloriously unfunny Geena Davis Show...The Long Kiss Goodnight features Geena Davis (as you might have gathered) as Samantha Caine, an all-American housewife living in the snowy hills of Pennsylvania with her husband (Craig Bierko) and her daughter (Yvonne Zima). But Samantha has a troubled past - suffering from amnesia, she has no recollection of who she was or what she did. After a car accident, she slowly begins to recover fragments of her former life which is fast catching up with her. Soon, after an attempt on her life, she hooks up with washed-up ex-cop Mitch (Samuel L Jackson in full-on Jules Winfield mode) as she desperately tries to piece together her former life. But as the truth unfolds, can she trust herself to go back to what she has now become and can she survive the increasingly desperate attempts to end her life for good? To reveal any more would possibly spoil it, though the story isn't really the film's strong point. Nor is it the action which is extremely impressive and suitably visceral, in a pre-Matrix sort of way. This is old-skool action but it certainly doesn't suffer because of it. No, the real force behind this film is the dialogue which is littered with biting one-liners, genuinely funny moments (most of which belong to Sammy Jackson) and the sort of OTT exchanges normally found in video games. Thinking about it, this did feel exaggerated and comic-book - worryingly reminiscent of Angelina Jolie's two outings as Lara Croft. But the true comparison would be with The Bourne Identity though I believe that is the better picture. It feels much more credible than this does but that's not to say I don't like the film. I do but only to a point. It's like another all-action blast The Transporter while the film itself is clearly preposterous, it doesn't necessarily affect your enjoyment of the film. Though the less said about the sequel, the better.The Long Kiss Goodnight is an interesting picture, offering an old-fashioned story on a plate of old-skool stunt work, gun fights and explosions. And while most franchises have now resorted to CG (like Die Hard), it's good to be reminded that sometimes evolution can go backwards instead of forwards. This is a perfectly good action film with enough going on to keep you interested as well as quote-friendly lines you'll be saying to yourself for weeks. But after waiting so long to see it, I'll admit to being a touch disappointed. I can't think of any film worth waiting over a decade to see... "}{"Title":"Loud, dumb and fun, though one could expect more from Shane Black","Date":"19 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The main problem with Renny Harlin is he can't find the right script to combine with his talent as an action director. Actually, he did once (Die Hard 2, 1990), but since then he has never succeeded in making a film that's equally good. He gets pretty close with The Long Kiss Goodnight, though, even if it must be said that this time he manages to do a better job than the writer, Shane Black (Lethal Weapon).If there's one thing that Black knows, it's how to pair two radically different people and get one hell of a story out of their chemistry. This time round, however, one of the two characters is less involving than the other, and it's a shame, considering it's the protagonist I'm talking about. Her name is Samantha Caine (Geena Davis), she's a teacher and leads a happy life alongside her boyfriend and daughter. Unfortunately, she doesn't remember anything about herself except the last eight years, and so she hires a P.I. (Samuel L. Jackson) to find out who she was. What he uncovers is not exactly pleasant apparently, Sam's real name is Charly Baltimore, she used to work for the CIA as a professional assassin and there are a lot of people who believed her to be dead and want to correct that mistake.Even for modern action movie standards, the plot is a bit far-fetched, and it doesn't help that Davis never fully manages to make her transition from regular housewife to merciless killer convincing, leaving it to Jackson to seduce the audience. And seduce he does Black may not be Tarantino, but his dialogue is a joy to hear nonetheless, and in the Pulp Fiction star's mouth it becomes priceless (Were you always that stupid, or did you take lessons? he gets asked at one point; his deadpan answer? I took lessons). The supporting cast is not bad either (especially Brian Cox, who plays similar roles in The Bourne Identity and X2 as well, and David Morse), but other than Jackson the film's selling point is the action scenes loud, huge, incredibly violent, just what the audience needs to be distracted from the script's weaknesses - yes, it is definitely a Renny Harlin movie.Bottom line average plotting, questionable logic, uneven characterization, cracking dialogue, great action. Worth a look? Yes, but do not expect anything special. "},{"Title":"A hell of a ride","Date":"18 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When William Goldman said that no one knows anything, he wasn't kidding. Here you've got a great movie, a thrilling ride with a great cast, explosive action sequences and (incredibly) a fantastic script. And about three people went to see it, and it just about killed Renny Harlin's career.The plot is kind of complicated, and doesn't matter much anyway. Geena Davis is living a quiet suburban life, but she used to be a secret agent assassin type thing, and little by little she starts recovering her memories - just in time to take on the baddies who want to blow up Canada, or possibly Buffalo.As I say, the plot is kind of silly, and it doesn't matter anyway because you'll be caught up in the mayhem of the action from the get-go. And when the action lets up, you've got Sam Jackson giving the performance of his career (yes, including Pulp Fiction) as the wisecracking private detective who's in way over his head but seems to be just about indestructible. He's just about the opposite of Jules here - flabby, unkempt, cheerfully corrupt and slightly overawed by the madness around him. Davis is the steel core of the film, but Jackson is the heart.No, we're not dealing with Proust here, which is probably why the critics hated it. What we've got with this movie is two hours of fun and excitement, the perfect thing to watch with your feet up and a couple of beers. It's not going to change your life, but it will entertain the living hell out of you. "},{"Title":"Who sang the song near the end of the movie? (not a spoiler)","Date":"10 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I just watched the movie again last night, and enjoyed it as much as the first time I saw it. I especially enjoy the soundtrack, which sadly is incomplete on line, regardless of how much research I've done.When Gina Davis is sitting on the rock near the end, and throws a knife to kill the cricket, an alternative song with a female vocalist kicks in prior to the credits.IF in fact the songs are listed as they appeared in the in the credits, one would believe it's a Tracy Bonham Song. Her first album was released in 1996, same year as this film, but no search turned up a song by her that matches the one in the movie.Any help? mhh1964usa@yahoo.comThanks "},{"Title":"A brilliant, yet incredibly flawed film","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is one of those films that I don't know how I feel about it. The first half of the film is fantastic, the plot's fine for an action film, the action scenes are effective, and some awesome one-liners (especially from Samuel L Jackson). But then the second half comes about and destroys the set up. The plot becomes too far fetched, the one liners less frequent, and the ending is pretty anti climactic.If I watched the first half but the power went out before I could finish the film, I would be dying to see the rest of it, to see if the ending could live up to my expectations built up by the beginning. It can't. The ending is so bad, it damages the film so much so that it makes it hard for me to watch the beginning of the film because I know that the ending will let me down.I would give the first half 9/10, but the ending 6 or even 5/10. With a better ending, Long Kiss Goodnight could easily be a 10/10. Shame. "},{"Title":"If you enjoy the mystery and action along with excellent acting see this.","Date":"26 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a familiar genre of action / lost identity that has carved out a special niche of it's own mainly due to the performance of Geena Davis that is complemented in fine fashion by Samuel Jackson as the supporting role. It mixes Mom's apple pie sentiment with some cold blooded and well crafted action scenes that will satisfy fans of Scharzenegger and Willis movies.Geena Davis strikes a balance in a duo character that is both masterful and vulnerable and melds these two divergent personalities into one in believable fashion. This could have been hokie , but the acting is just too strong and she and Jackson are too convincing.... or is it just too much fun not to suspend your disbelief and go along for the ride. This is a fine movie and certainly one of the best if not THE best that Renny Harlin has directed. I haven't seen all of his films , but I remember one swashbuckler that was pretty bad..also with I think then wife Geena Davis. There is no comparison between that movie and this. See it !! "},{"Title":"Charly is the queen of assassins!","Date":"25 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Long Kiss Goodnight is an amazing movie with lot's of action and suspense, a couple of twists and turns and amazing acting. Geena Davis plays Samantha Caine, a woman who lives a happy life and is in her 30s, she can't remember a lot though like when she got married things like that, that's because she's got amnesia.All of a sudden, hit men start shooting up her house attempting to kill her, why? Well, that's what she wants to find out so she hires Samuel L. Jackson (a private detective). She soon finds out that her name is Charly Baltimore and that her whole life as Samantha is just a whole set-up. With the help of Jackson she goes and intends to kill the people that tried to kill her.Will she get to the people before they get to her? Find out in this non-stop action movie that I give a 10. This has got to be one of the best action movies out there, and trust me, there's a lot. One of the things that makes this movie so awesome is of course the acting, Jackson and Davis show us there best in this movie, and Jackson has lot's of great lines, so does Davis. Oh, and of course there's lot's of guns going off and people getting shot at to make this movie a hit! Guys will love it, so will the girls.One of my favourite parts is when Sam Jackson is singing Seals and Crofts, Moving In, it's hilarious, watch the movie and you'll be amazed. "},{"Title":"Geena Davis phenomenal!","Date":"23 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Geena Davis definitely shines in this movie. Both roles she plays are total opposites but she plays them phenomenally. Samuel L. Jackson, the king of one-liners, is hilarious! This is definitely a movie I would watch again and again. Samantha we see as the sweet teacher and mother, and Charlie comes in and you really have no clue what to think of her at first. I thought she was bad, then realized she wasn't. It's confusing at first but you just need to trust that as the movie goes on it will make sense, you just really need to pay attention. It's not a movie that you can walk out on for a few minutes and come back and still know what's going on. "},{"Title":"Jackson & Davis were Fantastic Together","Date":"26 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Viewed this film during the Christmas season and enjoyed this film which starts out rather calm and some what boring and then you start putting the pieces together. Geena Davis,(Samantha Caine) has a memory loss and has some flash backs occasionally, like slicing carrots and tomatoes and being very handy with putting a gun together and some bad language. Samuel L. Jackson,(Mitch Henessey), plays a con man who has other interests in Samantha and finds himself getting deeply involved with her memory loss and about this time, the film becomes full of action and people who you think are going to die, come back to life. Entertaining film, but entirely too long and drawn out, however, Jackson and Davis did a great job of performing. "},{"Title":"Last Kiss from action heroine Geena","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This starts out innocently enough a pastoral setting in a small snow-covered town on Christmas, where Davis lives as a schoolteacher with a daughter. One hitch she remembers nothing from before 8 years ago. One dark night on a drive on a slippery road, she hits a deer and then a tree (damn snow!). Things start coming back to her; at first, she thinks she was a chef, because she's real good with a knife. Then some bald psycho with a shotgun bursts into her home and she's forced to kill him. With a private eye (Jackson), she hits the road on a quest for her past turns out, she was a CIA assassin. Soon she's chain-smoking, swearing, behaving lewdly, and dyeing her hair blond. Almost all scenes are in snow and one spectacular shot has them falling thru ice. Several persons die along the way. This entire description may seem to denote a vapid film, though it's definitely a stylish action thriller. But do we really care, at about the midway point, whether Geena will stay with her daughter and return to her quiet life? The answer is it's really difficult to care. Even in the early scenes, you sense this is not the life for Geena; she should be out there slashing throats. We care about who she'll kill next or who will next try to kill her - that's about it. There's an emptiness to the entire proceedings. Also, why would Jackson, as an everyman detective, involve himself with this obvious insanity? As with the early scenes, we move into dark comedy territory there, but it doesn't come across that way, being a straightforward thriller. Also, it's not said much, but this is all derivative of Robert Ludlum's The Bourne Identity with a female anti-hero rather than a male. NOTE this was Geena's last shot at an action-star career, courtesy of her then-hubby, Director Renny Harlin, but this flic tanked at the box-office, which is why Geena then appeared in movies like Stuart Little(99). "},{"Title":"Geena Davis is an action heroine?","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I wouldn't say I'm an avid fan of director Renny Harlin, but I'm probably one of five or so (maybe less) people outside of Finland that would actually defend his work. Having seen 'The Long Kiss Goodnight', and keeping 'Die Hard 2' and 'Cliffhanger' in mind, I must say that I'm convinced he is not deserving of his bad reputation.He did, however, direct one of the 'A Nightmare On Elm Street' sequels. Maybe that reputation is justified. Anyway, 'The Long Kiss Goodnight' is cool.Geena Davis stars as Samantha Caine, a suburban teacher with no memory of her life prior to marriage and having her daughter Caitlin (Yvonne Zima). After a little bump to the head, she begins to have flashbacks to her life as Charlie Baltimore. Oh, and now her former employers are out to kill her.Geena Davis pulls off the dual personality thing surprisingly well. Her Samantha Caine character is almost exactly like her Eleanor Little character in the later 'Stuart Little' film, which is why I doubted her ability to pull off an arse-kicking assassin chick character. Woah, Charlie would kick my arse (and most likely yours too) any day. Geena supplies the cool heroine, Renny Harlin has a lot of crap blown up, and the audience is given a cool action movie. Awesome.'The Long Kiss Goodnight' is an enjoyable action flick. In terms of Renny Harlin movies it is better than 'Die Hard 2', but not as good as 'Cliffhanger', make of that what you will - 7/10 "}{"Title":"A very Clintonian spy thriller","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" For people who enjoy action at the expense of logic, you can't do much better than this ridiculous flick about an amnesiac teacher in a small Pannsylvania town who discovers she's a CIA assassin.Geena Davis plays two very different characters. Samantha Caine is the sweet, confused, amnesiac mother of an eight-year-old girl named Caitlin. She lives with her boyfriend (Tom Amandes) and is a member of the local PTA. Charlie Baltimore is a self-loathing killer who cusses like a sailer and even uses sex as a weapon. Sam makes an uneasy transformation into Charlie as she begins to attract the attention of some corrupt government agents.Samuel L. Jackson plays Mitch Hennessey, a sleazy, wisecracking private dick who is hired by Samantha, nicknamed Amnesia Chick, to help her find her past. Jackson is a great source of comic relief. This is not his best role, but I think it's probably his funniest.Craig Bierko is the main bad guy, Timothy, a former target of Charlie's who has been recruited by the very agency she used to work for, due to budget cuts in intelligence.This is where the plot shows its age. In a scene at the White House, the President tells the CIA director and Charlie's boss, Leland Perkins, among others, that their money is in health care. And this is the whole basis of the bad guys' plan. Perkins and Timothy are going to kill 4000 people in Buffalo, NY, and blame a frozen Arab man for it, to get funding for more intelligence. Charlie was a relic of the Cold War, and they have no use for her now. The Bush Administration now is so different that such a plan wouldn't be relevant. Healthcare is already a secondary prospect to intelligence and war.The cast includes Brian Cox as Charlie's mentor. He would later go on to star in a similarly themed, but much more serious movie, The Bourne Identity, although Ward Abbott was a politician, not a man of action. David Morse is also featured as one of Charlie's targets Samantha mistakes for her fiancé. Neither of these actors last very long in the movie, it moves too briskly for that. The two-hour running time blows by thanks to the break-neck pacing.Renny Harlin is often cited as one of the worst directors of big-budget action-fests working today. That may be true, so maybe it's Shane Black's script that saves things. Black is perhaps the best writer of action films. Lethal Weapon turned into the most successful cop-buddy franchise, I think, in history, with four movies to its credit. Black knows how to give the audience non-stop action and also a few chuckles. Here is probably his most fun, least serious effort, and Harlin complements that by never taking things seriously.Interested in action and style with fun, believable characters in outrageous situations? This is for you. It ain't Casablanca, but it sure ain't as shallow as James Bond (no offense to the 007 franchise). "},{"Title":"Hidden gem","Date":"2 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It's over the top, the story is not holding much water, but, boy, it's a ride. This might be just one of the top 5 action movies of the 90s and certainly among the top 3 roles for Jackson, Brian Cox and Geena Davis.Jackson's turn as viciously ill-dressed cop turned con turned seedy private eye with a heart of gold may only be second to his Pulp Fiction cult status performance. Geena Davis' appearance not only shows that she could act on a script that plays to her strengths but also works as a competent action heroine. Cox, who curiously played a rather similar role years later in the Bourne Identity and Bourne Supremacy, gets some dialogue that most actors would kill for.Suspend your disbelief and enjoy it, it's worth the rental fee or DVD purchasing price. "},{"Title":"Quality film with action and classic one liners to boot!","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The film begins with a slow start that leaves you wondering whether you picked up the right video from the store, but the plot quickly develops into a action fans dreamland. Although some of the sequences were a little far fetched, Geena Davis pulls off both of her alter-egos with class and Samuel Jackson provides us with comic relief and a supporting character which adds a depth to the movie. From the fake prostitute and detectives to 'CHARLY' skating on ice while picking off guys, this movie hits the big notes. The only criticism I and my mother also pointed out when she watched it was 'CHARLY's DAUGHTER' saying that she hit her head when her mother just went through hell. I know that was the point of that scene but I don't feel it was nailed sufficiently to capture the moment for the viewers to cause them to start throwing popcorn at the television in some futile attempt to get her off the screen!Due to the daughter not being a huge character the movie receives a ten out of ten score every time. "},{"Title":"'The Long Kiss Goodnight'","Date":"22 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Here's an action movie done with sass and style. Geena Davis plays Samantha Caine, a schoolteacher living with her daughter and charming boyfriend. The thing is that eight years ago, Samantha was struck by amnesia and can't remember her past. To unlock the mystery, she enlists that aid of several private investigators, including a sleazy, low-rent PI (Samuel L. Jackson). It turns out, although, that she used to be Charly Baltimore, a deadly female spy who used to work for the CIA. As Charly begins to slowly recover her memory, she realizes that she is being targeted by her former allies.The action is non-stop and delivers on its premise. Geena Davis definitely proves to be one Hollywood's most versatile actresses, as she admirably transforms the warm and cookie-cutting Samantha into a lethal femme fatale. She certainly doesn't look out of place, when she is handling a high-powered rifle shooting off some bad guys. Even, a funny Samuel L. Jackson knows to step out of Geena's way to let her dominate the screen.Rating 7/10 or (3 stars) "},{"Title":"A must see for action fans!","Date":"15 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have to agree with the previous comment about not liking to see Samuel Jackson get beat like that. Beyond that though this is a definate must see. Gina Davis plays her part like she was really living it and Samuel just keeps getting funnier as her very unlikely if not unwanted sidekick. These two should do more together as they compliment each other well on the big screen. Gina is harsh and abrasive as an ex-spy so the comedic undertones inherant in Samuels preformance blends well and tones it down just right. All in all an awesome film by the dynamic pair of misfit hero's.P.S. The scene with the water mill has GOT to be the sexiest I have ever seen Gina in all her films!Tek "},{"Title":"Best action flick of all time!","Date":"5 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  My wife and I love this movie! This is the only movie that we can watch over and over! Sorry that they didn't make a sequel! I've made it my Christmas movie, watching it faithfully every holiday season.  On New Year's Eve, we met a couple and I started talking movies with the guy, only to find that this was his favorite movie, also.  Whomever I recommend it to, loves it! Geena Davis is one of the few actresses that can take command as a tough leading lady.  Samuel L. Jackson, although usually in the macho lead role, plays off of Geena Davis perfectly showing, his versatility as an actor. They were great together!  Non- stop action from start to finish! Destined to be a cult classic!  "},{"Title":"A good movie with great characters.","Date":"27 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The characters in this movie don't (all) come straight out the the cool spy/slick badman school. I really thing this is the best work Gena Davis has done.  It's a shame there is no sequel.Sam Jackson played a very refreshing part that was against character, and the Spymaster was not only believable but also very entertaining.There was only one line in the movie that I feel was not right for a character, and that is the profanity from Gena while driving the truck... (I won't describe the scene in detail because I think it would be a spoiler)...  It just didn't seem to me to be something a strong confident woman would say.  In fact then I think about it, this probably the line used because for her to say something more anatomically correct about herself would probable not pass the censors.I rate this an excellent spy movie. "},{"Title":"Worth a Watch","Date":"7 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The plot to me was captivating and the first half of the film was full of intrigue.  The second half was ok if you can overlook the many unrealistic feats of heroinism (easier to do for Crouching Tiger).  I had to wonder though, did Gena Davis really bleach her hair and thicken up her makeup or was that an uncredited Angie Dickinson?  Hopefully you'll know what I mean when you see it. "},{"Title":"Awesome Movie","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a very enjoyable film. One of my top ten favorites and my favorite action flick. Sam Jackson is brilliant as always and gives the movie some great humor. Geena Davis is one of my favorite actresses. Highly underrated and I even miss her TV show she had. From Thelma and Louise, A League of Their Own, Beetlejuice and The Long Kiss Goodnight I have not seen her in any bad role. This is a great movie because it has great action sequences, great comedy, good plot, great acting and it's fun. "},{"Title":"a swell action movie","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A wonderful Christmas story on the moving theme of Susie Homemaker finds her Inner Amazon.  No, I'm serious! Geena Davis's amnesia starts to improve when she is knocked on the head.  From this familiar beginning, we move in an unexpected direction.  Good pace, good action, fun story, lots of explosions and mayhem. "}{"Title":"The CIA needs money and plans a terrorist attack...!","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Geena Davis stars as Samantha in this vehicle from her then husband, Renny Harlin.  Samuel L. Jackson is her side-kick as a private detective hired for his cheap rates.  He is trying to find out who Samantha was before she woke up with amnesia eight years ago.  She was also pregnant.  A car accident jars loose her memories at the same time she has been recognized by the very bad men who thought they had killed her eight years ago.  When she realizes that she is ex-CIA, she contacts her boss, played by Patrick Malahide who starred in a British TV series as Chief Inspector Alleyn.  As CIA Director, he's staging a terrorist attack to kill 5,000 in an attempt to appropriate more funds from congress for terrorist prevention.  Samantha has to become agent Charley again to save herself, her daughter and 5,000 innocent people.  This movie has a wicked, witty script with lovely acting by Geena (do we expect less?) as the rest of the cast, a taut plot line and some great action sequences!  I highly recommend it! "},{"Title":"Geena and Samuel equals good entertainment","Date":"20 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I thought this was a great action flick. A very good role for Geena Davis. She is a very versatile actress. One of my favs next to Angelina Jolie. I actually watched The Long Kiss Goodnight right after seeing the new Tomb Raider movie. It got me thinking, Charlie or Lara? Which one would win in a fight??? Either way, both women are very strong, intelligent characters that are fun to watch. Especially when they're kicking butt. I just hope to see Geena in another film soon. Seems like she's been out of the spotlight a bit too long. It would be especially nice to see her in another film with Samuel L. Jackson. Now they make a great duo. Watch this film if you haven't. You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"1st Half ok 2nd Half cool","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Let me start by saying overall I enjoyed The Long Kiss Goodnight. I would give it a 7/10. The Good 1. Acting Samuel L Jackson is entertaining in almost any role. In this movie he doesn't play his usual character, the type that is in control, instead Geena Davis is in control and Sam is along for the ride. His timing on his lines are great and he is the high point of the movie. Geena Davis also gives a great preformance as Samantha Caine/Charlie Baltimore. She is a believable action hero and I don't think too many other actresses could pull off the preformance Geena Does. 2. The Action This is a very action packed movie. Things are pretty much always crashing or blowing up or someone is chasing someone else. The special effects are pretty good especially for being almost 8 years old. I can see some green screen stuff but it doesn't detract too much from the acting.The Bad 1. Why did it take half of the movie to set up the plot? This film needed to be edited in the script stage so that it didn't run as long as it did. Maybe a drama or something can run this long but people really need to be into the movie the entire time to sustain it. I think that if you can stick out the first half you will be pleseantly suprized the second half. 2. Geena Davis is cold weather and a tank top but she never seems cold. 3. Some things are unrealistic. Sam Jackson flies through a giant sign after he is blasted out of a room and then he lands in a tree and just gets up. When you see this part you will think it's a gag. overall fun movie 7/10 "},{"Title":"Kicks Butt!!","Date":"11 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is movie is actually one of my all time favorites. I'm not a Renny Harlin fan because most of his movies suck, but TLKG hits its mark time after time. TLKG is about a woman named Samantha Cain (Davis) who suffers from amnesia. she is married with a kid and as she qoutes I'm a goddamn member of the PTA. and then her world comes crumbling down as the pieces fall into place about her earlier identity. Samuel Jackson plays a con artist cop who does PI gigs, he is dragged along by her to solve her identity and to get paid some cash for his work. along the way we find out Samantha is really Charlie Baltimore, a secret spy that was left for dead years earlier. the plot is great, making this story seem real and Jackson does a great job as second fiddle to Davis (whom always does a great acting job). the explosions are endless, the action is intertwined with memorable scene after memorable scene. pretty impressive visually though the kid got on my nerves at the end (watch out of the cars!) I'm tired of little kids screwing up a film to be saved but still, this movie is worth it as the kid adds to the film. again, this movie is really good, i never understood why it didn't make more at the box office but if it was a man starring in the movie I'm sure it would have grossed a hundred million. what is good is that over the years more people are discovering this movie and giving it good marks as the average of this film on this site has risen over the years. i hope it goes up further as this is one great action film. and i love action films "},{"Title":"Very, Very Cool","Date":"5 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw the comment about how Davis and Jackson are too old to do movies like this. I say Are you kidding me? This movie totally rocked from the performances of the two leads to the oh so droll Bryan Cox character to David Morse's smiling bad guy. If you're looking for a film with gratuitous sex, don't look here. However, if you want a flick with surprises, believability, and total action from start to finish, this is your piece of celluloid...  "},{"Title":"Good 4/5 of a movie","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The first 4/5 of the movie were enjoyable. Davis made an entertaining (thought not terribly convincing) femme fatale/assassin. Jackson had some great lines like he usually does, but his semi-wimpy character pales in comparison to Jules in Pulp Fiction.*Spoilers ahead*The last part of the movie though was terribly unconvincing and extremely stupid. All the escape attempts and killings were not just unbelievable, but also predictable and silly. The bad guy was so dumb and so stereotypical, I couldn't believe for once second that he was a top federal assassin. Killing the hero in a slow, easy-to-escape way should have been left decades ago in Batman and Bond. Also, there's no way in hell her daughter emerged unscratched from that little cage on the truck after it flipped over.And what a stupid epilogue... First part of the movie 7/10; ending 2/10. "},{"Title":"I dug it...","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is on a long list of movies which while lacking in certain aspects of the story line, still turn out to be pretty decent as entertainment.I don't know about the comments of Geena Davis being cast in her hubbie's flick as well as being too on in her years, but for an old broad, she looks pretty damn good to me.The details...well, there's some bits and little pieces with need, but overall, not only did I find the story very cool, but the chemistry between Davis and Jackson seemed apparent and production of this was well done.Boo-hoo if ya find fault, 'cause not every work on film is meant to be the Godfather, but sometimes, with a good cast, even something that could have such potential to come off weak might do okay.This one did for me...and by the way, for the viewer who commented on Jackson's need for a younger woman to sleep with...fughetaboutit!  He's eight years older than Geena Davis!  Did you see the same body in the freezer as I did? "},{"Title":"Great entertainment","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A thoroughly entertaining, escapist movie. It manages, without stepping outside modern day America to achieve the same balance of action and dark comedy that made the Indiana Jones trilogy such a success.It's wildly improbable but what the hell?  Geena Davis is superbly cast as the amnesiac with a deep and unpleasant past. OK, you realise that much right from the beginning, so it's no major revelation, but it's still fun finding out the details. Her split personality is a kind of Doris Day / Lara Croft hybrid and Davis produces two very different characters, so different its actually like watching two actresses with vaguely similar faces. In alternate moments she is vulnerable and indestructable, mumsy and erotic, cute and terrifying, the girl next door and the woman from hell! Quite an achievement. Samuel L Jackson as the con-man, turned friend, provides the comedy to what is in a sense, the lead character's tragedy. He papers over many of the cracks in the absurd, but entertaining plot and turns from loathsome to likeable as the saga progresses. As in every other movie he graces, Jackson is undeniably first class and steals all his scenes with laconic and naturalistic style.  There's a large helping of James Bond in the action scenes which are all well staged. The effects are good and if the inevitablilty of the ending is not likely to generate suspense in itself, the incidents along the way more than compensate.The drowning sequence is highly memorable. It's genuinely uncomfortable to watch, playing on a deep primeval fear in all of us. It's also very sexy - or at least Davis manages to look very sexy despite there being no nudity and no actual sex involved.    This isn't a movie you take seriously. If you do, it will probably drive you mad with it's contrived escapes and impossible situations. It's a classic case of just sit back and enjoy the ride - and if you do,you will.  "},{"Title":"This is definately one for the collection.","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Renny Harlin takes action into a whole new dimension with The Long Kiss Goodnight.A steady pace of heart stopping, seat gripping wet your pants style of movie making that can only be followed by another film of this calibur.I love the style that Renny Harlin films in. Crisp and clean with swift moves that follow through.The Long Kiss Goodnight....A fun filled feature that is a sure fire hit...so to speak...and at the top my my list. "},{"Title":"Right up there with Face/Off and The Matrix","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Long Kiss Goodnight has just about everything action fans want a witty screenplay by the guy who wrote Lethal Weapon, Samuel L. Jackson, and great action set pieces by Renny Harlin.Seriously underrated.  One of the best action movies ever. "}{"Title":"Renny Harlin and Shane Black make and enjoyable action flick","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Long Kiss Goodnight is one of the better action films released in 96. Shane Black who been away from the buddy genre came back hard with this action film that features the sexy Genna Davis as an ex-spy. Samuel L.Jackson provides great comic releif though I didn't like the way he was beat up in the movie. If you want action and comedy with a female hero this is the movie for you. "},{"Title":"Geena at her best","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Geena Davis is absolutely great in this action packed thriller full of humour, explosions and incredible stunts! Her former husband, Renny Harlin, knew how to make her give her best performance. Femininity and aggressiveness blend so fine in her character and there doesn't seem to be any moment of 'non-excitement'. Although not entirely original (the Nikita model is quite obvious), the pace is intense, the stunts are eye-catching, there is a skillfully planned balance of chasing, stunts, gunblasts and tenderness moments. The special effects are good (see the explosion of the bridge towards the end) and the whole aspect is of a good quality entertainment. Don't miss it! "},{"Title":"Not enough of Brian Cox","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The best part of this film for me,was Brian Cox.  His lines about the dog on the old lady's lap just about killed me, and when he has Samuel L Jackson up against the wall...Brilliant.  This made the rest of the film very enjoyable, it is just a shame he isn't in it long. "},{"Title":"What a Woman!","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When this movie came out, I had seen Geena Davis play only soft, feminine roles... This movie was anything but soft and feminine.  Great lines, great action...she and Samuel L really clicked.  Too violent for the kiddies, but if you and your significant other are trying to agree on a movie, try this one on for size.  Go Geena! Go Geena! "},{"Title":"It's scary how much I love this movie","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Rent this, I own the DVD, got it for $9.99. A steal being so under-rated. Sure, there are better movies. Movies with fewer or no holes in the plot or action. BUt I don't have that problem with this movie. For me if a movie stays true to itself, honest and exploitive of its flaws (and virtues, obviously!) in the name of entertainment, then it has fulfilled its purpose. I got me to care, because its makers cared.  The entire movie is preposterous from beginning to end, but its makers took the whole undertaking seriously, And I did not feel manipulated into taking the movie seriously. And that is so true, because I want to take every movie seriously yet many, oh so many, let me down.  For all of its preposterousness, this movie is almost perfect, and completely entertaining!What a funny screenplay! It also has become eerily relevant in light of the events on 9/11. In no way do I seek to minimize the loss. But this movie incorporates the  tradegy of the WTC collapse before it happened in ways that we will never see had the movie been made after those events....it's either gone for good, or here to stay. wouldn't you agree? "},{"Title":"I loved this movie","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I think Shane Black is one of the all time greatest action screenwriters ever! He gave us the awesome (at it's time)Lethal Weapon, shooting Mel Gibson to super stardom. Then followed that up with the second best movie Bruce Willis has ever been in (The Last Boyscout).Stumbled a bit with The Last Action Hero, but redeemed himself with this one, The Long Kiss Goodnight.If you're a fan of action films, this has it all...Action, Comedy, Thrills, then tops it of with more Action, Comedy and Thrills. Geena Davies is great, Samual L Jackson is even greater. Don't miss it !9/10  "},{"Title":"Best action movie with a female lead","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Although there are few action movies with a female as lead, this is the BEST of the lot, and one of the top 5 best action movies ever. Beautiful, sexy Geena Davies is completely believable as a trained assassin who recovers her memory. The ending is not that great, and I'd really like a sequel or prequel, Geena deserves it... "},{"Title":"Nonstop Action","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm a Geena Davis fan for life because of this movie. I've always loved Samuel L Jackson. And the two make a great pair on screen. This said, I think 'TLKG' is the best action movie I've ever seen, forget the twist endings that audiences have now come to expect and that filmmakers now try (mostly failing) to incorporate into their movies.10/10 "},{"Title":"I loved this film!","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Long Kiss Good Night is one of my favorite Geena Davis films. Good plot,well choreographed action scenes,some nice comic scenes and excellent performances by Davis and Jackson. You will not be bored by this film! Hollywood is well overdue for a female action star and I am still angry that this movie wasn't a big hit. It had all the necessary requirements for a good action film and the public should have given it a fair shake. Charly Baltimore was a terrific character and that gorgeous Craig Bierko was very good as bad guy Timothy. Those scenes of Charley and Mitch going out the window and into the lake and Charley going up into the air to shoot holes in Timothy were classics! "},{"Title":"AWESOME TURBO CHARGED!!!!!","Date":"15 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I love this film...! I've seen it 1000 x on dvd and I cant say enough about it. It has it all, comedy, awesome action and incredible stunts/fx. Samuel Jackson steals the show here big time. I dont think there isnt a moment that he's in that he isnt funny! Everyone knows that when you make an assumption, you make an ass out of you and umption!! The f/x are great! The bridge/truck explosion is incredible, although the sound isnt all that great!When Samuel drives out of the truck, the sound is off a little I think and what he says is priceless!!! For those of you who own it on dvd, put the audio in french!!! It's halarious!!! Even emotional moments are great when the bad guy discovers that Sam's/Charlie's daughter is his, is great... This is a great film that no action fan can do without... I also reccomend Cutthroat Island... Aside from all the negative publicity, it kicks!!!! "}{"Title":"What the hell was so wrong about this movie!?","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was happy to find out that at least now this movie is beginning to get the appreciation it deserves (just view those votes). Not top-class action like Die Hard or Lethal Weapon, but still something like a solid 7 out of 10 fine script, good actors with working chemistry, and a director who knows what he wants (sadly, this was director Harlin's last good film. Deep Blue Sea managed to reach 'an OK rollercoaster-ride'- status, but Cutthroat Island, and especially, Driven are well-deserved flops!) Personally I think the turn-off at the box-office might have been the Woman as an action star-theme. Well, give her a chance, because Davis does deliver a performance above par. And, after all, this film doesn't concentrate so much on the feminine-side, but instead on good ol' action, buddyism (Jackson as a sidekick is given a lot of room in here, plus his share of action- and about a thousand killer wisecracks!) and on the plot (from Shane Black, the writer of Lethal Weapon and The Last Boy Scout. The latter of which as a movie is on very many levels much like this one...the theme, the clever plot, also as good and as underrated!) Overall if one hasn't seen this one yet, don't forget to rent it for the next quiet Saturday night! "},{"Title":"An implausible, but surprisingly entertaining action flick","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's easy to find flaws to this fast-paced action yarn (e.g., Brian Cox plays a retired agent who schedules a rendenzvous on his phone, which is obviously tapped...like, shouldn't he know better?).  But suspend your disbelief for two hours and it's hard to resist this tale of a female James Bond with a major identity crisis.  Geena Davis and Samuel L. Jackson have nice chemistry and create likable characters from their underwritten parts.  The villains are strictly cardboard and there's one climax too many.  Still, director Renny Harlin (then Geena's husband) shows a flair for terrific set pieces (love the scene where Geena and Samuel are falling onto solid ice and she shoots a hole in it on the way down).  All in all, it's hard to figure out why the public didn't make it a hit. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, but not much substance...","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  As is typical with Hollywood action flicks, the movie had very little substances and believability. But it did keep me entertained, so I guess it did it's job. Geena Davis was excellent in her role, working with the character she had really well. Getting her daughter involved was good, because it added some emotional impact to the end. Of course, Sam Caine was able to avoid death like Superman, even escaping from drowning whilst tied up. Overall, an enjoyable movie, but not a classic or anything. 6/10. "},{"Title":"Ridiculously silly, yet enjoyably bad action film.","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you can suspend your level of disbelief farther than most, you will be rewarded here.  Unrealistic and illogical to the max, but good performances with many memorable one liners make this a good, but not great film.  You won't think about it afterwards.  I promise. "},{"Title":"A good thriller with a sense of humor.","Date":"15 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Almost no cinema experience can beat a good thriller with a sense of humor.  Geena Davis is a schoolteacher housewife who suffers from amnesia.  She'e even on the PTA!  But then an auto accident awakens the woman she used to be, and it's HOT!  Samuel L. Jackson is hilarious as the low rent private eye who tries to help Davis find her past, only to find out he's in way over his head.  Davis has some hilarious lines too, and the interaction between her and Jackson works surprisingly well.Look for Brian Cox, the original Hannibal Lechter, and David Moorse finally managing to shed his St. Elsewhere TV image.  The film is directed by Davis' husband, who almost seems to have built the whole film around her, but it works.I pull out this DVD and rewatch it often.  I still love the makeup scene.  Is Geena hot or what? "},{"Title":"A strange dark feeling","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" SPOILERS IN THIS REVIEWThe Long Kiss Goodnight is yet another prime example of a common affliction of many modern films; it starts off on a very interesting concept - a trained assassin whose memory was erased regains consciousness of herself - and the initial setup is engaging but then it seems the writers don't know very well where to go next and the whole thing trails off down increasingly confusing and/or inane paths, leaving the disappointing taste of something that was OK but promised to be a lot better. The baddies are remarkably unremarkable, and even Jackson's comic sidekick turn seems more like something from his pre-Pulp Fiction days; it looks like Harlin, as in Cutthroat Island, made every effort so that no-one would upstage his then wife. Her character is by far the best of the film and this fact only makes you feel even more frustrated that they weren't able to do something better with it.However, there is still something about this film which for me sets it apart from the run-of-the-mill hollywood actioner and places it above average, if only just. It is something very subtle I can't quite put my finger on; it's a disturbing, cold, dark, even sickly edge, a nightmarish and unreal feel, a decadent air, a mean streak, which keeps cropping up in various ways. It's in the dark reddish photography and almost permanent night the characters dwell in, it's in Samantha's dreams in front of the mirror, it's in her vicious eyes and smile whenever she's about to kill a man or when she announces how she will enjoy watching her nemesis die with her daughter listening, it's in Mitch's comeback at the wheel of a car while he is spurting so much blood from his mouth he can hardly speak... I don't know, it's an atmosphere, something I can't define but which gives me the creeps (a bit) and which makes this film still oddly intriguing for me. "},{"Title":"Very Enjoyable Movie","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There has yet to be an action film created that did NOT have many, many holes in it regarding logic, plot, and believability.  Name any one and I can show you faults.  If it weren't somewhat unbelievable, and slightly unrealistic, it just wouldn't be fun.  Nuff said on that.  If you are a person who enjoys good action with comedy thrown in, this is the movie for you.  I seemed to miss it in the theaters, as many others, but caught it in the video rental.  I enjoyed this movie immensely and just purchased it on DVD.  Well worth the money in my opinion. But of course that's just my own. So if you are able to separate yourself somewhat from 'real life' and enjoy movies like Lethal Weapon, T1 & T2, grab this flick, sit back and enjoy. I promise you that you will never look at Gina Davis in the same light. "},{"Title":"Should be in the top ten for greatest action films of all time","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the most underrated film ever. If you want blockbuster size action this is your film. Geena Davis stars as Samantha Caine, a women who has amnesia and can only remembers as far as eight years back. But when a car accident and attempt on her life bring back her memory, she hires Mitch Henessey (Sam The Man Jackson) to help her find out her past and why people are trying to kill her. This film should have been a gigantic hit. This film literally bleeds action. It's one non stop roller coaster. Geena Davis is perfect. I can't think of a actress that kick this much butt since Linda Hamilton in T1 and T2. I don't why they haven't put her in more action films. She can do it all and more. Sam Jackson is Sam Jackson. He's cool, funny, will kick butt and take names if he has too plus he steals scenes. People don't give Renny Harlin the just due he is do. The man can make not good but great action films. Die Hard 2, Cliffhanger, and Deep Blue Sea are great films that display is feel for high impact action and adventure. If your in for a blockbuster non-stop action flick, The Long Kiss Goodnight will treat you so well you'll be asking for more. The most underrated action classic of all time.  "},{"Title":"Excellent action movie !!!!!","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Terrific movie If you did not watch yet, you must watch. Geena Davis and Samuel L. Jackson are amazing in this movie.Great actors + good story + incredible action scenes >  The Long Kiss Goodnight I give it a 10, A+, 4 stars. "},{"Title":"Highly entertaining action flick.","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the best action films I have seen.  Geena's portrayal of the tough as nails, 'Charly'/gentle mother 'Sam', was superb and  Samuel L Jackson just keeps you laughing all the way through, with his classic one liners. Sure, there were a few holes in the actual story, but this fast-paced flick keeps you on the edge of your seat to the end.I felt Geena was a perfect choice for the role of Sam/Charly and her versatility as an actress is evident for her role as the mother in the recent movie 'Stuart Little'.  Both Samuel and Geena were well supported by David Morse, Brian Cox, sweet little Yvonne Zima and newcomers, sexy Craig Bierko, and Melina Kanakaredes. This film accentuates the growing trend of strong female character and the diversion away from traditional male/female stereotypes as we see Sam/Charly (Davis) and Mitch (Jackson) hurtling from one disaster to the next.While I and many others loved this movie, it is fair to say that there will always be people that don't and that's fine - each, to their own. I highly recommend this film to action fans, for its hilarious scenes and fast-paced action.  "}{"Title":"Great action movie, great Samuel L. Jackson, WONDERFUL GEENA DAVIS!","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm an action movie fan but until today I've never  seen a preview or an ad for this movie in Italy, so I went to see The Long Kiss Goodnight on pay-TV hoping for nothing special.But, what a surprise! This movie is great! The only problem I found is the presence of some holes in the plot, but the rest is the most entertaining, intriguing and funny action movie ever made.The transformation of Samantha/Charly from ordinary wife-teacher to cool-blooded agent recovering from amnesia seems to be a good idea. The action scenes and the stunts are the best I've ever seen. Samuel L. Jackson adds some of the best lines I have ever heard and his chemistry with Geena Davis is good.And what about Geena? She is wonderful, she plays the best action heroine ever seen and does strong, convincing acting and fantastic stunts.So I think this movie had weak performances at box office and bad critics because most reviewers and some kind of public have a hard time with strong female lead roles.9/10. "},{"Title":"A Great Sleeper of an Action Picture","Date":"2 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Although roundly criticised for being too violent, it is clear that reviewers are holding this film to a double standard.  In truth it is not particularly violent, it is simply that reviewers have a hard time with active, strong female lead roles.  Geena Davis and Samuel L. Jackson are great (and sexy), the film making style is interesting, and the script is refreshingly free of sexist flourishes which seem to invade other women's action pics (eg the Alien pics).  Sometimes I just want to watch an action pic, and this is my favourite. "},{"Title":"How Many Times Can Trained Gunman Miss Their Target?","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I went into this film hoping for a suspenseful plot with a lot of action. I was not disappointed with the action. However, the plot was a tired James Bond type formula with a twist. The twist was there was a woman as the star who can always shoot or think her way out of any situation, no matter how preposterous. The problem for me was that the plot became so incredible that only the special effects were interesting. Yet, it was easy to watch from a no-brainer perspective. If you are looking for a movie to challenge your wits, forget this. But if you have home theatre, want to watch action and listen to explosions... pop some popcorn and rent this. "},{"Title":"not bad","Date":"29 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I rented this on DVD one night mainly because i liked the actors and i knew the director, i didn't really know what it was about. Many people call this an excellent film, while many others say it's terrible. Although i enjoyed this movie, I can understand the people who dislike it. This movie changes from being an excellent mystery thriller to an excellent action thriller. That change could have been a bit too radical for some. There are many people who hate over-the-top action films like this one, and when they realise, during the film, that this isn't an intense psychological thriller, but another action movie, they will be disappointed. They realise that this isn't the movie they expected from the scene when the guy in the prison starts swearing in anger seeing that Charly is still alive. But even those who like action with an interesting plot, will be disappointed with the ending. It's way too long, the disasters even become boring after a while, and the final explosion looks like the apocalypse in Terminator 2.Despite some inevitable flaws, this movie is guaranteed to entertain those who like action. And for those who like complicated and deep plots give it a try, your opinion on action films might change.    "},{"Title":"Just a good old fun time at the movies!","Date":"16 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  You can only either love this movie or detest it. I just absolutely love this movie! It is just way cool! It is hip, it is very humorous and full of action. Geena Davis plays a split-personality role to a hilt and with vigor. Samuel L Jackson adds hilarity and natural exuberance. Also look for Brian Cox who delivers one of the funniest lines ever in a movie... something he annoyedly observes about a little pet dog. "},{"Title":"Geena looks great and Long Kiss is Fab!","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I don't like people who criticise actresses or actors on the way they look. Whoever said that the UK has an expression of 'Nice legs shame about the face' (one I'VE never heard) Needs to know that looks do not matter. It is wheather they can act that counts. I live in the UK and have never heard that before in my life! Anyway, I personally think The Long Kiss Goodnight is one of Geena Davis's best movies. She proves that she is as capable of playing an action hero as Bruce Willis or Arnold Scwarzenegger, probably better! It's so rare to get a movie with a tough heroin nowadays. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Sam is the frikkin' man","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film has some of the best Sam Jackson lines I have ever heard. It was directed by Renny Harlin who gave us Deep Blue Sea another film with Jackson. The only problem I had about this flick was that Gina Davis just wasn't they perfect choice for the lead role, but she does a good job. "},{"Title":"one of the best","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the best action movies ever made. Some of the stunts in that film were awesome. Like when Jeena Davis and Samual L Jackson jumped out of the window of the train station with the flames right behind them. *** out of ****. A must watch for action junkies "},{"Title":"The best action movie ever","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is without any question the best action movie I've ever seen. Entertaining, cool, sympathetically, very funny, full of suspense and temper, fast and gorgeous, simply perfect. When it got released they had paid 3 Million Dollar just for the script, and I tell you it was worth every cent of it. If you have the slightest sense for action movies such as Die Hard (but its not only a pure action movie like the later), try this one!  "},{"Title":"Better than it seems","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I watched this film again the other night (I bought it when it first came out on video) and am still impressed by how much it entertains me. Yes- the plot has huge holes in it. Yes- the action has us believe that a whole force of bad guys can't shoot for s**t and Yes- it has some contrived and cliche'd moments. But hey, what Arnold Schwartzenegger/Sly Stallone/Bruce Willis action film doesn't? What they don't have is Geena Davis, who brings the vulnerabilities and sensities of a woman to a role that would have simply been portrayed as another man with gun-shoots and kills character as played by a man. Geena Davis does a great job of being funny, confident, tough, weak and a whole myriad of emotions to this role. Samuel Jackson is also great and I found the chemistry to be a good one. This is a great action movie and has some fantastic stunts in it. I always enjoy watching this film and would recommend it to everyone. One of my favorite scenes by the way is when Brian Cox is telling Gladys to curb her dog's eating habits. It's a hoot!! "}{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was so excited when this movie came out, it had such promise but the movie was seriously disappointing.  Firstly when Samuel.L Jackson and Geena Davis were running through the train station as several guys firing there automatic weapons at them from point blank range with nothing in the way was beyond a joke.  The action and events throughout the movie was simply slow and average.  Most of all I thought all directors knew that the viewing public are sick of the I thought you were dead hero routine because I became furious when Samuel instead of having a heroic death comes back with cornball Hollywood style.    "},{"Title":"All the old cliches","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was really impressed with the first 3/4 of this film - Samuel L. Jackson has some great lines, and he delivers them like only he can - but at the end it just devolves into your typical Hollywood actioner, like you've seen a hundred times before. Gun-toting baddies who couldn't hit a barn door at 2 metres but a crack shot hero, heroes sustaining multiple wounds but refusing to die, the bad guy you think is dead - but isn't, LCD explosion timer countdowns... yawn! "},{"Title":"Beautiful Geena, Lots of action","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I first saw this movie I got excited by the action and missed some other important factors, like the political issue and the mother - daughter relationship, also there still remains the important matter about this kind of special agents trained by someone, who can freak - out in any minute and make a killing just like that. Is not that something to think about?.Any way please do see this movie, it is not Rambo - Girl but improved special effects can make you feel also a beautiful woman can be more than a Lethal Weapon.Thank God the FBI is not really the turk they seem in this movie "},{"Title":"Simply the best action-film of the '90th","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you want to see the very best action-movie of this century - then The Long Kiss Goodnight is the one. Geena Davis and Samuel L. Jackson shows their very best peace of acting. Simply just find a movie to see it - or rent it at a video-store. "},{"Title":"Geena proves she's a class act action star","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  For action movie fans this is one to see and it has a very decent plot for a film in this genre.  But the real reason to see this film is to watch Geena in a role type she was born to play - The Action Hero.  Cutthroat Island only gave a brief glimpse of her brilliant take on this type of role but this film gives Geena the chance to show us a tough, gritty, confident and very sexy action figure and she shines brightly. Samuel Jackson is Geena's unwilling sidekick and, as such, provides a good taut believable performance. I don't think I've ever seen a file of his that I haven't liked; can you? One more comment I hope to see GD in more roles like this. "},{"Title":"A Great Ride","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Renny Harlin's consistently action-packed, funny, and very enjoyable The Long Kiss Goodnight is one big ride at the movies.Geena Davis plays Samantha Caine, a housewife with amnesia. Unfortunately, the new memory that begins to flood back to her is a second life she led as a lethal assassin named Charly eight long years ago. She hires a private eye (played wonderfully by Samuel L. Jackson) to uncover her past. They do, and lots of big-budget, explosive trouble ensues.The Long Kiss Goodnight is constantly topping itself in the action department, it has some surprising laugh out loud humor, and, as mentioned earlier, it's a great ride. Rated R. 120 minutes. 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Great entertainment - action and laughs!","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I first saw this movie about three years ago and I don't know how many times since, but it never fails to entertain me.    It was good to see a strong female action role, Geena Davis was excellent as the PTA mother and deadly assassin.  Samuel Jackson, well what can I say, he is a very talented and gifted actor who can deliver drama, action and comedy .. But then I'm biased I always enjoys his roles regardless.Both actors looked as though they enjoyed making this movie, but then they had a great story-line, with loads of action and one-liners. "},{"Title":"The best action dialogues I've ever known","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  That was really one of the best action movies I've ever seen. And the dialogues are really good. Of course as any action film it resembles fantasy from time to time. But what the hell! This is really an excellent movie. You want to have fun and tickle your nerves? Watch it! "},{"Title":"Entertaining, if nothing else...","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you listened to this with your eyes closed you'd think,'Why is Bruce Willis talking in a woman's voice?'', before realising it's not Die Hard 4, but The Long Kiss Goodnight. Yes, it's yet another 'action' film that is actually a load of people being shot by the so-called 'heroes'. But what makes this notable is that it's Geena Davis here slaughtering the bad guys and muttering tough quips, like the oh-so-feminist 'suck my d**k!'. when the bad guys are after her.Directior Renny Harlin, and presumably Davis herself think women can only appear tough if they are mean, swear constantly and try and be men. But was Ripley from Aliens like that? No sir. Although other reviews here say there is a lot of action, there really isn't until the end - this is an action thriller rather that just an action movie. The stuff at the climax - fist fights, helicopters, mine shafts, loads of baddies and the biggest explosion you've ever seen (really) are worth hangin' around for. Oh, and Samuel L. Jackson is hilarious. "},{"Title":"the ultimate action film","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This has got to be one of the best action films ever made. Whereas, the action may be unrealistic - frankly who cares - each scene has action which is taken to a higher level. Forget the flaws, just watch the film, and it will take your breath away. "}{"Title":"my favorite.","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is one of the best movies I have ever seen! Geena Davis and Samuel L. Jackson are perfect for their roles.Davis plays a woman, Samantha, who suffers from amnesia, she only remembers the past 8 years of her life. Jackson plays the detective that Samantha hires to find out about her past. The best thing in this movie is all the cool lines. The dialog between Davis and Jackson are really great! Everyone should watch this movie! "},{"Title":"The best *female* starring action flick ever","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Think back, hard Do you remember seeing a (good) action flick with a female lead (don't count barb wire, cuz that sucked)?Well, here's the best almost anyone could think of. Gena Davis, beautiful wife of Renny Harlen, the perfect person for this pic. Especially after coming off that crappy Cutthroat Island. The action was great, the humor was great, the script wasn't perfect, but the action and characters carry it beyond the script. The baddy was well played, but will never outdo Sam Jackson as the detective who always seems to be in the wrong place at the wrong time. If chefs do that, I'd hate to have to hire a cook.I'd love to either see a sequel of another female-starring flick (thinks Tomb Raider) of this caliber. If you haven't seen it, I'm sure you can tell by all the positive reviews above that this is a MUST SEE on anyone's list. "},{"Title":"Superb action, superb humour","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Long Kiss Goodnight is a classic action film. It has loads of action with superbly executed stunts and effects. It also has a surprisingly large amount of humour especially from Samuel L Jackson who is superb in the role of Mitch Hennesy.Geena Davies is also superb in the title role as the assassin with amnesia a great film and one of my all time favourite action films. "},{"Title":"THIS MOVIE ROCKS!!!","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Long kiss offers us on a plate great action and comedy intermixed with a very dodgy storyline that at most times doesn't hold up. None the less it's not a movie to be thrown aside as another mindless Hollywood actioner, it's above that (just!). Davis for once returns to form after some lacklustre performances in the past. But it is without a doubt she is overshadowed by the sheer quality of one Mr L.Jackson, who at the moment can't do a thing wrong, but still his role almost feels like a rewrite from 'Die hard with a vengeance'. Still it's a great movie to watch to either see Davis in full on Bond mode, Jackson in a typical role or just to kill some time before watching something more thrilling like a proper Bond movie. With a certainty I would say this movie rocks!!!    "},{"Title":"Not bad action film, but with many short-falls","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  An action film of average quality. A dodgy plot though let down what was otherwise a good picture. S. L. Jackson played a very good part as per usual, and kept the movie rolling along at a good pace.All in all, not bad - worth seeing if given the chance.  "},{"Title":"The greatest action-adventure film of all time","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I had thought that Renny Harlin had peaked when he directed Cutthroat Island, one of the best movies of all time.  I was wrong.  The Long Kiss Goodnight exceeded even that in greatness.As in Cutthroat Island, Geena Davis returns as the archetypal super-woman. Only this time, the catch is that she doesn't realize it.  With comic relief provided by the one, the only, Samuel L. Jackson, the two characters provide a one-two punch of movie-going madness that will rivet you in your seat until the credits roll.The greatness of the film lies in the uniquely Harlinesque balance between believability and impossibility.  What is NOT important is that he crosses this line, and in fact the viewer wants exactly that.  An example of this is when Davis shoots through the frozen lake with a machine-gun while falling from a great hight.  Now, as somebody who has gone ice-fishing on more than one occassion, I can tell you with great confidence that shooting through a lake is not going to break your fall.  But that doesn't matter!  Geena Davis can do it, and that's all that matters.  If you can allow yourself to enjoy this aspect of the movie, you will be captivated by the film and watch it many times over the years.If you liked this movie, try Cutthroat Island and Tremors.  "},{"Title":"Action, effects and laughs - an ideal combination.","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Last Kiss Goodnight is an entertaining and enthralling action thriller, with an amusing plot featuring the surprisingly excellent Geena Davis as a teacher, housewife and mother who discovers that before suffering amnesia, she had been a professional assassin. This premise for the movie provides all the biggest laughs, particularly when Davis warns one of her unfortunate students, whilst carrying a huge automatic weapon, tell anyone you've seen me and I'll blow your f&#133;..g head off. The second main character is played by Samuel L. Jackson, who as always exudes sheer class. It's a fun movie, catch it if you can.   "},{"Title":"The Way Too Long Kiss Goodnight","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is just plain stupid. It begins with a cozily over-decorated scene that makes one think of Disney, then segues a short while later into scenes that are so low-brow it makes one cringe. There are huge creditability problems with both characters and plot, and the dialogue is insane. It's no surprise it bombed at the box office.  "},{"Title":"best action film","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  this has got to be the best action film to date.while most don't have much plot to go on,the long kiss has a rock solid plot that gets more interesting as you go along. samuel l. jackson is perfect as the private snoop that helps geena davis fit the pieces to the puzzle. this is a must see for action nuts like myself. "},{"Title":"THE BEST ACTIONFLICK EVER!","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Great,great,great! I loved this film! Wow! I usually don't give movies 10 out of 10, but this is worth it! So worth it! Samuel L. Jackson in his best role since Pulp Fiction and Geena Davis is a brilliant action heroine! Once again Great,great,great! "}{"Title":"Smart action film","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I had seen it before, and liked it.  Just saw it again, and I liked it some more.  If I recall correctly, this film didn't do too well in theaters, but I'm not sure why.  It's got some great action and Samuel L. Jackson.  What more could you ask for?  Ok, well, the story is just okay - the whole government trained assassin is kind of common, but I thought the amnesia angle was fairly clever.  Some parts of the story were hokey, and the villains weren't much to talk about.  But, still, very entertaining film. And I wouldn't mind giving Geena Davis a long kiss goodnight. "},{"Title":"Enough to keep anyone up.","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What a movie to stumble on to when you can't sleep.  The first time I saw this movie I came in when Sam/Charly was on the wheel.  I watched it to the end and it left me wondering what had happened in the beginning.  A few months passed and I saw it in the middle again.  I finally rented the movie and saw the whole thing.  I loved this movie so much I bought it.  I think Craig Bierko is awesome as the bad guy. Geena Davis is what every woman wants to be and Samual Jackson is a nut job who keeps you laughing all the way to the end.  Great job!!!!!   "},{"Title":"Funny Flick","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I saw this film upon release, I thought it was dull, slow and made little sense. Plus the action wasn't very convincing. However, when viewed on my VCR, this flick just moved. I found myself watching with a big smile the whole way through. Sam Jackson was hilarious, Geena Davis was strong and the action was spectacular. Shane Black's script just kept spitting out one-liners. Renny Harlin, at least for me, seems to have the ability to make films that have more than meets the eye. With Die Hard 2, Cliffhanger and Cutthroat Island, I thought they were boring and pathetic. But after a while, I gave them all a second chance, and they just got better. This is definitely a fun film, and deserves repeated viewings. Shane Black is just the master at action with great dialogue. Funny stuff. "},{"Title":"The Blonde Identity","Date":"17 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A film that was mis-marketed right from the very start. Don't get me wrong about the trailer, it was amazing, climaxing with Enigma's 'The Eyes of Truth', which was my first encounter with the wonderful sounds of Michael Cretu, but releasing an Xmas movie right in the middle of fall, when the audience was already exhilarated by a summer roster of Mission Impossible, Twister, The Rock, ID4, and Eraser was a bad move.I personally saw TLKG at a preview screening on Saturday the 23rd of November at the now derelict Odeon cinema in Edinburgh. It was sold out, but the word-of-mouth New Line were hoping for wasn't generated, despite the audience loving it, and the film debuted at Number 3 before it sank like a stone.The plot may seem overly familiar with fans of Robert Ludlum's Bourne series. Samantha Caine is a woman suffering from amnesia. She lives a quiet, cozy life as a school teacher with young daughter and boyfriend. Her body is covered in scars, but she has no clue how they got there. Private Detectives have tried and failed to uncover her past, until low-life sleazeball Mitch Hennessy makes some key connections. A cycloptic psycho also turns up at her front door with a shotgun intent on killing her though she manages to snap his neck without effort.Gradually, and then all-of-a-sudden, her full memory and identity comes back. She's actually Charlie Baltimore, an assassin working for the government who was cut down in the line of duty and thrown into the Atlantic with a baby in her belly. Before she can make peace with herself and accept her true identity she must foil a hokey plot involving a fake terrorist attack designed to scare Congress into inflating the security budget (something that would never happen in real life, obviously).What lets the film down is an unappealing, dreary performance from lead villain Craig Bierko, who incorporates the worst of Billy Zane and Ben Affleck (no offense to Zane, every offense to Affleck) with a deeply annoying voice. This is also the film that made Shane Black back away from the film industry for a long while. His scripts selling for high price alienated him, which is kind of unfair. I like Shane Black, but his dialogue can get on my nerves sometimes. Endless sarcasm doesn't necessarily make it 'snappy' or 'wisecracking' and I think it can lessen the integrity of the plot.Director Renny Harlin (who was lucky enough to be married to the gorgeous Geena Davis at the time) turns in another workman-like effort, neither good nor terrible. The remote, snowy locations look lovely, and the action is violent and bloody, but it's lacking a real edge that makes it a classic. Alan Silvestri's score could have been a lot better too. He's obviously an amazing composer but I can't help but think he was the wrong choice for this film. Someone like Poledouris or Goldsmith could have improved its lasting appeal. It seems like he's just recycled some cues from Eraser and his rejected Mission Impossible score. And what's with the saxophones? Completely inappropriate or what? It's a great film for women as the female-empowerment angle and total re-invention theme can be easily identified with, but beyond that...it's merely an above-average actioner. "},{"Title":"Not a bad movie, just nothing new and special","Date":"7 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In her final attempt to make a blockbuster lead, Geena Davis stars as an ordinary housewife with a kid, suffering from amnesia, who finds out she was once a top secret governmental killer and now some old friends have found her. This is not a bad movie at all; just nothing special happens here.It has a fine amount of shootings, blood, dead bodies, one-liners, big explosions, cool bad guys etc. - just nothing substantial and nothing new and as a result nothing that could really attract the viewer. A good craftsmanship, but nothing that stays longer in your memory. A perfect example why Harlin and Davis never actually reached stardom, or anything close. "},{"Title":"One of the most impressive and most underrated action movies of the 1990's.","Date":"6 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" An woman in her mid-thirties by the name of Samantha Caine (Oscar-WinnerGeena Davis), who doesn't know her identity. Since she has amnesia and not knowing, who's the father of her child (Yvonne Zima). Samantha is now living normal life as a school teacher and living with a caring boyfriend (Tom Amandes). Then Samantha is slowly finding out about her past with pieces of her memories coming back now and then. But her mysterious former employers wants her dead. She finds herself pursued by hi-tech assassins from a corrupted government. Samantha is helped by a low rent, wise-cracking private detective (Samuel L. Jackson). Who's helping her to uncover her past before they turn up dead.Directed by Renny Harlin (A Nightmare on Elm Street 4The Dream Master, Cliffhanger, Cutthroat Island) made an extremely entertaining action film that knows how to thrill the audiences. But unfortunately this movie was an box office disappointment, due of a bad release date. But like most films, it did find life on video. The plot might seems hokey and far fetched for some tastes but Shane Black (Kiss Kiss Bang Bang, Lethal Weapon, The Last Boy Scout) script does work well enough to overcome certain flaws. This has some of the most spectacular action sequences ever filmed. This has an terrific score by Alan Silvestri (Back to the Future Trilogy, Forrest Gump, Predator) and Dazzling Visual Effects. A must for action fans. Larry King plays himself in a cameo near the closing credits. Super 35. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"Amnesiac Geena Davis goes tough long before the Bourne Identity","Date":"7 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When I first saw this movie, I was stunned by Geena Davis' transformation from soccer mom to assassin. In the 10 years since it came out, I have either been hardened or have grown up, because it just views like sheer entertainment. I think it was ahead of its time, and would do better if released today.I remember being the most shocked by Davis' screamed epithet at the climax. Now it's just witty, more than anything else.Here's the irony -- the same guy that mentored her was the government benefactor of Treadstone in the Bourne Identity, which had a similar premise. Come to think of it, this must be a direct ripoff of Bourne.Highly recommended in retrospect! "},{"Title":"pretty impressive","Date":"17 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Usually, a movie about an amnesiac woman discovering that she was once an assassin would have to be a litany of idiocy. The Long Kiss Goodnight actually has a plot. When amnesiac single mom Samantha Caine (Geena Davis) learns about her past - and specifically that her real name is Charly Baltimore - she finds a bunch of people chasing her, with only Mitch Hennessey (Samuel L. Jackson) on her side. There are some improbable scenes that we would expect in an action movie, but it does a good job overall. Renny Harlin had previously directed Geena Davis in the box office disaster Cutthroat Island, which I heard stunk. If so, then they sure made up for it here. Nothing particularly special, but worth seeing. "},{"Title":"OK action comedy that wavers","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Old-fashioned comedy action flick with a twist A government secret agent has amnesia, and regains bits of memory with the help of a sympathetic if somewhat bewildered cop -- only this government agent is a woman, and during her lengthy period of amnesia, she has had a kid and is living the life of a suburban mom. Now the government seemingly wants her dead. Geena Davis stars as the agent, and Sam Jackson is the cop. Jackson is the perfect foil in this one, in a loosey-goosey role I have never seen him play before or since. Davis plays it strictly tongue in cheek, and goes from being a bland, long-haired brunette to a smudge-eyed blonde with a butch cut. And a butch attitude to match. Lots of shootouts, explosions, car crashes and raw language, which I would gladly have seen exchanged for more humor. The movie soon loses its way in this regard, and in the end we have a TERMINATOR/TRUE LIES-style second half and finale that could have easily been jettisoned. The very final shot momentarily restores the film's goofy sense of humor, but it is too little too late. One way or the other, TLKG is to be taken about as seriously as HUDSON HAWK, especially when certain sidekicks appear to rise from the dead. I have a feeling this box office failure and that awful pirate movie helped kill Davis' once-promising career. Getting divorced from Jeff Goldblum and marrying hack director Renny Harlin (who directed both this one and that awful pirate movie) probably didn't help, either. "},{"Title":"Over the top but entertaining entertainment","Date":"13 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Renny Harlin is one of those directors that aren't ever expected to amount to anything above average, and his films back up this accolade. Harlin's movies are just there for entertainment value and nothing else; but then again, while they're not brilliant, Harlin obviously does know how to entertain his audience. Well, I suppose it does just depend on who his audience is, as art fans and pretentious people in general are likely to be less than impressed; but I like films like this. I don't rate them as being among the best of what cinema has to offer, but they give me a chance to turn my brain off and enjoy myself for two hours or so, so how can that be a bad thing? As throwaway entertainment goes, this film isn't bad at all. The movie doesn't really have a plot, it just has a premise and a few plot devices; but nevertheless, it follows a housewife who suffers from amnesia. After discovering that she can chop carrots really fast, and after a near fatal meeting with some unknown bad guy; she decides to find out what she once was, so, with a private eye in tow; she begins her mission to discover that she was once a government assassin.The fact that the odd looking Geena Davis hasn't made all that many films is definitely a good thing in my opinion. It is unfortunate, however, that in the few movies she has made; one of them was one of my all time favourites; The Fly. I don't know exactly what it is about her, but every moment she is on screen is irritating. Maybe it's because of her lack of talent, or maybe it's because she looks like she just walked off a fifties sitcom; I don't know! Anyway, she was definitely miscast in this film, and looks very uncomfortable in the role of an action hero. Thank god, then, that Samuel L. Jackson; surely one of the most talented screen actors still working today, is on hand to offset the rubbish female lead. Sam does his usual thing, and as usual; it's very good. His quick fire one-liners are largely funny and it's always a delight to see him on screen. The action in the movie comes thick and fast, with several massively over the top, but fun, stunts including a 'Speed' style 'bomb on bus;' sequence (except it was an articulated lorry) and several car chases and shoot-outs. On the whole, this isn't a film that you should seek out because it's not good enough, but if you haven't got anything better to do; there's worse throwaway films than this. "}{"Title":"Typical action flick, but not bad","Date":"5 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Renny Harlin... the name didn't mean much to me until recently. I used to think of him as that guy who was the first to lead the Die Hard franchise towards its(somewhat inevitable but still unfortunate) downfall. After seeing this, I might seriously have to consider seeing more of his films. The plot is fairly good, though it is by no means original. Hero has no memory, past catches up with him/her(in this case, her) and the rest of the film is about him/her figuring out said past. Somehow, Harlin makes it seem fresh and new... though I guess writer Shane Black had his part in this as well. The pacing is very good, though one or two scenes in the film seem to drag out unnecessarily. The acting is mostly good... just about every big part is well-played. Geena Davis(who I don't believe I have seen in any other movie, though the name rings a bell) gives a pretty good performance as the dual-personality main character. Jackson is, unsurprisingly, very good. Yvonne Zima is the baby sister of Madeleine Zima(from The Hand That Rocks the Cradle and The Nanny) and... well, I guess talent runs in the family. She does a great job, considering she must have been, what, 7, maybe 8 years old when the film was shot. Craig Bierko(who I recognized almost instantly from The Thirteenth Floor) is great. The action is great. High intensity and nicely stylized. The film is thoroughly entertaining, partly due to the action, but also because of the humor. In a word, it's great. Some of the jokes and gags fall flat, but only in the most rare cases. The dialog is well-written and often quotable. The film is pretty much worth watching if you're into the standard action film... not much new stuff in this one, but the way it's done makes it all come together nicely. I recommend this to fans of Renny Harlin, any member of the cast and/or action flicks. 7/10 "},{"Title":"even my mom loves this film","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Geena Davis and Samuel Jackson make a great on-the-road pair trying to solve the mystery of her past before they get killed. The electricity between these actors turn this action movie into good comedy. The support cast adds great favor to the movie. It is the strangest Christmas movie I've seen and loved. I've shown it to movie fans who do not as a rule care for violence in movies, most are so taken by the story and this couple that they pass on this little gem. Samuel Jackson Fans Samuel Jackson as Mitch the low-rent private eye is worth the viewing time alone, he manages to make the most impossible situations real, terrifying and funny. "},{"Title":"Very silly, yes, but also - to my surprise - highly amusing","Date":"13 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When Renny is talked about, people remember the bad stuff. I, too. But this is a good film, of which I wasn't aware before seeing it. Its being good, I mean.The movie's terribly funny. The semi-parodic or just otherwise very amusing dialogue by the Shane Black guy, who's made a fortune writing, I just learned, is among the funniest I have witnessed in an action film. The immense silliness of the plot is also enjoyable, but may bother some people. Is this a parody? It almost seems that way, but I don't know. The Craig Bierko character in particular feels like a part of a parody, but that might just be his acting.The second half of the film is a bit worse as far as entertainment goes; the best dialogue is in the first half as well.While Sam Jackson is once again very good, it is the slightly underused Brian Cox that is the crème de la crème. Incidentally, the couple of child actors here fail in the only thing expected from a child actor they are irritating. Geena is tolerable. In the beginning we learn that hers ain't a voice for an -over, though.What? That does it? Yeah, okay, I'll go now. The best and definitely the funniest Renny I've seen this is. "},{"Title":"My favorite of its type","Date":"9 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I loved this film. Yes, one must be willing to suspend reality for the duration, but it has, at very least, some of the best and funny lines I've ever heard. From the 'the song isn't about linen' to, most notably Brian Cox...in the first scene in which he's featured, talking to 'Alice' (btw, who was she again?) about her dog.I laugh out loud at the mere memory of BC's timing and delivery This is by far my favorite bad film ) I positively love it.Its an action film, its a comedy..its nothing serious and entirely entertaining. "},{"Title":"When mommy goes bananas","Date":"30 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" If it wasn't for the humor and Samuel L. Jackson playing in it, I would probably never have finished this movie. I don't mind watching an action movie, but I do want at least a bit of realism and if there is something this movie completely lacked, it must be realism. Big guns and explosions, car chases, a few thousand bad guys and only one good woman to stop them, YES. Realistic, not really.At first this movie seems completely normal. You see a caring housewife, happy with her work, kid and boyfriend. Her only problem is that she suffers from amnesia. But than it all goes completely over the top. The housewife appears to be a secret agent / government assassin. As she tries to recover the missing parts of her past, she is chased by her ex-employers, who want her dead.If it wasn't for Samuel L. Jackson in it, this movie would probably have gone by completely unnoticed, but I have to admit that the man is a real pro. Even though it probably isn't his best performance ever, you will not be disappointed by it. The other actors are OK, but certainly not as good as Jackson. All in all this is a movie I'll soon be forgotten. Therefor I give it a 5,5/10. I expected a lot more. "},{"Title":"Renny Harlin does it again!","Date":"7 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" SPOILER WARNING This is just one giant fun roller coaster from start to end. I have to say I almost never have seen a movie as good as this! It could have been slightly better if Renny had focused a bit more on Charly's split personality. The way she suddenly managed to melt together her two personalities when her daughter were taken, was a little to easy.END SPOILER.Still it is probably one of the best action movies ever made. It had that nerve that is so important in an action movie. The feeling of. Does this end well?!!!! Gena Davis performed very believably as the slightly schizophrenic Charlene Elizabeth Baltimore. And Samuel L. Jackson was as always excellent!If you haven't seen this one, you better do it soon! It will leave you breathless!!! "},{"Title":"Not quite hitting the spot - moderate SPOILERS but no details.","Date":"23 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Long Kiss Goodnight is entertaining, but it doesn't smack of originality and I think it rather misses the spot. First of all there's the whole amnesia thing, which has really been done to death. Every now and again you get a new film with an interesting take on the topic, but THIS ISN'T IT. Then there are the characters themselves. We briefly see Brian Cox in a brilliant role as an unsympathetic husband, but he sort of drifts away and I think we should see more of him. Samuel. L. Jackson puts in a good, solid performance - he usually does - but Geena Davis could be better in my opinion. OK, perhaps it's not her fault, but I find her character a bit uninspiring, both before and after its transformation.One thing I do object to is the inclusion of Annoying Children in action films like this. Yes, children are sometimes essential to a plot. They arose protective parental instincts and are often the tools of hideous villains. Some children can have seriously cool characters - see About A Boy. But Annoying Children are mega limp, and as I see it the kid in Long Kiss Goodnight could do with bucking up a bit. She comes up with such helpful comments as, 'Mummy, it's cold in here', (well, of course it's cold in here, you little idiot; you've just been locked by bad guys in a giant freezer intended to reduce you both to ice statues/corpses.)Then again, I guess the child is pretty important in waking up our main character's 'nice side' and getting her out of Utter B**** mode. But I still think that being nice to children in films is about on par with rescuing helpless animals - a cheap and easy way to prove that our spiky character is Alright Really.Despite these complaints, the action is fast, the special effects are cool and it's probably worth a go. 6 out of 10. Ko, Izzy. "},{"Title":"Not a Geena Davis fan BUT...","Date":"7 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Normally, I wouldn't even consider watching a movie starring Geena Davis but I pot caught this one in progress on cable one day and became thoroughly engrossed in the movie.  It didn't hurt that Samuel L. Jackson was in the movie who is one of my favorites and also actor Bryan Cox whom I will always remember as the original Hannibal Lechter.  The story was riveting and the action was nonstop and believable if a little bit on the fantastic side.  But one shouldn't expect anything less than fantastic from an action movie.      SPOILERS The direction was also taut and inventive.  Scenes that stand out for me are when Davis realizes that she can chop vegetables quickly without cutting herself, and the torture scene with the waterwheel and her ingenious escape. OK, I admit that her torturer (I wish I remembered the guy's name.  David something or other)was a bit of a stupid side leaving a corpse with a loaded weapon for our heroine to kill him but I guess people can forget things and do stupid things. The scene following this win Samuel L. Jackson is rescued I found particularly clever in the way it was plotted out. While he is tied up beneath the floorboards, Samuel can only hear gunshots and rapid footsteps and can only see shadows.  What follows is the image of a backlit Davis at the top of the stairs to the attic as Samuel L. Jackson's rescuer, guns at the ready in both hands.Now I mentioned before that I am not a fan of Geena Davis and part of the reason for that is I find your physically unappealing, but that is no reason to judge her acting. Besides, even unattractive people make love with one another and Samuel L. is no hunk either, so it plays for me.It is the film that sells it for me and this one is a great actioner.  But I must say that I am still not impressed with the acting talents of Geena Davis.  She is annoying most times, but this script within twists and turns and nonstop action make it a great entertainment. "},{"Title":"Renny; product of Hollywood (no spoilers)","Date":"23 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is from the same director as 'Cliffhanger' and it really shows.  In watching both these movies, you may find yourself asking,I wonder how much money they spent on this?  The answer is NOT ENOUGH. Poorly written, every stunt is completely unbelievable and always leaves you with the feeling of -oh come on now.  The flaws are too many to list.  The highlight in this film is Jackson.  He has the best lines and always the appropriate delivery.  If you make it through this movie, watch at the end when he gives this look to the kid after she shouts from the front seat of the fleeing car don't hit the cars!! Even he can't believe the lines that were written for this movie.  Could've easily been a PG-13 but they say $hit and fu*k a couple times to make it 'edgy'.  The worst part is that Hollywood has given 'Exorcist 4The Beginning' (creative title huh?) to this poor excuse for a director.  If this is the kind of work we can expect, the legacy of those movies is truly over. "},{"Title":"A somewhat confused action film","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" SPOILERSThis film sounded like it has a lot going for it well, an interesting sounding plotline involving an amnesia-suffering ex-governement assassin, Samuel L Jackson and Geena Davies. Ineveitable comparisons to other female action heroes such as Sigourney Weaver's Ripley and Demi Moore's GI Jane are bound to be brought up with this mid-90s dose of another early spin on teh action movie genre. The storyline itself is not so bad..it is the manner in which Renny Harlin directs the action. Whereas Moore and Weaver before her, were clearly masculinised women, Davies seems to be almost intersexual and this comes across as if the director, Davies real life partner, is trying too hard to give the audience something new and radical - a woman who can be both feminine and masculine. When Davies is playing Samantha (mother to a young girl with a happy homelife and a job as a kindergarten teacher), she seems more at ease than when she is playing Charlene (The pre-amnesia governement assassin, asigned to a failed job and then ordered to be killed). Charlie is the total opposite to Samantha and Davies playsa Jekyll and Hyde character whose unpredictability  becomes very irritating. Also, there is a certain eroticism of the protagonist. This is demonstrated in the unneccessary shower scenes. I think it is easy to say that HArlin wanted to create the action hero that the characters in Charlies Angels have later come to represent. Women who have boyfriends waiting for them to lcook the dinner at home and do the washing up but also who are able to go out and kick ass as good as any man during the day. But lines such as Suck my cock, tend to throw all his hard work and effort back in his face. Suchcontradictions suggest that she is actually more man than woman. And when yo usee her breaking the deer's neck near the start of the movie, it almost kicks off with you not having much sympathy for this character. MAybe preferential treatment led to the miscasting of Davies in this role. She is by no means an awful actress but she has certainly been better than this and her acting sometimes borders on the hammy. Samuel L Jackson does better and has some choice lines but the script and the storyline itself does the film no favours. It is definitely entertaining and i did laugh!! Probably not when i should have been, but hey - i watche dit through to the end and that means that it isnt that awful. BUt i think it is one of those iflms that will have gender theorists going mental all over the place!!  "}{"Title":"Pure Trash","Date":"17 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If it weren't for the well-staggered dates on the other user reviews I would swear they were written by a studio representative, if not `auteur' Renny Harlin himself. Sorry folks, this is not a good movie... it isn't fun, or a guilty pleasure, or ahead of its time. It is disposable action trash as bad as they come. A Geena Davis stunt double in an action sequence is not `proto-feminism,' just another sign you're in a dead-end fight flick.I like Geena Davis, I really do, and it's a testament to her personality that she survived this film without becoming the most hated woman in Hollywood. The plot is a variation on the action classic `Le Femme Nikita,' (a truly great female action film) that finds Geena Davis as an amnesia-stricken mother and wife. After a revelation involving a kitchen knife and every vegetable in the lettuce crisper (don't ask), she begins to discover her past she was a trained assassin who is now wanted dead. What follows is aggressively bad acting (from Craig Bierko's deranged sadist to David Morse's dusty nihilist), nauseatingly implausible action sequences (watch Geena toss her daughter through a hole in the wall into a treehouse and try not to laugh) and brazen theft from other contemporary hits- namely Samuel L. Jackson, whose character's seemingly only purpose is to lend the film a pulp funk. (Just check out his subtle and witty `Assfucking' speech.)But don't blame Jules; this is a collective failure here, across the boards, as Geena goes from soccer-Mom to ice-blooded murderess in a loud, brazen, manipulative mess. If you like being kidnapped and beaten by your captives, you will LOVE `The Long Kiss Goodnight' "},{"Title":"Lousy film...Harlin/Davis duo proves to be dreadful...again","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am surprised with all of the positive feedback I have read on this film from imdb.com members. I cannot pull out a single redeeming thing about Long Kiss Goodnight. Perhaps Brian Cox and Samuel Jackson have a couple of humorous moments, but everything else about it is terrible. Action film directors should never try too hard to explore the human side of their heroes because it almost always fails. There were some painful scenes involving Geena Davis (who is in no way a competent action heroine) having to juggle being an inherently cold-blooded assassin and a loving wife and mother. She fails miserably...as does the movie. Jackson and Cox may have lines that illicit a chuckle or two...but the real laugh out loud scenes are the ones involving Davis' character trying to be as serious as possible...The scene involving her daughter pleading to her to wake from an unconscious state is especially painful to watch. This is a terrible film. I cannot imagine how anyone would give it a positive review. "},{"Title":"I kept expecting Joel and the robots from MST3K","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was satisfied under the circumstances since the main reason why I saw it was so I could see Geena Davis kick some serious ass (and in short hair no less). Unfortunately, this movie made me laugh unnecessarily, like...- when she kills a dear with her bare hands...no kiddin'- the scene where the old drunk gets murdered by said dear- when she and Samuel L. Jackson outrun a giant fireball....not once, but twice in fact! - when Jackson dons a golfing suit - when both Davis and Jackson come back from the dead.....whooooooooooo (ghost sounds) - when nice guy David Morse decides to do...the torture thing- the scene where she can cook....like a CIA agent! - a naked Samuel L. Jackson gets rescued by Davis...I don't know why its so funny, he just has this oh my knight in shining armor look in his eyes.- that kid....that annnnoyyyyying kid!!!! BTW, did anyone notice the reference to a CIA conspiracy to blow up the WTC and blame it on Muslims so they could get funding..... That's the most serious part of the whole film...unfortunately, it's in this movie.  "},{"Title":"With the fast-moving and ultraviolent The Long Kiss Goodnight, Geena Davis and director Renny Harlin have rebounded neatly from that disastrous pirate movie that quickly sank the previous year.","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"   Harlin can't restrain himself, however, and lets this one go needlessly overboard with a climax that uses more explosives than the entire Korean War. Davis is immensely appealing as a kick-butt heroine who gets to do extreme physical things usually reserved for Bruce, Arnold and Jean Claude. Harlin should have had more faith in Davis and refrained from the excessive pyrotechnics. She plays mild-mannered teacher and muffin-baking mom, Samantha Caine, who just happens to have a slight case of amnesia. Samantha can't remember anything of her previous life, not even the father of her eight-year-old daughter. Well, fasten your apron strings. A nasty conk on the head following an accidental run-in with Bambi starts to stir up a mess of repressed things in Samantha's brain. The model housewife turns out to be no Martha Stewart, but a gun-toting variation on La Femme Nakita named Charly Baltimore. The former hit woman teams up with a wisecracking private eye to solve the attendant riddles about her past and to fight for her survival in the future. Samuel L. Jackson seems to be thoroughly enjoying himself as the sidekick. He gets most of the funny lines from the often inventive screenplay of Shane Black. This Kiss may be somewhat sloppy, but it delivers a blow from across the room. "},{"Title":"WOOW cool flick","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is such a cool movie. Some of the action scenes are really neat to watch. The acting was good. I wish more action movies were like this one. From the start to end it was cool. I recommend this movie to anyone who loves a good action movie. I was not disappointed at all! "},{"Title":"A woman spy who suffered amnesia and is running away from her old chums.","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It seems that Geena Davis likes starring in action films, she is perhaps the female version of Arnold Schwarzenegger or Bruce Willis. The plot of the film is not new, with several violent scenes, where Geena resists anything bad was coming over her. Samuel L. Jackson played a modest role in the film. The best of the film is the special effects, but the rest is available in other action films.   "},{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Action-packed thriller about a woman who finds about herself, 8 years prior to her life now... only trouble is homemaker Samantha Caine is really a government spy named Charly Baltimore!Geena Davis and Samuel L. Jackson are incredible in this film full of exploding trucks and full-on shoot outs!The script and storyline aren't (terribly) unrealistic, and funny also; the cast and acting are great and the special FX are mind-blowing! Rent this out NOW!  "},{"Title":"It's off-the-wall entertainment.","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's off-the-wall entertainment - I mean how director Renny Harlin has made his action movies and The Long Kiss Goodnight isn't completely similar to his past work (Die Hard 2, Cliffhanger).The story follows Geena Davis as Samantha Catlin, a sweet-hearted schoolteacher who suffers from amnesia, and raises a daughter with her boyfriend.  Catlin's past manages to catch up with her as she finds out from her current private investigator, Mitch (Samuel L. Jackson) that she used to be a top-notch C.I.A. assassin.  It isn't too long before the feds, led by Timothy (Craig Bierko) quickly make their presence and try to kill Catlin.Some of the characters that the tandem come upon for information like Dr. Nathan Waldman (Brian Cox) and Luke (David Morse) turn into very bland life-and-death situations.I felt irritated and helpless in finding out why Samantha and Mitch are being sought after.  The film's script, written by Shane Black (Lethal Weapon), provides the necessary thrills and humor yet it deserves a much better plot and lacks any real suspense.  Jackson himself provides most of the humor and the one line about people who fail in trying to get out of New Jersey is hilarious.  "},{"Title":"Should have been a cartoon","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  With all of the implausible, unbelievable, hilarious stunts this movie should have been a cartoon.  If movies and video games are indistinguishable to to you, then you'll love Long Kiss Goodnight.Good action doesn't have to be fake.  Unfortunately in Hollywood right now, as this movie proves, the recipe doesn't have too many ingredients.BTW, what about just shooting Geena Davis's character?  The way the bad guys let her live so many times it reminded me of a James Bond flick...or the parody in Austin Powers 1.  Just take her outside and shoot her in the head already.  Would have been a great cartoon. "},{"Title":"fun... but not memorable","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A Long Kiss Goodnight is another action vehicle with a promising start that eventually falls apart. The action scenes run the gamut from cool to the point of ridiculousness and the bad guy nemesis played by Craig Bieko is a throwaway. Maybe if the filmmakers had held some restrain on the over-the-top action scenes this could have been more of a dark atmospheric action flick instead of what it is a loud stupid action picture ever so common today. Fun, but forgettable.Real memorable movies are all about the right elements coming together and clicking. The Long Kiss Goodnight has some of the right elements to make a good action movie. It has both a capable director in Renny Harlin (Die Hard 2) and a capable action writer in Shane Black (who's writing credits include Lethal Weapon) and we have Samuel L. Jackson, the master of movie coolness to boot. Unfortunately Harlin is never able to inject any juice into the material, this is hardly Black's best writing and Jackson can only do so much. An action movie doesn't have to be realistic and believable, but it must be entertaining. The Long Kiss Goodnight is entertaining to a degree, but it can go from sharp to stupid very quickly. Not helping matters any is the minimal character development given in particular to the bad guys and of course the formula of having the good guys get repeatedly captured yet we know they'll escape.I applaud Geena Davis though for taking a risk on such a different project. I could stand to see her again in another and hopefully better action vehicle. Sweet sassy-molassy! She looks pretty fine. As for Samuel L. Jackson, at times he seemed like the only reason to continue watching. Some of his scenes are quite comical especially one with Ronny Cox that's just great. These bits help break up the downward slope this movie gradually takes. Final result is if you like gonzo action and don't mind a predictable plot on autopilot, you'll like this. Of course, if you're like minded, you expect slightly more than run of the mill action movie extravaganzas nowadays. "}{"Title":"Fun doesn't get much better","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is really fun. Davis has a tendency to be in really bad movies, but this one, I like. I love the transformation from ordinary wife-teacher to cool and horny agent chick. Great fun to watch Samuel L. Jackson gaping in disbelief at the same transition.There is not a moments relief, either. The action goes on and never stops until the very end. Great fun, and one of Harlin's few good movies. "},{"Title":"This is an excellent film!","Date":"11 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Definitely one of the greatest action films I have ever seen. The script was great and when the film has actors like Geena Davis and Samuel L. Jackson, well I just loved every second of it. I have seen the film about 10 times and I still love to watch it. This really is an excellent film and you all should go and rent it (or better yet buy it 'cos you are also going to love it)!   "},{"Title":"A great film that seemed to come out of nowhere","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I do not recall even hearing about the Long Kiss Goodnight as it was at the theaters. I first saw it while on a plane through one of those small video machines that some airlines provide for passengers. I was amazed at how good the film was, especially since I had not heard of it before.Geena Davis does an excellent job in the lead role of this action movie, and Samuel L. Jackson also gives an exceptional performance. The movie in type reminded me a lot of the Fugitive movie with Harrison Ford - in that - once each of these movies gets in gear, it is pretty much non-stop action for the remainder of the movie. Great action, great performances, and an interesting story line.  "},{"Title":"Nice action movie","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Consider that director Renny Harlin and wife Geena Davis made 'Cutthroat Island' only one year earlier and you almost have to call this movie good. It is definitely a lot better than 'Cutthroat' and for a movie that is filled with action sequences it is pretty entertaining. The story, if that is what you can call it, has some nice touches, but it is only there to give us the action.For action fans it is good, for other people it can be entertaining. I liked it and although a lot of things don't make any sense it sure looks cool. Samuel L. Jackson and Geena Davis are pretty good either and therefor you can give it a try. "},{"Title":" wild unpredictable adventure, funny at times, too violent","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Geena Davis is eight years old, but she looks about 40.  A female version of Robin Williams' 'Jack'?  Hardly.  She has amnesia, so all she remembers is the last eight years.  She is a single mother who works as a teacher (who would hire a teacher who can't remember her past?).  I wish more of that part of her life had been shown; we didn't even get any audio in the one classroom scene.  Davis' life goes crazy one night when Christmas carolers come to the door.  When Davis opens the door to pass out candy, the carolers scatter as if it were Halloween and Davis was Frankenstein.  It turns out they're running from the bald man with the gun who shoots up Davis' house.  Samuel L. Jackson, as a former cop and now a detective, comes to her rescue.  They end up going on a crazy ride across the country, kind of a male-female buddy adventure with occasional comedy.  We keep finding out new facts about Davis' past (or do we?), and there are lots of scenes with gunfire (way too much of it).  No one is to be trusted.  Davis' memory comes back in strange ways, too.  She discovers a complicated-looking gun in a suitcase and seems genuinely frightened by it, yet she knows exactly how to put it together and how to shoot it.  All I can say is that Davis really demonstrates her range as an actress.  Her character  actually gets to drive a gasoline truck with no brakes down a curvy road (I'm not sure what was in it, but it was that type of truck).  Plenty of explosions for those who like them, and lots of complicated plot twists for those who don't like their movies predictable.  Pretty  camera shots of Niagara Falls at night, too.  Personally, I liked the comedy and the plot twists but felt the violence was excessive. "},{"Title":"Senseless, and useless","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Female assassin with amnesia is brought out of her tranquil fog when her violent past catches up with her. Half-joking/half-serious action-thriller is really just half-assed, an over-produced mess. We never get a grip on Geena Davis' character, perhaps because she really isn't given one--at least not an appealing one; Samuel L. Jackson ambles through as a sidekick (hopefully he was well-paid). Lumbering film has no focus, no point of view. The villains are right off an assembly-line and the picture's cynical undermining isn't playful, just sour and full of contempt. Overall, the film offers not much more than brightly-painted masochism, and an annoying child actress who whines and pouts like a toddler at Target. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"A powerful script and cast, ruined by a lazy director, editor and composer.","Date":"1 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The whole time I spent watching this movie, all I could think was such a shame. The script is tight, funny and packed with highly quotable dialogue, both Geena Davis and Samuel L. Jackson are giving it their all, and the production team clearly had a considerable budget to back them, but sadly it amounts to a highly anticlimactic viewing experience.The overall pacing and switching of scenes is distracting to say the least, and director Renny Harlin seems to think he can hide his lack of talent for storytelling by staging badly-cut shootouts, chases and explosions, and meanwhile overstretching unnecessary slo-mo shots.Alan Silvestri's score doesn't help much either, as it manages to sound invasive, clichéd and tired all at once. I mean he even uses a trademark 'eighties soap saxophone' bit in a potentially great kitchen scene. Thank God they used some great classic songs to keep some kind of pace going, by the likes of Santana, Patti Labelle and, of course, Muddy Waters, whose 'Mannish Boy' is used as an inspired comedic red herring in the screenplay.But those are all sidenotes. If this script had ended up in the hands of an even slightly more original director, this could've become a cult neo-noir action classic. "},{"Title":"Before Bourne","Date":"9 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Back in the 1990s, I first saw The Long Kiss Goodnight. Despite the low box-office return or public appeal, I really, really enjoyed it. So, when it was presented to me on Amazon for a low, low price on BluRay, I snatched it up, even without having seen it in over 15-16 years.Am I happy about the purchase? Eh, yeah. Since it was cheap.Actually, the over-long film suffered from many problems, but overall, it was actually enjoyable. It's just hard to watch in 2013 following the excellent Bourne Trilogy. (Yeah, just parts 1-3.)You see, the concept is almost identical with the exception of swapping sexes. Here, teacher/good housewife Samantha Caine has a great life with a family, but doesn't remember her life prior to just before giving birth to her daughter and being found on a beach.She hires the best of the best private investigators to find her past and only reaches some success with the bottom of the barrel Mitch. Only&#x85;does she really want to find herself again?I've always loved Geena Davis, and sad she never got the superstardom as she deserved. And who doesn't, in their right mind, love Samuel L. Jackson? They both play a huge part in this movie's enjoyment.Even though it's really too long, and it's hard to hold this up in a Post-Bourne world, it's still a fun watch. "},{"Title":"Too Long.","Date":"6 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Boy, this is a long movie. It starts off OK but it just doesn't seem to know when to stop. Geena Davis stars as an everyday amnesiac housewife who discovers she is actually a female James Bond. Samuel L. Jackson is the slightly sleazy private detective she has employed to find out who she really is. After eight years her memory starts returning - she discovers she's a dab hand at chopping tomatoes and has poltergeist type experiences with her mirror &#x96; just as a prison inmate whose eye she popped out in her previous life sees her on TV and hunts her down. That's only the start of it though &#x96; his explosive entry into her house signals the beginning of a series of plot twists that never really provide enough intrigue to keep you interested, and a succession of action set-pieces that eventually start to feel ever-so-slightly superfluous as the movie proves as hard to kill as Davis's nemesis &#x96; an agency loose cannon with the scary name of Timothy. "},{"Title":"Would have been great but for all the explosions and stuff","Date":"21 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A school teacher mother, Samantha Caine (Geena Davis), who can't remember anything about her life before 8 years ago, has all that time had private detectives trying to learn about her past. Apparently to save money, she has gone from top rung PIs to less classy ones. We meet the current one, Mitch (Samuel L. Jackson), while he is pulling a sleazy scam shakedown of a John lured in by his partner, Trin (Melina Kanakaredes). Coincidentally, a suitcase with info about Samantha's past comes into Trin's possession just when a close up of Samantha is viewed by a prisoner watching a Xmas parade and he can't believe Charlie is alive. Charlie is Samantha's real name, and we eventually realize she has a completely different personality than Samantha. Charlie is a highly skilled assassin/spy for a secret U.S. gov't agency.The film is at its humorous best when Samantha begins to recall and perform some of Charlie's skills. Geena Davis is wonderful and fun to watch in just about every film or TV show she's in.What detracted from a good story was the ridiculous action scenes. In several they are being shot at by many bad guys with machine guns but don't get hit as they run through the barrage. In another scene Charlie is being tortured, forced under water for 5 minutes at a time, but repeatedly manages to hold her breath and isn't even gagging when she is allowed up. Despite that, the supposedly clever enemy mastermind keeps repeating this torture. Expecting a different result from repeating the same thing is a sign of what? Certainly not intelligence.Similarly, although they know that Charlie is extremely resourceful and dangerous, instead of just killing her out right they elect to kill her slowly and out of their sight. At times our heroes are totally incapacitated by obviously serious wounds, but then they recover, or are resurrected, with enough strength to do physical battle. At least their injuries don't magically disappear.If the special effects were included to appeal to a wider audience, it apparently didn't have the desired effect. Still, Long Kiss Goodnight deserves more than the 2 out of 4 stars my cable's guide rated it. "}{"Title":"Davis and Jackson are much better than this...","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I know that most action movies follow some sort of formula, but The Long Kiss Goodnight takes the formula and does what Coke did with their formula in the 80s... tried to improve upon it, and just made it worse.I did see this on cable, so there was some cutting and swear-bleeping involved, but I really think that adding all of what they took out could possibly have made this a better film. I was all excited to see it too... saw the listing in the TV guide, made myself a bowl of popcorn, and curled up in front of the TV waiting to be entertained. Disappointment was achieved not even 10 minutes into the movie. It seemed to take forever to set up the plot, cutting 4 or 5 scenes at the beginning of the film right before you find out what a character is about, or what his motivation is. The Long Kiss Goodnight seems to revel in making you believe that a character is a good guy, only to reveal very shortly thereafter that he indeed is a bad guy, or vice versa.And the clichés! If I might borrow a phrase from my Jewish friends, oy vey. Yet another film that reveals that one hit to the head results in amnesia, and another gets your memory back. (Has a real-life amnesia sufferer ever tried this in real life? I wonder if it works...) And of course, the frumpy schoolteacher Davis was at the beginning of the movie was in stark contrast to the CIA-trained hit-woman she used to be. As clearly evidenced by her decision to cut her hair and dye it blonde. (I know that the dramatic hair changing scene always means transformation... see also The Legend Of Billie Jean, or The Banger Sisters or Sleeping With The Enemy or... well, you see where I'm going with this) More cliché... the ever-present Dirty Harry-type line spoken right into the camera just before shooting someone; the torture scene featuring a camisole-and-panties-clad Geena Davis (who obviously had undergone rigorous weight-training before filming) strapped seductively to a water wheel; the slow-motion (and again wet) Geena Davis and Sam Jackson emerging from the frozen pond, alive! I have long been an admirer of both Davis and Jackson... as far as I'm concerned, Geena has always made good decisions in her roles, and Jackson always manages to make himself look like he's better than some of the bad movies he's been in. I would swear, at times, Davis seems to be well aware of the fact that a certain line or scene she's doing is pure schlock, but thinks maybe she can make it better with her fine performance. Wrong, Geena. This was just bad material that the finest actor could not make look better.All in all, don't waste your time with this one. Unless you;re one of those people who LIKES to watch bad movies with your friends and just laugh at how bad they are. In that case, get this DVD as soon as you can!!! "},{"Title":"Parody?","Date":"19 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I watched this movie on the advice of a friend, and though I don't consider myself a things blow up kind of moviegoer, I really enjoyed it.  Davis' turns were gleeful to watch as she switches between frump and killer then surrenders to her Charlie Baltimore persona.  Samuel L. Jackson's  reactions to her discoveries alone make the film worthwhile.  Nevermind that I did find the plot somewhat ridiculous and the whole operation a bit ponderous.  However, I thought that so much of the humor and the action was so over the top, that perhaps the moviemakers were having a go at us.  Did anybody else think this? "},{"Title":"From the Director of Cliffhanger and the Writer of Lethal Weapon - That isn't a good thing!","Date":"31 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT!! The Long Kiss Goodnight is about a deadly assassin who is inflicted with amnesia.  She lives the next 8 years of her life as a prissy school teacher until she starts getting flashbacks - and then takes up her assassin like ways. This movie is such a stinker in just about everyway.  The plot is just so tacky and corny.  The assassin character Charlie is so horrid and non-likeable - it is hard to keep interest in these characters.  The action is dumb and not subtle.  It feels like this film hangs of its one money shot - where Geena Davis jumps out of a building whilst shooting the ice below - whoopee!  Sitting through a two hour action movie just for 5 seconds of above-average stylish action isn't worth it! This movie is just plain dumb.  It is very reminiscent of Cliffhanger and Lethal Weapon - two movies which some of the cast of this film were involved in - which the video case for Long Kiss proudly advertises... Miss this at all costs. "},{"Title":"GEENA GOES MEGA MAGA!!!!","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is Geena's best picture till date for me, the amnesiac shows flashes of memory with actions from time to time but it's when her memory returns that we see the actress work her charm.  She's moves swiftly through the scenes, taking no prisoners, leaving no traces and the results like the filming  one neat package, no loose ends.  Samuel L Jackson as usual chameleons smoothly from dim street bum to wise cracking conscience of the assasin.  I have to say the screen light up with the chemistry between these two. 4/5 "},{"Title":"One of the best I have seen In a long Time.","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The title does not prepare you for the ride you are about to take.I'm still waiting for the next installment. Geena Davis gave us a warm portrayal of Samantha and carried off the transition to Charlie without a hitch. Samuel L. Jackson continues to add to his collection of memorable roles with the semi-sleazy introduction to P.I. Mitch Henessey who later proves to have the heart of a lion. "},{"Title":"One kick ass roller coaster of a film","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is really a superb thriller with loads of twists and turns. Both Geena Davis and Samuel L Jackson have really strong characters and it's a real pleasure to watch. It really surprises me that it hasn't received more.Just watch it, suspend belief and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Best action flick of all time","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is my favorite movie of all time! Our stars are awesome in this movie, the action terrific, and the special effects pretty good. The dialog is what makes the movie, though. Comic book lines, to be sure -- but they work! I don't know how many times I've watched this flick on LD and DVD, 30 or 40? Who cares, I'm watching it again this weekend!  "},{"Title":"my reasons why viewers might like this movie","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a fast paced, hot action show that also has plenty of humor, from subtle to comical. Excellent stunts and fight scenes, fine acting, sexy teasers and some heart stopping moments. You do have to follow the plot closely from the begining to understand it all, but it is well worth watching!  "},{"Title":"Very Action Packed yet gruesome at times","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Lots and lots of blood... that is how I have to start this out.  The Long Kiss Goodnight, definitely had a lot of action, and kept you on the edge of your seat throughout it's entirety.  I am not a big Geena Davis fan, but I feel she was perfect for her character as Charly (A.K.A. Sam).  Brutally honest and tough one moment yet soft and motherly the next.  Samuel Jackson was wonderful as Mitch.  He always has that gruff appearance that can throw you a curve when necessary.  Once again I have to rave on David Morse's performance as Luke (A.K.A. Daedalus).  He went from wonderfully kind to torturous in seconds.  I loved it!!  Overall this was a good movie, but if you are faint at heart (regarding blood, bodily explosions, etc) then this is not for you. "},{"Title":"Fantastic action flick! *****","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have watched this movie on LD at least 30 times -- obviously it's one of my favorites. Geena Davis is awesome, and Jackson is perfect and funny in his role. The plot is simple but good, the action terrific and the physics impossible.I understand that this movie and Cutthroat Island killed Geena Davis's career. What a shame, because both movies are terrific.There is no sex or gore in the film, but the language and intense violence makes in unsuitable for young children.Geena plays a teacher with amnesia, who's really a CIA assasin. When the bad guys find her, the action begins, and never really lets up. Sit tight, and turn your brain off just a bit for maximum enjoyment.5 stars. "}{"Title":"An unexpected great action/comedy thriller","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Schoolteacher Samantha Caine (Geena Davis) suffers from a bad case of amnesia and is being tortured by a mysterious past. With the help of the not too smart private investigator Mitch Hennesy (Samuel L. Jackson) she discovers her true identity secret agent Charly Baltimore. They find out there's a conspiracy between the secret agency and Baltimore's worst enemy, gun-trader Timothy. So far for the story. What we're dealing with here is a very clever made action-comedy from Renny Harlin who also was responsible for e.g. Lethal Weapon and Die Hard II. I would go as far as to say this movie can best be described as a different version of Die Hard With A Vengeance. Only Bruce Willis is replaced by Geena Davis and the story is totally different of course. The high quality action, comedy and a lovely combination of these fine actors made me enjoy this one a lot. Sam Jackson, IMHO one of the greatest black American actors, is steady as always. I think its a shame we don't see that much movies with Geena. As well as many readers and submitters in IMDB, I think she did a lovely job in Thelma And Louise. Her acting in The Long Kiss Goodnight is definitely done with the same enthousiasm. My points 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Saw it in the theater, I own the DVD!","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the best action/suspense movies made in the 90's. The plot is probably more consistent than many hollywood actioners. If you complain about plot holes you haven't been paying attention! And to be honest, why would you complain about the implausable physics/circumstances found in most hollywood movies of this ilk (outrunning explosions, wide open gunplay in public areas and the like)!   The screenplay is great and funny, and very consistent for a movie of this type.  This is one movie that would have been worth a sequel but it is a shame that a strong female lead could not be accepted by critics.Favorite line ...whatever he's attempting to dislodge, is either gone for good or there to stay. Wouldn't you agree? Sometimes it is the small things that help in character development. Very entertaining!!  "},{"Title":"Fair","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film was of great interest to me because of the action it comtained and it's content.  Iliked the characters of Mitch Hennesy, the tough private detective and Charly Baltimore, the character portrayed by Geena Davies. The story was good and, although a bit contrived, very watchable and deep. "},{"Title":"Action + lots of laughs = Long Kiss Goodnight","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Action + lots of laughs = the Long Kiss Goodnight.  I think this movie is adorable. It's great for a rainy day or when you need a laugh.  Samuel Jackson and Gena Davis are great together. I just love the hotel scene and the scene with Nathan, Alice and the dog!  Good time without too much plot. "},{"Title":"best use of retainer","Date":"16 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Best use of an orthodontic retainer in ANY movie, EVER.  (But, strangely, the retainer bit was still predictable.)  Also,  best ice skating getaway scene I've ever had the cheesy pleasure to kind of enjoy.This movie sucks but in a fun let's eat junk food and watch it while we do each other's hair sort of way. "},{"Title":"Watch it for the carrot slicing scene!","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just watched this film last night after buying it on dvd last year. It certainly reminded me why I bought it! I've read through some of the reviews here and am surprised by some of the criticisms levelled at it.OK it's not the most cerebrally challenging of films, but it is an action movie - and one of the more thought provoking of its genre to my mind.I've never seen anything with Davis in that I've liked, but this was superb and she really bought into the role.Jackson played his usual role, but this was down to inspired casting rather than a lack of versatility on his part.An excellent romp - well worth a watch, and look out for the carrot slicing scene with it's 'interesting' climax! "},{"Title":"Very Underrated action classic.","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Any action fan will like this. Even if you dont like action rent this. It is too bad it didnt make more money at the box office because this is a very very entertaining movie with great performances by all and an original premise. Rent it no matter what. "},{"Title":"It's okay","Date":"24 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's okay, kinda corny yet definitely watchable again and again. Never dull. "},{"Title":"Davis is Bad! Very bad!","Date":"17 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Geena Davis and Samuel L Jackson were on fire in this film. The premise was totally unbelievable a small-town school teacher one minute and the next coolly declaring to an enemy ''You're gonna die screaming. I'm gonna watch.'' That was the story. Seven years of amnesia and now she is back to finish her job. There is more action in this film than in in any Bruce Willis action flick. Director Renny Harlin, who also directed Die Hard 2 Die Harder, learned and outdid himself.Jackson and Davis really meshed as co-stars and made the film that much more enjoyable. If you like you action fast and hot, then this is a not-to-be-missed adventure. "},{"Title":"The Long Kiss Goodnight","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It may have its tiny moments where I had to remind myself what was going on, but it is still a good film, from director Renny Harlin (Die Hard 2). Basically Samantha Caine (Geena Davis) is a normal teacher with a husband and daughter Caitlin (Yvonne Zima) from an unknown father, she has suffered amnesia for eight years, and when she has a car crash and obviously bangs her head hard enough, her personality starts changing. She is having flashes from her past life, and soon enough people are trying to kill her. Now she, along with her enlisted cheap detective Mitch Henessey (Samuel L. Jackson) are going to try and get to the bottom of who she really is. Eventually, Dr. Nathan Waldman (Brian Cox) explains that she is an assassin working for the government, and her real name is Charly Baltimore. It takes her a while to get used to this fact, but she eventually realises her true self, and gets back into the role of the person she used to be, aggressive, quite rude, sassy, and able to handle threat and weapons. She is now hunting those who hunt her, including the evil father of Caitlan, Timothy (Scary Movie 4's Craig Bierko), and more importantly getting her daughter back, while doing what she can about a bomb. Also starring The World Is Not Enough's Patrick Malahide as Leland Perkins, Tom Amandes as Hal, David Morse as Luke/Daedalus, G.D. Spradlin as President, CNN's Larry King, Joseph McKenna as One-Eyed Jack, Melina Kanakaredes as Trin and Rex Linn as Man in Bed. The action is quite gripping, Jackson and Davis have their moments, it is quite a fun film to watch, when its on TV anyway, not too often in my opinion. Very good! "}{"Title":"Kick Ass Action Flick From Renny Harlin!, With Amazing Performances From Geena Davis And Samuel L. Jackson!","Date":"6 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a kick ass Action flick, from Renny Harlin, with amazing performances from Geena Davis and Samuel L.Jackson!. It's action packed, and extremely well made, and the film has some incredible action scenes, plus Geena Davis and Samuel L. Jackson have fantastic chemistry together!. I loved the sudden change in Geena Davis's character, and really thought she was a bad ass, plus Samuel. L Jackson had some hilarious lines!. The finale is really over the top and exciting, and all the characters were great, plus it was unpredictable throughout!. Renny Harlin is one of the most underrated directors out there in my opinion and makes another winner here, and ending was pretty funny, plus the character development was truly excellent!. This is a kick ass action flick from Renny Harlin, with amazing performances from Geena Davis and Samuel L. Jackson, and i say it's a must see at any cost!. The Direction is fantastic!. Renny Harlin does a fantastic job here, with some incredible camera work, keeping it very stylish, some great angles, and overall doing a fantastic job!. There is a little bit of blood. We get gory wounds, knives in the neck and chest, and lots of very bloody gunshot wounds. The Acting is wonderful!. Geena Davis is AMAZING here, she is extremely gorgeous, sexy, a bad ass and really played her 2 different sides perfectly, she also had fantastic chemistry with Samuel L. Jackson and was extremely likable!, amazing job. Samuel L.Jackson is AMAZING as always, and is amazing here, he is hilarious lovable, had fantastic chemistry with Geena Davis, had some great lines, and i just loved him as usual! (Jackson Rules!). Yvonne Zima is actually not too bad as the daughter, i liked her lots, and she didn't annoy me!. Craig Bierko is very good as the main villain, and was pretty menacing he was good. Tom Amandes is good as the husband and did what he had to do well. Brian Cox is okay in his supporting role. Rest of the cast are good. Overall a must see at any cost i loved it!. ***** out of 5 "},{"Title":"HARLIN AT FULL THROTTLE.","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Geena Davis is not an attractive woman by any stretch of the imagination;in Britain we have an expression NICE LEGS,SHAME ABOUT THE FACE and this could have been invented to describe Davis.However,in this movie and in CUTTHROAT ISLAND she certainly delivers the goods as an action heroine par excellence and is quite believable here both as Samantha Caine and as Colonel Baltimore who wades through the villains like a 20th century Xena.This is one of those rare action movies where the dialogue is as tough and well-delivered as all the mayhem on screen and Renny Harlin at full throttle is as good as John Woo.All the supporting characters are excellent too,especially Brian Cox who plays a similar role here to the one he played in Steven Seagal's THE GLIMMER MAN.This is by far the better movie.Unfortunately the failure of THE LONG KISS GOODNIGHT following so closely after that of her pirate movie seems to have killed Davis's career stone dead and to the best of my knowledge she was not seen again until STUART LITTLE.I suspect that she may soon wind up in a TV series.Now she is in her 40's,roles like the one in KISS will not come her way again.A pity,as if this movie had been a success I have a feeling we would have seen more of Charlie Baltimore. "},{"Title":"The Long Drag Goodnight.","Date":"16 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Long Kiss Goodnight (1996) Dir Renny Harlin / Cast Geena Davis, Samuel L. Jackson, David Morse, Brian Cox, Craig Bierko Here is an action film that makes even less sense than your average action film. Title symbolizes Geena Davis giving up one life for another but eventually united with the former. She was an assassin zapped of her memory. Now she has a husband and child. Enter Samuel L. Jackson as a private eye who needs her help in defeating a government agency. The basic plot concept has appeal but its structure is full of gun play and objects being blown up as expected from director Renny Harlin. He often deals in massive budgets as seen in Cliffhanger and Cutthroat Island, and famous for the latter film being one of the most expensive flops ever made. Davis undergoes torture at least twice and even breaks the neck of a deer with her bare hands. Jackson provides one-liners fit for a Saturday Night Live comedian. Flat supporting roles with David Morse playing the mastermind villain who isn't interesting and only leaves viewers waiting for Davis to off him. Brian Cox appears as a doctor. While the budget is big on action scenes, its target audience will likely sense that this is just an exercise is blatant stupidity. It is a pointless charade where viewers may wish to spend their long night at home and kiss this film a deserving farewell. Score 4 / 10 "},{"Title":"Sam Jackson!","Date":"8 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A woman (Geena Davis) suffering from amnesia begins to recover her memories after trouble from her past finds her again.So this was apparently an attempt by Geena Davis' husband (not Jeff Goldblum) to get her career jump-started and bring her into action films. Well, did it work? Maybe, maybe not. This is not a bad film and has its share of fans, so it has a certain level of success. But by no means do I think of Geena Davis as an action star, or really much of anything beyond the 1980s. (I think she's great, but the fact remains her biggest hits were in the 1980s.) What makes this movie better than average is Sam Jackson. Sincerely. When he first arrives and talks about the butt pounding in prison... that is classic Jackson. "},{"Title":"Die screaming.....","Date":"22 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Samantha Caine, is the textbook suburban homemaker, and mother to her 8 year old daughter Caitlin. She has a job teaching, but when she receives a bump on her head, she begins to remember small parts of her previous life as a secret agent. Her old colleagues are now out to kill her, so she enlists the help of a cheap detective named Mitch, who was working with her regarding her past.As Samantha remembers more and more of her previous life, she becomes deadlier and more resourceful.........I don't know why this film failed as badly as it did, maybe due to the huge bomb that was Cutthroat island, but its one of Harlin's greatest achievements, and as action movies go, it maybe be meat and potato stuff, but Jackson really adds a lot to what could have been a perfunctory straight to video B-Movie.I've never warmed to Davis as a movie star, she has too much of a surprised look most of the time, but, thankfully originality prevailed casting a female, as again, this could have been a lost Seagal, or Stallone movie. But she's good, even if her transformation makes her a little orientation questionable.But it's Blacks script that is the winner here, and he proves again, he's one of the most interesting and exciting high concept writers of all time, and Harlin brings his vision to the screen with a lot of gusto, just what an action fan wants.Almost twenty years later, it still holds up, but it does suffer from the comic book type explosions that spread across action movies across the late nineties, see also Double Team, Most Wanted, Money Talks, but in some strange way, it only compliments the whole absurd affair.It does take a while for it to get going, but when the animatronic deer makes an appearance, it doesn't let up until the end.Great set pieces, cracking one liners, one of the last traditional buddy action movies. "},{"Title":"Not so much a genre as an unfortunate trend","Date":"14 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I've never quite understood the meaning behind that saying, You can have your cake but you can't eat it; maybe I'm too much of a literal thinker.I would summarise this movie as being like a Christmas Cake that is all marzipan and icing sugar but precious little centre to support it.What few films I've seen Geena Davis in, including this one, seem only to record her, both visually and in voice, in a detracting way. She has trained as an actress and has a beautiful speaking voice, a rare level-headedness, confidence, self possession and very attractive femininity.There is a 6.5 minute interview with Jimmy Kimmel on YouTube, part of which is devoted to an anecdote concerning Jack Nicholson. In those short minutes she evokes a lovely articulate spontaneity that outshines, I imagine, all the movies she's ever appeared in, together; leaving you with a huge sense of regret that so little has been made of her talent, that I've ever seen at any rate.There are plenty others, like Barbara Harris for instance, that have left just enough to tantalise with their unrealised potential. Movies are difficult to make one senses but there are a few gems around.As others here have said The Long Kiss Goodnight starts off with promise but precipitates into an increasingly contrived and stultifying inadequate plot, smothered in progressively unlikely set action pieces and stitched together with a few looks and mumbles that would gladden the heart of any newbie actor or actress.I guess one just has to gloss over the claims of the two leading stars when their propagandistic eulogies, so outrageously inappropriate in retrospect, were published.I've given this a 2 out of respect for some quite stunning photography; it's just a pity so little else in this movie matches it. "},{"Title":"good story in need of better execution","Date":"22 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Samantha Caine (Geena Davis) is a suburban teacher married to Hal (Tom Amandes) with a daughter. She suffered amnesia 8 years ago and has been hiring private detectives. However after so many years, she's down to the cheap unscrupulous Mitch Henessey (Samuel L. Jackson) and his assistant Trin (Melina Kanakaredes). Parts of her old personality starts to seep through after a car accident. Her name was Charly Baltimore and she was a skilled government assassin. People from her past starts coming back to kill her. Timothy (Craig Bierko) finds out that she's still alive and starts tracking her down as well as many others who would rather have her dead. Mitch uncovers a treasure trove of her past which she uses to call Dr. Nathan Waldman (Brian Cox).I love the idea of this movie. Shane Black has written some interesting hard boiled movies. I'm not as in love with director Renny Harlin's execution. The movie also bogs down with too many bad guys with too complicated of a story. The action is OK and there's lots of it. Davis and Jackson need to have better chemistry. I think Davis is a little too off-putting and angry. This movie has its moments but other movies with similar stories have been done better. "},{"Title":"Director Renny Harlin took cinema for a 'family business' by making The Long Kiss Goodnight'.","Date":"20 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" As the art and craft of film making is family business for many people, there is nothing wrong in making a film with your wife in a leading role but it should make some sense.One is bound to fail if the film does not convey in a positive manner what it intends to show.On a global level this is a golden mantra for all talented directors. As a film which is short of intelligent ideas,'The Long Kiss Goodnight' leaves a lot to be desired. As the director and his team have not done enough research on Amnesia, Geena Davis as a fearless butt kicking spy is more convincing than a poor Amnesia victim whose past career involved spying for US government. The film also appears to be more of a comedy film with actor Samuel.L.Jackson mouthing countless stupidities. His character has been reduced to that of a third rate stooge. By today's standards,this film's action scenes are OK. In a broader perspective,they are an important relic of a period when many action oriented films were made in Hollywood. "},{"Title":"Outstandingly Negligible.","Date":"18 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Geena Davis, an ordinary, happy housewife -- assuming ordinary housewives are happy -- is involved in a car accident on an icy road somewhere in the Northeast. Her earlier life is a blank to her, to her blandly handsome husband, and her cute little girl. After the accident, bit by bit, it occurs to her that she's been amnesic for a previous identity -- a government assassin. At least I think that's what happens. The car accident jolts her long-term memory. I'm not sure. The plot is a little fuzzy and I had a touch of amnesia myself.The reason it's fuzzy is that no one involved ever really cared about the plot in the first place. It's something of a rip off of The Bourne Identity, Somewhere in the Night, and a number of other stories about amnesics who regain their earlier identities. When they recover, they never find out that they'd been bus boys or bank clerks or short-order cooks. They're always highly skilled assassins.She gets her picture in the paper and the CIA, who'd thought her dead, realize that she's still alive and running around with all these secrets hidden away somewhere in her brain. The solution kill her.Well, they do their best. Davis hooks up with the private eye next door, Samuel L. Jackson, who delivers the best performance in this dismal film. Both Davis and Jackson are tortured, kidnapped, half frozen, and battered beyond belief. I mean beyond belief literally. Jackson, for instance, is tied in a chair when an explosion goes off in the cellar. He's blown about two hundred feet and lands in a tree, and when he shrugs himself off, there are a few scratches on his face.When somebody rolls a hand grenade down the floor towards Davis and Jackson, they run like hell towards the nearest window. The explosion of the hand grenade is a gigantic fireball the size of the one that squeezed the monstrous guns out of Navarone. They outrun the fireball. Everybody outruns fireballs. And all this is in slow motion, just like the other action sequences.I'm not going to bother commenting further on this piece of commercial trash except to say that it's really beneath Samuel L. Jackson. He was a good sidekick in that Die Hard sequel and he's equally good here. A good thriller depends heavily on its villains and these aren't up to the bar -- except for One-Eyed Jack or whatever his name is, Joseph McKenna, who is so ugly his appearance will be stamped on your memory forever, even if you're an amnesic.Pfui. "},{"Title":"Laughable, and not on purpose","Date":"8 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" How in the world this over-the-top stinker received any award nominations, let alone measurable votes here, is beyond me. It irks me that Uverse gives this three of four stars, as many as it once gave the film Gandhi (I'm not sure, but their ratings might be based on IMDb scoring). It's sort of trying to be what Bourne Identity became so much more successfully, and it failed. Davis and Jackson are wonderfully skilled actors, and it is only their performances that make this worth watching, but this vehicle is ultimately a waste of their talent. The first hour is engaging, watching Davis and Jackson develop their relationship. But once the heavy violence and action start, it goes downhill fast. The lines delivered by the little girl (Zima) came out flat and unconvincing. Worse, they were said with an adorable lisp. Bierko is equally unconvincing (and miscast) as a smirking, sarcastic, wise-cracking bad guy. The dialog is so bad, it seems like a parody of itself. In bad films like this, just before the evil genius (who has captured and is holding the hero) orders the hero to be killed, he performs a monologue revealing to the hero his reason for doing evil and his secret plan to do more evil, in order to let the audience in on the ensuing danger. You may know that scene in Austin Powers International Man of Mystery (a much better film than this one), when Dr. Evil says, I'm going to place him in an easily escapable situation involving an overly elaborate and exotic death. That applies to a scene in this movie too. Most of this movie is terribly contrived, predictable, a cliché or just ridiculous. Davis is gratuitously stripped down to her underclothes in a few scenes (to nothing in one) to show off her toned body. You may not see that as a negative, as I did. I had to wonder how the bad guys didn't smell the gasoline Davis hides in the girl's doll just before the two are captured. Or why the girl waited until Davis expended all of her energy -- in a stupid and futile attempt to create a spark to ignite said gasoline by pounding on concrete with a crowbar -- and broke down in tears in frustration before she revealed to Davis that, by the way, she happened to have matches on her. How ironic and so convenient that the girl chose to hide in the very truck with the dangerous bomb that becomes involved in a high-speed chase. The scenes at the end meant to be touching are just corny. Oh, and the bloody makeup on Davis's face during the climax of the film makes her look like a crazy clown. "}{"Title":"Cheesy and dumb , but fun popcorn action movie","Date":"1 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" *SPOILERS*SPOILERS*SPOILERS*SPOILERS*SPOILERSThe tile is a reference to the fact that Samantha kissed her other personality goodbye. She stopped searching about her past &#x96; that's it. It was probably inspired by the movie The long goodbye by Robert Altman &#x96; Samuel L. Jackson is watching this movie in the hotel.The movie is very stupid at some places . How did the one-eyed prisoner escaped from the prison ? Plot hole. Why didn't he broke into Samantha's house or kill her with a sniper gun from the distance , while she was for example shopping ? The motivation for the main villains to do the bad things is ABSURD. Little girl hides in the worst place possible.The movie is also very cheesy and unrealistic sometimes . Samantha seems immune to pain , cold and has TOO MUCH STRENGTH. The assassination by the one-eyed guy is ridiculous , same as the flashbacks with Charlie. Oh , and the little girl is annoying.Thankfully there are some good things here. Geena Davis gives a good performance and is very convincing with both of her personalities. Samuel L. Jackson is fun as always and David Morse is solid as always. Renny Harlin always makes sure that his movies aren't boring and this is no exception. I guess he really put some effort to make this movie entertaining with his wife (Davis) as the main star. Shane Black , the writer of Lethal weapon provides us some incredibly funny moments and dialogues . Thanks to the humor watching this movie is rather painless. The scene What I told you about smoking ? is one of the funniest I've seen.It's not a good movie , but it's too good to be so bad , it's good  type of movie. This is no Bourne identity. It's cheesy and stupid , but thankfully there is a good ironic distance to the whole story . It doesn't take itself too seriously and if you lower your expectations you should have one night of mindless fun. It's certainly a better action movie with woman in main role than Tomb raider. I give it 6/10. "},{"Title":"Not bad but not brilliant either.","Date":"11 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Long Kiss Goodnight starts as Christmas approaches in a small town called Honesdale where school teacher Samantha Caine (Geena Davis) lives with her young daughter Caitlin (Yvonne Zima) & fiancé. The local festive parade gets some national media coverage & Samantha is featured on telly, while driving home one night Samantha hits a Deer & crashes her car knocking herself out. When Samantha comes round in hospital something is different, her personality is different from the mild mannered school teacher that she had been for the previous eight years after waking up pregnant on a beach with total amnesia. Having hired many private detectives to try & find out about her previous life Samantha has all but given up but former Atlanta cop Mitch Henessy (Samuel L. Jackson) has a solid lead on Samantha's forgotten past which turns deadly when Samatha discovers she was a elite assassin for the US Government named Charly Baltimore who a lot of people now want dead...Produced & directed by Renny Harlin & starring his then Oscar winning wife Geena Davis & I remember at the time it was released theatrically that The Long Kiss Goodnight was largely panned & I can distinctly remember someone I knew going to the cinema to see it & then simply saying it was 'crap' after, while not crap I didn't think The Long Kiss Goodnight was anything special but it does pass the time & does entertain in a mindless action sort of way. While watching The Long Kiss Goodnight it was very apparent that the script tries a role reversal & switches things over from your typical macho action film in that it has the main female character as the strong almost invincible lead & the main male character the weak one who needs rescuing, in simpler terms The Long Kiss Goodnight felt like a violent James Bond film with the Bond & his love interest roles reversed. Samantha turns out to be a spy as well, another little James Bond parallel if you like. At an hour & fifty minutes long The Long Kiss Goodnight lasts a while & I suppose there's enough action to keep one entertained & stop the boredom creeping in, from numerous shoot-outs to fights to large explosions. Having said that there's plenty of silly scripting, the brakes on the big truck at the end just happen to fail, bad guy's guns just happen to run out of ammo, huge explosions not injuring Samantha despite going off right next to her, everything Samantha needs to make a daring escape from life threatening situations are conveniently at hand & the action film cliché where Samatha comes up against several bad guy's with guns all shooting at her yet never hit her & she manages to kill each one with a single bullet, yawn. The Long Kiss Goodnight feels like the ultimate female empowerment film, from a sedate school teaching baking cakes to an unstoppable super assassin Samantha undergoes quite a transformation although the script is ambiguous & a bit muddled as to which it wants to sympathise with. The motivation for the bad guy's is also a little underwhelming, so this guy wants to kill thousands of people so he can get funding of the US Government & hires an entire army of (seemingly useless) men to carry out his plan?The action scenes felt a little routine to me, the usual shoot-outs where the bad guy's can't shoot straight & are taken out far too easily but there are one or two good moments including a brilliant & spectacular exploding bridge at the end. The stunts are very good but some of the early CGI computer effects work is a little poor & looks out of place. Like most action films from the late 80's & early 90's there's a strong buddy buddy element here with the two mismatched leads slowly growing a definite friendship as the film progresses, the banter & chemistry between Geena Davis & Samuel L. Jackson is alright & some of the dialogue & one-liners are OK but nothing that special & nothing particularly quotable. One other notable aspect is that The Long Kiss Goodnight is very violent with a high body count as bad guy's are stabbed, shot, burned & blown up left, right & center. Another aspect that reminded of the James Bond films were the scenes in which the bad guy's have ample opportunity to just kill Samantha but decide to dispose of her by means of an elaborate trap & not stick around to see the outcome. Sloppy.With a supposed budget of about $65,000,000 it flopped at the box-office taking less than $10,000,000 during it's opening weekend. Filmed mainly in Ontario in Canada & featuring the impressive Niagra Falls where the final explosive set-piece takes place. Very well made with nice cinematography The Long Kiss Goodnight has a festive feel with all the snow everywhere. The acting is pretty good, Davis & Jackson are good while the rest of the cast do decent enough jobs.The Long Kiss Goodnight is a decent enough action thriller, I suppose it was quite revolutionary in having the female as the strong hero & the male in a lesser role but that still doesn't mean it's brilliant, it passes a couple of hours painlessly enough & there are some good action scenes including a spectacular explosion at the end. Worth watching for sure but just lacks that little something that lifts an average film into a great one. "},{"Title":"I Loved This Movie When I Was In the Fifth Grade. Now, However, I Am an Adult.","Date":"21 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I loved this movie when I was in the fifth grade. Now, however, I am an adult. When I was ten, this actioner was so much fun, larger than life. And indeed, the first half is a wonderfully implausible meeting of the most entirely different worlds. We have a suburban mother and schoolteacher with a seemingly normal life in Pennsylvania. She hires sleazy, divorced urban New Jersey ex-convict private investigator Samuel L. Jackson to help her find the truth about her past. She's really an assassin for the CIA who went missing eight years ago, her true identity which emerges when she's captured and tortured by some of her old enemies. Characters are always passing through settings that are wildly unlikely places in which we would see them. A vicious one-eyed killer barges into our heroine's cookie cutter provincial home, totally ridiculous action sequences bursting out in a mall and in the picturesque country, both settings soon counterpointed by gritty, gaudy New Jersey and other urban areas.But the last half is badly paced Hollywood action contrivance, making its silliness almost unbearable. She discovers that her former boss at the CIA has allied with a psychotic ops specialist in a false flag plot to detonate a chemical bomb in downtown Niagara Falls, frame Islamic terrorists for the crime, and thus secure more funding. This doesn't sound so bad in and of itself, but take for instance the ops specialist. True to the film's spirit, he is ironically characterized as a sparkling-toothed, clean-cut young pretty boy. This could've been a novel way of making his character even more evil, but this is instead part of what pushes the movie's sideways nod at us in concurrence with its self-deprecating cash-in formula over the cliff. He find ourselves so conscious of hating him that we realize that we don't hate him because he's such an evil villain. We hate him because he does so many vile things with the obvious casting of someone who looks so incapable of being so evil. There is no way of grasping why he does what he does. Once characters like him begin to show up, Shane Black's snappy dialogue comes to feel all the more of a detachment.Nevertheless, the best thing about the movie is its often corny but vastly funny dialogue, which could fuel a whole night of stand-up routines or barroom boys' night out bickering, with razor-sharp witticisms like, You couldn't hit a lake if you were standing on the bottom, A woman's face never looks quite so beautiful as when it's distended in pain. Witness the beauty of childbirth, and The dog's been licking his anus for the last three straight hours. I should think that whatever he is attempting to dislodge is either gone for good, or there to stay. The villain surreptitiously brandishes a knife to a woman and her kids You're about to have 2.4 children. In a perilous situation, Charlie's daughter asks her if she's going to die. Charlie has an almost self-spoofing way of comforting her Oh, no, baby, no. You're not going to die. They are. Cover your ears. Hey, should we get a dog? Perhaps my favorite is during a fight in which one character has a compact razor knife. The opponent says, Oh, honey, only four inches? You'll feel me.Alas, it's the kind of movie where when a mother endures a personality change and decides she does love her little daughter when all is said and done, she cries, I LOVE HER!'' over the commotion of violence. Davis and Jackson actually outrun a flaming fireball that chases them down a corridor.One particular explosion breeds yet another in a sea of samples of the contemporary way in which action movies eliminate huge, elementary and unwarranted gaps in the laws of physics. Davis and Jackson indeed escape a flaming fireball that chases them down a tunnel. This is a convention shared by so many fellow 1990s action pictures. This one, however, does it twice. Yes, and the climax concerns, apparently, in its flurry of machine-gun-speed editing of shots that are more coverage that cinematography, a truck bomb that is to blow up a bridge, and at one point Davis in fact uses a dead body as a counterweight to lift her into the sky so she can unload on a helicopter under an archway that says Welcome to Canada.At any rate, Geena Davis and Samuel L. Jackson determine that they're dauntless here, as Jackson in particular always is, as they exchange their droll jeers and cheeky puns in the intervals flanked by special effects sequences. And the action is basically what we want going in extravagant, noisy and brutal. As an R-rated movie about torture, limitless body count and terrorism, the target audience is likely not boys in the fifth grade. I admired it for its unusually self-reflexive irony, which I frankly also admired in another Shane Black project from the '90s, Last Action Hero, but in order not to feel wasted by the exhaustive emptiness of it, either one has to be a fifth grade boy or someone with such a boundless sense of escapism that they've not passed over their inner fifth grade boy. I must've. "},{"Title":"Silly and confusing and built on false premise","Date":"15 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Geena Davis plays a former govt assassin who now has amnesia and lives as an ordinary single mom. Now right there you have problems since such a phenomenon is a Hollywood fiction. People do not lose their identity of self unless their brain is so damaged they can't do anything. Anyway, govt agents who thought she was dead find out she's alive and want to kill her. Slowly her memory comes back and she turns into superwoman and the action begins.And there is plenty of action but so much of the story is just preposterous. I could mention a million holes in this film but you get the idea. Best thing in the movie is geena. I've always thought she had a quirky kind of good lucks but midway thru the film she cuts her hair and dies it blonde and looks gorgeous.Interesting detail in the movie is that the govt mentions that the the 1993 terror attack on the WTC was engineered by the CIA. This movie was made in 1996, five years before 9-11 but everybody with a brain knows that was an inside job too. "},{"Title":"Great action packed film! One of the best!","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Long Kiss Goodnight is a great film that has a good cast which includes Geena Davis, Samuel L. Jackson, Yvonne Zima, Craig Bierko, Tom Amandes, Brian Cox, Patrick Malahide, David Morse, Joseph McKenna, Melina Kanakaredes, and Dan Warry-Smith. The acting by all of these actors is very good. Geena Davis, Samuel L. Jackson, Craig Bierko, David Morse, and Brian Cox were all excellent in this film. I thought that Davis and Jackson performed good together. Davis is really incredible in this film. I love her looks and the things she can do amaze Me and that's why she one of My favorite actresses! Its also amazing how tall she is compared to John Morse. His acting is good also. Jackson is good as always and Bierkjo was a great villain! The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising. The action and the special effects are great. The movie is filmed very good. The music is great by Alan Silvestri. Great directing by Renny Harlin! The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end. This is a very good and thrilling film. If you like Geena Davis, Samuel L. Jackson, Craig Bierko, Brian Cox, David Morse, the rest of the cast in the film, Action, Thrillers, and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today! "},{"Title":"She's one bad...","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Renny Harlin directs Shane Black's story of an amnesiac searching for her past life. School teacher and mom Samantha Caine(Geena Davis)after losing memory of the last eight years of her life hires an ethical questionable private investigator Mitch Hennessey(Samuel L. Jackson)to reclaim her past. Cain slowly gets her memory jogged and realizes that she is really Charly Baltimore, a rough and tumble CIA operative who is now the target of serious bad guys wanting her silenced...for good. Plenty of thrills and explosive action. Some clever humor helps glue the story together. And there is also the effective soundtrack featuring the likes of Elvis Presley, Santana, Dean Martin and Jars of Clay. The more than apt cast is rounded out with David Morse, Tom Amandes, Brian Cox and Patrick Malahide. This action packed thriller is well worth your while. And I now have a new found appreciation for Davis.  "},{"Title":"10 Minutes","Date":"7 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Maybe 15. Thats all the time you can devote to this paint by numbers bombz before you are out of there. It boasts a computer generated script, with a lot of explosions. I wonder if this could have possibly made any money. These things look so expensive to make and they are terrible, so they cannot possibly give any sort of ROI. If as I suspect, they cleverly use stock footage from other films for the action sequences, then it all makes sense. Geena Davis? puleeze. Jackson is ok, I like him. Maybe he or his agent will learn how to read a script one of these days. I think Showtime needs to show it more than the 40 times per week it is currently scheduled. I want to see if my television will actually melt.  "},{"Title":"Splashy A-lister thriller","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A Geena Davis/Sam Jackson thriller vehicle. But a good one! Lots of laughs and action and everything seasoned with a liberal splash of hoch-90s cool.I particularly like the Brian Cox pre-Bourne agent-handler cameo; Geena Davis moisturising with vodka; Samuel L Jackson. OK then, Samuel L Jackson effortlessly wearing a huge wardrobe of Kangol seconds. Above all I have discovered that I'm a none-too-closet Geena Davis fan.It's a fairly serious plot but the sense of silliness is all-permeating and frankly that's just as well. Watch with friends, drink and comfort food when you've an evening to waste. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Two Thirds of a Good Movie","Date":"19 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Long Kiss Goodnight plays like True Lies meets Total Recall. No bad thing and mostly well-handled, but what lets it down is the third act.After a lot of action, blood, swearing and zippy one-liners the film bogs down in a predictable finale mire, involving one of the most inert screen moppets of modern times. Yvonne Zima was about 7 at the time of this film and could not act. Having the story revolve around a kid with all the screen presence of workbench was A Bad Thing. Why did a child have a central role in this movie anyway? It's chock-full of people doing bad things and swearing fit to make a trooper blush. This is no family-orientated action blockbuster. Apart from little Yvonne's lack of acting skill, I also found myself stepping back and wondering what she was doing in this blood-splattered swearfest anyway. Especially, it has to be said, when you find out who the kid's father is. This unconvincing revelation leads on to one of the lamest action movie moments EVER. Shame on all concerned for committing it to celluloid.Shane Black and Renny Harlin deserve The Big Stick for this one, folks. The screenwriter and director literally lost the plot at the end of this film. Both are experienced and successful action veterans but neither of them did anything to sort out the woefully preposterous and clichéd third act of TLKG. Another crew member who needs a slap is Tricia Sawyer, who was Geena Davis's makeup artist. Davis's transition from Suzie Homemaker to Spy Bitch is a pretty startling one for all the wrong reasons. The PEROXIDE SKULL PANDA OF DEATH look is never an easy one to pull off. "},{"Title":"Stylish action (don't worry if it's daft!)","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The story is nonsense of course and relies on the chemistry and wit of Jackson and Davis (well....mainly Jackson).  Something about Davis discovering that she is really a CIA convert agent that lost her memory etc etc.... However this is saved by two things 1- Jackson and 2- big over-the-top action scenes.There's not too much to read into the film - it does what it says it does.  Davis is ok but her sudden shift in character is kind of hard to swallow.  Jackson seems to be making fun of the whole proceedings and makes the film more fun (witness him being pushed out of a car and lie on the floor smoking until he get picked up!), but the bad guy's bring sufficient menace to proceedings to keep it just about credible.Overall a good action movie with enough spectacle to get past the plot.  One point - we don't all need happy endings.  In the first draft Jackson dies at the end, after testing this was changed so that he lives.  However if you watch the bit where he gets killed there's no way he walks away from that!Miles better than the other Davis/Harlin project Cutthroat Island! "}{"Title":"M******","Date":"21 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I don't see how even action fans could appreciate this.  Somebody really messed up on the screenplay here, and it's utterly unbelievable that the director of Die Hard 2 would waste his time with this.  Terrible screenplay and dumb jokes combine to completely ruin this movie.  2/10. "},{"Title":"Long Kiss Goodnight","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I resaw this film recently, ahead of schedule. I'm being rather methodical in walking through films for study and comment and had TLKG on two lists--the `big mistakes of filmmakers because they star the women they sleep with' list. Turns out that this is a long and fascinating collection (Mamet, De Palma, Welles, Besson...). There are some interesting things to say in this regard, but I'll save them for Cutthroat when I get to it.and--the sexy actresses, forty and over list (though she was 39 when this was released).But I got to it early because of some professional work related to why so many Arabs believe that the CIA or Mossad were behind the 9-11 World Trade Center bombing. American children can readily sort out fantasy from reality it seems, but much of the world cannot -- and this film features the now obscene notion of killing 4,000 innocents and framing Arab militants to get increased funding for intelligence operations. "},{"Title":"Can I give it less than a 1 rating?","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I definitely have to speak to my sister about her recommending this film to me.  The Long Kiss Goodnight definitely makes my Top 10 list.................for WORST movies ever made.This was a terrible movie with over-done stunts and explosions.  I'm sure Samuel Jackson, who I think is a great actor, must have had second thoughts about this flick after it was completed.  Oh well, all actors have a dud once in a while.As for Geena Davis, let's hope that her ventures into TV are more successful than her last few movie roles.I'm afraid that The Last Kiss gets the big Kiss-off from this reviewer. "},{"Title":"Absolutely No Credibility In Front Or Behind The Camera","Date":"21 January 2008","Score":"14 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is one of those excellent examples of why nobody should ever equate an actor's role with their real-life persona. Actors and actresses, I once read, are similar prostitutes they will take any role, if the money is good enough. The example here is Geena Davis. In this film, she's ultra-profane and violent. Finish this film and pick up a Stuart Little DVD and you'll see Davis as the sweetest person you'd want to meet, a perfect mother and the essence of wholesomeness. Pick up another Geena Davis film and she's back to being a foul- mouthed pig. No wonder actors are so mentally messed up!Davis is like Mother Teresa, however, compared to Samuel L. Jackson in this movie. Jackson profanes almost every sentence. He's just plain crude in here as Mitch. After about a half hour, though, Davis catches up to him in the profanity department. Sadly, it makes both characters unappealing. Too bad, because some of the action scenes - and there are tons of them - are awesome. However, there are just many which are just plain ludicrous with no credibility. Action trash is an apt description another viewer used, describing this movie. Summary overdone violence, insane left-wing conspiracy theories and cartoon-like, unlikable lead characters who spew 50 f-words and 20 blasphemes. Once again, out-of- touch Hollywood still has no clue that the average moviegoers aren't in the sewer as they are and consequently, this movie was a box-office flop and lost millions of dollars. "},{"Title":"A crock of cow dung","Date":"22 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I could keep mum if there were just one flaw, but this movie is right from the stinkiest of the gutters. However, it's got variety - yeah, variety of crap - all kinds of it, ranging from the lead character getting too lucky with the enemy's bullets, unnecessary characters (Samuel Jackson), people getting shot in the chest and still getting up screaming ready to fight, clownish CIA operatives throwing punch lines at each other, no cops in sight throughout the movie despite several shoot-outs and grenade explosions at major commercial places, lead characters walking calmly (as if on a ramp in a fashion show) out of a shoot-out scene right in the middle of a busy city street. Hey, but that's not all. The director was at his best in this movie. You even got enemy carrying a handgun and rifle charging at the lead character, I guess, trying to hit her on the head with the pistol, instead of shooting her with it from a safe distance. Maybe that's a better way to kill. What do I know?I mean what the hell!!! My dog could direct a better movie than this while pissing on the neighbor's car tire. Shame on all the people involved in this movie project. Poor acting. Poor screenplay. Poor direction. "},{"Title":"Contrived Gina Davis - Samuel L. Jackson Disappointment","Date":"19 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I watched this movie because I like most Gina Davis and Samuel L. Jackson movies. Calling the movie simply dreadful might be an understatement. I had trouble suspending my disbelief for more than 30 seconds at a time. Take two quality actors like Davis and Jackson, put them in a contrived, excessively violent, and implausible plot and the result is a BIG STINKER. I hope that neither Davis or Jackson realized how bad this script was while they were filming it. I watched this movies on a DVR which saved me from watching the commercials and I still feel as if my time was stolen from me. Comcast had rated the movie *** which fooled me. I never waste my time on anything less than ***. This movie would be overrated at an * and 1/2. "},{"Title":"A movie that is senseless even to the crazy","Date":"27 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" My idea of a crazy action movie was never that it should not make sense. And yes I enjoy James Bond running around with girls and jumping from a cliff to catch an airplane. Although I did enjoy those films, I always rated it 1 out of 10 because they did not make sense. The difference with this film is although it did not make sense it was not enjoyable either. I just read a review of this film which was talking about woman assertiveness, little child not giving up etc etc which is absolutely stupid, insensitive and naive.This movie had a very good theme of a lady who went into amnesia, then coming back to her past. That was a wonderful catch and there were few screens where I was totally bought. Then when the violence began, I was all excited and was thrilled to see a woman playing such a daring role and it was very very very impressive. Samantha who came to her past had a trouble loving her child etc and movie was good only until this part.Now starts the actual aura of stupidity. The director was unable to continue the strength of the movie so far he/she has build up. There is something in life called a full stop ( period). Come on, the violence goes on and on and the kid is dragged into this. And the kid is not shocked with all the violence and blood and during the last few minutes the kid is not even hurt, then she calls out for her mother etc etc.. is stupid. Actually entirely stupid. The portrayal of heroism has been dragged to an extent that the viewer at some point of time realizes that this is not making sense and what the hell he/she is watching. The blast at the very end, previous firings etc on Mitch and Sam do not end and they still survive, the kid is not horrified etc.. will actually open new doors to dumbness in every viewer.Call from president is the ultimatum in dumbness and I wanted to take a decision that I would stop watching movies altogether but rather I would write a dumb script myself and make a movie out of it and rather be rich. 2.5 hrs of my time taught a precious thing today. Totally disappointed. "},{"Title":"Female Version of Bourne Identity Wihout a Clue","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film gives action films a bad name. It seems to have buried Davis who had to do dross like Stuart Little to make money. Deservably so. Her role, which could have been a new Ripley, degenerated into a mess which must have given succour to every misogynist who loves clichéd action films. She allows her character to be tortured and beaten and shot. The drowning in her underwear was pure sadism. Jackson is no better, proving that the director was a racist too. His character dresses like a pimp, is thrown from a car, shot repeatedly, beaten up, blown out of a window and through a sign. So progressive huh ? Don't even mention the explosions and the ridiculous stunts. They managed to make James Bond look realistic and accurate. Some were just bad. The NATO fragmentation grenade that becomes a petroleum fireball, the alleged 'Chemical bomb' ( what is that ? ) becomes another petroleum fireball. How did the gun which had been underwater in Brian Cox's pants fire without exploding ? Water in the breech is lethal, thats why guns must never get wet. "},{"Title":"minus 1","Date":"13 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Let me start with the obvious. Ms. Davis is a truly attractive woman who is also and primarily a truly terrible actress. In some movies it is possible for the movie to distract us from her but in this case the movie is pretty bad and no distraction. I know that use girls should stick together but this is the very last time I will try to give her the benefit of the doubt. There is no doubt. The movie is bad and she is worse. Even the music (which is the best of a bad deal) doesn't provide solace. Run, don't walk, in the opposite direction. Poor Samuel Jackson, sorry you didn't get that advice earlier. I'm with him, I can't say much else with a straight face. Awful, that I can say. "},{"Title":"If you haven't seen this already, you're not missing anything.","Date":"31 July 2004","Score":"9 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film, which by reading the summary (I know, we all hate reading summaries for thrillers, but we all still do) could potentially be understood as at least semi-good, is ruined by 3 key aspects.First, the script is naive and offers us that our lead lady, who is an amnesiac (for 8 years), when finally confronted with her past, changes her personality completely around (amnesia and reminiscences are portrayed here exactly how schizophrenia is usually portrayed in movies). She starts out as a caring mother and domestic wife and then turns into a ruthless, vicious, slutty assassin. There is an abundance of holes in the thriller part as well, but the stated fact, makes the entire movie look ridiculous and childish.Second, to top the first problem, this role is portrayed by Geena Davis. Who is completely unconvincing and pale (mostly as the second 'personality' &#150; Charlie). At times when she is changing and turning her personality 180, we get some 'The Exorcist' (loosely) style changes in her facial expression, voice and language used.Third, to completely bury this movie is the directing. The director, obviously couldn't decide where and how to take the thriller approach, together with the action-flick approach, and also the drama-approach. Instead of doing one of these averagely, he fails on all three, and we have a mushy final result, which doesn't look like anything categorizable (which can be very good, but this is not the case here).Samuel L. Jackson plays 'the sidekick'. I find it offensive, that he as the only black member of the cast, gets pushed around, slapped and even kicked out of a car (his friend, Geena Davis, uses her leg to push him out of a moving jeep because she 'don't need him anymore).  "}{"Title":"Samuel L. Jackson and Geena Davis","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  After the success of 'A Time to Kill', Jackson went on to act alongside Geena Davis (The Fly) in 'The Long Kiss Goodnight'. Unfortunately, because Davis was an aging actress in the film no longer in her prime as she was in the late 80's, we couldn't relish Jackson having sex with her. Although he is an aging old fart at the peak of his career, it would still go down well if he was teamed up with some young babe whom he could shag. "},{"Title":"Dumb and dumber","Date":"16 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Dish TV gives free access to some channels each month as a come on.This month the E channels are featured, eight of them, playing generally good movie, some great ones, sans commercials.So my wife and I, attracted by the prospect of a piece with Samuel L. Jackson and Geena Davis, sat through this stinker.It started off bad. That's usually enough for me to change the channel or to walk out of the theater, since stinkers rarely get better. My wife, a science fiction fan, was better prepared to sit through the progressively nonsensical plot deterioration.Given a weekend without distractions I wondered if I could do a better job writing a screenplay on a single weekend despite the occasional interruption? Near the end, I wasn't wondering any more.Toward the end it was so painfully awful I was having real trouble continuing to watch, but my wife wanted to see how it came out.So how did it come out? Badly of course, though in this case, that's an enormous understatement.What a colossal waste of time and talent, money and perfectly good vehicles. "},{"Title":"The worst movie I have seen in years!","Date":"5 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This has to be one of the reasons why I don't go to the cinema any more. If you want American rubbish, this is it in spades. This film will appeal to people with an IQ of zero. The action sequences are about the only thing in this movie the Director seems to be able to handle,the rest is like watching traffic go by.The script is ridiculous,the heroine is dead one minute,alive the next,dead again etc. Samuel Jackson is a talented actor, but even he can't salvage garbage. Davis is an crazed assassin,then a loving Mother,how is it going to play when she gets back to normality? The answer is too pathetic for words.There is no real characterisation in this film,just a series of violent and nasty events. Films like this are becoming all too common in American cinema,shove in a couple of stars, a big budget for special effects,and hope the public won't notice the silly storyline and the banal dialogue. Geena Davis is suffering from memory loss;quite right,I forgot all about this junk one minute after it finished. "},{"Title":"Don't Waste Your TIME!","Date":"18 April 2007","Score":"4 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Piece of excrement. Not worth five minutes of your time. Tired, trite, boring, stupid. If you are an intelligent movie viewer not obsessed with action flicks - DONT waste Your time. I'm not even gonna waste any more time commenting. You need to read more CRAP about this smokin TURD, then read someone else's report. But Don't Say Ya weren't warned. Pointless violence. Needless sadism. Nothing but a cartoonish portrayal of macho men shooting up the world. Yeah, really great!Did this movie sink Shane Black - and IF NOT, WHY NOT??? Samuel Jackson - Show Me Da MONEY. Yea, sometimes even the best Sell-out! But that's Hollywood for you! OUT!!! One outta TEN!!! "}]