[{"Title":"Revenge-movie with a sinister edge!","Date":"6 July 2006","Score":"38 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Karen is a normal woman living a normal upper class life with her husband and her two daughters until one day she calls home on her cell phone, and Julie (her 17 year old daughter) answers. Julie is preparing for her sister Megan's 6th birthday at the time of the call, and Karen is still talking to her when someone suddenly breaks into the house and attacks Julie. Trying to get another cell phone in order to call the police for help, Karen rushes home as fast as she can, and is devastated by what has happened. Julie was raped and murdered. After Julie's killer, Robert Doob,a supermarket deliveryman is unfairly released. Karen takes on a somewhat different perspective on life. She devotes her life to hunt down the man who killed her daughter and in order to find him, Karen has to descend into a world she never knew existed. EYE FOR AN EYE is a very dark film about obsession and revenge and the price everybody involved has to pay. It's not the kind of film that tries to deliver a vision of hope, but rather a sinister world of cynicism. The only escape for Karen (and everybody else) seems to be the kind of love Karen shows for her daughter Megan, her husband and her friends. "},{"Title":"Sometimes you just have to do things yourself","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"33 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Karen is a mother who has just lost her daughter to a brutal rape by a man, Robert Doob. When the court lacks of evidence that he did it, he goes free. But Karen isn't done with him yet; she will do whatever she can in her power 'til there is justice for her daughter and another victim of his.I loved Eye for an Eye, it's a terrific movie that is very well acted. I know it kind of looks like a movie for Lifetime or U.S.A., but nevertheless it's a great movie that should really be given a chance. I cried during this movie, during the scene where Karen is on the phone with her daughter, Julie while she is being raped by Robert. All she can hear is her daughter's screams, cries for help, and her last scream. Nobody on the street will help this poor woman who is screaming for the police to get to her house. I just can't imagine that ever happening, when I saw this movie with my mom, she held me close and started crying as well. Nobody wants that feeling and Sally did a great job on showing the fear in her eyes and the total feeling of no hope or being helpless. Yes, it's a little over done and dramatic, but it's very real and I felt that it captured what every person has felt they wanted justice for victims. How do you live when a person you loved so much is murdered and the person that did it got off because they had bad parents? Or they had a bad incident or just feels insane for a few minutes? How crazy is it? I think that's what got me close to the film, though I have not had a close family member murdered, I think we can understand the pain and confusion these people go through in the movie. I loved Karen's line to Mack Do you believe in the death penalty?, he says For that guy, I do referring to Robert and Karen looks at him and asks Why? Because it's just or you want revenge?. Despite it being a trick question without a satisfying answer, I think we have all felt that way.Keifer Sutherland, man! I love this guy, he is one my favorite actors, because he is a methodist and is not afraid of taking chances. He as Robert Doob, I didn't want to believe it was him because he is so brutally convincing as this vicious and evil character that will brutally rape women and young girls. That scene where he is with Karen's little daughter, Megan, in the playhouse, was so incredibly suspenseful and I couldn't breath. Keifer did do great, just too great that scarred me. Ed Harris did great as well as Mack, Karen's husband. He tries so hard to put the family back together after the shattering aftermath of Julie's death and wishes Karen would come back to herself with Megan.Eye for an Eye is a great movie that should be given a chance. The rape scenes are very disturbing, I warn you. You might need a strong stomach, especially for the scene I described with Karen on the phone with her daughter. The ending is a little short and felt rushed, but I would always recommend this for a watch.8/10 "},{"Title":"Make sure you have a Strong Stomach for this rape scene.","Date":"1 October 2007","Score":"24 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie has been reviewed into overkill by many others on this board, so I will spare you another home-viewer's two thumbs down. However I would like to state that I am EXTREMELY surprised that no one has commented about the actual rape scene itself. I can remember watching this as a kid on Lifetime, and years later still remembering that scene to a chilling degree. In most cases for rape scenes, (at least the ones aired on television) they only get from the waist up in the shot. In this particular scene, the camera is aimed straight ahead at the rapist in a sitting position on the floor with the young girl laying out in front of him. Although there is no nudity involved, the scene is VERY graphic in nature. I don't know how in the world they got that girl to play out the scene so well, but I could actually feel her pain, as depicted in her face and screaming from being ripped apart. It was enough make me sick my stomach then as a child, and now as an adult. "},{"Title":"Telling it like it is...","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"19 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" ...seems to have enraged some viewers of this film.  The bad guy is really bad.  Guess what, they're like that in the real world too.  There are plenty of bad guys out there who have no redeeming qualities and do laugh at the system, assuming it will never be able to really punish them.  I found this movie very believable and thought the acting was terrific and the climax very satisfying.  It was nice to see something come out of Hollywood that wasn't skewed in perspective by the left coast that produced it.  Anybody who thinks Robert Doob as a character is too one-dimensional to be believable has never met a violent criminal in the flesh. "},{"Title":"The 'Flying Nun' Goes 'Death Wish'","Date":"13 December 2007","Score":"20 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Before the hit television show 24, Keifer Sutherland played mostly despicable, evil characters. That's what he does in this film, as Robert Doob, a low-life who rapes and kills Sally Field's daughter and then is unfairly released by the courts. Sally, playing Karen McCann, goes after justice.Almost everyone loves a revenge story and that, of course, is what this movie is, pure and simple kind of a female Death Wish.As for the characters, Sutherland is over the top with his guy - way, way past despicable, so ridiculously bad and evil you might even laugh.For those who picture Sally Field as The Flying Nun, this movie will be a shock. She is anything but the sweet, wholesome-looking girl she appeared to be in so many of her films when she was younger.....or even the new TV commercials of today. Even though she has shown she can be very foul- mouthed ('m talking 'real life'), somehow seeing her portrayed here as a vigilante, doesn't ring up. Charles Bronson, yes; Sally Field, uh.....no.Be warned this is a tough movie in spots, especially in the beginning. It is very similar to the opening in Death Wish, and is not for the squeamish.This isn't a bad movie. It is extremely manipulative and has a bunch of plot holes, but if you love revenge films and don't care about particularly intelligent scripts (although the mad-as-hell mom isn't stupid in here), you can just add this one to your library. It serves its purpose of entertaining. "},{"Title":"Sally reigns as the Queen of Intense! Excellent, gripping, moving","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"17 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" If you like Sally Field, you'll love this movie because she does what Sally does best . . . intense drama! I think she should have won an Academy Award for her portrayal of Karen, the horrified, devastated, angry, Mom/wife whose beautiful teen-age daughter was brutally raped & murdered by a wacko delivering groceries! She was every bit as good as she was in Norma Rae and Places in the Heart! Some say the movie was not realistic . . obviously you've never been poor or lived in bad neighborhoods, because this kind of stuff happens everyday! The way the justice system works was very realistic also. Gee, let me throw out the name O.J. Simpson! . . I rest my case! Granted the movie was very graphic but so is violent crime in real life! It was very realistic! I cried and grieved (having lost a loved one to violent crime myself) and was angry and revengeful right along with her. I wanted to reach thru the screen and strangle Robert Doob (Kiefer Sutherland, who should of won a best supporting actor award) the cocky, cold, malicious killer, who had no respect for human life and thought he was above the law! I hated him! And I would have done exactly what Sally Fields did if that was my only recourse get justice done! He was clever but she outsmarted him at his own game and did it within the law! This movie was so moving, I was an emotional wreck at the end just like Sally was! I thought the whole cast did a very good job and that the movie was underrated because of it's content. Not everyone wants to watch something so intense. After a hard day at work, I prefer to sit down to something lighthearted like comedy but this one was just to good to pass up! "},{"Title":"Prove it!","Date":"14 October 2015","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Karen McCann (Sally Field) is preparing the birthday party of her younger daughter Megan (Alexandra Kyle). Her older daughter Julie (Olivia Burnette) goes home earlier in the afternoon to help in the preparation and talks by phone with her mother that is in a traffic jam. Out of the blue, a man breaks in the house and rapes and kills Julie. Det. Sgt. Denillo (Joe Mantegna) is in charge of the investigation and captures the killer Robert Doob (Kiefer Sutherland) with strong evidences against him. However his lawyer uses a technical detail to dismiss the evidence and Robert is released. Karen and her husband Mack (Ed Harris) are advised to go to a support group and she discovers that there are vigilantes entwined in the group. Meanwhile Karen follows Robert that works delivering groceries and she finds that he intends to attack a Latin woman. She tries to warn the police and the probable victim, but she is driven away by them. When Robert finds that Karen is following him, he threatens her telling that he would visit Megan. Karen decides to have self-defense and shooting classes and the vigilante Sidney Hughes (Philip Baker Hall) gives a revolver to her. When the woman she tried to warn is murdered by Robert, Karen plots a scheme to get rid of the killer.Eye for an Eye is a dramatic thriller with a great story of justice and revenge. It is a shame that lawyers use breaches in the laws to defend scums like the character Robert Doob, but that is the sad reality. The praiseworthy attitude of Karen McCann is an exception but perfectly understood in the situation. The acting is excellent and the plot is timeless. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Olho por Olho (Eye for an Eye) "},{"Title":"too manipulative","Date":"1 February 2015","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Karen (Sally Field) and Mack McCann (Ed Harris) are happily married with two daughters. While on a phone call with her daughter Julie, Karen hears Julie being raped and murdered. Det. Sgt. Denillo (Joe Mantegna) investigates. Karen and Mack go to a support group. Robert Doob (Kiefer Sutherland) is arrested but the supposed dead bang case is dismissed because of a promise from the previous prosecutor to provide a sample of the DNA evidence. Karen starts following delivery boy Doobs. He pays a visit to her younger daughter Megan. She finds a group of vigilantes from the support group. However one of the support group member turns out to be an FBI agent investigating vigilante killings.Everything in this movie is heightened to get on the audience's nerves. It jumps quickly into the rape and murder. It's a very effective scene especially with Sally Field acting for all her worth. However every scene is pushed hard by director John Schlesinger. Kiefer is all greased up. This is not a subtle movie but it could do with some. It's unnerving but in a bad way. It takes itself very seriously which makes all the manipulations all the much harder to take. "},{"Title":"Another Revenge Movie","Date":"25 February 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sally Fields does a good job with this movie as a revenge seeking mother of a teenage daughter who's been raped and murdered. I suppose to make this worth watching, she has to do a good job with this. The story itself has been done over and over seeking revenge after a violent crime because the justice system has failed. That's a pretty cliché type of situation and story, so there's not really a great deal to recommend this as far as originality is concerned. But Fields is good, and Kiefer Sutherland is appropriately creepy and threatening as the rapist/murderer. The portrayal of the rape of Karen's daughter was terrifying, but (thankfully) not especially graphic.) The same could be said for the later rape committed by Sutherland's Doob. The movie, in my opinion, also makes a fair point about the justice system leaning too far on the side of defending the rights of obviously guilty criminals at the expense of actually dispensing justice for their victims. I understand the need to protect the rights of the accused, but there does have to be a balance, and that balance is sometimes lost in the system that we have.I was kind of put off by the group the McCann's attended for people who had lost loved ones to violence. To each his or her own, I suppose, but I can't imagine that sitting around night after night talking about the same thing over and over and over again is really going to help anyone move on, and I wasn't convinced by the vigilante organization aspect of this.I have to say, though, that I did like the ending. What I was finding distasteful up to this point was that Karen was going to turn vigilante, and by so doing she'd be be risking losing her other daughter as well by ending up in prison, which might have satisfied her own desire for revenge but would have been very selfish toward the younger daughter. So, the way she played things, she made sure that (a) she'd get her revenge, but (b) that she wouldn't lose anything more by doing it. So, the ending worked for me. Overall, I found this a pretty good watch. (7/10) "},{"Title":"One That Might Please Most","Date":"16 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" In the past few years, director John Schlesinger has been living a quiet, serene life for himself. In the late 1960's, Schlesinger won an Oscar for Best Director in the classic Midnight Cowboy and has been nominated for many more during that period. Then his star status slowly began to plummet. With Marathon Man being his best in the 1970's and Believers has his best work in the 1980's, and in the 1990 season, he has been reduced to shifting into mediocrity with Pacific Heights (though Michael Keaton was was very sharp). It would be safe to say that around this time, Schlesinger's best days have long past him. That is until 1996, when he released his forth film in the 1990's, the gripping, morbid and vengeful drama, Eye for an Eye. Leading star Sally Field plays mother Karen McCann, a loving and devoted mother who while stuck in a hectic traffic jam receives the news via cell phone that her teenage daughter (Olivia Burnette)has been raped and murdered by some deranged lunatic. Robert Doob (Kiefer Sutherland) who was charged and arrested for this dastardly deed, is let go due a technical glitch. Karen, feels it is her own destiny to track down this evil man before he attempts to commit the same act to another unfortunate soul. Det. Denillo (Joe Mantegna) can't help her in her dilemma, which leads to Doob walking freely and on the hunt again and found another victim to rape and kill. Her motives keeps her apart from her husband Mack (Ed Harris) as her revenge becomes an obsession to the point where she decides to handle the situation, personally. Though not on the same level as other parent losing child with death movies like The Crossing Guard and Dead Man Walking, Eye for An Eye still has the vast array of emotions to guarantee a solid 1hr 41min of your time is well worth it. Overall the acting is very effective and all the stars bring out the best that they excel in. Kiefer Sutherland is excellent in all his villainy even if his performance is limited. Ed Harris and Joe Mantegna show wonderful performances in their brief roles, but Sally Field carries the film through as a woman obsessed with getting even with this psychopath on the loose.Though it flows as a standard fare, Schlesinger makes sure that the pace is fast and the tensity at a heart-pulsing rate. I think a lot of people will appreciate this rare timeless classic that is highly recommended by the majority of film lovers. "}{"Title":"An engaging drama","Date":"20 October 2010","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film is about a mother who goes to seek justice for the brutal murder of her teenage daughter.Eye for an Eye is an intense drama that tells a family's grief in losing a teenage girl in the family. They all react in different ways; the father seems casual and detached on the surface, but actually has intense anger inside. The younger daughter blames herself, while the mother becomes obsessed with getting justice. The plot is good, it is engaging and well told. However, I think the title gives the whole film away, so things will happen in a certain way in order for the film to be called Eye for an Eye. "},{"Title":"Say You'll Haunt Me","Date":"29 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" You know, as a law school student just about to become a lawyer, I'm much aware of the problems that making justice by yourself can cause to a whole society. That being said, I imagined this movie would try to justify the unjustifiable, but it surprisingly goes in a different direction. The victim's mother becomes obsessive after her daughter gets murdered, but the film never wants to show that she could just murder the bad guy and get easily away with murder. That proves this movie isn't cheesy or formulaic, as I was expecting. The family portrayed in here is very believable and likable, thanks to a great performance made by the three of them-- with highlights to Sally Field, who had an unintentionally funny scene when she swears at the sheriff. Also, directing is professional, doing just like many suspenseful thrillers from the nineties have done. The plot is coherent and well developed, allowing the spectator to understand why the characters were doing what they did, leaving almost no space for doubts. Kiefer Sutherland surely had no hard time on portraying such character, given he did a lot of psychos in the past. All in all, Eye for an Eye proves to be a mature film that many of you might enjoy. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Sally Field takes revenge on Kiefer Sutherland","Date":"22 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Eye for an Eye gives us just what it says, but in a dramatic, not exploitative, way. Kiefer Sutherland rapes and kills Sally Field's and Ed Harris's daughter, and then he slips through a poor court system, free to rape and kill again. Detective Joe Mantegna gets him into court, but he gets off on a legal technicality.The story has at least one strong plot twist, realistic but also unexpected.Field's part is written fully, showing her changes in psychology after the event. Harris tries to keep her on the straight and narrow. It's hard, very hard. This good writing of the effects on the characters makes the story much better drama than most such stories.Sutherland's character and his acting are outstanding. I was wondering how he does it. Did his dad teach him how? Remember that Donald could and did play some bad villains.But I'd add that the veteran director John Schlesinger should get a lot of credit. There were certain wordless scenes of movement, showing Sutherland, that added a huge amount to his characterization. There is one brief shot of him walking in which his silhouette is totally dark against surrounding light that was very effective. Another shows him straddling a balcony as if he owned the world and everyone in it. And there are others, including his crimes and his life, as he looks for victims, plus his behavior in court.When you add up what you see on the screen here, you get a carefully and professionally done movie that is coherent, satisfying and holds up over time. "},{"Title":"Absolutely heartbreaking","Date":"23 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I loved Sally Field's powerful performance. Given this was the first time I have seen this movie--I was devastated seeing what happened to the 17 year old daughter. I have a daughter that age, so I understand what the mother's character must have felt. And I cheered to see her take matters into her own hands, because, it's like she said about the legal system, You are all USELESS! And I couldn't agree more.Ed Harris and the little girl who played the younger sister were great supporting actors. Southerland was as hateful as the murderer of the 17 year old--I despised every minute seeing him in this film. All performances were very convincing.My hats off to this movie. Charlie Bronson, eat your heart out! "},{"Title":"A very underrated movie.","Date":"26 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" First of all I cannot believe this movie has an overall rating of 6.1 on IMDb. This is by far one of the best films I have ever seen. I came across it on my Netflix account one night and decided to give it a whirl. WOW. I hate those movies where you waste the first half waiting for it to get to the point. This one however wasted no time at all. Within the first ten minutes the shocking rape scene was happening and needless to say the acting was outstanding from every character! From then on I was hooked on this film, and I knew that the rest of it was going to be an intense journey. The way the mother reacts to the situation was spot on and I felt for her throughout the whole movie. It's a great but chilling story about justice, and revenge. Every character performed fantastic and there were moments where I felt sick to my stomach with the villain. To say it's not a horror movie, to me it was terrifying and it's safe to say ill never answer my door again! Nowadays movies like this are full of tacky lines and pathetic acting. This one keeps it very real and quite traumatising. Well done! "},{"Title":"A Very Well-Acted, Neatly Wrapped Drama","Date":"8 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" So I have been looking for this movie for a while. I watched it years ago with my mother and only remembered three parts A girl being killed by an ice sculpture while on the phone with her mother, the perpetrator talking to a little girl in a playground playhouse, and the mother leaving her hat at the perpetrator's apartment.After discovering it was 'Eye for an Eye' (some of my difficulty was likely because I kept searching for it in Lifetime movie forums' I was happily surprised by just what had made such an impact on me. The language is astonishing (though I'm not complaining, language in life is astonishing) and the acting is very well done.The drama is there, it knows what it's doing, and it delivers. Most shocking quote I'd say is 'I don't really like kitty pu**y, but I'm willing to make an exception. Stay out of my neighborhood, and I'll stay out of yours.' So, 10/10 for everything other than just how neatly wrapped all of this seems to be. The evidence proves JUST little enough for the police, so that the mother is forced to go vigilante. Every scene gives her JUST the right amount of information, and everyone has JUST the right things to say - most of the time. I especially loved a scene where a coworker discovers she followed the Boon around where he lived, she says 'Have you told anyone? Have you told Mac?' - 'No' she replies.' - 'Good, don't. He'd have a COW! And don't do it again.' - 'Oh I won't. It was a dumb idea. A dumb idea.' and sally field smiles. -- So how many people BELIEVE she is 'not' going to do it again? Right...Despite my complaints, a great film. Though I have to wonder if Boon have filed a complaint against the investigator when he grabbed Boon's testicles and choked him in the back room of the grocery store where he worked... I wonder if they man would still have a job?? "},{"Title":"Formula One.","Date":"30 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Great cast! Sally Field, Kiefer Sutherland, Ed Harris, Joe Montegna. All wasted on a script that can be found any evening on Lifetime Movie Network, or done better somewhere in the archives of Law&Order. It's a terrible piece of commercial stuff. The opening scene shows us one of those extraordinarily happy families going about their breakfasts and anticipating a party later that day in their sunny California home. Harris and Field have two lovely daughters, one about five and the other seventeen. They laugh and kiss one another. A tour down Memory Lane that takes us to place like Father Knows Best. The older daughter is at home alone in mid morning, chatting with Field, who is on her way to work and is stuck in a traffic jam. Suddenly, Field hears crashing and screaming at the other end. She leaps out of her car in this highway parking lot, begins screaming gibberish, and runs between the lines of cars, waving her hands and begging somebody to call the police. She remains hysterical for what seemed like a very long time. Eons came and went while she rushed headlong down the street, knocking uncaringly into pedestrians.It's easy to skip most of the plot because it's been seen before in one or another of its isomorphs. The daughter is raped and murdered brutally. The funeral follows. Field is inconsolable; she wants the murderer caught and constantly hectors the cops. Well, he IS promptly caught by the detectives, led by Joe Montegna., Alas, the culprit, Sutherland, is gotten off by a small legal point and is free to walk the Los Angeles streets. A determined Field begins to follow him around.You ought to see Sutherland and his milieu. He himself, the first good look we get at him, is a serviceable villain, pure e-vil. He smokes. He pours ice water on a friendly dog. His hair is long and greasy. He wears tight T shirts, long black trousers, and swings a foot-long silver key chain as he walks through the seedy Latino district, sneering arrogantly at everything around him. He lives in an apartment above a pool hall. The air is filled with vicious curses, raucous music, and the odor of things frying in lard. The inside of his apartment is appalling -- unmade bed, dirty dishes, empty wine bottles, girlie magazines scattered around the floor, a general sense of clutter almost the equal of my own digs. Disgusting.Field acquires a .38 and trains herself in martial arts. Then, for a while, the movie slides into the empowerment of women. When a man in dark clothing follows her into one of those empty underground garages with eerie lighting along the walls, she ambushes him and kicks him roundly in the family jewels. But the poor cripple was just an ordinary fellow trying to get to his car. Big joke. When she has sex with Harris, she gets on top. She also has a loud argument with Montegna which ends with her climactic curse F*** YOU! and she storms out to great applause.Sutherland is aware of these goings on and taunts her by making friends with Field's sole remaining daughter at the playground. Sutherland also pillages another house and rapes and murders a delicious Latina. But again there's nothing the cops can do because it's all circumstantial as Montegna puts it.It's not so circumstantial at the end, when Field lures him into her home and then perforates him with half a dozen .38 slugs. Montegna, with a smile, takes her away from the milling crowd of police officers and tells her he's been at this a long time and he knows what she did. But they're both satisfied. She's only human, after all, with human reflexes. If you tickle us do we not laugh? If you poison us do we not die? And if you wrong us shall we not revenge? The person I felt sorriest for was poor Ed Harris. He's stuck in the hapless role of the father, trying to finish his own grief work, the good-natured, caring guy, who just isn't THERE for her.I never did understand how Field did anything illegal at the climax. Montegna says he knows what she did, okay, but what did she DO that was against the law? She ransacked Sutherland's dumpy apartment and left her hat behind, so he would know who was responsible. But she didn't leave him a note saying that she had the hots for him and wanted him to come to her nicely furnished home, strap a red rubber ball in her mouth, and ravish her brutally before killing her. It sounds as if Field has outwitted the law and gotten away with something -- but what, other than trespass? But that's just one of several unexplained properties of the film. I mean, a member of Fields' share-the-grief support group reveals herself as an FBI agent doing undercover work, looking for vigilantes. Really? My HARD-EARNED-TAX-DOLLARS are paying this babe to sit around and listen to crime victims tell their sad tales? Why aren't the FBI out looking for the malefactor who stole my 24-inch bicycle when I was twelve years old, hey? It also turns out that the FBI agent, who is a black woman, is in a lesbian marriage. None of this has anything to do with the story except to demonstrate how tolerant Field is. Recently, it's become chic for a heroine to have a gay friend in the movies. Oh, also, the little daughter is named Megan. I don't want to see any more women named Megan. And let us knock off naming girls Dakota while we're at it. A Dakota is one of two states, both of them alive with plump Phrynosoma douglassi.Basta! There's a fine Law&Order episode that isn't insulting. See if you can find it. "},{"Title":"Average and Trashy&#x85;Ultimately and Overall a Disappointment","Date":"18 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Director has Made Some High Intensity Films like Midnight Cowboy (1969) and Marathon Man (1976). This One is a Trashy, Gut-Turning Movie that is So Over Emotional and Underwritten it Wavers Between Cathartic and Crass Exploitation.A Very Good Cast Highlighted by Sally Field and Kiefer Sutherland, All of the Other A-Listers are Wasted, the Most Obvious is Ed Harris. This is Essentially a Standard and Heavy Handed Revenge Movie that Does Not Completely Satisfy.The Underground Vigilante Group Seems to Be There Only to Justify the Mother's Motivations and the Support Group, as Irritating as it is, is Just More Insufferable Clichés. The Strength of the Movie is Sutherland's Creepy Killer (delivering some really edgy lines) and Field's Determined Detachment, but as a Whole the Movie is Nothing More than Average Social Commentary.Worth a Watch with Low Expectations and a Tolerance for Over the Top Tropes in a Genre that More Often Than Not Leans Toward Trash and This One is No Exception.Note...However, it is better than every Death Wish Sequel. "},{"Title":"Great Actors, Great Premise, Disappointing Script","Date":"7 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie had quite a big premise a brutally raped and murdered daughter, a despicable criminal, a fallible justice system and a mother who decides to take matters into her own hands. It should not come as a big surprise that after reading its brief description, I was expecting a very emotionally-charged movie dealing with a particularly difficult subject.Now, I understand that the creators of the movie wanted to ensure that transformation of Karen McCann (Sally Field) from grief-stricken mother who relies on the justice system to well, exert justice (ergo keep evildoers behind bars), to a strong female lead who decides to protect others and her daughter's memory by making sure that said evildoer (Kiefer Sutherland) will never harm anyone else. This transformation is the main storyline, and a rather compelling one at that.I was still missing something very important within that dramatic transformation. I wish the script would have allowed the viewers to see behind the McCann family's dynamics after this horrible crime was committed. I wanted to see how the McCanns go through all stages of grief individually and as a family. The cut from Karen being an ear witness via the phone to her daughters rape and murder and then sitting at the police station and sobbing was a tad too quick. Next thing I knew, the funeral was over. As a viewer, I would have wanted to feel for Karen, see her go from shell shocked to the 5 stages of grief (Kübler-Ross). I wanted to see her husband, Mack (Ed Harris), play a more crucial role in the entire storyline. His character seemed only to serve the stereotypical male role of just keep on keepin' on and trying to keep the family together. Why couldn't we see Mack McCann's grieving process? That being said, it is true that there is no set way to grieve and everyone deals with loss in their own way. However, what happened to Julie (Olivia Burnette) was so horrid that I was expecting to get a glimpse into a genuine family tragedy and see how such an atrocious act can upset the family dynamics. Another thing that made it difficult to fully indulge in the movie's premise was the character of Robert Doob (Kiefer Sutherland). He was portrayed as the absolute villain despicable, arrogant, cruel to humans and animals alike, filled with rage and just waiting for the next opportunity to rape and kill another unsuspecting victim. Again, I understand why he was portrayed in such a manner The movie makers wanted the audience to dislike him from the get-go, feeling the outrage and anger that Karen felt when this predator was set free with not so much as a slap on the wrist. Given the nature of his crimes, it really wouldn't have taken much vilifying to dislike such a character. I personally get more affected by exposed criminals when it comes to light that he was just the guy next door or had some element that allowed him to seemingly blend in with society. Well, our evildoer is bad to the bone and the movie does nothing to show him other than The Bad Guy. We do not get a glimpse into his psyche, his background, his real motives, or the full extent of his character.The movie does deliver some fine acting from Sally Field and Kiefer Sutherland, both of whom are unfortunately restricted by the script to portraying somewhat flat characters. It does make a good 100 minutes of entertainment and the movie does a great job at holding the audience's attention. Verdict 6/10. Exciting premise, great actors, but with a script that chose to follow generic Hollywood formulas instead of showing the audience the real abyss of grief. "},{"Title":"Kiefer","Date":"8 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I thought Kiefer Sutherland did a wonderful job with the movie first off, his acting skills are hard to match by anyone,, how many actors today can bounce back and forth between movies and TV just like that.. Sally Field.. wow what happened to her since Coal Miner's Daughter. she did very good to in the role of the mother trying to get vengeance on her daughter being raped,, in the initial opening scene,, the teenage daughter is on the phone with mom,, and she get's raped and mom hear's the entire rape,start to finish, due to a technicality our rapist is set free, and free to rape and kill again. he starts stalking different prey this time, while our raging mother is trying to find our rapist and bring him to either justice or death.. these kind of movies have been overdone and watered down in the past 30 years. but this one seems to me to have a little more staying power.. I think that will be because of Kiefer's high profile,, 24,, and an amazing performance by Sally Field,, the Coal Miner's Daughter. "}{"Title":"A decent revenge film","Date":"15 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sometimes it's more interesting to review the reviews than review the movie. There's nothing technically wrong with this movie. Production values are fine. The acting is fine. Anyone rating this a 1 is an incompetent reviewer. 1-star reviews so far rant that Ed Harris ruined the movie and at the same time wonder why Super Ed was saddled with such a horrible supporting cast. Maybe reviewers should be allowed to vote 4-6 until they prove competency.Back to the movie. So far, I have yet to see a movie with Sally Field where she doesn't shine. While her movies may not be perfect, she's a superb actress. Like Tom Hanks, she generally picks winners to be in (funny they starred in at least 2 movies together). I'm also developing a liking for Joe Montegna. I see him in a lot of films and he brings a nice competency to supporting roles. Same for Ed Harris. I like Kiefer Sutherland in his various movies and he does a fine job (even if slightly over the top here) of being creepy.So let's talk film content. Revenge films are intriguing in many ways. To an extent, that concept is an easy way to develop conflict for the viewer. However, it's much harder to come up with a reason for the vengeance. The Sting took revenge to high art. Eye for an Eye is not high art, so no 10 from me for the film. A 7 will have to do. Others have compared this to the better known Death Wish, but I think this was better produced and had better flow. Aspects of the movie are predictable, but I've seen many a good movie that was predictable.Summary if you're scanning Netflix or Blockbuster for an unseen movie with decent action and dialog that moves at a good pace, Eye for an Eye isn't revenge on the level of M, The Sting, or Gran Torino but it's a decent watch... especially if you like the acting talents of Field, Sutherland, Harris and Montegna. If you like action/revenge films, pop some popcorn, curl up with someone special and enjoy. "},{"Title":"I really good movie...Kiefer Sutherland is extremely scary!","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" ~Contains Spoilers~If you are a fan of Sally field or Kiefer Sutherland you will certainly enjoy this movie.It all starts off with young Julie Mc Can. A stranger breaks into her house when her parents aren't home and rapes/murders her in a brutal way.The scene is pretty graphic so if you are a person who is disturbed easily by that kind of violence, you may not want to watch this.The most disturbing part of this is that she is on the phone with her mother (Sally Field) whenever she is being attacked. After she dies Karen (Sally Field) basically has a nervous break down and can barely move on in her life. Not being able to pay any attention to her youngest daughter and her husband. Finally whenever Robert Doob (Sutherland) is released on some kind of technicality, Karen decides to take the law into her own hands, especially when the Doob rapes and murders another woman.So with working out, taking defense classes, and learning how to use a gun, she sets a trap for doob.The conclusion is really good, and the movie is never really boring at any point. Not the best movie EVER, but still one worth renting and watching a couple of times. Especially if your into suspense/thrillers.Personally, Kiefer Sutherland creeps me out big time in this movie, which is why i cant stand him in anything else. But that may just be because I'm at a young age? who knows. But give this movie a try...its really worth watching. "},{"Title":"Obvious, mediocre, exploitive","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A mediocre drama with Fields at the vortex, Eye For an Eye attempts to exploit the hate we all feel at heinous crime and the natural inclinations toward uncivilized retribution when the crime goes unpunished. Fields plays a woman whose daughter has been raped and murdered by the sneering Sutherland who is so evil he not only rapes and murders twice in the film but he pours hot coffee on a dog. Now that's evil.  Such is the mentality behind this film in which the good are very good and the bad are very bad and the plot is as obvious as the E on an eye chart. An okay watch if there's nothing better to be found while channel surfing. "},{"Title":"A dreadful excuse for a drama","Date":"22 November 2009","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I went into this film with no expectations poor or positive. I am, however, a person who does not believe Sally Field deserves her acclaim and finds her to be a good deal overrated. Is she a bad actress? Over the top, maybe, but I would not use the term 'bad'. At least not until I saw this.The film is about a woman who calls her teenage daughter from a traffic jam and, as they are talking, she hears her daughter being attacked. The girl is raped and killed. This already brings me to the first issue with the film, as well as with Sally Field's acting. For starters, there may have been an issue with hanging up the phone due to the daughter not hitting 'end' back then, I am not up to date on how cell phones worked in the mid-90's. However, why did she never attempt to hang up and call 911 on the phone in her hand? Comfort does not mean as much as life, and every second counts.There is also the fact that, other than two brief scenes, I never once felt like Sally's character cared a thing for her daughter. She never acts sad or distraught over her daughter's death, and only comes off as either indifferent or offended, as if someone had stolen property from her and given her a reason to be defensive over herself. I understand denial and hysterics, but at a certain point the family members of victims of such crimes do end up breaking down and, in nearly every case, lose track of life and shut down partially. There is even a moment when a woman tells Sally she needs to stay strong for her youngest daughter, despite the fact that she is the least upset person at the entire memorial. She seems to use her daughter's death as an excuse to be illogical, hysterical, and hateful but never once gave me a reason to feel bad for her, when I should normally be able to without much expression at all.The film's villain is also abysmal. He behaves like an overly cartoon-like fiend who lives for no reason other than to do mischief (it is bad when I can use this word accurately about a rapist/murderer in a serious drama). I was honestly waiting for him to get hold of Sally Field and tie her to the railroad tracks by the third time he laughed deviously and did another random, senseless act of naughtiness. The man rapes and kills two people for certain, as well as pours hot coffee on a dog and urinates through a woman's fence, and somehow managed to not only make none of this seem overly malicious or cruel, but almost like a child trying to get attention.Every character is unbelievable and ridiculous, except for perhaps the two victims who are seen so briefly each. The police officer defies logic at every turn and when he actually does decide to do something, it is not only at the wrong time but in a way that in most cases he would have been fired for his actions. He assaults a man who has been legally dismissed of all charges, simply on suspicion. This includes holding a gun to his head. Plenty of witnesses saw and heard the assault, and one word from any of them and he would be turning in his badge and completely useless to anyone. This may have been his true goal, though, as without such a useless officer on the force they may actually get something done. Now just to deal with the idiots handling the evidence.The finale of the film is absurd, not due to the plot but simply because of how it is delivered. At one point Sally Field has the killer at gunpoint, easily six feet away minimum, and has plenty of opportunity and logical reason, as well as every intent, to shoot and kill him. This was her plan, to kill the man while under legal conditions. Instead, she waits around for literally no reason and somehow allows him to ram his entire body into her before she can do so much as to pull the trigger once. She is then knocked down the stairs and lands on her back at the bottom, and though the gun is lying only a few inches away from her in plain sight to both of them, this for some reason did not seem threatening to the killer who idly strolls down the stairs taunting her. No shock to anyone, she grabs the gun and fires repeatedly into his torso, not missing a single time. Strangely, he seems bewildered by these events and does not understand how the woman lying only a few inches away from a loaded gun shot him while he taunted her and slowly moved in for the kill.I will not even discuss the Vigilante Group, that is simply something you will have to see yourself, or be glad you are not aware of.Plain and simple, this film is entirely unbelievable, every attempt at inducing any sort of emotion is a miserable failure, and it will make you wish you had two hours of your life back. How so many people seemed to have liked this disturbs me.I would recommend this to only an enemy. "},{"Title":"Sutherland is magnificent in this","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" In my opinion this is one of Keifer Sutherlands best and underrated roles.He plays a terrific villain here ,so much it makes me wonder why he does not do more roles like this.He is so convincing and his stage presence is immpecable.The movie itself didn't do an awful lot for me but again Sutherland is the real star here .Another role he played similar to this was Truth and consequences New Mexico .He looks exactly like he does in this and plays a perfect bad guy.I have always claaified Sutherland with actors like Ray Liota and Micheal Keaton because they are amazing actors who don't get the right roles.They all play spectacular villains and for some reason they never do enough of them.This movie is great in the way it highlights Sutherlands best features as a actor and as a character you love to hate. "},{"Title":"A Scary, Thought-Provoking Drama","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  EYE FOR AN EYE is an intense, nail-biting thriller that has a good message and taut direction. The script is from the people who wrote HAND THAT ROCKS THE CRADLE, and this is just as intense. While the whole cast delivers fine performances, Kiefer Sutherland is the one who stands out and does a creepy job. It may be hard to watch at times, but I thought it was a rather moving and powerful film. "},{"Title":"Statement about violence in our society gets exploited for cheap suspense","Date":"18 October 2006","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It's a wonder the screenplay for Eye For An Eye got produced as is; it's barely two-dimensional. The contrivances are laid out for us to count, and the climax is telegraphed well in advance. Still, Sally Field is, as always, immediate and bracing as a mother mourning the murder of her daughter, later stalking the man who killed her (let out of prison on one of those movie technicalities). The direction (by John Schlesinger, still in Pacific Heights mode) underlines every plot point twice, just so we in the audience don't miss a trick (this film could be Exhibit A in a dissertation called Thrillers for Dummies). The father (Ed Harris) is so weak-willed he can't even have an intelligent conversation with his wife about the death penalty (perhaps he's been stunned into submission?). The killer is, naturally, more colorful than any of the other characters, and this presents another problem why make a disgusting, immoral punk so vivacious? It's almost as if Schlesinger is saying life is suburbia turns us all into robots...or maybe targets. ** from **** "},{"Title":"ed harris is awful","Date":"9 September 2010","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The thing that spoiled the story for me and just made the whole thing implausible was ed harris and ed harris alone........i cannot imagine a father whose daughter is violently raped and murdered acting in such a blaze' or indifferent and completely detached manner.........he was absolutely blank about it and acted pretty much as if nothing unusual happened in his life.........as opposed, say, to sean penn in mystic river reacting to the same situation (outstanding believability) i have never thought much of harris' quirky and bizarre acting style until i realized he is just a terrible actor, that there is no real style to think about and this is a good example of that blankness and absence of emotion..........they would have gotten a better performance out of someone who just happened by the set.Harris' performance here, as in many of his performances was without substance. "},{"Title":"Eye for an Agitating Thriller!","Date":"27 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Eye for an Eye (1996) Dir John Schlesinger / Cast Sally Field, Kiefer Sutherland, Ed Harris, Joe Mantegna, Beverly D'Angelo An ugly portrayal of retaliation that manipulates viewers with its justifications. Sally Field overhears the murder of her daughter via cell phone. Kiefer Sutherland is arrested but found innocent due to malpractice with evidence. Angered, Field purchases a gun and spies on him. Predictable and pathetic justified revenge cover up. A laughable excess in hate by director John Schlesinger. What a sad decline for a director who once made interesting films such as Marathon Man and Midnight Cowboy. Field is a good actress in laughable material that her playing a death wish mother. Sutherland's blandness make him a prop for viewers to blame. The character is certainly bad but created more or less as a target for revenge as oppose to a compelling derange personality type. Ed Harris plays Field's husband who cannot reason with her. He will predictably lose hope and suspect her of things that she will not admit to. Joe Mantegna plays her lawyer who stands by her to the very end even when given a pitiful comment from her. Beverly D'Angelo also appears but just like the rest of this talented cast she can do nothing to prevent it from becoming pathetic. In films like Death Wish and Ms. 45 revenge was the subject and not the product. This stupid revenge flick is worthy of target practice. Score 0 / 10 "},{"Title":"Tolerable revenge thriller","Date":"17 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Considering the calibre of the cast and director, Eye For An Eye is a rather low key affair. It tells a familiar story - rapist/murderer goes free through legal loophole, bereaved parent pursues vengeance/justice - and does so reasonably well.Some might think Keifer Sutherland's villain is one dimensional and overstated - I suspect not. Some might think the reactions of Sally Field and Ed Harris as parents of the murdered girl are unrealistic - the answer here must be whether they are credible, and I think they are credible possible reactions. No two people will react the same way, and none of us knows what we would do unless it happens to us (and I profoundly hope it does not happen to anyone reading this).Ultimately, though, despite decent performances and a satisfactory (though somewhat perfunctory) conclusion, the emotional intensity of the opening is not really sustained, and the film peters out in a welter of obviousness. "}{"Title":"A Movie To Please All The Parties !","Date":"15 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" 1996  While Sharon Stone & Isabelle Adjani were busy killing Chazz Palminteri in (Diabolique), Neve Campbell was doing some nasty wizardry in (The Craft), and facing the slasher in (Scream), even Anna Nicole Smith was turning into an Action hero in (Skyscraper), Sally Field, one of the pioneers at movies with serious feminine leading, made (Eye for an Eye). The heroine of (Norma Rae &#x96; 1979) got herself in what seems as another revenge story, yet with somehow deep script and good social commentary above being simply a thriller.There is good emotional dealing with the old story. The sentimental atmosphere was done semi-perfect. I remember the scene of the mother laughs her head off while the consolation; this is pure understanding to one human who surpassed her feeling, so it got liberated yet in the wrong way (things you wouldn't find at for instance the Death Wish series !). And when it comes to the scene of getting angry over washing the dead daughter's pillow; it's genius writing.It's kind of fair movie. However it didn't choose the bloody solution while achieving it in the same time ! Yes, although it's not Kill Bill, but it ended with killing the killer as well. Therefore I see this movie's problem, if it has one, is its desire to please all (except Kiefer Sutherland's fans, and his character's likes in real world !).It's all in that Hollywood happy ending that wants only to make you leave your seat wholly satisfied. And not agreeing with the principle of eye for an eye or rather the idea of revenge itself. The main character couldn't turn into a killer (great choice) but the movie, commercially I suppose, wanted a big finish, so she has been put through a situation where she had to get what she wanted, and what the movie wanted too. That saved the humanity of the lead, transformed the matter from deliberate revenge into justified self-defense, achieved the lost justice, and showed wickedly how the law's justice is real helpless (or hopeless !). I thought the choice of refusing to murder, accepting the fate, and returning to ordinary life is one hell of a climax itself, but this is a mainstream American movie for god's sake !P.S  at the same year - in TV - the birth was given to other peaceful, let's say not violent, female leads in Sabrina, the Teenage Witch, Nancy Drew, and The Big Easy. This type, whether in TV or movies, became rarer while the days pass by. "},{"Title":"Not Exactly a Shining Endorsement of Men","Date":"4 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" In many ways, Eye for an Eye is a fairly bland thriller, indistinguishable from other vigilante-style movies. In fact, it plays at times like one of those cheaply made TV movies, and yet it contains a couple of attacks on women which are quite shocking in their intensity and completely at odds with the rest of the film. Sally Field plays a typically upper-middle class working mother whose teenage daughter is brutally raped and murdered by ultra-sleazy deliveryman Kiefer Sutherland. When the American justice system lets him free on a technicality, Field resolves to take the law into her own hands.The film's basically just a variation on Death Wish, with the added frisson that the vigilante is physically the weaker party and therefore just as likely to become a victim of her target as the other way around. Field is pretty good in the role, as is Sutherland as her nemesis, even though he is portrayed as pure evil with no redeeming &#x96; or human &#x96; qualities to speak of. The guy can't even sit down without pouring his coffee over a passing dog. Given that, away from his battle with Field, Sutherland isn't given much to play with beyond a couple of scenes which provide no insight into his character &#x96; in one he's threatened by frustrated cop Joe Mantegna, and in the other he plays frenetic drums on his legs as he watches a video in his grubby hotel room &#x96; he makes quite an impression, proving he's as adept at playing irredeemable bad guys as he is clean cut heroes of the Jack Bauer variety.Ed Harris plays Field's understanding but long-suffering husband, and he's about as emasculated as a man can be in a movie. Never really knowing what's going on, regularly catching on a couple of scenes too late, he's effortlessly sent trotting off to the mountains by Field when she wants him out of the way so that she can put her revenge plan into action. I'm not sure I'd have been as understanding as him in that final scene, and it kind of makes you wonder what Harris saw in the role&#x85; "},{"Title":"A disturbing, if clichéd, modern thriller","Date":"12 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" After hearing her daughter being brutally raped and murdered, a mother, Karen (Sally Field), must deal with her grief while the killer (Kiefer Sutherland) walks after a mistake by the DA's office sets him free. During her grieving process, Karen finds a support group for others who have lost their children. There, she meets up with a group of vigilantes who help grieving loved ones get revenge on those who have wronged them. Can Karen pull through her grief and get her vengeance? Or will the killer walk free? While certainly more a thriller than a horror, 'Eye for an Eye' still contains some of the most frightening moments of 90s cinema to me. Though predictable, 'Eye for an Eye' still maintains a level of suspense unmatched by many mainstream thrillers like it. Throughout the film, Kiefer Sutherland's fantastic performance left me feeling completely filthy. He was a truly disgusting character, maintained well by Sutherland's usual creepiness. Sally Field also delivers a typically good performance. Both of these are very impressive since the script really wasn't anything all that spectacular. It was adequate, yes, but nothing great. When it comes down to it, the film is an above average revenge flick that has some genuinely chilling and disturbing moments in it. A recommendation for anyone looking for something mainstream that goes just beyond what's usually expected.Final verdict 7/10. "},{"Title":"An emotional beginning.. A predictable ending.","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I think our experiences in life help dictate what our emotional responses to films will be. For me, watching the aftershocks of a family dealing with a sudden and violent death of a loved one was horribly visceral.**Possible Spoilers*I am not a big Sally Fields fan. She's okay, and I will admit when she plays a grieving mother, she can make me cry and so she did in 'Eye for an Eye'. Once the film moved into the predictable revenge part I got over it and got into the story. I've never seen such an evil bad guy in any Kiefer roles as this one and as much as I love this man, by the end of the film I was rooting for Sally Fields to kill the jerk. I can't imagine what Sutherland used for motivation, if anything, to play this part and I don't know if I want to know.At the end of the day, I liked this film. It's hard to watch and evokes some powerful emotions - and isn't that what films should do? Regardless of a mediocre script and typical plot, I was entertained and I believed in the characters. For some of us, that's enough. "},{"Title":"Great scary movie!","Date":"17 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of those movies that keeps you on the edge of your seat! It was great! Sally Field is good but it's Keifer Sutherland that makes it great! He played the evil Robert Doob to perfection. I loved it! Definately recommended!   "},{"Title":"Controversial topic must drive home a point","Date":"30 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Says nothing, and does nothing. John Schlesinger's Eye For an Eye takes a very controversial topic and has nothing to say about it. The entire film appears to have no point. Films of this type cannot be effective just by telling a story.Sadly, this was a complete waste of Sally Field's enormous talent, which was on show again in this movie. The two time Oscar winner almost saved this film. The rest of the cast, including the villainous Kiefer Sutherland and Ed Harris, do little with their roles. Based upon Erica Holzer's novel.Friday, September 3, 1999 - T.V. "},{"Title":"Predictable revenge flick....","Date":"31 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" One or two minor surprises cannot overcome the utter predictability of Eye For An Eye. With this cast there was tremendous potential that for the most part remains unrealized. The script is so by the books that I've seen all this before thoughts quickly surface. Kiefer Sutherland really remains in the background for most of the film. If his character had been better developed, and less dialog between Sally Field and Ed Harris the movie would have benefited. Philip Baker Hall appears to be fine tuning his character for Hard Eight, and really has little bearing on the outcome. If you can overcome the familiarity of the script give this a try. - MERK "},{"Title":"It could have been ANY of us","Date":"27 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Eye for an Eye (1996) Starring Sally Field, Ed Harris, Kiefer Sutherland, Beverly D'Angelo, and Joe Mantegna. Our stories tell us where we've been, where we are, and where we hope to go. THIS story is a Where We Are type. A family loses a loved one to violence. If that wasn't enough, the perpetrator doesn't see justice. Each deals with it in their own way, and everyone changes. Slowly we head towards an inevitable encounter. Sally Fields is great as a person torn over how to go on, Ed Harris does his classic stoic/occasionally almost emotional role, Joe Mantegna is very good as a hard working cop, and Kiefer Sutherland is great as a true sociopath. This is a tense drama that doesn't jump over scenes for the sake of reaching a climax. It's not that the characters are the most complex or unique in film history &#150; but they ring true &#150; and there in lies the strength of Eye for an Eye. It could have been ANY of us. "},{"Title":"Sally Field goes criminally insane. We've seen it before.","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Kiefer Sutherland plays a villain pretty well but here he isn't given room to give a dimensional portrayal. Sally Field plays the mother who lets rage turn her into a criminal. The director and/or the writer wants to make us think it's ok to take the law into your own hands and murder people as long as you have a god reason. There have been made quite a few films on this premise. If you are feeling like some kill the bad guys because they are pure evil and deserve to die then see an old Charles Bronson film instead. This one is no good unless you're a die hard Sally Field fan. "},{"Title":"Gripping","Date":"2 February 2004","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was very gripping.   Karen McCann's (Sally Field) daughter gets brutally murdered, and the legal system is helpless on putting the murderer away.   Karen decides to take the law into her own hands to avenge her daughter's killer, and her husband is trying to stop her.   Overall if you want to know the ending you will have to watch the movie.  "}{"Title":"Too manipulative and heavy handed, even for aspiring vigilantes","Date":"15 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Where to start with this movie? Well, first of all I don't blame the actors in this movie for its failings. The cast is a talented bunch that I've admired elsewhere, and it's clear they are doing what the screenplay and direction tell them to do. On second thought, maybe part of the cast can be blamed - there is a brief appearance by martial arts actress Cynthia Rothrock, and if you know her, you know that any (American) movie she stars in turns out to be a turkey.I'll get serious now. The direction and screen writing of this movie, as I indicated in my summary line, are way below par. There's hardly any time with the protagonist before tragedy strikes, so we don't see how she's changed and scarred. The villain of the movie is so BAD, so EVIL, that he becomes a cartoon character instead of someone realistic that we the audience could really fear and feel genuine hatred. The second half of the movie, where Field becomes an aspiring vigilante, is sometimes laughable in showing how far she'll go.On that note, I'll leave my final thought. With the movie's heavy hand and sometimes laughable plot turns, I have to wonder if this would have worked better as a spoof of vigilante movies. Even if it had failed, I'm sure the end results would be more interesting than how the movie is now. "},{"Title":"Not a great fils, but one worth watching","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  SpoilerThe main stars in the film Eye For an Eye are, Ed Harris, Sally Fields, and Kiefer Sutherland.  Harris and Fields play the role of Mack and Karen Mc Cann, the parents of a murdered daughter.  Sutherland plays the role of Robert Doob, a local murderer and rapist.  Doob is let go because of a technicality in which the prosecutors didn't provide the defense with a portion of the evidence.  The case was thrown out, and Karen Mc Cann looks for revenge.  She joins a workout program and a karate class to learn how to defend herself.  Along with this she learns how to shoot a gun and makes plans to get Doob to attack her. The critical intention of this film is revenge.  In this film Karen is ultimately out for revenge because the federal justice system has done her wrong.  This is a very good theme because almost all of us have wished that we could get revenge on at least one person, but would not be able to do it. This film fulfills our desires. One of the things that I liked about the film was how the director John Schlesinger brought humor to a sad movie when the aunt slipped and fell on the toy truck when the family was over after the daughters death.  I also liked how he portrayed the character of Robert Doob.  He just looked like a killer in the way that he dressed, by the looks on his face, and by the thoughts in his mind. "},{"Title":"A mother looking for revenge","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Several films in Hollywood deal with the argument of the film. Here the difference is that everybody knows the guilty person and the sequences of the film try to conduct you how to discover him. Here Police is showing that it knows something but unable to act properly and to put in prison the man who raped various women. The end is justice imparted as self- defense of the mother of one the ladies raped. Kiefer Sutherland (the hooligan) is the best in acting while Ed Harris and Sally Field do their jobs modestly.  "},{"Title":"Good film, a truthful take on this subject","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  As another person commented here, anyone who thinks the villain was excessively one dimensional and that his evil was overstated has obviously not met a serious violent offender in real life. In fact I would say that if anything Kiefer's characterisation was somewhat understated, a clean cut Disneyfied version of the reality of such psychopaths.The film also touches on the issue of failure of the justice system due to technicalities, and many of the absurd assumptions that underpin not only the US justice system, but others around the world based on the seriously flawed British adverserial system. Criticism of this sort from the media, placing legal problems in a context readily comprehended by the public at large as is done here, is vital if the requisite changes are to be made, and is unfortunately not often seen. The offender-centric nature of such legal systems could provide material for a hundred more films of this ilk. A pity that Hollywood or its equivalent in the UK or Australasia has not seen fit to rise to the challenge as in this film.As for the acting etc, it is not stellar, but is adequate, and is assisted no end by the extremely good story the film tells. Others here have commented that the film somehow legitimises vigilantism. It does not, but in fact demonstrates that vigilante action is the near inevitable consequence of a flawed legal system that does not place victims and the safety of the community before the interests of the offender. It also conveys something of the emotional and other consequences for victims, a wakeup call for complacent viewers. I suspect such a nasty jolt to aforesaid complacency may have motivated some of this films less favourable reviews.... "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I recently saw this movie for the first time.  I love Sally Field and Ed Harris, so I thought, why not.  I was completely sucked in.  It kept me on the edge of my seat and I did not try to guess how it would end.  The conclusion came as  a complete surprise.  I liked watching the female lead character getting stronger after going through a horrible situation.It also made me think about how, as a woman, I need to be more aware of myself and my surroundings.  All drama, music and pretty cinematography set aside, this movie relayed a message to me.My idea of a good movie is one you still want to think about for days or weeks after you've seen it.  This was a good movie. "},{"Title":"pleased","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  You know i think some people take this movie critic thing a little too serious.  Some people watch a movie, and they aren't happy because it had this, or not enough of that, or the acting was bad(understandable), but the important question that should be above all is, did it entertain you?  I mean after all that's what a movie ultimately is supposed to do right?  A good plot with a strong message is nice, which i feel this movie delivers.  Im partial to this because i like Sally Field and Kiefer Sutherland, and i felt that they played their performances well.  If i can be a nitpicker for a moment, i will say that at times the scenes can be a little over-dramatic, but sometimes it's good to be reminded it's just a movie.  Eye for an Eye entertained me. "},{"Title":"Excellent and suspenseful edge-of-your-seat drama/thriller!","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I think EYE FOR AN EYE is an excellent and suspenseful edge-of-your-seat drama/thriller. In my opinion, Sally Field, Ed Harris, and Kiefer Sutherland gave dazzling performances as a grieving mother, cocky killer, and alienated husband. What I liked most about the film is all the suspense. It really kept me on the edge of my seat. I felt really sorry for the McCann family. This was because their 17-year-old daughter, Julie (Olivia Burnette), had been raped and murdered. If I had been in the movie, I would have given my condolences. If one of my children got murdered and the killer was set free on the same kind of technicality that Robert Doob (Kiefer Sutherland) was, I'd probably do the same thing Karen (Sally Field) did. To those of you who are fans of Sally Field, Kiefer Sutherland, or Ed Harris, if you haven't seen this film, I highly recommend it. When you see it, prepare to be thrilled. "},{"Title":"Cheap exploitation trash","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  After the powerful DEAD MAN WALKING, it was disspiriting to see this come out so soon after, and do better at the box office.  DEAD MAN WALKING was an honest look at capital punishment, from all sides of the equation; this is just cheap and manipulative.  Sally Field once again, as in NOT WITHOUT MY DAUGHTER, exploits a hot-button topic to make a movie that beats us over the head; the only subtle scene is when she's racing through traffic when she gets cut off from her daughter on the phone and fears the worst.  Kiefer Sutherland, naturally, is leering as the villain, and you wonder just what fine actors like Ed Harris and Joe Mantegna are doing here.  "},{"Title":"Manipulative self-righteous Hollywood Trash","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'm amazed to see that there are so many people who can't see this film for what it really is   a  cry for vengeance, vigilante justice etc.Come on people, could Kiefer Sutherland's character be any more over the top. He is the root of all evil and killing him is going to solve all the problems Sally Field's character is dealing with.Just once I'd like to see a movie that shows us that exercising vigilante justice doesn't necessarily make you feel any better inside. "},{"Title":"Pretty good, and kind of forgotten","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Eye For An Eye/ ** starsI was once again impressed with how good Sutherland acted in this movie, and I have yet to find a movie that he doesn't act well in. Also, Field does a great job portraying the upset mom routine.Eye For An Eye is about a women who goes after the man who raped and then murdered her daughter when she finds out that the police can't help her.This is very impressive, but it kind of falls into the bunch of movies that you forget after a while and dont really want to see again. But ti's good for the time being. "}{"Title":"Not a particularly good movie, but strikes a chord.","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  some SPOILERS - do not read if you haven't seen the movie yet.I remember seeing the ads for this film back when it was released but never saw it before today when it was on network TV. It could have been 30 minutes long, 15 to set up the premise that Sutherland's character is a despicable killer who will keep murdering and get off, including Field's daughter, and the last 15 minutes to show how she finally disposes of him. The middle treats lots of emotions, the cops' failed attempts at pining something on him, and her taking self-defense and shooting lessons.The pay-off comes when she sends her husband and younger daughter out of town, she breaks into the murderer's shabby apartment, messes things up, leaves her signature baseball cap, so he can find it. She knows when he gets off work, turns on her shower at home, and when he breaks in to kill her, she is waiting with loaded gun. After a brief struggle, to show her self-defense skills, she looks him in the eye, says You broke into my house and tried to harm me, then shot his 4 or 5 times. The cops and her husband figure out what she did, but decide to let it go.On the one hand, this movie plays on our emotions to see that the criminal gets his due, and does not harm anyone else. However, it does so by unlawful vigilante means, so we come away very conflicted. Not a very good movie, but an interesting one. "},{"Title":"Actually, not like Death Wish","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  (SPOILERS)I understand why people finds this movie a female version of Death Wish, but I have to disagree, as some others have already pointed out some diferences, I'll point others.First, Death Wish had a plausible story and characters (something that could actually happen in real life), when the story here is too implausible and exagerated (such a high publicied case, a rich white family, no way the cops and prosecutors would be so incompetent, a poor family and no publicity would make such incompetence plausible) as well as the characters (Sutherland is pure evil, and Field's family saints). And one more thing remember the undercover female black cop infiltrading the victims group? A guy next to me yelled out loud the cops have budget and manpower to keep an eye on victims, but not on criminals? Actualy, they do. And example, the S.I.S. unit from L.A.And the final thing Bronson went out armed looking for people to kill, while Fields at first tried to help the cops arrest Sutherland, and only in the end out of frustration trashes his place, thus baiting him into retaliating. If he hadn't gone to her house, he'd still be alive. By breking in and beating her up, he gave her and hair-tight seld-defense case. Bronson shot most of his victims in the back while running away from him.Anyway, just my opinion. "},{"Title":"This kind of subject matter gets a movie?","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is not only a movie about rape, murder and revenge, but it is a *bad* movie about rape, murder and revenge. It probably would have worked if it weren't for the poor placement of actors Sally Field and Keifer Sutherland in their roles. Field is not a good enough actress in the role as the tortured mom who lost her daughter to r & m. She then goes through the motions to get revenge, rather absurdly. She's also a bit old and has no real emotional range. (Sorry, but the hell with Sybil, she really sucks.) As for Keifer, he's actually too *good* an actor, as 24 has shown, to portray a sleazy rapist/murderer. For some reason, in this part, he goes way over the top as the bad guy. The actor who gives it his best in a thankless role is Ed Harris as Sally's husband. He's her second husband, and the older daughter who died wasn't even his. But he is sympathetic to no end, and struggles to be supportive to his wife. While Field over acts, Harris stays calm, cool and collected and realistically emotional. He gives the only *real* performance in this tripe. The anticlimactic ending doesn't help. So basically we have an R-rated TV-movie-of-the-week that was neither asked for nor bought in to. "},{"Title":"Ultimately predictable but worth watching i guess?","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is incredibly predictable. It's moral is about as transparent as that of your average children's book, but it does have what I thought was a great performance, by Keifer Sutherland. The guy really plays a good bad guy. "},{"Title":"Typical Revenge Flick.","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Ho-hum outing for a strong cast and a great director that just never does come together in the end. Parents Sally Field and Ed Harris have their young daughter brutally raped and murdered in their own home one day by psychopath Kiefer Sutherland. No conviction means that Field must take the law into her own hands and get Sutherland herself. A weak I'm going to get you screenplay and amazingly poor direction by John Schlesinger (of Midnight Cowboy fame) do nothing to help out the film. A total mess. 2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Excellent and suspenseful edge-of-your-seat drama/thriller!","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I think EYE FOR AN EYE is an excellent and suspenseful edge-of-your-seat drama/thriller. In my opinion, Sally Field, Ed Harris, and Kiefer Sutherland gave dazzling performances as Karen McCann, Robert Doob, and Mack McCann. What I liked most about the film is all the suspense. It REALLY kept me on the edge of my seat. I felt really sorry for the McCann family. This was because their 17-year-old daughter, Julie (Olivia Burnette), had been raped and murdered. If I had been in the movie, I would have given my condolences. If one of my children got murdered and the killer was set free on the same kind of technicality that Robert Doob (Kiefer Sutherland) was, I'd probably do the same thing Karen (Sally Field) did. To those of you who are fans of Sally Field, Kiefer Sutherland, or Ed Harris, if you haven't seen this film, I HIGHLY recommend it. When you see it, prepare to be thrilled.  "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie!","Date":"24 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie is excellent. I definitely give it 10 out of 10 stars. Everything about it is excellent, acting, costumes, production, photography, directing, script, plot, storyline, etc. This story officially starts on the afternoon of the younger sister Megan's birthday. While the older daughter Julie, is at home decorating she calls her mother on the phone and while their talking the doorbell rings, Julie answers it and her attacker attacks her. It starts out as a rape then it turns into murder. They catch the guy, but in court the evidence is deemed inadmissible due to a brake in procedure. This results in the guy getting off on a legal technicality. The family is outraged.The mother not willing to let him go unpunished hunts him down. Meanwhile, he also gets away with killing another woman and stalking her younger daughter. In the end though, he gets his taste of medicine. "},{"Title":"Poor French","Date":"16 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It seems no person involved in the writing, shooting, editing, and continuity of this film knows anything about French, but put a scene in the beginning of the film where Sally Field's character corrects her daughter's French.  But the daughter was actually correct.  Mom makes her change her correct grammar to incorrect grammar.  How many linguists and French teachers giggled at this I wonder?Don't you love those parents who think they know it all?  )I don't agree that Kiefer played 'over the top' on this role like a couple of people had said.  We had someone just last week in our area who was very similar and thanks to our only criminals have rights legal system here was let out after raping and kidnapping and other crimes.  He didn't last 12 hours before he was arrested again.  I suppose he'll have a movie out soon, and he and O.J. will go golfing together before the premier ... ( "},{"Title":"Whoa!","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A truly bad movie, even with Sally Field at the peak of her acting career. Middle-aged, middle-class mama decides to take on trailer-trash killer of her daughter. Is it possible this could be worse than 1991's NOT WITHOUT MY DAUGHTER? Yes it could. And is. Skip this puppy, please! If you must see Keifer Sutherland as a demented killer, watch the recent PHONE BOOTH -- which itself is pretty bad, but at least Keifer gets to participate in a funny double-twist at film's end.  "},{"Title":"I agree, this was very thought-provoking","Date":"22 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Sally Field was completely believable in this unsettling movie and she delivers the goods and then some.  I could understand her motivation for everything she did, cause I grew to hate the Kiefer Sutherland character as much as she did. It is an unpleasant movie but worth seeing - you don't get to see Sally Field go down a flight of stairs headfirst.  "}{"Title":"It started well...","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It starts well, promising to be a gritty and interesting character driven drama.  The first 15 minutes are gripping.  Unfortunately, it quickly loses its way after that, and turns into a poor thriller containing almost fantastic plot elements which are handled in an almost off-hand way. "},{"Title":"Very disturbing, minimal spoiler comment.","Date":"4 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" As a mother, this movie absolutely rocked me to the core. Terror, indescribable sorrow, guilt, rage, relief, then rage again - the emotional roller coaster just never ended. I don't believe there's a mother out there that wouldn't identify with Sally Field in this movie and want to choke the life out of Keiffer Sutherland's character with her bare hands.I thought all the actors were excellent and their characters pretty well thought out. This is not a movie for weak stomachs, nor is it a good movie in the traditional enjoyable sense of good, but it is an excellent watch. "},{"Title":"Potential thrown away.","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"   I'll start with the positives First, this is not a thriller where the heroine is young and attractive. It's a middle-aged mother/housewife. She's faced with a horrible incident, which in rare cases can happen to anyone, and to add insult to injury, justice doesn't do its rightful part. I don't have to explain the plot details; the preview did it for you, and in an essence, gave away what would happen in the finale. (As if we didn't know that would happen.)  I don't care how liberal some laws are. The gun was smoking. It would have put the scumbag where he belonged right then and there. Of course the movie would end immediately had it gone that route. Maybe the reason could have changed &#150; jury selection problems, perhaps. Kiefer Sutherland plays the rapist/murderer. I don't know how many criminals, bullies, and perverts this guy is going to play until it turns into a farce, but there wasn't a whole lot going for this character except (besides looking like Kiefer Sutherland) callousness and cruelty. A boring cookie cutter personification of every psychopathic film villain for the past 30 or 40 years. Sally Field plays the mother, who, on-screen, exhibits endless bouts of obsession, which does seem realistic if a bit too heavy handed at times. The most interesting part of the film is the question of vigilance, when the mother discusses her intentions with another member (Phillip Baker Hall) of the grief group she attends.  But since the overall result is so longwinded, it's no improvement to the rest of the movie. "},{"Title":"Sally Field Vigilante?","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Eye for an Eye was an uncomfortably embarrassing drama. One of director John Schlesinger's weaker efforts, it tells the story of a mother (Sally Field) whose daughter was brutally raped and murdered, and attempts to take matters into her own hands when her daughter's killer (Kiefer Sutherland) is released from jail on a technicality.There's a lot that's wrong with this film. Field did not convince me as a mother desperate for justice. Ed Harris as Field's husband was bland, distant and no help at all. Sutherland as the tauting murderer was the stereotypical role he's played for many years and his performance did not have any other dimension but evil.I will admit that the scenes where Field's character is on her cell phone and is unable to help her daughter was very suspenseful but at the same time I found it to be very brutal and sadly, from a major filmmaker like John Schlesinger, very exploitive. It reminded me how much I despised other vigilante movies (i.e. all of the Death Wish movies). I eventually did not really care about Field's character or her plight. Eye for an Eye was a disappointment for everyone involved. "},{"Title":"Irresponsible film-making","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  For me, this film started badly, with merely a terrible script and hammy acting from the ever distressed and irritating Sally Field, and quickly spiralled down to a morally repugnant finale.Maybe I should have guessed from the title.  I spent the entire film wondering who I was supposed to be sympathising with, because I cannot become attached and empathise with anyone who is so hell-bent on revenge and destruction, Kiefer Sutherland was truly evil and so I was left purely feeling for the rest of her family (Ed Harris was great as ever), who she neglected in order to partake in her little obsessive Death Wish fantasy, and who were the true victims of the story.At least Death Wish voiced the counter arguments against vigilantism throughout the film and Bronson was given something of a reprimand at the end, whereas here the FBI agent is somewhat discredited and she is seen to get off scott free.  Also Bronson became more of a social avenger driven by revenge, rather than a physcotic killer who is only out for revenge for what as happened to her, and not society as a whole.I found this a nasty, nasty film which left me with an incredibly sour taste in my mouth. "},{"Title":"Very dark, painful but staggeringly acted with a very provocative storyline","Date":"11 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I, myself, had not heard of this underrated gem until I was surfing IMDb.com one evening and immediately thought this would be worth buying &#150; I was right.When her daughter (Olivia Burnette) is brutally raped and murdered, and the murderer (Kiefer Sutherland) is released on a technicality, Karen McCann (Sally Field) decides to take the law into her own hands &#133; Directed skilfully by the late John Schlesinger, this darkly riveting thriller will push every parent's maternal/paternal instincts button.After touching performances in 'Sybil' and 'Steel Magnolias' and hilarious performances in 'Mrs. Doubtfire', Sally Field once again delivers a terrific and emotional performance throughout as the grieving mother, determined to seek revenge. Kiefer Sutherland brings to life every horrible category a true, loathsome villain requires and makes viewers cringe every time he appears on camera. As a matter-of-fact, I'm actually reluctant to comment on his acting due to how real his character seemed.The supporting cast &#150; including Ed Harris, Philip Baker Hall and Charlayne Woodard also bring their supporting characters to life, cleverly.One thing I would point out would be the graphic and extremely disturbing scene at the beginning. Although this is extremely important in the film's storyline, it is a little too explicit and will most definitely disturb some/if not all views - I myself would recommend fast-forwarding it. Once this scene is over, the rest of the film is nerve-racking, tense but very poignant up until its frightening but satisfying climatic scene.Despite being over a decade years old &#150; 'Eye for an Eye' still has not been recognized properly for its unique characteristics that not many thrillers have. Definitely worth seeing! "},{"Title":"this eye sometimes has it, sometimes not","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Revenge has often been a theme in movies (Kill Bill brought it to its apex). Eye for an Eye is pretty middling. I agree with a previous reviewer that action isn't really Sally Field's forte; she's one of America's more serious actresses (like Susan Sarandon and Meryl Streep), and thus seems out of place here. To add to that, John Schlesinger did an interesting job with action in Marathon Man. But that one was more about espionage, and this is straightforward revenge, so it comes across strange.All that said, the movie itself is actually quite tense. Kiefer Sutherland is the perfect person to play the bad guy. The whole end sequence may really freeze your blood. Worth seeing for those aspects, but this just isn't Sally Field's kind of movie. On the other hand, it is kinda neat to see the Flying Nun bringing out her inner beast.Also starring Ed Harris, Joe Mantegna, Beverly D'Angelo and Philip Baker Hall. "},{"Title":"Packaged just for the Lifetime Channel","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I happen to have stumbled on this movie on some late night movie channel. Anything with Sally Field in it can't be that bad right?...WRONG!!! Kiefer Sutherland an over the top serial rapist..which is played with such bravado and Disney bad guyism it comes off cheesy. In a nutshell he brutally rapes Sally Field's daughter and she sets out for revenge after he gets off in court.. Ed Harris does his best vein in the forehead, tough concerned father. But if he shot the rapist right from the start there would be no movie..The funniest part of the movie is watching the camera follow Kiefer's character through his stomping grounds In a world where even someone you know could be a rapist (anyone hear of date rape)Hollywood still feels the night to present the bad guy who lives in a flat over a pawnshop stereotype. He kicks cans, pours hot coffee on cats, and chain smokes...ok..like we didn't get he was bad from the minute he raped the girl.Everytime we go to the hood rap music starts playing...by this point nothing surprised me...and I was able to pretty much predict the rest of the movie...Sally meet bad guy...the confront each other...and then their is a finale...conclusion......whatever.... "},{"Title":"perfect","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie, actors and actresses were very good. Good plot, good scenario, very excited to see this movie. "},{"Title":"Poor man's truth serum caffeine and sugar.","Date":"10 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" There is a pattern in Hollywood for the drama/revenge films such as Eye for an Eye. It is an extremely simple pattern that is regenerated time and time again because audiences like to not be surprised. They are prepared for the bad guy to die at the end, whilst the victim or top-billed actor/actress comes out as the hero at the end. It is meant to give us a sense of security and comfort, but for this critic it is getting old. Eye for an Eye is a perfect example of film that falls deep within that tired genre of film. From the opening credits of this film, you could count the steps that each actor was going to make all the way to the very end. It was guaranteed that the actors would be overly dramatic, the violins would always shrill around Kiefer, and there would be horrendously underdeveloped plot lines that would lead nowhere. This is your typical revenge film with no excitement, no frills, nothing that would make it stand out from the rest. The late director John Schlesinger played it safe with one of his final films, which will promise to bore and completely not satisfy you to the bitter end.Where did Eye for an Eye go wrong? I have major issues with stories that escape realism to allow the main character to seem more dramatic. What was Sally Field's job? I know that is a small detail, but it better highlights my complaint that our central family (the McCanns) were not as developed as I would have liked to have seen. I had no clue her daughter had a stutter until two seconds before her death, yet it seemed to be a bigger key element as the film progressed. Ed Harris literally walked through his character, proving that Field's husband could have been played by a plastic bag and still seen the same level of emotion. The only character worth watching, and was developed briefly, was Kiefer. Schlesinger obviously knew the story that he was about to tell with Eye for an Eye very well, the actors I believe even knew the story and they probably didn't even need to read the script, and the story played it safe from the beginning, but it wasn't what I wanted to see. I expected film like this to come out during the 80s, not in 1996. It was pathetic to see name actors like Ed Harris, Sally Field, Phillip Baker Hall, Keith David, and Kiefer Sutherland walk through this film like it was a fly in the pan. Nothing stood out in this film, nothing made me want to rewatch the brutality of it, and nothing made me feel excited about these actors. This was a literal nothing film. It lent nothing to the cinematic world except (and I stress this a bit) another peg in a very tired genre known as the Revenge Thriller.After watching this film I said to my wife that I thought Sally Field was completely over-dramatic throughout the course of it, overplaying the small parts and completely exploding the bigger elements, which made me think of a High School drama production. It was amateur at best, but she said that is why directors use Sally, because she is known for being overly dramatic. Sally saw success with it once, but as she continues it only creates bad cinema. There were times during Sally's bigger speeches that I found myself laughing. I couldn't help myself, but her focus on certain words and cliché reaction to others just seemed cardboard instead of lifelike. The same could be said for Ed Harris who obviously has discovered that he doesn't have to play the outlaying father any further in films. He was completely wasted in this film. Was there any emotion with him? I didn't see any. Then there was the pitiful contribution by Hall and David that begin with intrigue, but were dropped faster than a big ole sack of potatoes. Also, did Mantegna take a class on how to be a one-dimensional cliché? Urg, his portrayal of the police office was a disgrace to those that genuinely play one-dimensional police officers. Again, the only actor worth watching was Kiefer because he not only spoke with evil, but demonstrated that he was capable of anything vile.If I have to talk about the story I think I am just going to go mad myself. Field over dramatized the entire film, thus creating uncertainty amongst the viewer. Did Kiefer get a bad image because he was bad or because Field wanted to see him as evil? That could have been a great avenue for this film to travel, but alas, ole safe Schlesinger didn't take us down that darker path. I needed more to develop what Hall and David were doing at the support groups, but it seemed like that story was dropped rather quickly as the ending needed to be wrapped up gently in a comfort blanket for viewers. This was yet another dark avenue that was not explored. I felt as if I saw these dark avenues with the director and the cast, yet we chose to stay on the lighted path. That, coupled with the poor acting, just created a film that didn't catch my attention and fully contributed nothing to the cinematic world.Overall, in case it wasn't obvious, this wasn't a good movie at all. I thought only horror movies had the stated Scream rules and somehow could stick to the same tired pattern over and over again, but with Eye for an Eye it became obvious that it the Revenge Thrill fell into that same pattern. The only trouble is that horror films actually have fun with that repetitive structure, this film did not. Sally Field was horrible and should really consider a strong independent film to bring her back to the spotlight, while everyone else was forgettable.Grade * out of ***** "}{"Title":"Sally Field is woefully miscast!!!","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I think I understand the director's approach here.  Hire big names such as Sally Field, Joe Mantegna and Kiefer Sutherland and you can coverfor a multitude of sins.  But not even they can save this movie!Eye for an Eye suffers chiefly from the glaring omissions in itsscript.  Details of police procedure and litigation of a criminalcase are omitted or truncated so that the audience will believe thatthe criminal justice system is incompetent to do its job.  The grieving process of the couple is not sufficiently detailed, because what matters in this movie is violence and revenge, not healing.  Sally Field'scharacter doesn't take the time to adequately explain to her youngerdaughter what happened to her older daughter, nor does she emphasizethe need for the girl to be careful about meeting or talking tostrangers.  The omission or underdevelopment of these logical details seemed odd to me and strained the movie's credibility, in my opinion.The movie, as its title suggests, is about anger and revenge when thetraditional channels of justice fail.  The problem is that this movie does not convince its audience that justice has failed.  Even worse, it does not convince its viewer that the violated and grieving mother isjustified in taking the law into her own hands.  Like the Dirty Harry and Death Wish series of films, this movieskimps on detail and realism, relying instead on the exploitation ofviolence to drive its plot of vigilante justice and singlemindedrevenge.  Unlike the characters played by Clint Eastwood and CharlesBronson, however, Sally Field's character is not compelling.  Therefore, the errors of this movie are all the more glaring.  Sally Field is clearly out of her element.  Her talent is exploitedand misused in this feast of gratuitous violence.  For that sin alone, this director should pay!  Ms. Field should stick to Norma Rae.  There was a crusader worth believing in.  Dirty Harry she's not! "},{"Title":"If You Like Sally Field You Will Like This Movie","Date":"31 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Technically this movie is nothing more than an overly obvious Charles Bronson get them back for doing you wrong movie done by a smart skirt wearing sensible shoes.  That said if you LIKE Charles Bronson movies this one meets the need.  The criminal is so completely rank, foul and disgusting that he totally fully and completely deserves to die for his crime(s).  The plot is way to simple with a dolt for a police detective the justice system fails terribly at putting away an animal who brutally raped this sweet mom's daughter.Set free by the so called justice system this rape mongering animal goes on to prowl and destroy another trusting lady in her home.  He gets jobs as a delivery man for liqour stores, grocers and such so he can get lawful access to his victims homes once inside he becomes a mad man and does his business most foul then murders the ladies.  I do not feel so sorry for the second victim as she was warned yet the fool did not listen to the warning instead choosing to let the grocery delivery man \ rapist into her home and she got his final delivery.Anyway's there are subplots where you get into the family life of the murdered girl.  The killer\rapist finds out he is being followed by the first victims mother and confronts her in a most horrid way in front of her remaining younger daughters school yuck.  The mom's resolve now stiffened goes and learns how to defend herself physically and with a gun.  The Father of the murdered child is a big bumbling wuss or as Drop Dead Fred would say The so called husband in this picture, IS SUCH A TOTAL AND UTTER GIRL!  Technically calling this husband a girl is a total insult to girls because, some absolutely carniverous ladies would and could snacth a male attackers head off and hand it to him before he died so its a myth if you think all girls are weak timid things trust me.Not to worry because Sally has it going on in this movie.  She figures out the way to get this guy is not by just stalking & killing him.  She uses the fact that he likes getting even.  The mom visits his ugly nasty rooming house.  Once there the murder child's mom tears up the  murdering rapist's room.  She takes a clay cookie the killer given to him by the mom's remaining daughter.  the missing cookie alerting the murdering serial rapist that his first victims mom had again stopped by to visit and give his flop house dwelling that friendly complete tossing only a Real MOM can do justice to.On cue and totally in character for this kind of sicko he came hunting the mom at her house and the sista was ready for him.  Shower running fancy high tone music playing he breaks in, the silly goose.  She surprises him a struggle ensues to which she does not look as if she would win when suddenly BLAM BLAM BLAM bad guy suddenly springs three leaks and in his last sick act he falls on top of the victims mother with his ugly bloody messy nasty scrawny self.The dolt police detective gets his own back as the picture is ending as he tells the victorious mom, I know what you did you set him up and I just want you to know I am aware of it.  This said he confers with his other investigators and labels this killing a justifiable homocide the credits roll thats it.  I for one loved it.  Sally Feilds has a voice that grates on your nerves after a while but she is always sweet and she did good in this film.  The movie is nothing special unless you like seeing vile criminals get their just deserts and I rather love this sort of escapism.  "},{"Title":"Ehhh... average","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Sally Field is such a likeable actress, at least in my opinion. So that right there helps this otherwise trite, run-of-the-mill thriller/suspense film. But the fact is that this movie is just like watching anything else you've ever seen about a murder, a victim, and revenge. And we've seen hundreds. Sally Field plays a mother whose teenage daughter is raped and killed (in a very graphic scene; her cries for help are chilling) by a psycho rapist (ohhh, how unique a portrayal!). Her once well-to-do suburban life is now in shambles, and her excessively peaceful husband (Ed Harris, who mostly offers moral support for Sally Field throughout the movie) and youngest daughter are affected as well. But time doesn't heal the wounds Sally suffered, and soon she starts getting obsessed with the man who took her daughter's life (Kiefer Sutherland in a scary, but typecast, role). So she goes through the Hollywood motions of stalking his whereabouts, learning to use a gun, gaining muscle and ferociousness, and finally (ta da!) killing him by luring him into her house, a la a mouse with cheese. The movie is not poor. Just not very good. Unless you're a fan of Sally Field or Ed Harris, something you should rent if you have a Rent One, Get One Free deal at your video store. Seriously. "},{"Title":"Intense, but unrealistic","Date":"11 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Having your daughter murdered and raped as you're on the phone talking to her is extremely terrifying. In fact, it's one of the most intense scenes of the whole film. I mean who the hell doesn't want to get revenge on the bastard who killed their child. It's not bad at all, but it lacks the grittiness, the noir, and the mystery of Mystic River which is just as dark and disturbing. See, Eye for an Eye is just as informing and realistic as if a news anchor on one of those obnoxious 24 hour cable news networks had directed it. It leaves you with more questions than answers. Whereas Mystic River gets you behind the scenes,leaving you guessing who done it.I say this film would've been better if it were a mystery not as a sensationalized revenge/drama flick that points out to middle-aged women When all else fails...buy a gun and use it!!You see, with the exception of airport disaster movies; I hate murder/revenge movies (unless you're Jean-Claude Van Damme). with a passion, They leave out very important answers to important questions. Like Why?, How?, and What? Don't give me that news media fear-mongering-type plot premise bullsh*@t....A killer attacks your daughter in your home! What are they going to say film at 11, next? This is where revenge movies are very annoying and disturbing.Why was the killer attracted to this particular residence? Why would a killer commit murder and rape, leaving his DNA at the scene? Come on, here? It could've been better if Sutherland's character (had been former employee of the parents or chat room buddy of the daughters) kidnaps the teenager out of revenge and holds her for ransom then kills her...then would this movie have credibility. Put some meat into this story rather than giving the impression that All men that are 6-foot+ with beards are killers! Avoid at all costs! Since this bastard kills and rapes two women in this yarn, that makes Eye for an Eye a very depressing movie with a tired vigilantism agenda. Unless you're Steven Segal, Bruce Lee, Charles Bronson, or Van Damme don't star in revenge movies. I wonder if this would've been better if one of these have starred in it. "},{"Title":"Appalling","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This by-the-numbers thriller spends so much of its 101 minutes making Sutherland's character utterly hateful that you can almost forgive Sally Field's murderous rampage.  But I guess that's the idea - if you want to turn a serious issue into cheap entertainment, then moral ambiguity is best suppressed.  Field's performance is flawless, Sutherland's less so, but it's the one-sided storytelling which really grates.  For a film which more articulately explores the rage induced by losing a child to crime, check out Sean Penn's almost infinitely superior The Crossing Guard. "},{"Title":"Disgusting, self-righteous tripe","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is nothing more than a fascistic, kill-the-poor statement  disguised as an acceptable movie. This is the stuff countless  B- or Z- movies have been made of, but only the budget makes it  different (does it ?) Though even the spectator has no visible  evidence that Sutherland is guilty, he IS from the start, since  1. he's young, 2. he's poor, 3. he listens to rock music,  4.  he's poorly dressed and 5. he has long hair. The only thing missing is the motorcycle !Of course, a whole Death squad helps the heroine (But how do they actually KNOW who is guilty  and who isn't ? Because God says so ? Or because all of them are  well-off - obviously, only the rich are entitled to get revenge)  and, obviously, the fact of kung-fuing by mistake some poor  schmuck trying to get to his car is seen as positive. If this  was just another poverty-row direct-to-video movie, Mister  Maltin would give it a well-deserved BOMB, but since this  HOLLYWOOD, baby, it is acceptable. Which seems to be exactly the  movie's point  money gives you every right. Once again, please,  use your brain and don't get misleaded by blatant nazism  disguised behind a sheen o "}]