[{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"13 April 2004","Score":"30 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the few movies I find seriously funny. Stiller, Leoni, Moore, everyone does a killer job, and humor emerges from a variety of silly-crazy and intellectual sources, so you can respect yourself when you laugh. Human neuroses give rise to a lot of sympathetic laughter. Most of it is human frailty and absurdity. Tea Leoni is hilarious, and does a great job of getting on your nerves, and trying to get into Stiller's pants behind his wife's back while still being completely neurotic and self-absorbed. Her psycho-babble is highly effective. Stiller plays the usual awkward introspective man who lacks self confidence. His parents are magnificent, and so are his 'real' parents. I loved it. highly recommended. What else are you going to watch?  "},{"Title":"One of the Funnier Movies Made in the 90's","Date":"9 February 2004","Score":"28 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I first saw this film at the Theatres in 1996. I didn't know much about Ben Stiller at the time but liked Patricia Arqette. I didn't know what I was in for. I laughed my arse off. I was rolling in the isles. Maybe no expectations is a good way to go into a film because being pleasantly surprised is one of my favorite emotions. Ben Stiller is hillarious here as well as everyone in the cast. Great writing and Direction, a full laugh out loud riot. If you like Ben Stiller playing that innocent guy in the wrong situation his best part you will like this one. I highly recomend.  "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"15 June 2004","Score":"27 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is truly a masterpiece. The plot, the acting, the scenery...everything! It is about Mel Coplin (Stiller) who is puzzled who he really is a couple months after his baby is born. He becomes addicted to the fact that he indeed doesn't know who he is. Finally, he receives information of where his birth mother is. He gets on a plane with his wife, Nancy (Patricia Arquette), and the adoption agency associate that he is working with, Tina (Téa Leoni). Together they all fly to San Diego only to discover that there has been some terrible mistake--this woman in San Diego is not his birth mother. Well, I won't ruin the rest of this hilarious and ongoing plot for you. I guarantee that you will laugh sometime in this movie...whether it is at the little old lady in the bed and breakfast, or when Tina maces the church workman in San Diego.  "},{"Title":"Funniest Movie. Period.","Date":"19 June 2005","Score":"23 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'm under the impression that 'Flirting With Disaster' JUST isn't getting the respect it totally deserves. No special DVD or anything, it just sits there, waiting to be discovered. I saw this when it first hit the theater, and I have it on VHS (yeah yeah I know, I'm just waiting for the special edition DVD to come out!). I love the plot of this one. Ben Stiller travels with his perfectly cast wife, Patricia Arquette and the adoption agency agent, played by Tia Leoni to try to discover his parents who gave him up for adoption. He needs to have a sense of closure, and also to give a name to his son. He probably didn't realize that this would involve Indian wrestling, truck driving lessons, or a married male couple of FBI agents. The story just piles one hilarious situation after another. I've seen this film at LEAST 10 times and I STILL laugh out loud. It's just THAT funny! "},{"Title":"Roots","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" One of the most intriguing thoughts about anyone that has been adopted, and knowing about it, is trying to imagine what the real parents are like. Since much of the search will not happen until the adopted children reach a certain age nothing prepare them to accept the reality of how they came into this world and what motivated those parents to give them up in the first place.Such is the dilemma that Mel Coplin faces. He has been adopted by a Jewish couple, Ed and Pearl, who have done well in bringing him up; Mel is a well adjusted man. After his own son is born, he decides to track down his natural parents. With the help of a young woman of the adoption agency, Tina, he and his wife, Nancy, embark in a trip to find the parents he never knew.What seemed to be an easy task, Mel who is traveling with Nancy and the baby, plus Tina, turns out to be a complicated journey as the agency has botched the adoption papers and this quartet has to go through two sets of possible parents without any luck. When they finally get to the real parents, Mel is probably thinking if trying to meet his real family was worth all the trouble.Flirting with Disaster is at times a road movie because of the many turns the story takes Mel and his own family. David O. Russell directed the film with great sense of style as he takes us along. Ben Stiller, who still had not made a splash in the movies, is impressive as the likable Mel, who gets much more than what he bargained for. Tea Leoni who is seen as Nancy, made a terrific impression on us when we saw the film originally. She proves here why she was destined for bigger and better things. Her inter action with Ben Stiller is the best thing in the film.The rest of the cast is excellent. Mary Tyler Moore's Pearl Coplin is one of the best things she has done in her career. She makes this woman real. George Segal, a great comedy actor with great timing, appears as Ed Coplin. Patricia Arquette, who is Nancy, doesn't have much to do because she plays Nancy, the most grounded person in the film. Alan Alda and Lily Tomlin are the real parents, who are former hippies from New Mexico and in spite of being older, they still are young at heart doing the same things they did when they were younger.Flirting with Disaster owes a lot to David O. Russell who also wrote the screen play and is a natural for this type of comedy. "},{"Title":"Howard Hawks on acid!","Date":"1 October 2007","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" David O. Russell's 1996 flick Flirting with Disaster might not leave the audience feeling dirty afterward like his prior work Spanking the Monkey, but what it lacks in controversy it makes up for in over the top wackiness. This is modern-day dark edged screwball comedy that would like make master filmmaker Howard Hawks (His Girl Friday, Bringing Up Baby) proud.Russell's film weaves the ludicrous story of a thirty year old, first time father who can't overcome the challenges of not knowing his birth parents enough to see his wife's sexual advances or even give his kid a name. Who else could we expect to see in a role so heavily stacked with Murphy's Law possibilities than that consummate lovable loser Ben Stiller? Before we know it he, his wife, and an incompetent adoption case worker set out to meet his birth parents.What follows is the full range of comedic possibilities from the standard road trip to off-the-wall characterizations, mistaken identity, love triangles, attempted murder, and armpit fetishism. Somehow it all flows so brilliantly that all of the craziness becomes quite plausible in what turns out to be a film that is a bit charming and damn funny. "},{"Title":"Brilliant!!!","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Comedies like this are a real rarerity, especially nowadays.  You almost never see a movie thats this intelligent and funny.  Ben Stiller is hilarious as the man who is traveling around the US to find his biological parents.  Lily Tomlin and Alan Alda are hilarious as well as his biological parents.  This is definately a must see comedy, and I very rarely give comedies good reviews.  ***1/2 out of ****. "},{"Title":"Outstanding black comedy; one of Stiller's best","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  FLIRTING WITH DISASTER (1996) **** Ben Stiller, Patricia Arquette, Tea Leoni, Alan Alda, Mary Tyler Moore, George Segal, Lily Tomlin, Richard Jenkins, Josh Brolin.  Hilarious and wickedly sharp satire about a young man (Stiller in a memorable turn) searching for his identity by trying to locate his biological parents while alienating his neglected and lovely wife (the yummy Arquette) and Leoni (simply wonderful) as his adoption broker.  Fine ensemble cast (especially Moore in an inconoclastic poke at her image) and Alda (ditto).  Subversive good, clean fun and seriously dysfunctional family values (thank God!) from filmmaker David O. Russell beating the Sophomore Jinx (in this his second turn at the helm). "},{"Title":"A man stumbles and bumbles his way to his zany biological parents...screwball almost!","Date":"18 March 2013","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Flirting with Disaster (1996)This is one of those movies that's just plain stupid in such a funny way you'll likely laugh out loud a lot. And you'll finish thinking it's a pretty stupid movie. The ending in particular makes you wonder what all the build up was about since it diffuses, as if the writers ran out of conflicts (or solutions) and raised their hands in surrender.But on the way there is one funny gag after another. And a whole slew of excellent actors doing their zany best. Some of them have very brief (and contained) appearances, for sure--Lily Tomlin and Alan Alda, for example, in a hilarious section of the movie with little connection to the rest of it. In fact, the whole movie is broken into spasmodic sections, held together mostly by the three leading leads (there are lots of main characters) Ben Stiller (looking for his biological parents), Patricia Arquette (his suffering, sweet wife), and Tea Leoni (the mentally incomplete but skinny and sexy interloper). Stiller isn't actually totally funny by himself, but acts like more of a foil for all the crazy things happening around him (this is his style on purpose, a kind of regular guy in an irregular world). Arquette is almost too normal for this abnormal world, but that's fine, she's likable, and is meant to be the loving wife who doesn't quite know how zany the events around her are. At first. Leoni has a terrific way of making nutty faces and being just slightly insane without being just stupid (the way Will Ferrell is just stupid in a different kind of humor). There are gay jokes and jokes about LSD and a general playing of an ultra-licentious world against what seems to be a normal human desire to connect with your genetic parents, unknown to you. The mistakes along the way are what make it hilarious. Until the end, where it maybe is trying to say, Oh well, everything is okay in a world where anything goes. Sure. Pop the big bubble, but on the way it's a gas. No pun intended. "},{"Title":"Disaster it is....","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Not funny. I understand that the directors last movie was excellent. Not to self - save the good script for seconds.Is it a comedy? Is it a road movie? What are all these familiar actors in the movie - didn't they read the script.It reminds me of those early 80's 'comedies' from the Saturday Nite crew which look so dated now.Read a book - watch some sport. (Actually did it remind anyone else of a 'life less ordinary'?)  "}{"Title":"Like a Woody Allen Road Flick.","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Maybe called Deconstructing Mel.  Ben Stiller, his wife Patricia Arquette, and an adoption agency representative, Tea Leoni, go on the road in search of Stiller's birth parents.  Ben is nervous and mostly passive.  His wife apologizes for having put on weight during her recent pregnancy.  The statuesque Leoni and Stiller find themselves attracted to one another, although neither is ready for an affair.  The search takes them to San Diego where Stiller's mother turns out to be a materialistic nonentity with two radiantly healthy daughters, a big ranch house, a collection of glass zodiac figures, and no brains.  It turns out to have been a mistake.  They next find themselves in Michigan where Stiller's father is an ex-Hell's Angel who now drives a truck and twits Stiller for looking Jewish.  This is also a mistake.Next stop, Antelope Wells, New Mexico, navel of the universe, where Stiller's parents are revealed to be a couple of aging hippies, Alda and Tomlin, with a lunatic son who is a selfish and jealous young man who doses the quail dinner and sends one of the visitors on an unwitting acid trip.  Oh, the trio of investigators has picked up a male couple who are married.  One of them is Arquette's ex-boyfriend and likes to lick her armpit.Stiller's parents of orientation, a nice Jewish couple, show up unexpectedly, there is a mix up of vehicles, and Stiller's adoptive father, George Segal, gets caught by the police with his arms full of dope. Despite all the travel, the movie doesn't really go anywhere in particular.  Oddball is heaped upon oddball, gag upon gag.  Stiller stutters a good deal, and there is a lot of overlapping nervous chatter, and people normalize all over the place --  Alda explains that after Stiller was born, he, Alda, and Tomlin spent some time in the slams but it was for nothing.  Less important than a speeding ticket.  It wasn't even illegal.  Or it shouldn't have been.  Everyone was making LSD in those days and it's not addicting.The question isn't really whether the movie assumes the morphology of a Woody Allen movie, but whether it gets its job done -- and it does.  As far as that goes, the situational and conversational gags are funnier than many of those in Woody's recent movies.  And if the movie lacks depth, well, that's okay.  Deconstructing Harry didn't have much depth either, and neither did most of Charlie Chaplin.  If the style is a little irritating it's because we've seen it and heard it so often before.  But the jokes are usually funny.  The performers are up to the task and the pace never drags.  The direction is well handled too.  Example  Segal and Mary Tyler Moore discover that they are driving the wrong car, now immobilized on the highway, that it may not be theirs.  Look in the trunk and see if our baggage is there, says Moore.  Segal rummages through the trunk hysterical with worry.  No luggage.  Just a lot of junk in bags and briefcases, which Segal tears open to find that his trunk is now loaded with illegal drugs.  The cops come and catch him.  But the director doesn't spell out the entire ordeal for us.  Gradually, as Segal stares at the drug factory in his hands, and as he starts shouting at Moore, we see that blinking red lights are beginning to light up the scene and we hear a car pull to a stop off camera.  (We see no car, no cops, and we hear no voices.)  Segal, still holding the paraphernalia, turns towards the source of the red light wordlessly, with an idiotic smile.  Dissolve.  A less trusting director would have taken us through the entire encounter with the police, the two big brutes in intimidating uniforms and their baritone voices, Segal's and Moore's silly attempts at an explanation.  But what we see, though truncated, is funnier because it prompts our imagination to fill in the rest of the scene.  Not badly done.  Amusing, really. "},{"Title":"When A+ Actors Tackle an F- Script","Date":"21 June 2012","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Scanning the other reviews on here, I realize I'm totally in the minority here. But I thought this was a total stinker.I kept watching, hoping that it would get better. But the more I watched, the more I thought the screenplay was the byproduct of watching too many Woody Allen movies.The biggest problem was that I just couldn't believe what was going on before my eyes. Maybe I'm too much of a meat and potatoes mindset, but the characters and situations just got more and more unrealistic and I cared less and less about these people.This is only the third David O. Russell film I've seen. SPANKING THE MONKEY was clever. After trying to watch it three times I finally gave up on I HEART HUCKABEES. After this, I've added him to my mental checklist of Film Makers to Avoid.Hack though Mr. Russell may be, though, he couldn't get a bad performance out of Richard Jenkins. "},{"Title":"A brilliant adult comedy","Date":"10 August 2005","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is one of my all time favorites. It's sophisticated and Richard Jenkins is my favorite actor in the brilliant cast. I became aware of this actor after viewing this film and have followed his career ever since. It's dumbfounding to me that such versatile and highly accomplished actor is relegated to supporting roles while mediocre ones get first billing. Disaster is, IMO, brilliant, amusing and sophisticated a film that encompasses many societal taboos, such a gay marriage, a film designed to change the boring and trite landscape of formula comedies. The variety of characters depicted in the plot are highly entertaining and so is the dialog and the variety of personalities and life styles depicted. "},{"Title":"Tries too hard","Date":"14 June 2007","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is overwritten. The screenwriter(s) felt it necessary to relentlessly hit you with line after line after line after line, with no room for you mentally breathe and digest what everyone was saying and why they might be saying it. They also mistake characters saying obviously incorrect or obnoxious things as humor. In spite of this being a movie about a character seeking his real parents, there is surprisingly little real inspection of the characters' true natures and motivations. There's an age-old saying, show me don't tell me, but this film does a lot of telling and disturbingly little showing. It's not horrible, so it still gets 4 stars out of 10, but it also has few redeeming qualities unless you consider amateur pratfalls and shallow insults to be humor. "},{"Title":"No Flirting, Just Disaster!","Date":"31 January 2004","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is a disaster. I normally enjoy Ben Stiller movies. Even if the movie isn't so great, I still find Ben very funny (such as his role in Heavyweights). This movie had a great cast, but seemed to do nothing with it. Instead I was treated to repulsive scenes of Patricia Arquette performing felattio on Ben Stiller while he had a baby in his arms. I also will never be able to get the horrific images of Mary Tyler Moore going down on George Segal, and Alan Alda and Lilly Tomlin engaging in tantric sex, while their son enters the room looking to borrow some of their weed. Do yourself a favor, and avoid this movie at all costs. You'll thank me.  "},{"Title":"A disaster of a movie.","Date":"19 October 2005","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What misbegotten madman got the idea that this droll-fest was funny?! Less of a movie than a newsreel on depressants, Flirting with Disaster could not have had a better title, as it wastes a perfectly good cast and a potentially hilarious plot on pure idiocy. The plot (if it was supposed to be a plot) has adopted child Mel Coplin (Ben Stiller) and his wife Nancy (Patricia Arquette) searching for his biological parents. Accompanying them is floozy psychiatrist Tina Kalb (Tea Leoni), who makes more than a few moves on Mel.Sound funny? Well guess what? It never is. Scenes that should have been uproarious end up making you feel like your face just melted, and you're lucky (or is that unlucky?) if you can stay awake until the end. Like I said, this hunk o' junk wastes not only the talents of the aforementioned stars, but also the talents of Alan Alda, Lily Tomlin, George Segal and Mary Tyler Moore; the only excuse that anyone could have for starring in this would be a financial strain. All in all, not only was this a poor excuse for a movie, but 1996 was truly a low point for the usually dependable Alan Alda - he also starred in the dreadfully horrible Everyone Says I Love You, Woody Allen's worst movie ever.As just an extra note, I might add a little something. People didn't like The Cable Guy (directed by Ben Stiller) because they thought that Jim Carrey was wrong for the role; I liked the movie's impending sense of doom. Flirting with Disaster essentially takes a good idea and stretches it out until it turns into a bunch of random strands that lead nowhere. So that's my assertion Ben Stiller's good movie disappeared, while his bad movie was exalted. Shame on everyone. "},{"Title":"Why or why not is `Flirting with Disaster' a typical Hollywood movie?","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  `Flirting with Disaster' is definitely a typical Hollywood movie in many aspects but not in all of them. It fits the form of classical cinema or classical paradigm in that the director, David O. Russell, does not get distracted from telling the story with filmmaking techniques. It is a clear and precise comedy that never leaves the characters in action, and is done so in a way that works unlike many other films of this genre released today. The film is structured narratively, with a clearly defined conflict from the very beginning. Ben Stiller shines in his performance as a neurotic new father who is trying desperately to find his biological parents in order to name his newborn son. At one point in the film the viewer begins to become anxious and wonder if the same problem for the protagonist, Stiller, is going to continue on in the same form as it has in the past half of the movie, but luckily Russell then changes the flow of the film and brings it to a much more comedic finish than the first half.The photography is shot in full and long shots throughout most of the movie. Russell must have used deep-focus shots when filming because the surrounding background is clear around the characters, using a wide-angle or short lens. The characters are never off of the screen except for a few instances when we see a plane flying or a car driving and then we have voice-overs. The dialogue is always continuous- there is never a break in the script which works well because the screenplay is well written and clever on its insights on the little inconveniences of everyday life. Although all of these events are too unbelievable too happen all at once, they are all real life comedic situations that could happen to anyone. When compiled together with this plot line, we have this film before us.Although this is a typical movie in the sense that it does not break any barriers or do anything creatively in its techniques in telling the story, the plot and screenplay do enough justice in making the film entertaining for the audience and one of those films you can just sit down, relax, and have fun viewing because it makes sense and fits together. This aspect is not like many Hollywood films released today, with their gaping holes that leave the viewer feeling unfulfilled. Altogether this was a good film, even though it did fit many of the typical Hollywood stereotypes.  "},{"Title":"An enjoyable display of Murphy's Law","Date":"15 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film tells the story of a new father who decides to skip his adoptive father's sixtieth birthday celebration to find his biological parents.Flirting with Disaster has a very happening plot, with new unexpected events every few minutes. It details a trip that goes wrong at every turn, some are innocent mishaps while some are truly disastrous. It illustrates Murphy's Law very well! The story is darkly humorous, it is not laugh out loud funny, but it keeps viewers entertained and engaged with a smile on the face. It is also quite interesting to see what many famous faces looked like twenty years ago. I can't quite believe the policeman is Josh Brolin, for example. "},{"Title":"Screwball maybe, but Bringing Up Baby it's not","Date":"29 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I've enjoyed most of David O. Russell's movies and I know it's supposed to be screwball comedy and all, but this one had a few too many goofy, contrived plot twists for my taste&#x97;like when gay ATF agent Richard Jenkins impulsively decides to follow a guy he's never met before (and whose wife his committed gay partner's been flirting with) all the way to New Mexico to help him find his birth parents. I liked the scenes where Stiller and Téa Leoni get so wrapped up in each other that they start knocking over the furniture, but it didn't seem like Téa was really pulling her weight the rest of the time, and though I was impressed by the outside-the-box casting choice of MTM as the nudzhy Jewish mother, I was kind of hoping her character wouldn't show up again after the opening scenes. Finally, I couldn't really buy Alan Alda and Lily Tomlin as desert-rat drug dealers, though I enjoyed the antics of their sociopathic teenage son. I know Russell goes in for these big ensemble comedies with everybody yelling and carrying on, but this time, as with Silver Linings Playbook a few years back, it seemed like the plot was already spinning out of control with 20 or 30 frantic, not-sot-funny minutes left to go. Eight stars for the first 45′, four for the second. "},{"Title":"Cracking Nuts","Date":"5 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Before he can name his first-born son, neurotic New York entomologist Ben Stiller (as Mel Coplin) would like to meet his biological parents. When he's about to have sex with orally-stimulating wife Patricia Arquette (as Nancy), Mr. Stiller receives good news from horny adoption agency agent Tea Leoni (as Tina). His real mother has been located. Adoptive parents Mary Tyler Moore (as Pearl) and George Segal (as Ed) are miffed, but they know Stiller still considers them his parents. Stiller and the two young women discover the San Diego mother was a snafu and finally locate Stiller's real parents. They are affluent acid-heads Lily Tomlin (as Mary) and Alan Alda (as Richard). Tagging along are Ms. Arquette's bisexual classmate Josh Brolin (as Tony) and his lover Richard Jenkins (as Paul)...The latter receives a spiked piece of meat from Stiller's punkish younger brother Glenn Fitzgerald (Lonnie). Yikes! Whether it was intended or not, the meat-eating was nicely symbolic...Writer-director David O. Russell gets a highly-skilled cast for this comedy. The older generation is especially good at making the most of the material. When you've been around, you can add...The opening shows a New York City full of unappealing parents for Stiller. This is followed by an ode to Arquette's body. Slithering around in her underwear for an extended time, Arquette is quite arousing and should be not be concerned about retaining too much baby fat. Mary Tyler Moore and George Segal play their early scene well, but the laughs are sputtering. The story doesn't really start until Stiller hits the road. Situation and set-up is important to comedy. The smaller stuff in Flirting with Disaster is fine, but the big picture is diverting. The story isn't about Stiller finding his real parents, of course. It's about whether or not he and Arquette will have sex with Ms. Leoni and Mr. Brolin. On that, this viewer was indifferent. Sex comedies can be a tough nut to crack.***** Flirting with Disaster (1996-03-22) David O. Russell ~ Ben Stiller, Patricia Arquette, Tea Leoni, Mary Tyler Moore "}{"Title":"Funny in parts but quite silly! 4/10","Date":"16 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Review It's always good to watch actors earlier work so you can see how far they have come. In this case I chose Ben Stiller who hasn't really changed his style of comedy that much since 1996. His mannerisms and silly face expressions are more or less the same but he's got bigger budgets to play with nowadays so he doesn't have to rely on his performances to much, like in Tropic Thunder and Night At the Museum. Anyway, this movie is about Stiller hunting for his biological parents after his wife gives birth to his son. With the help of his wife and his sexy adoption agency worker, who wants to film the whole event, they start there journey which has its ups and downs. The adoption agency ends up getting Stillers biological parents identify wrong so there journey becomes bigger then they first thought. When he finally tracks down his parents, the situation goes from bad to worse because of his parents weird habits and strange lifestyle. The movie was quite funny in parts but the storyline is extremely far fetched. The young Josh Brolin and his gay partner, played by Richard Jenkins, was quite a weird choice by the director but they played there parts quite well. I've always been a fan of George Segal and I liked the chemistry between Alan Ada and Lily Tomlin but I did lose interest after a while. Anyway, it's light hearted fun which is silly in parts, but watchable. Average!Round-Up It's weird seeing Josh Brolin star in a comedy were he is playing a gay role after seeing him in butch movies like Oldboy, No Country For Old Men and Sin City. The movie was made earlier on in his career so I can't blame him for taking on the project. This was also made earlier on in Ben Stillers career and it really does prove that his range is limited because he hasn't progressed as a comedian that much. His films always gross a lot at the box office and with Rentaghost and Zoolander 2 in the pipework, he is still a bankable actor for the big studios. I know a lot of people that are fed up with his movies but I doubt that he will go down the same route as Jim Carrey and Eddie Murphy, who find it hard to pull in the big audiences nowadays. Budget $7million Worldwide Gross $15millionI recommend this movie to people who are into their comedies about a man whose trying to find his biological parents so he can name his newborn baby. 4/10 "},{"Title":"A David O Russell film which shows that finding about one's real parents could be a real disaster.","Date":"13 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It is no surprise that in many ways human beings reflect what their parents must have been. There is a biological perspective to it as this has a lot to do with the fact that children carry their parents' genes in them. However, there is no definitive yardstick for determining the behavioral traits of children as they might or might not have been influenced by their parents. All these ideas tend to give rise to an inherent desire to know more about one's parents especially 'one's biological parents'. This is a challenging as well as a serious theme which has been humorously represented on screen by American director David O Russell. For this reason, he takes us on a hilarious, fun filled ride across two different parts of America where a married couple meets up with other oddball characters. Apart from discussing issues related to bad parenting, 'Flirting with disaster' talks about a couple's conjugal life after the birth of a baby. Although most people would not like to be found in a position to generalize a work of art, this film remains a good example of American attitudes to drugs, marriage, relationships and sexuality. Hilarity is ensured as each character carries multiple flaws. "},{"Title":"Flirting with Chaos","Date":"22 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Mel Coplin (Ben Stiller) is having a crisis after the birth of his son. He needs to find his biological parents. His horny wife Nancy (Patricia Arquette) wants to have sex. Tina Kalb (Téa Leoni) from the adoption agency finds his mother Valerie Swaney (Celia Weston) in San Diego and is willing to pay for the reunion as long as she films it for her doctoral research. His adoptive parents Pearl (Mary Tyler Moore) and Ed (George Segal) are weirdly inappropriate. Nancy is jealous of the flirting between Tina and Mel. They find out that Valerie isn't the mother after all. They track down their lowlife trucker father Fritz Boudreau. He points out that his father might actually be Richard Schlichting (Alan Alda). They run into Nancy's high school friend ATF agent Tony Kent (Josh Brolin) after Mel accidentally backs Fritz's truck into a post office. It turns out his ATF partner Paul Harmon (Richard Jenkins) is also his gay partner. Paul and Tony join them on their trip to New Mexico to meet Richard and Mary Schlichting (Lily Tomlin) who has a son Lonnie (Glenn Fitzgerald). It's sexual chaos as Mel flirts with Tina and Tony flirts with Nancy. That's before Lonnie accidentally put LSD on Paul's quail and the Coplins show up.It's super quirky, sometimes funny, and always rambling. Mary Tyler Moore is especially funny. It's a messy human train wreck careening from one end of the country to the other. Writer/director David O. Russell has pull together a cast of crazy characters in a stew of chaos. The title may be referring to the film as much as the main character. It is on the edge of being a train wreck. The fact that this stays on tracks is a miracle. Ben Stiller isn't that funny although he's tasked with the straight man role. It tries so very hard but the jokes aren't always hitting. Maybe there are too many big characters in this madcap comedy. The craziness just overwhelms everything. "},{"Title":"Flirting with Disaster","Date":"4 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" David O. Russell directs Flirting With Disaster. The plot? Ben Stiller plays Mel Coplin, a young man who attempts to find the biological parents with whom he has never had contact. This, he hopes, will explain why he is why he is. Unfortunately Mel keeps meeting the wrong people, all of whom he keeps mistaking for kin. The film ends with Mel eventually meeting his genetic parents &#x96; a pair of marijuana growing hippies &#x96; but its overall point is that there are always other prospective partners, people and kin vying for our attention and more. What matters or defines us are ultimately the choices we make, rather than the genes in our bodies or the company we keep. This stance is the opposite of Russell's Huckabees, where choices seem irrelevant in light of social/cultural programming. Russell was a political activist/scientist before turning to film.Flirting With Disaster sports funny performances from Tea Leoni, Alan Alda and the oft underused Lily Tomlin. Its last and first acts are very funny, but things slow down during its middle portion. The film's structured as a road movie. If Russell's underrated I Heart Huckabees was a existential comedy in the vein of late Woody Allen, Flirting With Disaster is a light farce in the vein of Allen's earlier, madcap comedies.8/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Bringing Up Garcia.","Date":"21 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Flirting with Disaster is a true companion to classic screwball comedies of the 1930s and 1940s. Not too unlike Howard Hawk's Bringing Up Baby or His Girl Friday, David O. Russell's outrageous and often funny comedy takes its absurd and wild tone to the very end, seemingly slamming on the brakes just at the moment when we feel as if there is more to learn about these characters. This may be true but Russell's intention is to show us their behavior in this particular instance, that is finding Mel's (Ben Stiller) parents.Films like this depend almost entirely on the acting and writing for success. Fortunately, here they both are superb. The cast alone makes the film worth checking out. Stiller, Patricia Arquette, Tea Leoni, all the way down to Josh Brolin and Richard Jenkins as a couple of federal agents make their characters as weird, interesting and watchable as any comedy of the last 20 years. What also succeeds is the pacing of Russell's script, which is light on drama but moves at such a rampant speed that you barely have time to catch your breath in between jokes and situations. Needless to say, this film is a treasure. Not much more can be said without ruining the marvelous surprises and bizarre circumstances it has to lay out. All that is required is to turn off your conceptions of coincidence, realism and contrivance and simply enjoy a most enjoyable story about a man looking for identity and realizing perhaps he shouldn't have. "},{"Title":"You are so glad you aren't them","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie will make you laugh, make you mad- but truly you will end up really glad that you are not in this trek. It is really a star-studded cast and they all play their parts perfectly. I never pictured Alan Alda and Lily Tomlin as junkies from the sixties. My ex-husband was adopted so I somewhat understand the need for adopted children to know where they came from, but this really makes you understand that (not just adopted children) But for everyone that the grass is not always greener. Be grateful with what you have already. It will make you laugh, but the message is really extraordinary. No matter if your husband looks at you funny half-way through thinking why did you pick this? "},{"Title":"Little Sunday afternoon fun","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I didn't expect big things; I just watched this movie to see another title from Tea Léoni. She performs average good - I still believe that her best film is 'The Family Man' with Nicolas Cage - and others, like Ben Stiller, also do an acceptable interpretation. I expected something better from him, I still have 'There's Something About Mary' in my mind, which was a great fun to watch. Though, here the situations were indeed very funny, however, maybe I was tired or what, I couldn't really laugh at them. I think the entire atmosphere, the conversations, the people, the landscape were typical American, and at least I got an impression of the 'everyday' American lifestyle. The final scene surprised me, as the story didn't really end, just stopped as it started. So, this is just an average Sunday afternoon DVD to me, in fact, it didn't even reach the cinemas in Hungary. 6/10 "},{"Title":"One of the best comedies--this is real humor","Date":"2 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" David O. Russell recently came out with I Heart Huckabees, which was definitely a comedy, but also a very smart, philosophical film about life. Flirting with Disaster is a much different kind of movie, but he uses the same kind of humor-focusing on the character personalities.In Flirting with Disaster, Ben Stiller is married to Patricia Arquette. They just had a baby and are trying to give it a name. Meanwhile, Stiller is on a search for his real birth mother and is assisted by Tea Leoni in the Adoption Agency. So, the journey begins and along this journey, Stiller comes into contact with his mother and father, but they turn out not to be his parents after all. Now, two cops are part of the Stiller's group.Then finally, we meet his real parents, Lily Tomliin and Alan Alda. Now comes one of the best family/dinner table scenes ever shown in a movie. Alda's character is so funny that I almost died laughing. The acting is superb and the whole family appears to be so normal, until we find out about their acid and LSD problem.Some people probably won't appreciate Russell's humor because his humor isn't for everyone. A lot of the humor is very character based and dry (sort of similar to Wes Anderson's idea of funny).Well, after seeing this movie, people will hopefully appreciate the thought David O. Russell put into all the dialogue and people will have to appreciate the absurd and hilarious journey Ben Stiller took to find his mother...for better or for worse. "},{"Title":"very very funny","Date":"24 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A very funny script from David O. Russel makes Flirting with Disaster an improvement on its predecessor Spanking the Monkey. Ben Stiller's neurotic monotonic performance is the weakest in an otherwise spectacular cast, most notably Mary Tyler Moore.A young gen Xer decides to track down his natural parents, half the battle is finding them. After bouncing from hilarious situation to hilarious situation, he finds them. Although the parents are facinating characters themselves, it is at this point that the film doesn't quite know what to do with itself.  "},{"Title":"Flirting With Disaster (1996)","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Comedy is a difficult thing to do, and it's even MORE difficult to do it well. Every year there appears to be a batch of failed comedies that leave me shaking my head in disappointment and asking why?, but there are always a few that stick out as being superior examples of what the genre is SUPPOSED to be Flirting With Disaster is in the latter group. Simply put, it is one of the funniest movies I have ever seen. It recalls the great slapstick comedies of the fifties in which each scenario is blown out of proportion and the hysterics keep building and building until you start wondering how they could possibly take it any further ... and then they do. The story involves a middle-aged entomologist (Ben Stiller) who sets out to find his birth-parents with his wife (Patricia Arquette) and an adoption agent (Tea Leoni). To reveal any of the plot's twists would be a crime, but these snippets should give you a vague idea an Indian wrestling match ends in the collapse of a Chinese shrine; Stiller catches a bisexual cop licking his wife's armpit; and an officer from the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms consumes two-and-a-half tablets of LSD. From start to finish, director/screenwriter David O. Russell delivers non-stop laughs and surprises, and yet he never makes the mistake of allowing the story itself to careen out of control -- as so many others have; the film remains anchored throughout to its simple message of family love. Each character is relatively devoid of stereotypes, and the story never succumbs to the unbelievable. The performances are nothing short of brilliant Stiller is a comedic genius, and his outrageousness is perfectly balanced by Arquette's subtlety. The supporting cast is a treat, featuring appearances by Mary Tyler Moore, George Segal, Celia Weston, Alan Alda, and -- most notably -- Lily Tomlin. Every single gag is perfectly timed, and the film itself is virtually flawless. The somewhat documentary-style direction is a nice touch, but I couldn't even begin to explain why the film succeeds as greatly as it does. This is just one of those instances in which the movie is so great, it doesn't even seem as if the film-makers were trying. While watching it I was vaguely reminded of one of last year's great comedies, Woody Allen's Mighty Aphrodite, and it's not difficult to figure out why Russell's writing recalls Allen's playful profaneness, proving that it IS possible to make an intelligent sex romp. So often I find myself too distracted by a film's flaws in order to simply enjoy it, but Flirting With Disaster proved to be an exception to that rule. See it for yourself to discover why it is one of the best pictures of the year.Grade A "}{"Title":"A competently-made, laugh-a-minute, romp.","Date":"22 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is ninety minutes of sheer hilarity. Credit must go to writer-director David O. Russell. The characterizations are hilarious, the one-liners are dead-bang perfect, and Mary Tyler Moore and George Segal steal the show. (Who knew Tea Leoni was so good?) One to own. "},{"Title":"This Movie Is Anything But A Disaster!","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  For me, the 90's has proved some very funny comedies (Clerks, Mallrats, Rushmore, Mixed Nuts, Mars Attacks) but I only rate a few of those as genuine classics. 'Flirting with Disaster', however, is climbing the list to become a classic. Before Ben Stiller became famous with 'There's Something About Mary', this film proved he had some real comedic talent and that this director was no one hit wonder. 'Flirting with Disaster' is the story of Mel and Nancy Coplin (Ben Stiller and Patricia Arquette) who are trying to find Mel's birth parents because he has been adopted. This story follows the adventures of them and adoption agency worker Tina (Tea Leoni) trying to find Mel's parents and they have some hilarious and very black fun on the way. Like I said before, Ben Stiller proves he's an excellent actor and he really should try his hand at some darker and drier material than the more mainstream stuff that he's working on now. Patricia Arquette proves she's a great actress and that she can be very real in a lot of her roles, much like the realness from 'True Romance'. Tea Leoni is absolutely excellent as Tina, the adoption agency worker and she's got more than good looks and nice legs. There's some small appearances from Alan Alda, Mary Tyler Moore and Richard Jenkins. For those coming intis film expecting it to be a Hollywood movie, you're not going to get it. A fairly low budget production with some remarkable performances and great writing and directing by David O. Russell. I insist that you catch it on DVD as soon as you can. "},{"Title":"A truly hilarious movie","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Tight, elegant scripting which has you wound up to laugh the whole way through, and natural, seemingly effortless performances. A zany cast of marvellously original characters takes you across America in search of Ben Stiller's birth parents. Not a dud line or piece of acting throughout, this little-known treasure deserves to be a cult classic.  "},{"Title":"Zaniness, thy name is Flirting with Disaster.","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  So, I just saw Three Kings last week, and that got me interested in other David O. Russell movies.  My friend happens to own this particular DVD, so he loaned it to me with the strict warning that it's nothing like Three Kings.  So I gave it a rip, and I laughed quite a bit.  There's a comment somewhere on here that says you shouldn't see this movie by yourself, but rather with a large contingent of people as to elevate the laughter possibilities.  I'd say that's good advice, since I saw it by myself in the waning hours of the night, and I only laughed a few times.It's one of those things where you can acknowledge mentally that something's funny, even hilarious, but it's late in the evening, and the kids and your wife are asleep, and you're just so comfortable on the couch that mustering an audible laugh is more difficult.  Make sense?With that said, I did muster a few laughs that would register on the audible scale, whereas if I were in the theater, I would be, as they say, busting a gut.  Finally, a zany, screwball comedy worth watching. "},{"Title":"Brilliant acting and a hilarious script!","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was so surprised by this movie. I expected it to be funny, but in a different way. Subtle humour. But I was in stitches when I saw it. The situations and the characters involved are superbly put together to make for a side splitting movie. It's only about 80 minutes but that's great as it doesn't get tedious or boring at any stage. My favourite performance was by Richard Jenkins who was brilliant as the unfortunate '5th wheel' cop. The entire cast in fact, were impressive and a great soundtrack. I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  You know I find it absolutely unbelievable that people did not like this movie.  As I read some of the previous postings, I sat in shock because I thought this film was such a refreshing original & completely hilarious piece of work.  I have seen it many times alone and with people and I laugh out loud over and over again.  The dialogue is witty and real.  The characters are interesting and developed.  And yes I know they are neurotic but who cares.  The film is about crazy neurotic people which I know I am surrounded by constantly so it is so easy to relate and it is so damn funny. Every single one in the cast is excellent and cast perfectly.  Tea Leoni stands out for me though.  This was great role for her and she ran with it. I have not seen her in another role since that has utilized her talents as well as this picture.  Lily Tomlin and Alan Alda were just perfect and ended the film with a twist that was so delightful, it had me wanting more.  In an age where movies are generally done in such a commercial cookie-cutter fashion, this movie is a treasure.  I definitely rank it in my top five of all time.  I do have to say to those who did not like this movie that they should just stick to The Nutty Professor or Rush Hour.  Yah, there is some true humor there. "},{"Title":"a surprising delight !","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I came on this 1996 comedy by chance, and it exceeded all my expectations. An unpromising premise - an adopted man (Ben Stiller), to resolve some issues,  sets out in search of his birth parents with wife (Patricia Arquette), new child, & representative from the adoption agency (Tea Leoni) in tow - provides rich fodder for hilarity as this Freudian odyssey careens from one disaster to another, turning into a psycho-sexual catastrophe. A very funny script is aided by the stellar work of Mary Tyler Moore and George Segal as the adoptive parents - none too thrilled with this quest - and Lily Tomlin and Alan Alda as the post-Woodstock birth parents. A laugh riot which is well worth seeing !  "},{"Title":"Simply Awesome","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the funniest things ever put on film. The story is totally unpredictable, every character is perfect, the cast is incredible, and every one of them completely went with it, getting down and dirty.I can's say enough about Ben Stiller- the guy's great. Tea Leoni and Patricia Arquette are the other leads, and they are fabulous too. Will somebody PLEASE give Tea Leoni a major starring role, so she can win her Oscar? The supporting cast is great too- Alan Alda, George Segal, Lily Tomlin, Mary Tyler Moore. Wow.Rent this! Rent This! Rent This! "},{"Title":"Really funny, but may not play well on video","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie and was amazed by its unrepentant irreverence.However, as I read some of the other user comments here, I realize that I think the film plays a lot better if you see it in a theater or with other people (I saw it in a theater when it was first released) than if you watched it on video, alone at home. If you watch it alone, I can easily see how it might feel like it keeps you too much off balance and then seems off-putting and unsettling as a result. In my opinion, you need people around you to share the shock of some of the places the plot takes you to. (This is definitely a movie where I said numerous times, I can't believe they're going to go there! and, indeed, they go RIGHT there (i.e., over the edge).)The film has some gay characters that are depicted a bit unconventionally, which can be refreshing if you're gay. But if you're in the right mood, I think the movie can be a hoot for anyone. "},{"Title":"Great rental","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A very funny, weird and witty movie from the director of the great Three Kings.  While not as polished as the later 3 Kings, this movie is highly recommended.  A lot of fun with some great performance from an all-star, quirky, cast. "}{"Title":"Hilarious and Neurotic","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie had me laughing from the git go. Yes, it is VERY neurotic. Yes, the film is very independent. Get over it already!!!This is a good film, folks. The director is the same one who did Spanking the Monkey, If I recall, and once again, he does a fine job. The cast is also superb - and where else will you find Mary Tyler Moore showing off her bust, knocking back hard liquor, and performing wifely duties on her husband? Well? It even has Alan Alda and his winning smile.If you like independent films, you'll love this one. I think so anyway. "},{"Title":"Annoying, but funny","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a turbulent independent comedy which is good for some laughs. The beginning is really great but as one gets used to the chaos it goes on one's nerves, unfortunately. On the whole, every movie in connection with Ben Stiller is good. That's why I can recommend this movie to people who enjoyed Reality Bites or There's Something about Mary. "},{"Title":"Looking for family","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A dark, twisted and funny tale of a man's search for his real parents and all that can go wrong. Hippies, FBI, even Bed and Breakfasts get lampooned.Highly recommended for those that enjoy a naughty comedy. If you liked Afterhours or The Opposite of Sex, you should enjoy this! "},{"Title":"Terrifically written and acted.","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When it comes time for an adopted son (Mel Copeland played by Ben Stiller) to name his own son, he develops the desire to find out about his natural parents. Employing the help of a neurotic and attention-starved case worker he and his wife (Patricia Arquette) embark on a cross country trek to find his parents. Plagued with deliciously problematic situations for everyone involved and even picking up more people along the way (people with problems even funnier than his own), Mel starts to notice some inadequacies in his own marriage through no help at all from the attractive and very 'friendly' case worker (Tea Leone).Ben Stiller was perfectly cast for this role, bringing to it a humour and realism that is very refreshing. Tea Leone is fantastic as a woman approaching middle age with nothing permanent and solid in her life.Alan Alda and Lily Tomlin are incredibly funny when we are introduced to them in the latter part of the film. From the moment we are meet them until the end of the film, be prepared to laugh HARD. They have excellent chemistry together, but in addition their scene summarizes and incorporates the story behind the whole film. Very funny. The movie will be enjoyed by anyone who enjoys dark humour and good writing. "},{"Title":"The Funniest Movie Nobody Saw","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This comedy of errors from David O. Russell, recently of Three Kings fame, was totally overlooked by the vast majority of moviegoers.  The stellar cast alone should warrant at least one viewing.  The incredible script and comedic situations just go from great to better, even though they seem incredibly uncomfortable to the protagonists.  If you watch it for only one thing, stick with it to see the final act of the movie in the house of Alan Alda and Lily Tomlin.  Don't wanna give anything away, but it makes great use of music by Jerry Garcia.  Truly remarkable, extremely funny, and a great showcase for great actors from today and the not-too-distant past. Trust me. "},{"Title":"Brilliantly funny","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One of the most consistently hilarious movies I've ever seen. Each joke is fresh, each character is unique and original, and the performaces of some famous faces are great- Alan Alda and Mary Tyler Moore like you've never imagined. It's a fine screwball comedy, and WELL worth renting. This is done by the guy who did THREE KINGS and SPANKING THE MONKEY, so you know there's great stuff to be seen.  "},{"Title":"The Funniest Movie of the Decade","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I laughed harder at this film than any I have seen for many years.  When I showed it to about thirty people 75 years and up about one-third walked out because of the language, but the rest stayed and enjoyed no end.The cast is uniformly good - I cannot pick out anyone for special mention. They're all great.As a born nit-picker, you would expect me to object to having the New Haven Railroad run through Michigan, but I didn't care - I was laughing too hard. "},{"Title":"Non-Stop Chuckles and Guffaws","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A clever comedy that mixes slapstick, social commentary, satire, and lots of humor together very effectively.  It keeps you laughing, chuckling and/or guffawing throughout.  Ben Stiller and Tea Leoni have scenes with hilarious sexual tension, and one unexpected scene just knocks me out of my seat everytime I see this!  Lots of praise to the ensemble cast, from Patricia Arquette as the long-suffering, too-understanding wife, Mary Tyler Moore and George Segal as the most hilariously dysfunctional married couple ever, Alda Alda and Lily Tomlin as the seemingly normal married couple, and the gem couple of the movie -- the two FBI agents with a secret of their own, and they are extremely funny in their portrayals!  I would recommend this to anyone who likes a laugh, or who has ever thought, Would I have been better off if I had been raised by Such and Such rather than my own inadequate parents?   "},{"Title":"A mighty funny and most enjoyable movie","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A great cast, terrific script, and seamless direction all blend together in this very funny tale about a man who yearns to find his birth parents, and whose path to them is rocky to say the least. Mary Tyler Moore is wonderful, but most everyone is in top form, too. There is a strange left-turn into slapstick just before the end, though even this proves to be most entertaining. "},{"Title":"Flirting? Hell, I can taste the insanity. Have a nibble...","Date":"16 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the best ensemble works I have ever seen. The always satisfying Ben Stiller leads a mission across the country coming into contact with the some of the craziest people ever immortalized on celluloid.  Alan Alda, Patricia Arquette (thankfully more lucid here than in recent memory), Lily Tomlin, George Segal, and Mary Tyler Moore join the roller-coaster ride and within it all are many beautiful portraits of life which we learn should probably never intermingle too much.  The disaster lies among these rocky run-ins (sorry, i'm too tired to edit out alliteration). If you like movies in which there are no fiery explosions, people being shot or messages in a spielbergian vein, or if you are sick of teen slashers, teen classic lit remakes and John Hughes retreads, rent this movie. You will laugh and bite your nails. Pure viewing satisfaction.  "}{"Title":"Side splitting mayhem on the search for birth parents","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  We love this movie and rent it periodically when we want something guaranteed to make us laugh.  Lighthearted, with sharp dialogue delivered by a stellar comedy cast, the story focuses on a new father's search for his birth parents.  He can't name his own baby until he knows more about where he came from.  The adoption agent who accompanies them is the  epitome of the high strung New Yorker, whose goofs and gaffs lead the group into one riotous predicament after another.  Particularly funny if you have recently been thinking of names for a baby, or if you can laugh at 60's counterculture.  Lilly Tomlin and Alan Alda are unforgettable in their last lines during the closing credits. "},{"Title":"Is this me or is this Patricia Arquette's the movie, she is so far and away better than everything I have seen before.","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Is this me or is this Patricia Arquette's the movie, she is so far and away better than everything I have seen before.I think this and the kingpin are two comedies of the 90's which can have gain mess population or at least become a cult favorite.  And the marketdroid screwed them up.   "},{"Title":"Fabulous","Date":"26 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Prior to seeing Flirting, I'd seen Tea Leoni only in Deep Impact, and was not impressed.  In Flirting, she plays Tina, zany pre-psychology Ph.D., very well.  She's every bit the typical learned yet disoriented social worker.  The events flow together nicely, and there's a lot of humor, sometimes subtle, intersperced.  The last segment is arguably the strongest; only a person so sick as Lonnie Schlichting would put 2.5 megs of 'window pane' in his long-lost brother's grilled quail. The notion of an entire family being pro-acid is one to savor! Stiller, Arquette, and Brolin are fabulous, as is (as usual) Mary Tyler Moore.  Surely not coincidentally, the role of Mrs. Coplin was conceived and written in the same vein as MTM's role as Beth Jarrett in Ordinary People.   The closing credits show glimpses of all the couples (sort-of) having sex.  It's a hilarious finish.  A must-see.    "},{"Title":"Forget the flirting&#133;","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  After seeing  an interview with Mary Tyler Moore shortly before the release of this film, I knew this was one film I might want to watch--never. She was literally gushing about a possible resurgence of her career, possibly as a mature sex symbol. But I decided not to overly prejudge based on that one extremely scary thought, so I went to the filmography Ben Stiller in the lead (ouch), Tea Leoni (argh-thankfully not above the title), directed by David O. Russell (it just gets worse and worse).Nothing aof any note yet, let's get to the film. Neuroses, uncertainty, more neuroses--support bra humor, vomit humor  incessantly crying baby humor. (add Tea Leoni-interruptus). It's like a bad Neil Simon play (that being worse than a regular Neil Simon play).Sorry kids, but enough is enough. Not even funny in a 15-year old's dreams.Total elapsed viewing time 11 minutes and 30 seconds.Alternate title suggestions Clear and Present Disaster, The Towering Disaster, The Poseidon Disaster, Disaster 1996, Spanking the Disaster, Disaster in Yonkers, Mad About You (whoops already taken by a similar attempt at dysfunctional, neurotic coupled-comedy).  "},{"Title":"There are plenty of laughs in this well done comedy. I recommend it highly!","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ben Stiller plays an adopted married man with a child who takes off in a journey to find his real parents. What happens after that is simply a riot. My favorite characters were the Schlichting's played by Alan Alda and Lily Tomlin. I saw this movie twice, a rare event for me. I liked it even more the second time around. The script is full of humorous dialog that sometimes goes by while you are laughing , something that happens a lot while viewing this film. "},{"Title":"Better than Something About Mary","Date":"25 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Everyone in this film is dysfunctional.  You will see someone you know in at least one character, perhaps in all of them.  It's the type of film you will want to see again to catch the dialogue you couldn't hear while you were laughing the first time you watched it. "},{"Title":"An adopted son's hilarious search for his real parents","Date":"13 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a truly funny film with a galaxy of great performances from Ben Stiller, Patricia Arquette, Tea Leoni, George Segal, Lily Tomlin, Alan Alda and, especially, Mary Tyler Moore in top form playing against type as a neurotic (but lovable) overbearing mother. The laughs are genuine and frequent, and the director makes you really like these people. "},{"Title":"A Perfect Screwball Comedy","Date":"2 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I have been raving about this movie for almost 20 years now and am really disappointed to see how tepid a reception it received from the public. The critics seem able to see its brilliance, fortunately.For starters, the cast is positively star-studded and with many wonderful acting veterans whose universally famous roles were an integral part of my childhood. Mary Tyler Moore, Alan Alda, lily Tomlin (!). Dick van Dyke show, mash, laugh-in. It doesn't get any better than that-- they represent a lost past and seeing them reinvented, and all in one movie, is marvelous.I think the problem many people have with this movie is that they try to identify with one or another character to enter the escapist mode of movie watching and find that identification is impossible. For example, Mary Tyler Moore's comforting presence is quickly vitiated by her shrewish behavior. What is needed to fully enjoy this movie is a lot of ironic distance. Fortunately when I saw this movie, I was studying theater of the absurd, which has as a primary goal the frustration of precisely this escapist mode of movie watching. Movie watching in the escapist mode is like a drug and the typical viewer will scramble around frantically (like a lab rat in a maze) to find the sympathetic character with whom to identify, and to get started enjoying their fix.Needless to say, it didn't take me long to get over my consternation and get with the plan. The aesthetic pleasure of the absurdity, and the complicity of being in on the joke, are far greater pleasures than mere escapism.When I was a kid, I handled situation comedy poorly, (oh no!! How is Genie gonna get out of this scrape this time?). I was enjoying immensely the ironic aspects of this movie but still that ancient voice of anxiety and stress were still somewhat disturbing me during the viewing of this movie.It was quite a relief, then, that we see the faces of Lily and Alan as affable mom and dad, at the threshold of a warm cozy home in New Mexico. All would be well. Not so fast. When once again the plot turned outrageously improbable, I gave a belly laugh and thoroughly surrendered to the absurdity of the wild romp at the end. Out of the frying pan, into the fire. There is no escape!! Surrender and enjoy.My absurdist intuitions were confirmed and my aesthetic pleasure fulfilled by what appeared to be interminable credits-- I don't know this for a fact but they did seem to be a satire of normal credits. "},{"Title":"Flirting with Laughs","Date":"23 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" An adopted man goes searching for his birth parents. Hilarity ensues. Not really. Actually there are zero laughs for the first half hour or so. The first chuckle is supplied when Brolin enters the picture as a gay Federal agent. From that point, it becomes mildly amusing, thanks to a terrific cast. It's nice to see the likes of Moore, Segal, Tomlin, and Alda, although sexual scenes of these old-timers is the kind of imagery one does not want lingering in the mind. This film provided Stiller with a career template for playing neurotic men who keep encountering disaster, but the script here is not as witty and the plot not as engaging as some of his later efforts. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining film with a solid cast and serpentine plot","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film is well worth seeing. The characters and story are very entertaining and funny. This is what Ben Stiller should be doing now, films like this one. Unfortunately, Ben has fallen into the same rut that haunts Eddie Murphy and others who have lost the sense of humor they once possessed after having children. Comedians should be sterilized for the good of their work. Ben stiller made the film Envy right around the birth of his first child and hasn't been funny since.The plot revolves around Mo Copeland, a thirty year old man who has just given birth to his first child and is having problems naming the child due to his lack of identity from being adopted. He sets out on a misguided journey to find his birth parents and hilarity ensues. Very funny movie.Go into this film expecting and knowing nothing and you will be entertained and laugh out loud. I guarantee it. "}{"Title":"A fantastic parade of character actors!","Date":"7 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" My college-aged son checked out the VHS of this 1996 movie from the public library because he likes director/screenplay writer David O. Russell. He said he thought I would like it. Boy, was he right! I was then treated to 90-some minutes of wonderful dialog and interesting plot twists and a travelogue across America. The characters are so idiosyncratic, but have enough realism to be engaging. Stiller plays a neurotic NY Jew (any other type for Stiller?) who cuts the apron strings of both neurotic, overprotective parents and embarks with his wife (Patricia Arquette), baby son, and the unstable and lusty representative of his adoption agency (Tea Leoni), who constantly video tapes, to find his birth parents. The journey becomes more complicated along the way, and after additional unplanned destinations they pick up a most odd couple to travel with them.(I'm so proud that I have managed to avoid so many spoilers with that sentence.) The weird characters in memorable roles played by both the famous and the obscure include Mary Tyler Moore and George Segal as Stiller's adoptive parents, Lily Tomlin and Alan Alda as Stiller's other parents, Josh Brolin and Richard Jenkins as the gay G-men, Celia Westing as the southern belle with the glass zodiac animal collection in San Diego who may be the birth mom, David Patrick Kelly as the paranoid former Hell's Angel in Kalamazoo who may be the father, Charlet Oberly as the fascist B & B operator, and Glenn Fitzgerald as the hostile effeminate brother. I haven't broken out in so many hoots in a long time! "},{"Title":"Okay","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The title to Flirting With Disaster is one that grabs you right off. It sounds like a great comedy, plus it really helps that it is directed by the wonderful David O. Russell and has several great comic actors like Ben Stiller, Alan Alda, and Lily Tomlin. The film is on the other hand a big disappointment. While Flirting With Disaster is far from being bad it is only decent while I had expected it to be great. the performances by Alan Alda and Ben Stiller are bother very good as is the screenplay but most things are from fair to mediocre. The plot centers around a young man who is married and has just had a baby who with his wife goes to find his real parents because he was adopted. Original Plot. Thank god the script is good. "},{"Title":"Does anybody actually own a white Taurus, or are they all rentals?","Date":"5 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Split down the middle about this film, I thought that this second outing by David O. Russell did not capture his full potential, but instead demonstrated his budding capacity behind the camera. I will begin by agreeing with my wife when she commented that this was one of the best ensemble cast films she has ever seen. Russell manipulated and moved his characters into the right places at the right time that always felt even. He controlled the screen and moved the story to levels that I never saw coming. He continually kept fresh images in front of our eyes, and forced his actors, and us, out of their element to progress the story. It was obvious that Russell was a master behind the camera and was able to ensure that no zigzagging occurred that would cause us to falter or loose sight of our goal. While there didn't seem to ever be a bubble in the movement of the characters and story, where I found most of the bubbles occurring were the actors that helmed the characters. While each have their own discreet method of acting, I somewhat felt that they all just didn't mesh well in this story. Stiller was humorous, but lacked the depth that his character needed for us to really understand his plight. Arquette was sympathetic, but again the depth factor was obvious and there were times where I felt that she just wasn't giving her full potential. She was in the scenes, but I knew that it was Patricia Arquette and not the character she was to be playing. I can honestly say 'ditto' for Tea Leoni's character. There was just something missing. Maybe they needed more back story, perhaps we needed to spend more time with them, or perhaps it was the way that these actors pushed their characters that just didn't seem to mesh with the rest of the film for me. The only actors that really went above and beyond their call in this film were the secondary actors. Mary Tyler Moore was well out of her element and loving every minute of it (and so were we), Alan Alda and Liv Tyler were perfect together, and the best buddy-cop scene ever in a film could not have been done by anyone other than Josh Brolin and Richard Jenkins. They did not only provide some of the funniest moments in the film, but their scenes stole the film literally from everyone else. I could have watched an entire film on just these two and their idiosyncrasies. That would have been funny.As I look back onto this film I try to think of why I was so conflicted about my feelings towards it. It had some elements that I just found hysterical and could see Russell's style, but then there were times where I felt the actors were just flubbing this film completely out of control. This was a family neurosis movie. What Stiller was trying to do was find a cure for his (and possibly his newborn son) neurosis. He thought that by finding his true parents he would be able to bring some closure to his life.This was the focus of the film, but as I watched him go through the motions around his psudo-parents, I felt we lost focus of this goal. Russell's direction accurately kept us moving along the path, but Stiller was no guide. His focus throughout this film was about as solid as ice on a spring day. There are parts where we know where he is going and he is doing great, but other times he falls through the cracks. Thankfully, he has the secondary characters to back him up and help him out of his pitfalls. This film was not a perfect fit for Stiller. I thought for everyone else (sans Arquette), they fit perfectly into their roles. Stiller just seemed out of place.A 'find-your-true-family' caper can be funny. Russell's 'find-your-true-family' caper is funny, but not hysterically funny. The humor could have been more adult and articulate. I thought this was a decent film, but it didn't blow me away as the other Russell films have. It almost felt as if he had calmed himself down for this film. He didn't seem as eccentric as he does in his later outings. Russell goes through the motions and does very well, but his cast is what ultimately brings this film down a notch for me. Stiller is not a fit, Arquette character could have been played by a mannequin compared to her, and Tea Leoni needed to get some hot Duchovny action &#133; and soon! Again, I cannot thank the surrounding cast for their hard work and dedication because without them I don't think I could have survived this film. Russell's direction is ample, but Stiller's performance ruins. Overall, this is definitely a 'yheaah' film. Not quite a 'yea' and not quite a 'nea', but somewhere in-between. If you are a die-hard David O. Russell fan, I suggest checking this film out at least once to experience his power behind an ensemble cast (which again works well in I Heart Huckabees), but it doesn't deserve more than one viewing. Russell has made better films than this and I think you should stick to them instead of coming back to this one. Plenty will disagree, but that is how I feel about this film.Grade *** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Offbeat comedy has its share of humorous moments","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  While I did enjoy this film for the most part I did grow a little tiresome of some of the dialogue and situations while the film was winding down. I'm glad the film is just under 90 minutes because if it went on any longer it definitely would have overstayed its welcome. Story has a man named Mel Coplin (Ben Stiller) who is trying to locate his birth parents and his adoption agent (Tea Leoni) thinks she has located them. Mel and his wife Nancy (Patricia Arquette) and their newborn hit the road first to San Diego where they think his mother lives. Mels adoption agent comes along so she can record Mel reuniting with his parents with a video camera. One of the volleyball girls is model Beth Ostrosky. Well, the woman in San Diego isn't his mother and then they go to Michigan where they think his father is. Eventually two gay cops come along for the ride and one of them is attracted to Nancy. The dialogue is reminiscent of Robert Altman's films and at times it seems improvised. One of the unique things that stand out in this film is the casting. George Segal and Mary Tyler Moore play Mels adoptive parents and Moore's character is very overbearing. She never stops talking and it reminds everyone that Moore is a good actress.  ****SPOILER ALERT**** Alan Alda and Lily Tomlin play Mels birth parents and they seem fine at first but everyone eventually finds out that they still take a lot of drugs! The casting is unique because some of these actors seem to be playing the opposite of their persona. Its fun to watch! But I did find that the dialogue grew old with characters stepping on each others lines which is what happens when actors improvise. Another thing that I found tiresome after a while was Josh Brolin as one of the gay cops as he butts into Mel and Nancy's marriage without any respect at all. I kept expecting Mel to finally tell this guy to mind his own business. Film has a low budget feel and the cinematography is really not very good. It looks like a docu-drama and for a film thats shot at various places of this country it doesn't have one good shot in any location. David O. Russell is a good filmmaker and I thought Spanking the Monkey was a very interesting film and while I did enjoy this comedy, I wish it had more of a focal point. Mel and Nancy decide that they should be together but how did they arrive at this conclusion? Witty dialogue and some eyebrow raised casting make this entertaining to watch but I wish Russell had a more serious intent.   "},{"Title":"Amusing with well written characters making it more than a road movie farce","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Mel Coplin has a child with Nancy but has yet to name him because Mel feels he cannot give a name until he has met his real parents.  Mel approaches the adoption agency and meets Tina, who wants to go with Mel as he meets his parents.  Mel, Nancy, Tina and the baby set out on a road trip to met Mel's mother.  However when he finds that the agency has made a mistake it sparks a wider search for his real parents.I taped this film because I have seen several other films by the same director and wanted to give this a shot on the strength of those works.  I knew it was a comedy but had no other notion what it was about.  At first the plot is worrying because it looks like a dumb road trip movie, however the characters and plot ensure it is more than just that.  The plot is basically nothing more than a device for the characters to be themselves and provide the comedy themselves rather than just trough action.  The comedy does also work through actions but many of the characters are well enough written to be funny within themselves.The acting is good on the whole.  Stiller gives his usual performance that will be familiar to anyone who has seen Cable Guy, Meet The Parents etc.  Arquette is OK and Leoni is sexy if pretty uninteresting.  Jenkins steals every scene he is in as the uptight cop.  And on that point, how very refreshing to see gay characters in a comedy who aren't flaming stereotypes!  Alda, Tomlin, Tyler Moore and Segal are all hilarious in their parental roles and do much more than just provide famous faces.Overall I found this to be very amusing if not hilarious.  The plot holds up well for a road movie but it's the well written characters who carry the majority of the film easily and regularly funny even if it is a little far fetched at points. "},{"Title":"Very, very funny","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie made me realize why I thought Meet the Parents was so empty.  Both basically have different versions of the same theme; trying not to be too embarrassed while meeting people who are about to be part of your family.  This movie is just so light hearted with such colorful but realistic characters that it was impossible for me not to just absolutely enjoy.  While Meet the Parents seemed to be more about forcing it's main character into public humiliation (which is something I don't find very amusing), this film allows a little bit of embarrassment to every character, and as a result the characters grow and understand each other.  The plot twists because of how the characters would naturally react to a situation and not just for the fact of creating more laughs.  There's a strong comedic balance here that makes you have actual care for the characters.  I'm not sure why there aren't more films made like this, that don't rely on too many sight gags and bathroom jokes and just allow the personalities move the plot.  After getting to know the people in this film, I wanted to watch the film go on for ages, just as I do all great comedies.  To be fair, the ending did seem to come out of nowhere, but the ending didn't seem to happen too quickly.  We are given a few quick shots afterward showing the lives of the characters after the end of the story occurs.  The film also has a bit of a fate's destiny forcing the main characters together, and that, by the end, there are some firm yet awkward relationships that will repair themselves and create some larger family.  Anyway, I'm just rambling.I saw THREE KINGS not too long ago, and I'm surprised by how diverse of a writer/director David O. Russell is.  He appears to take a little longer than most directors in coming out with new movies, but it's easy to understand why when the films he makes are so different from one another.  He's not a director that's afraid of doing something different and challenging himself.  Seeing THREE KINGS makes me respect this film so much more and vice versa.  Oh, and in case you didn't know, this was one of the best reviewed films of '96.  My personal rating 9.5 "},{"Title":"One of the greatest ever","Date":"31 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I am amazed that this film is not in IMDb's top 250.I rented this years ago, back when video was around, and it was the only film I ever rented where I rewound the tape and immediately watched the whole thing again. Everything works. The cast is perfect, the writing is perfect. Most comedies are lucky to be funny -- Flirting works as an incisive story about a marriage going thru a tuff patch -- it could have been an excellent drama -- and as a screwball comedy. Is there another movie that does that? I can't think of one. This is a modern classic. It's awesome. It's unique. 20 years from now, will anyone remember Forget Sarah Marshall? I liked that film, but 20 years from now, it'll be lucky to be a footnote. Flirting will be remembered and watched. Trust me. Bringing up Baby wasn't a success upon release. But it's a classic that endures, and so will Flirting. One day, it will be in that top 250. Time usually corrects. "},{"Title":"Wonderful road trip movie!","Date":"31 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a really fun and funny movie with a great cast giving great performances of a great script. It just all works in a very casual way. You won't have to work hard at all to enjoy the ensemble cast that includes Ben Stiller, Tea Leoni, Lily Tomlin, Alan Alda, Mary Tyler Moore and a host of others.The story follows Ben Stiller on a quest to find his biological parents. What I love about Stiller is that, as in most of his roles, he is at the center of a maelstrom of insanity. Well, if not insanity, certainly a lot of neurosis. This movie has all the elements of classic comedy mistaken identity, drugged dinner plates, gay cops, armpit worship. There's something for everyone!If you like wacky family fun then check this one out.  "},{"Title":"i've been Watching a Disaster","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is definetely the worst Ben Stiller movie ever. A Disaster. I can't believe this one is called a comedy, it didn't even make me smile and i always laugh very hard at good comedies.If you wanna waste 90 mins watch this one. A stupid movie with no good plot - a guy in search for his real mother -, with totally not funny situations and boringness all over the place. I can't believe its rating is so big, it doesn't deserve it.Vote 2 out of 10.PS I've always been a fan of Ben Stiller. This is his first movie that i disliked. "},{"Title":"extremely bad","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was not a good movie, and we are sorry that we accidentally grabbed it at the video store.  There's no plot, no theme, and no ending.  Do yourself a favour and rent something else!  I like Ben Stiller, but he only seems to be able to portray neurotic characters which is becoming disappointing. "}{"Title":"Obnoxiously unfunny","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Why is it that people think grating, annoying, OBNOXIOUS characters are funny ? It's hard to laugh when you just want someone, ANYONE to smack those people up the back of the head as hard as they can. The dialogue goes nowhere, the scenes go nowhere and all in all you feel like you wasted 2 hours of your life watching something that might have worked as a Saturday Night Live skit. Avoid at all costs. I'm the type of person that can always find something redeeming in a film and there is NONE to be found here. "},{"Title":"Great talents in ordinary film","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Considering the hugely talented cast, I was expecting much more from this film.  Unfortunately, the laughs are few and far between here.  In fact, after I immensely enjoyed the opening scene that was rather funny, I didn't truly enjoy the movie again until the final fifteen minutes or so.  In between, there was nothing particularly noteworthy about this film, for the bulk of this movie was just average at best.  This was by no means a bad movie, but considering the high hopes I had for this film, it was a real disappointment. "},{"Title":"normally like stiller","Date":"30 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" i saw this for the first time 12 years after it first came out and looking at the great cast, the good reviews and the fact that I normally like ben stiller movies, I was questioning myself why I didn't like this. Its basically a screwball film where stiller seeks out various nutcases who may or may not be his biological parents and there is great opportunity for some hilarious scenes with the many oddball characters on display but there is either lack of chemistry or a lack of timing and it just ISN'T FUNNY. I realised this half-way through and persevered to the end but it just got worse, maybe I'm comparing it to the slick, modern humour of the likes of borat and 40 yr old virgin but I put it down to director David o russell who was the gaffer for i heart huckabees, a movie i absolutely loathed. This isn't terrible, it is watchable and there are a couple of funny situations but all-in-all a big, big disappointment for me considering the cast and lead. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies of the 90's","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Given that the 90's has been an awful decade for straight comedies, labeling a movie as one of the funniest of the 90's might seem like faint praise. Not to worry; even if this was released during a good year for comedy, this would still be funny.  David O. Russell proves SPANKING THE MONKEY was no fluke with this movie, which may push the bad taste envelope, but unlike others (are you listening Bobby and Peter Farrelly?), knows bad taste alone does not a movie make.  You also need humor and people to care about, and this movie provides it in spades.  There are so many genuinely funny scenes here it's hard to list them all, but my favorite would probably be when the FBI agent played by Richard Jenkins is accidently given LSD and takes a trip he never expected.Ben Stiller and Patricia Arquette are the two leads here, and they do fine work, but the real treat is the supporting cast.  You might just dismiss the casting of Mary Tyler Moore and George Segal as Stiller's adoptive parents, and Alan Alda and Lily Tomlin as Stiller's real parents as just stunt casting, but they go beyond that to be funny.  Moore is especially good as a pushy mom, being 180 degrees away from her TV image.  Tea Leoni is probably best known for a lousy TV sitcom, but she proved she had genuine comedic talent here as Tina, the adoption agency worker.  As one critic up here pointed out, what makes Tina funny is (1) she's tall, (2) she's clumsy, and (3) she has no sense of humor about either of those traits.  And what makes it work is she isn't self-conscious at all, but throws herself right into the character.  And finally, Jenkins is quite a surprise; though he's a good character actor, I had no idea he was this funny.  All in all, hysterical! "},{"Title":"A disaster!  (And I mean that in a good way)","Date":"8 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Mel goes through a lot of adversity in his quest for his birth parents. Some (but not much) is physical comedy, such as the destruction of a tiny post office, but most of it is just humorous situations. Along the journey, there are unfaithful spouses, including a gay man who cheats on his partner with a woman. And LSD, 30 years after the era of hippies and free love.This wasn't really my kind of movie, but it was very funny at times and well written and well acted. I especially liked Alan Alda and Lily Tomlin, who may or may not have been Mel's birth parents. Mary Tyler Moore was good as Mel's controlling and neurotic adoptive mother, but I didn't really care for her that way. The sexual humor was quite frank, even after being sanitized somewhat for TV.An unexpected plot twist could have sent this movie in a whole new direction and made it quite a bit longer. I was disappointed when that didn't happen.This was worth seeing for those who like this style of comedy.  "},{"Title":"Not flirting with disaster, filming it.","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a movie that never gets going.  The plot is wafer thin, the performances are okay, the laughs are zero.  I think the appeal of Ben Stiller must be a USA thing because his movies don't do very well here in Europe and on this evidence I'm not surprised.Find something else to do with the time; walk the dog, play with the kids, examine your navel but don't watch this movie. "},{"Title":"Really bad","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was attracted by the cast, and the story started out promisingly. However, that's where the good ends with this film.  I checked this movie out of the public library (for free...) and I can unhesitatingly state that I was ripped off!  Okay, that's probably a bit too harsh, but there's absolutely nothing above average about this film.  All of the characters, with the exception of Arquette's, are ridiculous caricatures.  This would normally be okay, except for the fact that the jokes are rarely funny.  Alda and Tomlin briefly showed signs of rescuing the film (which is why I continued to watch) but they just aren't in the movie for a long enough time.I admittedly have not watched anything else by this director and haven't seen everything by Woody Allen, but I felt that Flirting... should have included some kind of gushing thank you to Woody somewhere in the credits.The types of characters and their accompanying lines were obviously inspired by Woody (but his are usually comedic).  In sum, we have 90 minutes of several unlikeable, non-humorous, bozos running around the country.  "},{"Title":"This Film IS A Disaster!","Date":"13 March 2007","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Flirting With Disaster I should have put 2-and-2 together just by looking at this cast and realize it would be a modern-day Hollywood comedy, which means typically sleazy. Sometimes that sleaze can be funny enough to make it a keeper, but not usually and certainly not in this case.Combine the annoyingly hip 20-something characters played by Ben Stiller, Patricia Arquette, tea Leoni and mix in the totally stupid older people, Liberal icons like Alan Alda, Lily Tomlin, George Segal and Mary Tyler Moore, all of whom still are not out of their 1960s' mentalities) and enduring this for the full --- minutes is a real feat.The only disasters here, besides the title are the cast and story.It did a lot more than just flirt with disaster. "},{"Title":"Doesn't Belong","Date":"10 June 2005","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'm amazed at how much context matters when watching movies. I saw this when it was new and was impressed at how gently it moved. It wasn't frantic. It didn't rely on penis and excrement jokes. It mentions Jews comically but doesn't get mean. It deals with relationships straightforwardly the humor from this end coming from our unease at natural misfits.In short, it is everything that the Fockers movies aren't. I went back and watched it simply out of protest, out of feeling slimy from having to encounter them again.And I was shocked that it seemed too slow until the third act. Part of the problem was that I knew where it was going, and much of the development depends on you having the same insecurity about the future as Stiller's character. But the larger part was simply that subtle, soft humor may be dead, even for someone like me who thrives on the slight brush.Perhaps now 50 First Dates is as soft as we can get these days.I urge you to see this for a dive into gentle humor, even though it may be too faded. Screwball keeps. This stuff doesn't. It is a film that doesn't belong about a man who doesn't. Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"Very funny and original with top notch comedic talent","Date":"18 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This comedy is a real gem and not that well known. Came across the DVD recently and can't believe hadn't heard of it before with such a top notch cast. Ben Stiller acts as a man looking for his biological parents. His wife is played by Patricia Arquette. Tea Leoni is excellent and plays the adoption agency person helping them. Along the way they come across a variety of wrong parents and the right ones from San Diego to Michigan to New Mexico. The humor is original and unexpected and builds subtly to some hilarious scenarios with some sparkling dialog. Josh Brolin is great as a cop and friend of the wife. There are elements of a good play elements combined with top notch comedic talent. A must watch. "}{"Title":"One of the funniest movies of all time","Date":"6 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Non stop hilarity from start to finish - if you haven't seen this movie you really need to ASAP.Great script, and the amazing ensemble cast is fantastic. David O Russell's first film is his best, as well as one of the seminal comedies of the 1990s.One of those rare comedies that I can watch over and over - the soundtrack fits the film like a glove. Ben Stiller has made quite a few movies since this early one, but none come close to this one (with the exception of There's Something About Mary).See this film - you won't be sorry. "},{"Title":"A few strange things","Date":"1 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie was what I would call Okay but some of the scenes were a little too contrived and too predictable. I did like Lilly Tomlin and Alan Alda, and Patricia Arquette was good also. But I found the direction rather odd. Some scenes done with a hand held camera come off as amateurish - like they couldn't afford a steady came so they had the guy walk with the camera. Also several shots seem to be done from a moving car - again, kind of amateurish. The strangest thing i thought was the lighting and over all feel of the film. There is absolutely no warmth to the filming at all. It almost looked like the entire thing was shot for television on video. Ben Stiller was good though. I usually like his films and characters. "},{"Title":"I Most Untriumphant Film From David Russell","Date":"25 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A young man (Ben Stiller), his wife (Patricia Arquette), and his incompetent case worker (Tea Leoni) travel across country to find his birth parents.I watched this because it was Tea Leoni's birthday, and because I figured being a film from David Russell it could not be too bad. Boy, was that a mistake. This was pretty bland, to say the least. I do not want to give it a lower rating because it was not actually bad, but it was pretty lackluster as a comedy.On the message boards, it seems that this was considered one of the better comedies of the 1990s. That is a sad thing. I grew up in the 1990s, and it had some great comedies. This is not a film I would add to that list... maybe not even in the top 100. "},{"Title":"Great Fun","Date":"10 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Most important is the cast. It is filled with familiar actors you just love to watch including Ben Stiller, Mary Tyler Moore, Ben Stiller, Alan Alda and Lilly Tomlin. It has a young, beardless, extremely sexy Josh Brolin looking a bit like Matt Damon. Patricia Arquette (Medium) is in it. Glenn Fitzgerald also plays a young hunk, but one so weird you could not really consider him attractive.The basic plot is Ben Stiller (Mel Coplin) travelling from place to place to find his birth parents. He runs into a number of possibilities each weird in his/her own way.Within this loose framework, it feels more like improvisation. Scenes just sort of peter out after a while. The humour is the characters running out their day-to-day (but weird) behaviour. There are not many site gags or bon mots. It is just the fun of watching weird people reacting to unfamiliar situations. I think I laughed hardest at Téo Leone with her long legs like an ostrich striding to get away from a crazed truck driver. She had to look elegant even when her life was at stake.One of the themes is adultery, just what constitutes adultery, and what you should do about it both as adulterer and adulteree. Poor Ben breaks in on a very handsome man licking his bored wife's armpit. How should he react? Etiquette books don't cover this.It is a very gay friendly movie given that in was made in 1996. Homosexuality is treated as just one more comic opportunity. The two gay characters are quite far from the stereotypes. That treatment was refreshing and funny.It is a bit of a sloppy movie, but it is fun just the same. "},{"Title":"Solid comedy","Date":"5 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is an average Ben Stiller movie. And if I say average Ben Stiller movie, it must be pretty good comedy compared to other movies. I can't say I am a fan of Ben Stiller, but I like his movies. There really isn't much wrong with this movie... only that it could have been even funnier. Sadly this movie has no visual, nor audible characteristics. Pretty much all this movie is about, is the comedy (and relationships). The comedy itself though never is too silly. That is the real strengths of the movie. Even though Characters are totally extreme, they don't feel absolutely unrealistic. That is very unusual for a Hollywood comedy movie.- I found it refreshing. "},{"Title":"Extraordinary screwball comedy","Date":"15 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I submit there is never a single non-funny minute in this masterpiece of screwball comedy. How in heaven's name were these actors able to keep a straight face making this? Tea Leoni, especially, greets each new disaster with insincere mortification so effectively that it is the movie's best running gag.To recap, Ben Stiller is a husband, new father and adopted son of archetypely loud and &#x15;quarrelsome Jewish New York parents George Segal and Mary Tyler Moore. Ben wants to find his roots, i.e., birth parents. He has enlisted the help of adoption case worker Tea Leoni, whose somber professional manner conceals incompetence of colossal proportions.So begins a road movie as Ben, Tea and Ben's wife, played by a physically lush Patricia Arquette, and their baby set out on the quest, which seems simple at first. What they are actually plunging into is an incredibly complicated unfolding of an adopted child's real history.There's no point in going into the plot in more depth. Suffice it to say that no sooner does one set of crazy people, all of whom seem perfectly normal at first, exit the movie than a new set of crazy people pops up.Favorite scene? I'd have to say LSD guide Lilly Tomlin trying to talk down an LSD-lit-up Richard Jenkins. The destruction of the post office comes in a close second. Oh, but wait, there's the armpit-licking scene. And ... I give up. David O. Russell, the writer/director, take a bow. "},{"Title":"Character-Driven Screwball Farce Still Shines with a Stellar Cast","Date":"10 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Absent since 2004's misbegotten I Heart Huckabees, filmmaker David O. Russell made a ramshackle screwball farce back in 1996 that's well worth revisiting on DVD, at least until his next film comes along. He was able to blend character-driven humor with moments of pure slapstick as he tracks the misadventures of Mel Coplin, a neurotic entomologist on a frantic search for his birth parents to resolve his long-standing issues with identity. Tina Kalb, a leggy, off-kilter adoption agency worker thinks she's found Mel's mother in San Diego, so Mel, Tina, and Mel's sweetly frumpy wife Nancy, nursing their five-month baby, embark on a journey that becomes ever more haphazard with every turn of events. Unsurprisingly, an attraction develops between Mel and Tina, who is anxious to get pregnant herself. They meet a gallery of eccentric characters in what becomes a memorably wacky road trip. The real coup with this under-appreciated film is the casting. Long before he sold himself up the river with execrably witless comedies like Meet the Fockers and The Heartbreak Kid, Ben Stiller was a promising actor of relative subtlety, and he expertly mans the rudder as Mel with his skittish self-containment. An actress who never seems to fulfill her potential, Téa Leoni brings a mix of klutziness and sexy smarts to the incompetent Tina. As Nancy, Patricia Arquette has a soft, fuzzy quality that makes a nice contrast to Leoni's angularity.Russell was smart to cast four veterans as Mel's two sets of parents. As his adoptive parents, George Segal and a cast-against-type Mary Tyler Moore are hilarious playing classic New York Jewish stereotypes. Moore, in particular, has a field day playing the obnoxious dark side of Rhoda Morgenstern rightfully proud of her unsagging breasts. As the couple who turn out to be Mel's real parents, Alan Alda and Lily Tomlin are equally funny as graying New Mexico hippies heavy into their art and LSD. When Mel meets them, that's when the film becomes a whirlwind, Noises Off-type of farce with all the personal shenanigans coming to a head. Playing a gay couple who happen to be FBI agents, a surprisingly deft Josh Brolin (No Country for Old Men) and the always dependable Richard Jenkins (superb in this year's The Visitor) shine as bickering personality opposites. Glenn Fitzgerald as Mel's psychotic brother and Celia Weston as a Reagan-loving Southern matron round out a razor-sharp cast. It all ends rather abruptly, but Russell shows a genuine talent for juggling a lot of comic possibilities with supple dexterity. The 2004 Collector's Edition DVD is light on extras - just three deleted scenes, a few outtakes that don't compare to the final film, and a brief featurette on the film's development and production. "},{"Title":"The cleverly pompous humor of Russell's writing shines on screen...","Date":"23 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" David O. Russell's imaginative story of the farce trip of 'Flirting with Disaster,' though highly implausible, is hysterically spontaneous and profusely funny. Unlike most of Hollywood's comedic productions, which rely solely on absurdity rather than content, 'Disaster' blends legitimate tension with steady humor, amounting to one of the funniest and most enjoyable films of the year. Russell's script is sharply written, allowing viewers to identify with its characters, even as they come upon outlandish misfortunes &#150;- to which their approach is often more ludicrous than the matter at hand. Mel Coplin (Ben Stiller) was an adopted child. Now married, he and his wife Nancy (Patricia Arquette) set out to find his birth-parents, with the help of adoption counselor Tina (Tea Leoni). With their infant child, who has yet to be named due to Mel's emotional strain of not knowing his biological parents, they hit the road for the truth behind his family ties, on a wild cross-country duck hunt that would leave them with a couple of gay government agents, two wrecked rental cars, marital uncertainties and one gigantic headache. The cleverly pompous humor of Russell's writing shines on screen, with great comedic performances from the whole cast, especially veteran actresses Mary Tyler Moore and Lily Tomlin. The film is well-directed and it's editing, done by Christopher Tellefsen (The People vs. Larry Flynt, Capote), is clean-cut and thorough, making 'Disaster' a quality movie experience as well as a goofy one. For those who love the genre's best in mishap and mayhem, 'Flirting with Disaster' won't be hard-pressed to generate its due share of laughs. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"28 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" One of the great comedies of our time. Released 10 years ago this riot of a movie should go down in history as one of the funniest movies ever. Ben Stiller plays his best part in this one. Tea Leoni is great.Lilly Tomlin and Alan Alda are hilarious. And Patricia Arquette is beautiful as always. This movie builds and builds until the craziness reaches its peak in the final 15 minutes. I'd put it in the top 10 funniest movies ever with no qualms whatsoever. I'm not sure why this movie was so overlooked. I think that it had a very low budget and didn't get any publicity. It is a hidden gem for sure. If you don't see it you're missing out. "},{"Title":"self-consciously funny...but still really, really funny","Date":"8 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Saw this film when it was released in '96 in the cinema. Laughed myself silly and believed it one of the funniest films ever. I bought the video soon after and watched it, but hadn't seen it in about 9 years now I guess. Anyway, I remembered how much I loved it and wondered if it would have held up over time. Seems to have. I didn't remember it being quite so self- conscious as it was and so greatly wishing that it was a Woody Allen, all-neurotic-all-the- time film, but still, the pratfalling and unending humiliations and embarrassment is hilarious and the cast is wonderful. I liked Tea Leoni when she had her sitcom (better than 99% of anything else out there then or now), The Naked Truth and this again reminds us why. Patricia Arquette is wonderfully sober, the straight man in this whole affair, if there is one. I would love to see the out-takes from this film; I wonder if they're on the DVD-or even if it's ---on--- DVD yet because it would seem that keeping a straight face while everything gets crazier and crazier would lead to some serious laughter off-camera. Mary Tyler Moore, George Segal, Lily Tomlin, Alan Alda, all immensely game and really really funny, as are the gay FBI agents whose names elude me. And of course Stiller is practically twisted inside out, he's so neurotic. Russell's Three Kings was a great departure, and equally wonderful, film. Haven't seen I Heart Huckabees although it looked a little precious. Haven't seen Spanking the Monkey although it looked really funny too. This, however, is a wonderfully original and nervously energetic comedy. While I might have criticized it initially, that was really simply by way of comparing my reaction to the film now as to nine years ago. A very very funny film. "}{"Title":"Good movie, Stiller's best role","Date":"11 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" David O Russel's mid 90s film about a man (Stiller) who is trying to find his real parents who put him up for adoption when he was born. The film is a solid comedy with some good performances and although at times it is a bit ridiculous, its better than most slapstick Hollywood comedies. Ben Stiller is good in the lead, although i think this is his typecast role and his dramatic scenes weren't too great. Patricia Arquette and Tea Leoni were both great in female roles, and the animated Alan Alda was also very good here. George Segal was also great, loved his acting as well as Richard Jenkins and Josh Brolin who played two gay officers. Mary Tyler Moore's acting was a bit of a joke to me, i didn't like her here. The film is written well, funny at times, not great but good to me. 8/10 #237 on my list of all-time favorite films "},{"Title":"Great comedy, wonderful acting, brilliant script - a must see!","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When I saw it for the first time, it was sheer delight. I mean, all the surprises, the goofs, the great dialogs, extraordinary cast, ironic situations, vivid rhythm and memorable characters! I liked most the unpredictability and the fact that the movie has in fact no leading characters all the main ones are almost equally important and present in their scenes and our memory. Now, the strange part is that when I saw it again, the riot was gone because I knew what was all about. But a quieter kind of enjoying its subtle irony remained anyway. Anyone would laugh (or at least smile) when hearing again a good joke, if it's really good. "},{"Title":"fun, fun, fun!","Date":"16 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is hilarious, and 8/10 is the average value of it, but you will extract a 10 out of it if you meet these criteria 1) You're about 30 years old; 2) You're watching it with your same-sex buddies;3) You've been to California and to New York; 4) You're allowed to smoke during the movie.All of the actors are doing a great job, and I liked the dialog. I don't agree with other comments where the movie is described as going nowhere. The main character's journey makes a full circle, as he learns that there isn't anything to him which is missing after all just because he didn't know his real parents, that he wouldn't be who he already is had he grown with his real parents, that he's happy with himself after all, and... that he's been a schmuck. "},{"Title":"Not Ben Stiller's Best","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is packed full of Stiller's clichéd clumsy-man gags (similar to, but not as funny as those in Meet The Parents and Meet The Fockers) And the plot outline on the video/DVD case makes the movie sound much more exciting and funny than it really is.There are parts of the movie that are never resolved properly, don't seem to flow, are unnecessary to the plot, and it seems to end abruptly with no real resolution. Much of the movie is left for the viewer to work out for themselves.Definitely not a *bad* movie, and I don't want to discourage anyone from watching it, but it's just not one of Stiller's best. "},{"Title":"GREAT MOVIE, BUT I'M SHOCKED ABOUT MARY TYLER MOORE!","Date":"22 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is all about funny,one misinformation after another. Ben Stiller playing a new dad who wants to find out his real family was really a silly idea from the getgo. Thinking he finally meets his parents turn out to be the silliest road trip anyone has gone on. Mary Tyler Moore playing the mom is good, but did she have to flip her sweater up to Stiller to prove to him on how many kids she has? By the way, nice bra Mary HAHAHAHAHA! Crazy characters after crazy characters, this movie was awesome, and it's a big keeper for comedy fans. A 10! "},{"Title":"Another Great Stiller Comedy.","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ben Stiller is one of the kings of comedy (Adam Sandler is too.) and he never fails to disappoint.. Here, Stiller plays Mel Coplin, a guy who was adopted when he was young. When he and his wife, Nancy are expecting a baby, they decide to go on the look out for Mels real parents. This leaves them finding loads of people, who aren't really Mels parents but have been told they are. He then wonders, if he's ever going to find his real parents.Flirting With Disaster is one my all time favourite movies and one of Stillers best. (Keeping The Faith is my all time favourite.) He is absolutely brilliant and his co-stars, Patricia Arquette and Téa Leoni all do a good job here too. See Flirting With Disaster, whatever your movie taste is, because this is a brilliant movie and should NOT be missed. It's funny and realistic all at the same time.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful adoption flick","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As an Edna Gladney baby who has since located some relatives (you know, the Edna who made money and a name for herself in the adoption baby biz), I hyperventilated through this entire hilarious movie. And what a cast. Any average adoptee looking for Mommy and Daddy Goodbar will find this a romp! This film is more than a fabulous farce. Nowhere else can us bastard daughters and sons go to find an irreverent and uproarious look at the uncertainty, confusion, general malaise, and fantasy labyrinth we enter when considering who we are and from whence/whom we came. This film is one of the many other sides to depictions like Blossoms in the Dust of Greer Garson fame (based loosely on the Edna Gladney story).Mel's dilemma is like so many - adoptive mom and dad are strange, and he's not sure where he fits in, but what to do with the unknown, especially after you know it? It's great fun poked at the adoption issue and a must-see for anyone who's out there searching for those pesky DNA-carriers. "},{"Title":"The Best Woody Allen Film Woody Never Made","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Did We See The Same Movie? I am stunned that people didn't like this film--I thought everyone loved it!  It's one of the funniest movies I've ever seen and only gets better with repeated viewings.  A friend of mine called it the best Woody Allen film Woody never made but I think it's better than that.  It's sharp and biting, but it has a sweetness and affection for it's characters that really charms. "},{"Title":"Flirting with Funny","Date":"30 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I don't want to rehash what others have said so all I'm gonna say is this Flirting with Disaster is a phenomenal funny movie and truly one of my all time favorites. It has never gotten the respect it deserves. It was ahead of it's time in 1996 and even now, I guess some people just don't get it. When I read reviews that pan this an say it's not funny - well.... I have to question the reviewer. I'm starting to think that anyone who DOESN'T see the humor in this movie must not have a sense of humor at all. If you don't get the funny in Flirting - you may have lost your funny bone somewhere. How can anyone NOT laugh at this movie???????????It makes me feel...... vivid..... "},{"Title":"looking for mom and dad","Date":"5 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  terrible "}{"Title":"The absolute worst movie I have ever seen","Date":"17 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I know that this movie has been lauded by many people. I also know that it annoys me how everyone has to start a Worst movie ever thread on the IMDb message boards for every movie. These are both pet peeves of mine. However I must say that no movie in my entire life has been as bad or as boring as Flirting With Disaster.This was actually the first movie with Ben Stiller I ever watched. I have tended to avoid his movies afterwards, with the sole gem of his entire career being Mystery Men. There was not one laugh in this film for me. The writing was cliché and boring. The characters are all despicable people who I never developed an iota of sympathy for. All this movie ends up being is a couple hours of my life which are among the most excruciating. Avoid it with a passion. "},{"Title":"Friendly enough, but it runs out of steam","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Offbeat, squirrelly comedy about the ramifications of adoption has Ben Stiller amiably playing a New York man, adopted at birth, curious about his biological parents. He embarks on a cross-country trip to meet the couple who conceived him along with his wife and child, and a neurotic counselor there for moral support. Low-keyed wackiness manages to wring laughs out of the recognizable foibles of the characters and their dialogue, not sight-gags (wonderful to behold). However, the picture loses its footing in the final stretch, becoming brash and labored. It sadly wears out its welcome, but with such a terrific cast it's definitely worth-seeing. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Flirting with success.","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Flirting with Disaster, an under-hyped but only nominal comedy romp, tells of a young husband and father (Stiller)  who sets about to find his birth parents...wherever they may be. The film plays like one long sitcom packed with humor which is more visceral than cerebral, more contempo than Vaudevillian, and more crass than sophisticated. Cinematography is mediocre at best and the cast's collective talents seem wasted in this journeyman effort which is lacking in polish and personality, full of crotch humor, and sans nudity. Nonetheless, there is much to laugh at depending on the viewer's sense of humor.Footnote - John Ford Noonan, the hook-handed big rig tow truck driver from Adventures in Babysitting, has a bit part in Flirting... as a big rig driver. "},{"Title":"not just flirting..more lick F*&^ing disaster","Date":"13 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ben Stiller tries to find his birth parents in this mostly laugh free comedy. I chuckled once maybe twice. Could've worked as a skit on Ben's defunct comedy skit show MAYBE. But even at just an hour and a half, it far outstays it's welcome. VASTLY overpraised. Lovers of Woody Allen type comedy, feel free. All others steer clear. This is a still film. As in,Patricia Arquette is STILL hot, and still picking crappy movie roles (save for True Romance & Ed Wood). I STILL wonder why Mrs. David Duchovny is still acting. And i STILL didn't want to see Mary Tylor Moore's cleavage.My Grade Dwhere i saw itshowtime  "},{"Title":"Ben Stiller's a Comic Genius","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Stiller is the movie and the movie is Stiller.  Leona lends a helping hand and both pair of sitcom parents are hysterical, but Stiller shows his true comic genius in this film.  The man is a true auteur waiting to explode on the world.  Even in such forgettable films as Mystery Man and When Lucy Fell, the man''s genius was evident.  In this frantic comedy, it never strikes a false note.  This had me in stitches from beginning to end  "}]