[{"Title":"the most poetic approach on antimilitarism and war madness","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"29 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  The simple story of two men captured an imprisoned in a small village develops actually to one of the most poetic and effective peace messages of our times. Based on stable and very well described characters and by the use of magical photography of a small village in Caucausus the movie helps us face the tragedy of war and the madness of human conflict as well.The movie is about two Russians captured by the rebels, kept as hostages by an old man whose son is also in prison by the Russians. Since the old man wants to trade the two Russians with his son he insists that they must not be killed, he keeps them as a hope for his own tragical mission, to rescue his own son, despite the fact that other rebels want hostages killed. One of the Russians, actually a young and unexperenced soldier ends up respecting that small village. The relations among villagers and hostages, the deep human touch between the young Russian and the niece of the old man become the real story in the middle of the war.The viewer confronts since the very beginning what war is about, the importance of human existence and life and the madness of human conflicts. Above all is life, creativity (the youg Russian repairs clocks), laugh and drink. While poverty and sadness reigns in the village tradition and human figures seem to survive. Those human values survive for a few moments before reality shows the cruel side of life once again. The movie is extremely poetic, images and folkloric scenes are well dressed with silent and simple russian music, silence and well developed scenes (the old man loading his son's dead body, the mother of the Russian and the old man meet each other as ennemies with the same feelings though as parenthood is above all wars, the young Russian is afraid to die).Although the actors are not famous you will appreciate the natural talent of the actor playing the old man, a perfect tall-thin shape which dominates the screen. This movie is a must, a call of nature of humanism, a message which can't lose its modernity. "},{"Title":"Bodrov Jr.-My people call him 'a babe'","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"22 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" So much for the silly, honest summary. I've seen it twice but both times on t.v. and, both times, with Czech subtitles. Not being Czech, I have a slightly sticky time watching foreign films here. Despite these disadvantages, I love this film. The acting is superior to anything I've seen recently. And, of course, you know, I've a weakness for Bodrov Jr. (Vanja.) While following his somewhat shy and innocent character, you run up against Mensikov (Sasha) playing a professional soldier who knows probability and gusto at the same time. This is not your common Hollywood 'let's throw two opposites together and create tension.' They've been taken hostage by Sikharulidze (Abdul, in a performance of great strength and restraint) hoping to exchange them for his son (a captive of the Russians.) This is war but on the ground where its victims live. There is an immense respect for the lives of the Kavkaske people. The music, customs, faith, food and lives of these tough families is shown without judgment. How damned refreshing. I recommend this film to anyone who likes a fine story, excellent acting, stunning cinematography and mesmerizing music. "},{"Title":"A Magnificent Anti-War Movie","Date":"25 July 2004","Score":"27 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  In the war between Russia and Chechnya, the two Russian soldiers Sacha (Oleg Menshikov) and Vanya (Sergei Bodrov Jr.) are ambushed and made prisoners of war by a group of Chechens.  The old man Abdul-Murat (Dzhemal Sikharulidze) wants to exchange them by his last son, who was arrested by the Russian troops. His other two sons were killed by the Russians, and his family is composed only by his teenager daughter Dina (Susanna Mekhraliyeva) and himself.  The two soldiers are kept alive in his village, while Abdul tries to negotiate them with the Russian Commander Maslov (Aleksei Zharkov). Sacha and Vanya are very different persons and while together, they get closer. Sacha has the mentality of a soldier, intending to kill the Chechens from the village, while Vanya is a teacher and prefers to try to understand the locals behavior and culture, performing small jobs for them, like fixing clocks. Vanya falls in love with Dina. This beautiful movie is another magnificent anti-war movie. The touching story, supported by an excellent cast and the Caucasian locations, makes this movie a worthwhile entertainment. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil) `Prisioneiros das Montanhas' (`Prisoners of the Mountains')  "},{"Title":"A gem","Date":"5 August 2006","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I rented this film expecting something a bit different - maybe something in the style of Kukushka - a story with a deep understanding of human nature, but with a feel good ending. I got an even better film.This film sneaked into my heart slowly and quietly. Like Vanya, I grew to understand and love its characters, regardless of sides. As the plot developed, I understood how easy it was for one side to mistake the other one's intentions; how tradition, so important for people's cultural survival, ended up working against them, fueling the fire that perpetuated the hate; how one side's disregard about the other one's culture/mentality, and the stereotypical way of looking at the enemy added to the mistrust and hatred between both sides.The story is told with cinematic brilliance simply, almost austerely, with tiny details that make the viewer grow an affectionate, understanding eye for the characters little Dina, with her lonely, pure heart, adorning herself for Vanya and telling him about her grandmother's necklace, or explaining with the wisdom of a grown-up why she and he could never marry; the children and the Muslim soldiers dancing and playing according to their customs; tongueless Hassan; Vanya's mother hitting the Russian commander when she realizes his methods would get her son killed instead of rescued, dare-devil Sacha with his phlegmatic, humorous yet realistic view on life and war; the Russian Commander's appreciation for good quality food and vodka, etc. Then, there are the human interactions between the two sides the Russian soldiers trading weapons for vodka with the enemy; the Muslim soldiers showing respect for the two Russian prisoners who managed to clear a road of mines and stay alive; Hassan procuring alcohol for the two prisoners and letting them dance and enjoy themselves, the Muslim villager asking Vanya to fix his clock...The cinematography is excellent; the beauty of the film comes not from any artificially enhanced imaging of the beautiful, harsh landscape, but from authenticity and masterful lens work. This film is unadulterated by big budget glitzy details; one almost feels is watching a documentary of the life in that part of the world, which makes the plot of the film hit like real events would and affect us almost as if we were on that mountain too.Many people are killed in this film, yet one feels there are no good or bad characters, only human beings locked in a conflict that perpetuates itself, because each side's quest for justice is confused with exacting retribution or revenge. Vanya and, eventually, Abdul see that, but like everyone else, they're prisoners of their own circumstances. The film's ending tore at my heart. As the helicopters were flying towards the village, I realized that was the only logical, true to life ending. A happy end that would please the viewer, where things were clarified and Abdul's final act of humanity and compassion was not fruitless, was not possible without turning the film into a fairy tale for adults.A complex, poignant story told in a masterful way. "},{"Title":"As great as it gets","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Sergei Bodrov shows here that he is one of the most talented filmmakers in Russia today, with this riveting tale from the Chechen war. Kavkazskij plennik stars his own son Sergei jr. and Oleg Menshikov and both do a fabulous job as the Russian soldiers imprisoned by the Chechens in Caucasus.This movie is just what the world needed at such a time-an open hearted and humanistic telling about the evils of war and the uselesness of it all. Although the Russians can sometimes seem portrayed as the better side here and Chechens as ruthless, primitive, barbaric religious fanatics, the portrayal of the Russian commander quickly erases that impression. Here we see the laid back and careless attitude that mirrors the real Russian generals' attitude.The film is pretty tragic, from the death of Menshikov's character and to the tragic and unfortunate killing of Abdul-Murat's son, yet it leaves some hope in the end as Abdul-Murat shows pity for the young soldier whose mother has appealed for his release directly to him. But just as you think that this film will end well, the airplanes come. The ending is truly remarkable and well shot. It echoes the message of the absurdity of war and leaves us with little hope for the peace in the Caucasus.10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"strong, warm and humane","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  There are probably a lot of prejudices people have against Russian film. Mine were gone after I had seen this one.Kavkazskij plennik is a film about a youth who's being sent to Chechnya to fight for the Russian army. He's together with another Russian soldier being captured in Chechnya by an older Chechnyan man who wants to change them for his own son, who's is being held by the Russians. There being locked into an old house high among the Caucasian mountains. Soon a friendship develops between them and young girl who brings them food and water.This movie was made after and during the last months of the first Chechnyan war. Everybody's a victim and there is nothing to win in this war, specially for the Russians. It is just a matter of how much you lose. The persons in this film do not hate each other because their fighting on different sides. The Chechnyans probably hates what these Russian soldiers represent, but they know that this war isn't caused by these two Russians. They are both just a small, meaningless part of it. Russia does not give a damn about their lives, probably because it's leaders have lost the humane touch, while calculating their offensives. Lives have been reduced into numbers on white sheet. But there are people who care, even among the enemies. Normal people still show respect for humanity.The rhythm of the movie is great, it leaves the viewer enough time to think and also find the deeper thoughts from the movie. The music is well selected too, I just cant get that tune out of my head. This together with a realistic humane aspect gives this movie a strong pacifistic tune. Definitely worth to take a look at. "},{"Title":"polar bears sleeping??","Date":"13 May 2004","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Prisoner of the Mountains provides an inside look into the Russia/Chechnya conflict through the eyes of two captured Russian soldiers, Vania and Sacha. The unlikely duo forms a friendship out of their will to escape their imprisonment. Despite the serious basis for the story (the continuing war between the two countries), the film is very multifaceted in that it contains comedy, love, and suspense. In this respect, I greatly disagree with another user who described the film as `bleak, tedious, and uneventful.' The main reason this film succeeds is that it does not only focus on the war and battles between the two sides, but rather develops the underside of the conflict-the characters on both sides.This user likens this film to watching polar bears sleeping because violence only makes up ten per cent of the plot. I have seen movies that are as boring as this analogy. Prisoner of the Mountains does not qualify as this type of film. Bodrov incorporates many different types of scenes in the plot action that evoke a variety of emotions from the audience. There are serious scenes, such as when Sacha and Vania are captured, which elicit fear and apprehension in the viewer. In contrast, there are also more humorous scenes, as in when Vania continues to meddle with the gun he and Sacha stole, after Sacha warns him to be careful, and the gun fires, causing them to lose their only bullet. In this respect, Bodrov makes his film very well-rounded by incorporating various types of scenes that play to different emotions. While the central plot is serious in its portrayal of the war, Bodrov includes less intense scenes in order make the film more interesting and develop the personalities of the characters. The scenes in which Vania and Sacha are shown `getting drunk, whittling, chatting with passers-by, and making friends with their captors' serve to help the audience understand the backgrounds of all of the characters, as well as show character transformation. Through discussions between the two soldiers, the audience discovers that Sacha's at first exterior most likely results from the fact that he is an orphan. In time, we see how Sacha grows to respect Vania, despite his naive nature, and becomes a father-figure to the younger soldier, ultimately sacrificing his life for him. Moreover, we learn how Dina grows fond of Vania and ultimately defies her father to help him escape. In this respect, these scenes are the main point of the movie. In this viewer's desire to see violence, I think he missed the obvious. Bodrov wants the viewer to understand the feelings and motivations of characters on both sides of the conflict. Had the film shown one battle after another, the audience would not have been able to understand the characters because only fighting would have been shown. In this respect, the non-violent scenes are critical to character development as well as the overall impact of the film on the audience.While violence is the setting for the film, it is not meant to be the sole focus of the plot. Consequently, rating this film based on its lack of violence does not do it justice because violent scenes purposely comprise only a part of the action. This reaction would be similar to evaluating a straight play, which had a few musical numbers, as if it were a musical; you would obviously be let down and give it poor marks because your expectations would be too high. In this way, I do not feel that more violent scenes would have added anything to this film. Bodrov sought to illustrate the general tense atmosphere of the situation through the initial capture of the soldiers, the failed escape of the soldiers, the death of Abdoul's son and the expected shooting of Vania. These incidences of violence effectively convey the difficult environment to the audience. Additional killing would have been gratuitous in light of Bodrov's main emphasis of character development. Overall, I found this film to be incredibly engaging and interesting for its depiction of the bitter conflict between the two countries. As a westerner, I can say that the scenery was nice, but that it was not the only good aspect of the film as this viewer states. Perhaps the name and subject of this film is misleading. To a person who wants to see a lot of violence in films, Prisoner of the Mountains would not be my first recommendation. To this viewer, I would suggest The Betrayed, another film on the Russian/Chechnya conflict with significant violent footage. In forming impressions of films, it is important to take into consideration why the director made the film as he/she did. In this instance, it is clear that Bodrov did not only want to present the violent nature of the war, but that he desired to explore the individuals behind the conflict. "},{"Title":"A look at the humanity of war","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I liked this movie very much.  It showed the human side of war.  It is a compelling view of life during wartime, as seen through the eyes of a handful of individuals, each with his own perspective and agenda.  The story is a warm, sometimes depressing, but ultimately hopeful look at human nature at it's best, and worst.   "},{"Title":"Another reason to love Russian movies","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  In this film, I can find almost everything what I like in a movie. It presents the life of a small community, their thoughts, their feelings and their habits. It has a nice atmosphere, beautiful sights, good actors, and a strong story. What else do you want? Another reason to love Russian movies.  "},{"Title":"Do you really have to be Russian to understand the film?","Date":"12 December 1999","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  When I saw the votes I was rather shocked. When I watched the Plennik, my first impression was that it`s a very much humane, non-racist and deep movie. I was absolutely stunned by the cast and the actual performance of the actors ( well, that is my personal opinion as Menshikov is my fav actor, but Bodrov did well too ). It isn`t a story of two rude and life-hating soldiers, it`s a story of two individual personalities, of everlasting feelings. I really don`t understand, what was so wrong in it to get such low appreciation? Maybe it`s just that the western people are too different from Russians? I don`t know.  "}{"Title":"Predictable And Simplistic","Date":"9 January 2011","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Without doubt the dirtiest war of the late 20th Century was the war in Chechnya . It was actually two wars from 1994to 1996 and flared up in to a second war that lasted from 1999 to 2007 and even today there's acts of sporadic violence . The wars have cost the Russians as much as 8,000 military while the Chechens themselves may have lost 250,000 people both combatants and civilian , a quarter of the population of Chechnya . The worst thing is neither can claim any moral high ground . The Chechens may claim to be victims of genocide but any resistance that involves massacring civilians at Russian schools , cinemas and hospitals has a hard time of claiming victim hood The most compelling account of the conflict comes from the pen of Arkady Babchenko in his book One Soldier's War In Chechnya . It tells of his time as a conscript in the Russian army in the first war and of his time as a regular volunteer in the second war . What quickly becomes apparent is what a brutal institution the Russian army is . Recruits spend the first year of their service under  the rule of the grandfathers  soldiers in their second year where recruits are subject to effective slavery at its most brutal and unrelenting which will shock anyone who has any military understanding PRISONER OF THE MOUNTAINS is set during the first Chechen war where two Russian soldiers , Sgt Kostylin and Private Zhilin , are captured by rebels . The film does allude to the structural gulf between an experienced soldier like Kostylin and a recruit like Zhilin , the older soldier doesn't believe the Chechens will trade the recruit because he's unimportant to the Russian army but this is quickly forgotten about as the film moves in to predictable and simplistic territory that states that no matter the conflict and the uniforms we wear we are all human beings caught up in situations made by others It's a well enough made film but by the same token there's nothing outstanding about it either . There's also the problem that if you've read Babchenko's book featuring the very real atrocities each side has committed against the other - in fact each side also commits atrocities on their own - then it does have a rather Walt Disney feel "},{"Title":"prisoners of many things","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" One might assume that the title refers only to the two Russian soldiers taken hostage by villagers in the Caucasus. But the Russian army has the village surrounded, so the townspeople are also prisoners. Moreover, each side is a prisoner of their own hate the Russians can't see the villagers as humans and the villagers can't see the Russians as humans, thereby continuing the cycle of hate. Even the village elder is a prisoner of tradition he uses a ceremonial knife for something in which he could have used a gun.All in all, Kavkazskiy plennik (called Prisoner of the Mountains in English) is a very well done movie. Oleg Menshikov and Sergei Bodrov Jr. do very well with their roles, and the situation in Chechnya makes the movie all the more relevant. "},{"Title":"Remind me never to escape with you again","Date":"30 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Based on a short story by Tolstoy, Prisoner of the Mountains is a wonderful, bittersweet anti-war story directed by Sergei Bodrov. Two Russians soldiers - veteran Sacha (Oleg Menshikov) and rookie Vanya (Sergei Bodrov Jr.) are captured by Muslim rebels and kept in a remote mountain village, as Abdul-Murat (Jemal Sikharulidze) plans to exchange them with his son.Character relationships are the core of the movie. First, the camaraderie between the two prisoners - Sacha is cocky and bitter, Vanya is young and naive. The two have nothing in common aside for their captivity, but they slowly bond, and their growing friendship is so well-acted, it doesn't come across as clichéd. Even more interesting is the relationship between the two prisoners and their captors - Abdul-Murat, his young daughter Dina (an excellent Susanna Mekhralyeva) and their mute guard (Aleksandr Bureyev). A typical Hollywood movie would have made this sappy, but their interactions here are low-key and convincing.Menshikov is perfect as Sacha; the actor makes him increasingly likable as he bonds with Vanya and the rebels, but never loses the character's edge. Likewise, Bodrov Jr. gives a vivid portrayal of quiet Vanya. Sikharulidze plays Abdul-Murat as a cold but decent man who occasionally shows glimpses of kindness. And Mekhralyeva is magnificent as young Dina - one of the best performances by a child actress I have ever seen.Without spoiling anything, the bittersweet ending is powerful, effective and memorable. A must-see.10/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Prisoner of the Mountains is an excellent movie. Vanya a young recruit , and Sasha a veteran soldier in the Russian army are captured after an ambush by the Chechens. The Chechen leader keeps them to trade for his son who is captured by the Russians. Then a friendship develops between the Chechens, and the two Russians. I study Russian in college, and even though the subtitles aren't very accurate at times it still helps. The whole plot is just amazing. It shows the human side of soldiers. I definitly recommend this movie to anyone who hasn't seen it.  "},{"Title":"Ivan and Sasha's relationship","Date":"8 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Possible SpoilersThe two main characters of this film are two Russian soldiers, Ivan and Sasha, who are captured by a group of Chechens. Ivan is the younger, and less experienced of the two men, while Sasha has been involved in war before. As the film progresses, the relationship between Ivan and Sasha develops into a father-son relationship. This comes about because both of these characters are missing the role filled by the other character. Ivan reveals that he has no father, although the audience does not learn what happens to him. Sasha also admits later that he has a son, and asks Ivan to send him money if something should happen to Sasha. This relationship manifests itself in various places in the movie, most often with Sasha looking after or attempting to teach Ivan something. It first appears when Ivan and Sasha are first captured, and we learn that Sasha is more experienced of the two soldiers, and the potential for a fatherly relationship becomes apparent.One place where Sasha decides to teach Ivan something is when the two begin to wrestle. Sasha's lesson for Ivan is that he does not have to be the toughest or hit the hardest, but he simply has to be the most intimidating, in this case by making noise. He repeats this lesson just before Ivan is supposed to fight the Chechen's nephew, and the advice saves Ivan from the fight. Sasha also protects Ivan after their attempted escape failed. He does this by admitting that he was the one who killed the shepherd. In doing so he sacrifices himself and saves Ivan.  "},{"Title":"An important anti-war message---Note contains possible spoilers!","Date":"11 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  The characterization in Prisoner of the Mountains conveys an overall message against war. While the characters represent distinct attitudes that form this anti-war message, they are more than simple vehicles; they stand out as realistic human beings as well, which makes the message extremely powerful.First, there are characters who are used to war, and perpetuate its continuation. Sasha and Abdul-Murat represent similar somewhat values yet they are on opposing sides. This shows that there must be at least two sides to fight and continue a war; these two sides are often similar, however. Both characters are experienced on the battlefield, and seem initially content with the continuation of the war. Yet their motivations for fighting are very different. Sasha simply likes the guns and the fighting, while Abdul's struggle seems more political, and with his son's capture, it is certainly personal as well. These men are characterized as strong in the film, and unwilling to see the other's perspective. asThe reasons for fighting might be different, yet all of these men are stubborn and hardened in their opinions. Yet at times it seems that even these seasoned veterans are tired of the war. Sasha expresses this feeling occasionally throughout. Abdul similarly does so when he lets Vanya go at the end, as if he, too is growing tired of the conflict. This action could symbolize a hope for eventual peace.Dina and Vanya, in contrast, are relatively innocent about warfare, and do not have as strongly formed opinions about the fighting. Dina is pleasant to the soldiers, bringing them food and water; she even forms a friendship with Vanya. She is not interested in furthering the war, yet she is not interested in stopping it either; her role is the traditional woman at home, as a provider who will soon marry. Dina's father is very domineering over her, therefore, she is beginning to form some of his opinions, as shown by the scene when she tells Vanya that he must be killed. Yet the fact that she frees Vanya shows some hope in her character, and hope for the future. She begins to see Vanya as another person rather than some Russian slave, and therefore feels obliged to help him, despite her father's ideology and the war.Vanya is innocent because he lacks war experience. He never shoots anyone in battle, and the one time he obtains a gun he manages to misfire. He claims that he wants to be a good fighter, yet Sasha always mocks him when he does. Vanya does not seem truly satisfied with where he is, and his inexperience is especially evident in contrast to Sasha. By the end, Vanya has befriended the only hope for a new future, Dina. By granting his freedom, Dina provides Vanya with the hope of survival. Although enemies, they do not have to destroy one another. Indeed, Vanya and Sasha even make friends with Hasin. Vanya discovers that the enemy are only other people, who laugh and cry, who celebrate marriage and death just as his people do. Since he survived, Vanya now has the chance to bring his new understanding to others. Yet this understanding is still vague at best, since Vanya can not properly remember the faces of the people he met. The film therefore warns that this type of message can fade over time, and it is important that something is done about it before it is too late.  "},{"Title":"Beautiful Story against Beautiful Scenery","Date":"21 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" In Bodrov's Prisoner of the Mountain, Ivan (Vanya) has just entered the Russian army. He's barely uniformed by the time he is on his way to Chechnya. On the road into the mountains, the group comes under attack by a group of Chechen rebels. Vanya and Sacha are both knocked out and taken prisoner by the Chechens in the attack. One of the Chechens, Abdul, is hoping to trade the two Russians for his son, who is being held in a Russian army prison. The story that ensues shows both the cruelty and humanity that can be found in war. Both sides commit atrocities the two captives kill the mute Hassan in their struggle as they attempt to escape&#x97;this is one cruelty on the Russian side. A Chechen father kills his son who has traded sides in order to work for the Russian police. Neither side has its hands clean. However, even in the midst of war, love can be found in this story&#x97; not just the fraternal love that grows between Vanya and Sacha, but love between enemies. Abdul's daughter Dina is kind to the captured soldiers, and in turn, Vanya shows her kindness she doesn't experience from her peers. She wants to help him escape, but he refuses to go because he knows that the rest of the villagers will never forgive her. Vanya, throughout the movie, represents an opposition to war. He never directly kills anyone, and never even learns how to properly handle a gun; even by the end of the movie, he is misfiring his weapons. When he is going to spar with the Chechen leader's nephew, he comes off as a pacifist. Even when he knows Sacha is dead, he doesn't turn to violence as a solution. A beautiful story with a beautiful backdrop, Prisoner of the Mountain is a true Russian gem. "},{"Title":"A Humanistic Approach to a Rough Genre","Date":"15 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" By definition this is a war film, however the vast majority of the film is something else. The main protagonist, Zhilin, is a novice enlistee, played by Sergei Bodrov Junior. Whereas Sanya, the senior officer is played by an incredibly emotive Oleg Menshikov. Both of these men are captured after being knocked out during the course of a small skirmish with local militants in the Caucasus region, and are held captive in the hope that an exchange of prisoners can be made. War is an existential event, setting our perspectives into two options life, or death. As one might assume, the role of manhood within this film is evident and in a sense acts as a determining factor as to who makes it out alive. Sanya shows cracks within his inner being; he goes from moments in which he is radiant with boundless energy &#x96; dancing on the roof of the aul in which they are held captive, and in another instance he is seen sobbing uncontrollably while chained to his fellow soldier. Obviously this is a perilous predicament, but Vanya (Zhilin) is able to keep a level head under this pressure of not knowing whether or not he might make it out of these mountains. In fact Vanya is able to make friends with his captors, both Hassan and Dina &#x96; the daughter of Abdul Murad. Sanya when in his brighter moods is able to socialize and make fun of the tongue-less Hassan, and Vanya seems to go along with this. Overall it is this glimpse into the human side of war that helps to make it a good movie, but it is the ending that truly makes it all worthwhile. As a viewer you feel horrified, because you have begun to see these mountain savages as living breathing human beings. Given the ongoing war at the time of the movie's release, it is likely that it could have been filmed in this particular time period (before or after 1996).In terms of rating, I would give it a 9 as it's not the most cinematographically groundbreaking film, but it does gives people a glimpse into the inner sanctum of a lesser understood culture. There are some amazing shots that show the rugged beauty of the auls, which are the dwellings carved into the sides of cliffs. Furthermore, it is possible to get a taste of the way of life &#x96; how humans regardless of nationality just want to live by whatever means possible, and that war is not something to seek out. "},{"Title":"How good was this movie","Date":"9 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I thought that this movie was an okay one to watch. It shows us that we are all humans, and we all have feelings and hopes and dreams. We see the lives of the villagers and we begin to understand them, just as the main character does. We see that war affects everyone on both sides of the struggle, and not everyone on the side of the enemy is evil. On both sides of a struggle, everyone thinks that they are right. Some people are bad, but they all get mixed together so its hard to tell the difference between the two. This movie also shows that in dire situations you will do what you have to do in order to survive, even if that means that you are going to have to hurt some people in the process. "},{"Title":"Political rivals, divided by a bloody war, are forced to come to terms with one another in this drama.","Date":"29 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" The film is simple, powerful and convincing. Two Russian soldiers (Oleg Menshikov and Sergei Bodrov Jr.) are captured by a Chechen father (Dzhemal Sikharulidze) determined to exchange them for his son, but the prisoners escape.Prisoner Of The Mountains is an off-centre war story that concentrates less on the horror of conflict than the humanity, even across cultural and national divides, and successfully sustains interest. The film was awarded a Crystal Globe at the 1996 Karlovy Vary International Film Festival, and the same year was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film. "}{"Title":"These two Russian soldiers show the viewer the relationship and dynamic of the Russia that was and the Russia that is trying to emerge.","Date":"14 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Like many other Russian films, the two main characters in `Prisoner of the Mountains' can be viewed as representative of the Russia that was and the Russia that is. Through their interactions with each other and the other characters in the movie, it is possible to draw conclusions about the state of the new Russia, the relationship between Old and New, and the problems and challenges that new Russia will face.Ivan, the young, innocent Russian soldier represents the new Russia. He is open, accepting, inexperienced, and most importantly, he is not filled with hate. The second Russian soldier in the film, Sasha, is the old Russia. He is experienced in war and killing; as he puts it, he did not start out a killer, but he learned to love it over time. He was not always so callus, but grew so because of his environment. He is hard, cold, and firmly believes in the limits that race and ethnicity place on people. These two are both captured, and as they spend time living amongst their captors, both seem to form relationships and bonds with them. Sasha, however, only does this to gain their trust, and without a moments hesitation kills Hasan, the mute, with whom he spent so much time. Ivan, on the other hand, creates genuine bonds, truly finding love with the young girl. Ivan is not caught up with the fact that his feelings are taboo; his young heart and his open mind do not have room for hate.Ivan is caught up in a war he has no part of; it is Sasha's war, not his. Because of the actions of Sasha, old Russia, the potential relationship between Ivan and the young girl, new Russia and Chechnya, is never realized. Ivan suffers because of the moves made on his behalf by the war mongering Sasha. Sasha has nothing to escape for, but he promises Ivan he will get him home. Sasha's method, however, only serves to worsen the situation. Even when Sasha is dead, it is too late for Ivan, the scars, distrust, and hatred run too deep to ever be mended, and new Russia is left dealing with the issues and hate it does understand that old Russia has left behind.  "},{"Title":"Best, most moving anti-war movie I've ever seen.","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Best, most moving anti-war movie I've ever seen.  The scenery is breathtaking. The acting and direction superb, and the story is without equal.  Highly recommended for anyone who likes great movies. This Russian movie is incredible in scope and production.  Two thumbs up! "},{"Title":"Poetin should watch this movie, first class!","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Excellent and intriguing movie about the situation in the kaukasus, a very sensitive movie also which allows you to really live into the situation of the main characters on both sides, with brilliant acting and screenplay. "},{"Title":"Not exactly 'A Prisoner in the Caucasus' on film (SPOILERS)","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Contains SPOILERSIn this film, Bodrov goes beyond the anti-war dialog by portraying those who fight the war (at least on the Russian side) as the root cause of the problem. Although it contains many of the same elements as anti-war films produced in the United States, the dichotomy between the two prisoners, Sasha and Vanya, is unique.Introduced to the viewer in a scene in which their unit comes under fire, their reactions to the ambush establish their character differences. Sacha stands in the open, shooting from the hip at anything that moves with a crazed look on his face (anyone who has seen Kubrick's Full Metal Jacket will be reminded of Animal Mother). Vanya, on the other hand, hides behind an APC unwilling to shoot back. Sacha's soldier mentality is fully born out when he describes in detail how he will come back to the village and kill his captors. This message is presented to make him sound evil and bloodthirsty, and it also reminds us of a Full Metal Jacket character, the helicopter gunman who, when asked how he can shoot women and children responds, 'it's easy, you just don't lead them as much.' On the other hand, Vanya's affection towards his captors is glorified. He forms a bond with a young Chechen girl, fixes clocks for the villagers, and tries to understand their culture. The end is predictably self-serving; one guess as to who lives and who dies. That having been said, this bastardized version of Tolstoy's A Prisoner in the Caucasus is worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"This movie had a different effect on me","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" As other have commented, the movie tries to apply a relatively even hand to both sides of the chechen conflict, possibly being a little more biased to the chechen point of view. What surprised me about this movie was that I came out of it more supportive of the Russian side of the conflict. Let me explain Lets say you are a American living in present day Wyoming. Now imagine if there still existed unassimilated cheyenne indians in the area living out their old traditions and who would still periodically conduct war parties and scalp and kill anyone they found who was not a part of their tribe. If you are living in Wyoming, taking trips outside urbanized areas becomes quite harrowing. Such conditions would make one lose one's fascination of Indian culture quite rapidly.Present day conditions in the Caucauses are not so much different than the hypothetical example given above. These traditional Islamic cultures can be extraordinarily savage and haven't progressed much in the last 1000 years. The only current technology they have embraced is that which allows them to kill more people.The movie is well written and directed. It does try to be as honest as humanly possible with the subject matter. As a result, one is not preached to and allowed to make up their own mind, which is very rare in film. "},{"Title":"A snoozer with some rare beauty.","Date":"19 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Sometimes I think you could show two hours of a ploar bear sleeping  in a snowstorm and film critics would find some kind of interesting if not apocalyptic story in it. Such is the ability of cinema buffs to project their beliefs, sentiments, and subjective interpretations into film. For this and only this reason can one explain the many awards and nominations of the bleak, tedious, and uneventful Prisoner of the Mountains. Adapted from a Tolstoy novel about the age old struggle between Russians and Moslems in Chechnya, this film follows the misadventures of two Russian soldiers who are captured and detained by agrarian, mountain dwelling locals. There a prisoner for prisoner swap goes sour. There's some brief violence and scurrying around which takes about 10% of the movie run time. The rest of the time is spent watching the two captive soldiers getting drunk, whittling, chatting with passers-by, and making friends with their captors, etc. Were is not for the fact that the film gives a rare look (for westerners) into the beauty of the mountains and people of Dagestan, this film would be difficult to recommend. "}]