[{"Title":"Did the final product mean to age so well and stand as the true meaning of Christmas? Was it satire or all a very lucky accident? Either way, its fun","Date":"7 December 2006","Score":"80 out of 91 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Satires are hard to come by. Good satires are much more rare. Satires that fooled everyone, from the audience to the actors playing in the film are toughest to find. Jingle All The Way achieves just that. By throwing a social commentary joke over the heads of audiences instead of into their minds, and then by delivering a biting message that stands just as true today as it did when it first came out, Jingle All The Way went from disappointment to one of the most realistic holiday films ever, despite its lack of realism. The hypocritical statements are flying in this first paragraph, but the truth is almost everyone missed the joke, the main picture. What looks like pure family fun turns into commentary with an attack on commercialism and the American public buying into the scheme. Even if you don't want to look into the deeper details, why skip out on Sinbad and The Terminator going at it?Jingle All The Way follows a workaholic dad by the name of Howard who disappoints his wife and son year after year. After missing another karate practice, Howard promises to not only show up at the parade the next day, but also get his son the TurboMan doll that is based off Jamie's favorite television show, favorite cereal, and favorite hero. The catch is simple it is impossible to find the doll since it's a massive hit. Not only that, but most shipments are not arriving on Christmas Eve (notice the setting getting a bit dangerous), therefore increasing the supply-and-demand. Howard is still determined to find the doll and not disappoint again. Christmas Eve turns into D-Day on the shores of stores across the nation.This sort of idea has always been present in television shows everywhere, but to take a simple concept and stretch it into a full-length motion picture is a challenge to the utmost level. Thankfully, we have good writing by Randy Kornfield, decent direction by Brian Levant, and the supervision of Chris Columbus (Home Alone, Harry Potter, Mrs. Doubtfire, Adventures in Babysitting). Looking past the seemingly heavy dosage of criticism against American society and Big Business, we see the cast throw our victim fathers into every possible awful and unfortunate scenario possible, and the range of ideas presented are amazing.Arnold Schwarzenegger must have a sense of humor, because he isn't afraid of embarrassing himself by getting beat up and pulverized by the holiday rush, a bitter mailman, and a Santa Claus that can scare blind children. His performance by no means is Oscar-worthy, but we see him with his determination like in his usual action films, but in a whole new arena, a totally different atmosphere, and that just adds a dosage of humor to the entire film. To see an action star have to claw his way out of a melee of people trying to get bouncy balls is priceless. Almost as rare as Schwarzenegger looking wimpy is Sinbad in a superb film. His performance as the disgruntled mailman just matches him perfectly, and his determination to get the doll is just as bad. Rounding out the cast is a bunch of underrated and/or B-list stars like the brilliant Phil Hartman, Rita Wilson, Robert Conrad, and James Belushi.Why in the world would anyone want to skip a movie in which we see a rumble involving an angry dad and a bunch of Santa Claus frauds running an illegal toy-manufacturing/distributing operation (Best scene of the movie for sure)? Why miss out on The Terminator take on a raging reindeer? Why skip out on a mailman posing as TurboMan's villain and flipping the bird to spectators during a family parade? With an endless amount of silly, over-the-top, brilliant moments in which represent Christmas at its truest, Jingle All The Way stands as the most realistic holiday movie ever, since it really shows what its all about. Forget the sappy messages you see in Christmas movies, it doesn't matter what you did, what illegal things you performed, how many assaults you have committed, as long as you get that gosh-darn toy for your child in Christmas, it will all be forgiven.Everything in this film, whether unintended or intentional, downplays the meaning of Christmas and all that goes on. There isn't a single decent Santa Claus in the film; they are all corrupt human beings with a different agenda. The stores are not trying to please anyone; they just want money for themselves and enjoy seeing people scrap for chances of earning a doll like starving dogs fighting over a hunk of meat. The main child doesn't say he wants his dad to stay home for Christmas, he says he wants a certain doll, and even recites the entire commercial, including the final words Batteries Not Included. Nobody is helping each other; everyone is fighting, pushing people towards aisles and toy displays. While the entire thing is comical, it truly does happen in the real world. There was even one pivotal scene in which Byron the mailman discusses the importance of getting that special gift; he compares himself to another child that got the hot item on a certain year. Byron is disappointed, grows up to become a loser; neighbor that gets the doll becomes a multi-millionaire.Can a Christmas without material possessions scar you and turn you into a loser? Or is it Commercial America making it seem that way? Is this film a perfect satire or did it accidentally become that way? While the clues are pointing towards lampoon, Levant looks like he really aimed for the heartfelt, emotional Christmas movie with the bittersweet ending. Instead, we get a film that predates (and apparently predicts) the Tickle Me Elmo, Pokemon, Playstation, and Furby holiday horror stories. From the campy introduction to the hysterical final showdown, it's a great movie for what it is, and after aging like fine wine, becomes something more&#151;accidental or not. "},{"Title":"2 lunatics vie for a toy at Christmas","Date":"8 May 1999","Score":"40 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This film shows the insanity of Christmas. Two parents, who waited untill the last minute to buy a popular gift for their child, spend all of Christmas Eve trying to come up with the toy. They were vicious and violent with each other in their efforts to secure the piece of plastic junk for their little darling. This picture shows just how goofy people act at this time of year. Instead of preparing, most folks wait till it is too late; all in the name of Christmas spirit. Arnold portrayed a man who ignored his boy all year, and then tried to buy his love at Christmas with a pitiful little bauble. How true of real life. A funny movie on one hand, a tragedy on the other. Look and learn. "},{"Title":"Despite its problems, I thought it was funny","Date":"31 December 2005","Score":"35 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" 'Jingle All The Way' is a Christmas story about merchandising and family. A lot of people seemed to really hate this movie, but I did not think it was all that bad. Sure, some of the action and the story was not the best, but I thought it did provoke a lot of laughter. The scenes with Arnie at the warehouse filled with Santas and elves was funny, and it had a good ending with the father becoming the hero after all. It does represent the bad of the holiday season with all the merchandising and the over-emphasis on that one particular toy that kids must get for Christmas, and if they do not receive it, then they are outcasts. Despite its problems, I did find it a funny and worthwhile film. "},{"Title":"Lord help me, I like it","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"35 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" First of all, let me say I am way easier on Christmas movies than I am general releases. I don't know why. Maybe its that its the time of the year, and all the tinsel dust gets settled into my brain until I am in a stupor...But this movie is not that bad. If you just look at it as a lighthearted, fun with the family movie, then you will have fun. It does get real, real cheesy at times, but most of the movie is funny and entertaining. That's all you can ask for from a movie. The biggest drawback is Jake Lloyd. I have never liked him as a child actor. You could always tell he is acting, and he always sounds so damn whiney. Heck, behind Jar Jar, Jake Lloyd is the most annoying actor.Other than that, it is fun. Hey, if it comes on TV, pop some pop corn, grab the kids, and tune in! "},{"Title":"Great fun","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"23 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Everything about this movie is great. It has a great cast (With a wonderfully sleazy Phil Hartman). A great script with loads of laughter.It's obviously created as a spoof for the Christmas buying crazes that go on in the world, where everybody must have that one very special toy.It has the look and feel of a children's movie - but I'm not sure it is, or was ever designed to be.Don't expect a Schwarzie action movie. It's more a live-action cartoon.Jingle all the way is a movie I've seen a couple of times now - and I'll watch it again and again. Good fun. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Nobody Likes you Booster","Date":"23 November 2007","Score":"26 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie is so ridiculous, but so funny at the same time. I watch it every Christmas just to hear many of the Schwarzenegger phrases like - Who told you you could eat my cookies? - Put the cookie down...NOW! - Nobody likes you Booster (maybe Sinbad's line) - I'm not a pervert... and the many times he says Jamie, I hated that darn brat...what a spoiled kid Anakin was.But this movie is funny how it shows that parents are crazy to get one toy for their spoiled little brat. Sinbad is hilarious, and I miss him in movies, and it has the good 'ol Phil Hartman.Arnold faces an army of Santas, which is funny as well as his corny lines I watch this to hear. Although this isn't the best Christmas movie, it's still enjoyable. "},{"Title":"One of the best Christmas movies I've ever seen","Date":"18 November 2005","Score":"28 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" JINGLE ALL THE WAY, in my opinion, is one of the best Christmas movies I've ever seen. I thought that Howard (Arnold Schwarzenegger) should have paid a little more attention to his family. The one person I really couldn't stand was Myron (Sinbad). This was because of his attitude. Plus, he tried to hurt Jamie (Jake Lloyd). I must say that Howard was very foolish to wait so long to buy Jamie's present. Even my parents have more sense than that! No offense to you, Howard. If you ask me, Liz (Rita Wilson) looked very beautiful in the nightgown she wore. The part that really made me laugh the most was when Howard broke into Ted's (Phil Hartman) house and stole the Turbo Man doll that was supposed to be for Johnny (E.J. De La Pena). This was because Ted's reindeer charged at Howard and caused him to set the living room carpet on fire. That was absolutely hilarious! In conclusion, I highly recommend this holiday smash to everyone... especially all you Arnold Schwarzenegger fans who have not seen it. When you see it, prepare to laugh and have a good time. "},{"Title":"Critics are wrong!","Date":"5 February 2010","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Sometimes critics mistake.This is definitely an example.You see some movies don't need to be reviewed,you just need to watch them first,and then judge your feelings. So idea of the movie is great,and its pretty familiar to EVERY father on Christmas.And that's why people like to associate themselves with Arnie's character.There are a lot of misadventures(you wont remember every after ending i promise),but they actually work out pretty entertaining,sometimes even laughably funny (Santa's gang scene). Also contains good soundtrack,that includes Chuck Berry's Run Rudolf,Run. i also like casting choice for Ted.I don't like this type of sleazy scumbags,thats why he is so realistically annoying.Not much else to say,WATCH IT NOW. "},{"Title":"Is it just me or is Arnold really starting to scare people?","Date":"4 February 2004","Score":"39 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Sigh, Jingle All the Way, how this film has a rating that is above the 4.0's on IMDb boggles my mind. This is one of the scariest films of all time. First off, we have Arnold Schwarzenegger, The Terminator, he's playing this wacky almost like 80's silly comedy show type of Father Knows Best. Second, I think this is the film that just gives up on us, it goes from alright to stupid to silly to bad to just plain awful. Third there is nothing redeemable about this movie the terrible acting, the lousy story, the crappy moral behind it's shallow message, and Arnold's accent, granted the accent has gotten him a career, but still it's disturbing the way he presents some of his lines. Not to mention that for some odd reason they put Sinbad in this movie, sorry to say but he is just not funny, actually no body, even one of the best voice actors of all time Phil Hartmen... I can't believe he took on this movie.Howard Langston is often busy at his job, and has a hard time finding time for his wife, Liz and his young son, Jamie - especially when compared to next door superdad divorcé, Ted Maltin. After breaking his word again by missing Jamie's karate grading, Howard resolves to redeem himself and his marriage by fulfilling Jamie's ultimate Christmas wish, an action figure of Turbo-Man, a popular children TV superhero. Unfortunately, as is the habit with him, Howard has promised to buy that figure earlier that year and then promptly forgotten about it. To make things even harder, Turbo-Man toys are the must-have gifts of the season, and stocks of Turbo-Man toys are quickly drying up all over the country. Desperate not to disappoint his family again, Howard embarks on an epic city-wide quest to find the toy everyone's looking for. Along the way, Howard encounters Myron Larabee, a postal worker dad with a rival ambition, and the two quickly become bitter competitors in their race for the action figure. The chase begins to arise the ire of a police officer whom Howards keeps running into, and one of the most memorable scenes includes Howard desperately hooking up with a band of brand-spoofing crooks and ending up thrashing them. In addition, Ted attempts to hit on Liz, which she eventually turns down hard. The search climaxes with both dads masquerading as live action stuntman in a department store parade. As the real Turbo-Man, Howard uses the opportunity to present a coveted limited-edition Turbo-Man doll to his son in the crowd. But before he can recognize his dad, Jaime is chased around the parade by Myron, dressed as Turbo-Man's arch nemesis Dementor.Jingle All the Way is just one of those movies that you wonder how in the heck it got green lighted. It's just so stupid, I love how the ending, Myron tries to kill a child to get a stupid toy for his son and all is forgiven so easily. Gotta love how Turbo-Man has an Austrian accent, muscle bound, square jaw, tall... yet his own kid doesn't recognize him at all. Even the one scene that had a great joke, the bomb that was wrapped as a present, they even ruined that with a lousy slapstick joke that I know it was a family movie, but it just was stupid. But give or take, it's not that bad of a movie, there are some good jokes in it. I can't give Arnold a bad review, I just can't, it's not in my blood as a critic. There are some moments that are very funny like Arnold screaming at his neighbor for eating his wife's cookies. Also Arnold is just too likable as well as Phil Hartman. It's a light recommendation, not the worst movie of all time, but just one of the silliest.1/10 "},{"Title":"I call it a guilty pleasure!","Date":"12 December 2009","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Jingle All the Way is far from perfect, but it is fun and worthwhile. The plot tells of an overworked businessman who wants to buy a Turbo Man, the year's hottest toy, for his neglected son. In the title role of Howard Langston, Arnold Schwarznegger acquits himself well, particularly in the action sequences. The soundtrack is awesome, the film is not too bad to look at and the climax is a lot of fun if very far fetched. Sinbad is amusing is Myron, and James Belushi is great as the Crooked Santa. Phil Hartmann(while he has been better) is hilarious as Ted, the phone conversation between him and Howard is a hoot. Rita Wilson does a good job as the mother, and Jake Lloyd is cute as Jamie. The film has some nice messages for kids. While the film is funny in places, the humour is questionable sometimes. The film is also rather short, and perhaps a tad rushed. Also Brian Levant's direction could have done with a harder edge. Still, despite the failings, it is a fun Christmas comedy, that is not really to be taken seriously. I call it a guilty pleasure. 6/10 Bethany Cox "}{"Title":"Brilliant Family Christmas Movie!","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"     This is a really funny family movie! There's plenty of funny, touching moments in it and it's very colourful, adventurous stuff. The basic storyline is that Howard Langston (Arnie) has forgotten his son's christmas present of a Turbo Man action figure, but the shops have all sold out! It's christmas eve and Howard has only 24 hours left! What Howard doesn't bargain for is the fact that psycho sad Mario (Sinbad) has got to get one for his son too! Throughout most of the movie there's basically Arnie and Sinbad nearly killing eachother to get their mitts on this Turbo Man doll and trying to beat eachother to it no matter what it takes! There's some very funny moments throughout the movie and some surprises too! Rent this lovely film out and sit back and get festive! Thumbs up! "},{"Title":"Perfect Family Christmas Fun","Date":"22 October 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Howard is a lousy father, who spends more time in the office then with his family. However, after letting down his son for the last time, he promises to buy his son the ultimate Christmas present, a 'Turbo Man'....But, finding it, will be the real mission.Growing up, I always watched this film at Christmas with my brothers. It's one were the entire family can sit down and laugh together as Schwarzenegger battles Sinbad to bring home his son's present. In my opinion its the perfect Christmas film.The jokes are funny, the mayhem is hilarious and the physical aspects of the film are just fantastic to watch. "},{"Title":"Satirical wins out over stupid","Date":"24 December 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" This film has taken a great many knocks over the years and I'll be the first to admit that it does have flaws. The conclusion, especially, is so sickly sweet that it sends your eyes rolling like slot machine spinners. Some of the things that Arnie does as he gets more and more desperate to track down a Turbo man doll for his son are cringe-worthy (I'm thinking particularly of when he stalks a little girl in the ball room at the mall) but they ultimately do function within the larger scope of the film.Arnold plays a father who was supposed to take care of getting a toy for his son. He's forgotten and has to go out on Christmas Eve to try and track one down. When he realizes that it is the hottest selling toy of all-time, High-jinx ensue.The thing with Arnie is that you're either going to take him or leave him. If you find his accent aggravating, or his acting wooden, then stay away from this film because you're just not going to like it anyway. I don't think he's that bad in this and I would go so far as to say that it is probably his second most successful comedy (Kindergarden Cop being my first choice -- IT'S NOT A TOOMAH!!! CLassic! Ha!). He's got an excellent supporting cast in this one Jim Belushi as a seedy shopping mall Santa, Rita Wilson as Arnie's long suffering wife, Phil Hartman as the sugary sweet sleaze of a neighbour and of course the inimitable Sinbad. I would argue that the unlikely pairing of Sinbad and Arnie works extremely well and is probably the key to the film's success. Neither really has the acting chops to make the other look bad or out of place and so they are each able to hold their own when on screen at the same time.There is a tendency to take this film too seriously. It has a great satirical viewpoint. Who among the retail warriors can watch this film and not throw their hands up in the air saying Idiots! You've left it to the last minute and you're getting exactly what you deserve! Who among the legion of over-stressed and unlucky parents can't feel some sympathy for the plight of a man just trying to do right by his kid, even if it is a little too late? Jingle All The Way is a Christmas cure. It's a sharp point to puncture the over commercialism we get caught up in. This film is a chance to chuckle at ourselves and the insanity we leap into with enthusiasm annually. It is a ninety minute reality check and a chance to sit back, relax, and not take things so seriously. This isn't 'Scrooged,' or 'It's a Wonderful Life,' or 'A Christmas Carol.' It isn't the best of comedies or the best of Christmas films. But it is very honest about itself and not a bad way to spend the holiday. "},{"Title":"This movie is about a 2 men looking for the same toy for their sons.","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie is great and the title sounds as interesting just like the movie. Arnold was good in this film as taking the main role.Sinbad was good but not as good as he was in Good Burger but i,m glad he won an award for this film because he really deserved it a lot because his acting really payed off.Jake Lloyd was good as playing the son of Arnold and Rita. I am Glad that this film won an award even though it should have won more for best actor in a leading role because this was his best movie ever.This movie is about 2 different men who are looking for the same toy for their sons but find out that it is so hard. "},{"Title":"Must watch Christmas movie!!!!!!","Date":"26 December 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" All those who are saying this movies bad, shut up... If you are going to criticize the make, the screenplay, then no movie will be entertaining... I bet you a 1000 bucks wen u went and saw this wen u were little u weren't saying OOh TERRIBLE DIRECTION, SCREENPLAY, PRODUCTION..TOO MUCH OVERACTING.. but u must have enjoyed it....for all those people who want too watch a nice Christmas movie and relax watch this one.... I've been seeing this every year for the past 10 yrs whenever it was broadcast on TV and i still enjoy it... PS I make videos, Plz search for dhruv1223 on youtube.......................... Watch NIN thats the one i made "},{"Title":"Absolutely Hilarious","Date":"26 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Arnold plays a busy working father who never keeps his promises. He has one chance to redeem himself by getting his son a turbo man for Christmas. The only problem is it's Christmas Eve and turbo man is the hottest selling present ever.Inspired by the sales of tickle me Elmo, this movie shows the crazy side of Christmas shopping as Arnold battles a disgruntled mail man, a police officer, a reindeer, a room full of people dressed as Santa clauses, fellow shoppers, and even chases a little kid through a play place.His son's affection, trust, and his marriage are all on the line over him simply getting one toy. This is a great film that people of all ages will enjoy. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Arnold Schwarzenegger leads an all star cast in a Christmas classic!","Date":"9 October 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" It is hard to say whether or not the cast and crew of this film knew what they had on their hands when they began production in late 1995. What is easy to say, however, is that their combined efforts have created the defining film of the 1990's, paving a way for thousands of films to follow. In history it is often hard to pin point and exact time in which everything changed forever, but Jingle All The Way provides an exact date, November 22, 1996. In the vain of such masterminds as Spielburg, Scorsese and Copolla, Brian Levant ignites so many powerful emotions during the coarse of the perfected time (of 85 minutes) that watching this film is like discovering yourself. It brings out so much personal history effortlessly and shows us what it means to be human. Casting Director Judy Taylor shines here with her impeccable choices of future starlet Jake Lloyd and her spot on choices of Schwarzenegger and Sinbad as the leads. It is especially masterful in the casting of Schwarzenegger who seems more vulnerable here than in any other performance either he has given or any other actors in 90's cinema. The character of Howard Langston is really a powerful metaphor to the common day workingman. He is tired, over worked and under appreciated. Schwarzenegger reminds us of all these traits without over acting, which shows his artistic genius. Speaking of sheer genius, Sinbad gives a tour de force performance as a rattled post office employee, just trying to please his son. If Schwarzenegger is ying, Sinbad is his perfect yang. The two play off each other's energy in an entirely unique way that has not since been repeated in film. Not only does this film have an unbelievable cast, but the locations are inspired and show that there are still some cinematographers who are doing their jobs. The locations are some of the most beautiful in all of film history. The locations of the film actually take it from just a masterpiece of cinema but a masterpiece of art. All in all, no other film will or can make you cry, laugh, smile and become shocked than Jingle All The Way. This film single handedly revived the drought that the movie industry was dying from. "},{"Title":"Unmissable Christmas-Movie","Date":"14 December 1999","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This Arnold flick is so great in countless ways. Mainly because it is a kick in the nuts to our modern commercial Christmas. After seeing this movie, you have to admit that our way of celebrating Christmas is a tragic joke. It shows all these obnoxious little brats, brainwashed by commercials and selfish dreams. It shows the desperation of their parents, dying to satisfy needless means.It shows the decay of the western society, filled with egoism and evil. Arnold is extremely funny, and the rest of the cast is great for this story.A great scene is when Arnold punches a raindeer in the face. This is just what this movie is - a knockout for Santa.Every person who`s planning a materialistic Christmas (that means everybody)ought to see this brilliant movie. This is naturally no favorite among those who prefer a commercial Christmas, but I don`t think YOU want to stay in that group......not after Jingle all the Way.Merry non-commercial and more religious Christmas! "},{"Title":"Funny and a classic to watch in Christmas","Date":"21 June 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" ''Jingle All the Way'' is a very cool movie I watched when I was 10 years old, and only watching it again so many years later, I recognize the boy who plays Jamie, to be the young Anakin Skywalker in the first movie! Anyway, I don't agree with the low rating of this movie, because it is a classic to watch in Christimas and I remember having much fun with it, even having some bizarre or impossible things happening in the story. (Let's not forget that it is a movie and the main goal is to have fun! And only now, I discover that the actor who played Ted in this movie,Phil Hartman,is dead..)In the story, Arnold is a busy father, who forgets to buy the toy his son wants for Christmas (Turbo man), and will be in the most ridiculous and funny situations to see if he have a chance to save Jamie's happiness. "},{"Title":"I almost swallowed my Texas chilli bowl i laughed so hard","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"17 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Arnold at his very best, or should i say the Governor of California. Every Christmas since this masterpiece came out i've awaited it's return. When its on i put on my 'Jingle all the way clothes' complete with Cinncinati bow-tie. I wear these to fully enjoy the experience of viewing 'jingle'. At a mere 23 years of age i count myself so lucking i discovered it so soon in life. I see it as a mix between the Green mile and Around the world in 40 days. The main aspects of the film are comedy gold, a father desparetly trying to save the relationship with his son. Whilst his wife is under threat from a neighbour who'd like to have rumpy pumpy with her. Not since mowser in Police Academy have i expressed such anger at a film character. i had to take my Ritalin to calm down in the end Ha ha. Anyone who hasn't seen this film should make it a must see. Its the 90s equivalent of the Godfather. On a scale of 1 to 10, I'd give it a well deserved 16 thumbs up, Chenoble style. Holla "}{"Title":"Holiday Entertainment Scores A 10","Date":"15 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Jingle all the way is a fine Christmas movie a light-hearted comedy and family film and should be judged accordingly... Considering the category, it gets an A in my book.I love this holiday gem, Arnold Schwarzenegger fan or not! Sinbad is a beautiful comedian and a solid casting choice for this holiday charmer. Add beloved Phil Hartman to the mix and great becomes better!If you're looking for cheer during the holiday season, you'll find it here. Highly recommended, if you're in the mood for comedy, adventure and fun... regardless of the time of season.If you love to laugh, you'll love this film! "},{"Title":"How Arnie Stole Christmas","Date":"5 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" As I reminisce my youth, I feel regret for having my parents go out and get me so many different toys. It was not as if I was a spoiled pain-in- the-butt but it was hard for them to keep up with what I was interested in. I went through a timeline of obsession with Power Rangers, Pokémon, Digimon, and Yu-Gi-Oh! cards. I cannot imagine the sheer frustration my parents felt spending their hard-earned money on merchandise I would soon grow out of. I suppose my past has something to do with my sympathy for Jingle All the Way despite being a fairly bad movie. Arnold Schwarzenegger stars as Howard Langston, a hard-working salesman, who tries as hard as he can to spend time with his family especially his son, Jamie (played by child star Jake Lloyd). But every time Howard sees a great opportunity to fulfill his family duties, he encounters multiple set-backs whether it is traffic or the police. On Christmas Eve, Howard decides to make-up for all his troubles by buying his son an action figure of Turboman, a TV superhero beloved by children all over the world (He is nothing compared to my Mighty Morphin Power Rangers). However, finding the most popular toy on the market during Christmas Eve proves futile. Howard is also forced to compete with another father, Myron Larabee (played by Sinbad), for Turboman. Throughout the day, Howard will face one problem after another on his quest to buy his son's Christmas present. As a comedy dependent on chaos and absurd behavior, Jingle All The Way offers fun but not enough intelligence. People run into boxes containing action figures and use toys to sabotage their competitors. In real life, the situation would be more mob-like and hazardous with shoving and occasional fist-fights. If the director (Brian Levant) wanted to make a point about Christmas commercialism, he should have made the last minute shopping much more realistic. Speaking of which, the people in Jingle All the Way are ridiculously easy to anger and they will react with cheesy lines (I'm going to deck your halls) and violence. If you call me a conman, I simply shrug the name off, maybe laugh at you for being wrong. I am not going to hit anybody. Arnold gets into fights with everybody a mall employee, Santa Clauses, midgets, giants, kids, parents, a cardboard stand, and even a reindeer that acts more like a dog. He is better off fighting a South American army than yelling at a neighbor for eating his Christmas cookies. In this movie, Arnold abandons his cool, comedic catchphrases in favor of stiff sarcasm. Sure, Arnold's lines are fairly comedic and he has a couple of hilarious scenes but his acting is painful to watch especially when he tries being excited. Speaking of which, he utilizes his eye bulging routine in Jingle All the Way more than any other film he has ever been in. Despite his flawed performance, I enjoyed watching Arnold act as a father who feels as if he must buy his son's love. Rita Wilson plays Arnold's wife, Liz, and she manages to pull through the movie past a few wooden instances. I have a mixed feeling towards Jake Lloyd. Sometimes Jake convinces me that he is a regular boy but at other times, I am reminded that he's an actor playing as a boy. The other cast members have stereotypical roles that do more harm than good for the movie. At first, Sinbad's character seems like a desperate father looking for a Christmas present until he abruptly goes off on a rant about his troubled family, his oppressed race, and marketing ploys. It's not a decent performance but it is strangely amusing to witness Sinbad whine and complain. Meanwhile, Phil Hartman overacts his role as the Langston's perverted, brown nose neighbor. He is supposed to act as the perfect kind of neighbor but he does way too much good for his fellow man. The only actor who fits his role is James Belushi as the corrupt Santa Claus but he is given too little time to bring out his goods. The movie is not as terrible as some people proclaim it to be because there are funny sequences to laugh and enjoy. A family celebrating Christmas would find Jingle All the Way stupid but entertaining to watch. The parents may raise their eyebrows but will laugh with the kids at the right moments. "},{"Title":"Funny Arnold Flick","Date":"15 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" As a fan of Arnold it was hilarious seeing him run through this silly Christmas flick. One liners and all the Terminator is here to cause laughter D This is no more no less really, just a funny Arnold flick. There were a few unnecessary bad words but overall the film contains a good message. It may come out as ridiculous at first but look at it. Some things it says are true. Most of us have done the last minute Christmas hunt for a silly plastic toy. The film just shows this in a comical matter. The extreme measures these two men show to get this toy only makes for more fun.All the actors performances were nothing outstanding but just what you would expect. Considering the content of this film you can't really go anywhere but down acting wise. The actors filled their roles well and their is no one else I would have liked to see more as the father then Schwarzenegger.The film also shows how some people go all out on Christmas but they fail to get the true meaning of what it is really all about. They fail to teach their kids what really matters, instead appeasing them with insignificant toys and games. The grand Turbo man display in the Christmas parade leaves one thinking, has Christmas got that commercial? I guess I am taking this flick to seriously though, considering how ridiculous it is.At points the over the top nature of the film, such as Arnold flying in the turbo man suit, left me shaking my head. However it left me laughing hard more then not. Its a good break from all the serious films that always get you down. Lets face it, this kind of silliness is nice sometimes. You can just laugh out load and not worry about all the hidden meanings and such.I saw the film expecting stupidity and I got a lot of laughs! For a fan of Arnold or anyone looking for a fun laugh I'd suggest you go out and rent or buy this. Appropriate for the kids too! "},{"Title":"Funny Christmas movie!","Date":"17 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Let me just begin by saying that when watching ANY holiday themed movie, the viewer has to realize that no matter what happens the ending will be exceptionally predictable, if not totally unbelievable. Movies of this ilk have to have a warm, sweet, sappy ending and tend to have a that'll never happen air about them - otherwise they wouldn't be holiday movies.That being said, this film takes a pretty good, and funny, route to getting to that predictable ending. Most Christmas movies deal with, and poke fun at, the nostalgia and expectations of the season - dinner with unbearable families, rotten kids (or bad ones who learn the meaning of the season), lights, and so on and so forth. This one takes aim at the overblown commercialism of the season with hilarious results. Schwarzenegger and Sinbad play off each other with exceptional comedic timing, and improvised one-liners by Sinbad (such as his cry of Rodney King! Rodney King! while being pummelled by toy store patrons) added to the humor all the more. Arnold plays his role as an overworked father trying to make up for lost time and keeping his promise of getting his son the hottest toy of the season - a Turbo-Man action figure - all the while competing against Sinbad for all it's worth.Jim Belushi as a black market-dealing Santa was a stroke of genius, and the warehouse scene (I AIN'T GOING BACK TO THE JOINT!) was inspired. Schmaltzy Phil Hartman was just that - his typical self absorbed, schmaltzy, self - and he portrayed a phony divorced dad playing on the sympathies of the neighborhood ladies with a feel of genuine fakeness that made you laugh every time he was on camera.Yes, the ending was unbelievable. Yes, the ending was predictable. But that's what holiday movies are supposed to be. The ride getting to that point, however, was well worth it. "},{"Title":"Amusing, sometimes even darkly funny, Christmas movie.","Date":"11 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Howard Langston (Arnold Schwarzenegger) is a true workaholic mattress salesman, who's been never been quite there for his sensitive son Jamie (Jake Lloyd). Since Howard missed his son karate class, he promises to make up for his mistakes if Jamie wanted an special gift for Christmas. Jamie wants an action figure of Turbo Man, the hottest Christmas toy of the year. Howard totally forgot to buy his gift. He is forced to go shopping on Christmas Eve, but Howard meet his match, an desperate postal worker named Myron Larabee (Sinbad). Which he turns out to be a major sicko. Now these two men are searching for this toy all over the city of Minneapolis. Howard also has to deal with his sleazy neighbour (The late Phil Hartman), who wants Howard's wife Liz (Rita Wilson).Directed by Brian Levant (Problem Child 2, Beethoven, The Flintstones) made an enjoyable, wildly crazy Holiday movie about commercialism. Schwarzenegger does his best with his role as the absent father, who tries really hard to get Turbo Man for his son for Christmas. Sinbad has some funny moment as Howard's arrival. But it is the late Hartman steals the show as the womanizer neighbour. Although Jingle All the Way did so-so business at the box office, the film did went to have an loyal cult following over the years.DVD has two versions, the original theatrical version and the extended version with five minutes of additional footage. Which both versions are fine, probably die-hard fans of the movie will stick to the theatrical version. DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer and an good Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD includes three featurettes, two games and an photo gallery. I would have love, if they added an filmmaker's commentary track. Jingle All the Way, it is an fun movie to watch during the holidays, along with Richard Donner's Scrooged, National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation, The Ref and Bad Santa. Which all these holidays movie are darkly humorous. Jingle All the Way is notable for being Schwarzenegger's last comedy. James Belushi (Schwarzenegger's co-star from Red Heat) appears in a amusing supporting role as a con man, dressed an Santa Claus. Don't miss it. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"Despite Some Flaws, It's a Great Satirical View of Christmas Shopping...","Date":"14 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" There's a lot of laughs to behold in Jingle All the Way. There's a few flaws I should point out immediately. A few jokes go a little far, such as the pedophilia incident in the mall, the crazy black father, and the amount of laws broken by Arnie's character. Those aside, the entertainment still makes it a great satirical view of Christmas shopping in those final hours.The acting is all pretty good. Sure, not one of the performances required a great deal of depth to create or portray, but each of them are ones we can relate to, in which there is success. The music is full of typical holiday jingles, and a few quirky cues for the helter-skelter that occurs now and again. As far as comedy goes, a lot is dependent on slapstick, though there are a few running jokes, and Sinbad has some great scenes -- especially with the bomb.All in all, I highly recommend this for any family to watch on Christmas. I talk mine into watching a little mini-marathon of films to fill out the rest of the morning, and it provides for a nice 90-minutes.Enjoy. "},{"Title":"great fun","Date":"27 December 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" i truly fail to see how this movie has such a low rating(4.7/10)on this site.i mean not only is it funny,but it's action packed,and family friendly.this is one fast paced movie,that doesn't let up.it's a true comedy of errors.the acting is also great in this one Schwarzenegger is in great comedic form here,as is Sinbad.i don't usually find Sinbad funny,but he was in this movie.and Arnie has shown his comedic side in a few movies,but i never expected him to be this funny in a comedy that fires on all cylinders.the only negative thing i would say about this movie is that it strays a bit into sappy territory briefly.there are a few suggestive scenes,but these would be above the heads of most kids,so like i said,this is a family friendly movie.there are some very funny moments throughout,and the movie is always entertaining.for me,Jingle All the way is an 8/10 "},{"Title":"Jingle All The Way!","Date":"24 December 2004","Score":"18 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" One of the most hilarious film of all time in My opinion is Jingle All The Way! It stars Arnold Schwarzenegger, Sinbad, Phil Hartman, Rita Wilson, Robert Conrad, Martin Mull, Jake Lloyd, James Belushi, Paul Wight, and Richard Moll. Arnold is very good in this film and he is funny. Sinbad is hilarious in this film. I amazed how big Sinbad is when he stands next to Arnold. Hartman is very good in this film too and he shows that he really was a quality actor. The wrestler Paul Wight who is a huge man also performed good. The action is really great and a lot of the scenes are really cool! The dialog is really smart in this movie. The music by David Newman is good. I really like this film and I think its one of the best! If you love Arnold and the other cast members and love Christmas action comedy films then I strongly recommend Jingle All The Way today!Movie Nuttball's NOTESHere are some other Arnold recommendations Conan the Barbarian, Conan the Destroyer, Red Sonja, The Terminator, Terminator 2 Judgment Day, Terminator 3 The Rise of the Machines, The Running Man, Raw Deal, Commando, Predator, Total Recall, Kindergarten Cop, Last Action Hero, True Lies, Junior, Eraser, Batman and Robin, End of Days, and Collateral Damage! "},{"Title":"Great movie, but beware of the version you buy","Date":"15 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" This is by far one of the classic Christmas movies. We have it in our DVD collection and watch it every year. It is funny with a great story behind it. It takes the toy craze that seems to come every Christmas ( i.e. Cabbage Patch dolls, Tickle Me Elmo, etc.) and makes a funny story of it. Arnold, Sinbad, James Belushi and Phil Hartman makes this a really great movie. Jake Lloyd can't act to save his life, but that is well known - especially after Phantom Menace.The one thing to be aware of is the DVD versions that are out there. The original is the best with the original movie soundtrack. When it was released later on DVD again, they changed the music. They put I'm dreaming of a White Christmas in part of the movie when Arnold is running around looking for Turbo Man. It is not suited to the scene at all. It was originally Brian Setzer's Jingle All the Way which fit the scene perfectly. So, avoid the version with the modified soundtrack. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable movie!","Date":"24 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" After scrolling through the list of both positive and negative reviews, I decided to give this movie a try, and I am glad I did! Firstly, you need to keep in mind that this movie is meant for kids, so, you will have to have an open mind for all funny kids and fictional stuff here. The movie has a nice story line- a forgetful and busy father trying to buy toys for his son in the last minute. The movie portrays in several nice ways how desperate the father is to fulfill the promise he made to his son. A beautiful father-son relationship is shown here. The child is also shown as a great kid with good values. I think this movie is a good one to watch with you entire family. It is fun, enjoyable and teaches good values which every parent and child should know. "}{"Title":"Joyless Unfunny Unlikeable Arnold","Date":"20 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Howard Langston (Arnold Schwarzenegger) is a workaholic mattress salesman. He constantly disappoints his kid (Jake Lloyd). For Christmas, all he wants is a Turbo Man toy. Howard promises him before he could get his hands on one. Now he must battle everybody including mailman Myron Larabee (Sinbad) for the sold out toy.This is a joyless movie. There is a lot of slapstick comedy, but there is a central problem. Schwarzenegger doesn't fit this character easily. He's literally arguing with his little kid. It's very tiring. And I'm tired of this lying unlikeable character. That's why this doesn't work.And Phil Hartman is completely ridiculous. It makes no sense that anybody would be scared of competing against him. It's an obvious character with a standard look. He needs to be a sexy hunk.Sinbad is completely schizophrenic. Sometimes he's reasonable and nice. At other times, he's a crazed maniac. I rather he just be the crazed maniac all the time.This movie could have a good message about commercialism. But all it does is ride its coattails. Not to mention that there were other options. Why not try to buy the Turbo Man life size cardboard advertising? That would be a GREAT gift. Even with better casting, this is still a bad cheesy movie. Everybody and everything is ridiculous and stupid. And the final battle just get WAY too stupid. It is a hopeless endeavor. "},{"Title":"Greatest Christmas Movie Ever","Date":"19 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" An enthralling watch following the attempts of the Governor of California to deliver 'Turbo Man' to Anakin Skywalker. Meanwhile trying to impress his wife to stop her falling into the arms of Troy McClure. (Or as these characters are known as in other areas of life). The 'cheese' that oozes out of this film if often criticised but surely this 'cheese' is an essential element for any family Christmas movie. Arnold Schwarzenegger constantly makes you laugh with an array of lovable side characters which thoroughly entertain through their slapstick humour. What really wins you over is the feel good factor that the movie holds. Jingle All The Way has you rooting for Howard throughout as he encounters various setbacks, even during a scene where he is fighting Santas and elves in their grotto (albeit not your conventional toy making factory) While the script may not be particularly well written and the acting is admittedly more than questionable this remains the most lovable Christmas movie of all time. "},{"Title":"So Much Nostalgia","Date":"20 November 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" It may be difficult to understand but this movie to me is Christmas. It is as warm as an open fire, or a hug from a loved one. Although this movie is very cheesy and will never be considered a cinema classic, it truly holds a place in my heart. It brings me back to when I was a small boy and all the great Christmas memories I had. If you want a great family movie that will make you smile, I would highly recommend watching this. I know Christmas movies are generally bad but this one hits close to home and it is one of my favorites. I look forward to this movie every year.*disclaimer there is some comical violence in the movie. (it was the 90's) "},{"Title":"Put that cookie down and watch this movie!","Date":"25 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Jingle All the Way is one of the most underrated Christmas comedy of all times. Yes, it has a lot of cheesy cartoony scenes, but it's one of the movies that people tend to watch every Christmas. The movie starts Arnold Schwarzenegger as Howard Langston who tends to be late for every family event and struggling really hard to keep all his promises. Trying to make right to his wrongs, he promise his son Jamie (Jake Lloyd) to get a Turbo Man action figure. Jake Lloyd comes out in the movie as little more than reading lines and yelling. The kid actor that will end up to be Anakin Skywalker in future roles, was yelling and promoting materialism in a Christmas movie. Most of his scenes were getting off, or demanding things. It felt that Jamie might have angry problem in the future. Howard Langston thinks this doll will get him in his good side. Only problem is that the Turbo Man action figure is one of the highest top selling toys that year. Inspired by real-life Christmas toy sell-outs panics such as Tickle Me Elmo, Power Rangers, Star Wars and Cabbage Patch Kids. Howard goes on a last minute shopping spree on Christmas Eve on search for this doll. He's not alone, as Myron Larabee (Sinbad) a postal worker is also trying to retrieve an action figure for his son. Sinbad gives it his own, as he brings life into Myron. Myron is less than a villain, and more as a good man going to the extreme for his son. Sinbad is a Myron and Howard bumps heads along the way, and getting terrorize by knowing that goody good shoes Ted Maltin (Phil Hartman) is spending more and more time with his wife Liz (Rita Wilson) and child. Phil Hartman is just brilligant in the annoyingly perfect family role. Superdad Ted puts Howard in a bad light. On the way, Howard repeatedly runs into Police Officer Alexander Hummell (Robert Conrad), it's a gag that kinda get old in the end of the film. I know this movie got so much criticism and yeah some of the scenes are just plain silly like a band of counterfeit toy makers lead by Santa (James Belushi) and KQRS Bomb Scare, but also fun and entertaining at the same time making it a blast to watch. This movie came out during the madness of the toy chases of the 1990's. Of course this movie is an example of how crazy black Friday can be, and every parent can related it to. Plus there are plenty of silly scenes for the children to make them laugh as well. Jingle All the Way is sooo stupid, it's brilliant! Hahaha, it's amazing how this film has been hated by so many and loved by many more.﻿It's so silly and memorable, you can't deny that. I can't even eat cookies without thinking of that famous Arnold line. If you going to watch the movie, don't get the Un-Cut version, as the scenes that was cut from the film should have stay on the cutting room floor. They don't really give anything new to the movie. Also the movie soundtrack are mixed up in older DVD and newer DVD versions. So buy a older DVD. After all, if you do like Jingle All The Way and purchase the DVD, Arnold would definitely be happy and would most definitely say You're my number one customer!. "},{"Title":"My second favorite Christmas film","Date":"3 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" First of all, the reason this is my second favorite film is because A Christmas Story is, in my opinion, the best X-mas movie of the last 30 years. That being said, on with my review. I went into this movie expecting a few laughs and what i got was much more. This is easily Arnolds best comedy film. He and Sinbad are a terrific combination in this film about two fathers from different walks of life trying to buy their sons the most popular X-mas toy .........ON Christmas EVE! That plot alone is funny.I was able to laugh at this film as it reminded me of the great Cabbage Patch fiasco of '82 or '83 (so long ago) and i remember seeing news footage of kids and adults being treated for injuries from being trampled on. This film takes a comedic look at what we as parents will go through to make our children happy. Great film!!!! "},{"Title":"Jolly good fun but it could have used a more anti-materialistic message at the end.","Date":"16 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" At the beginning of the movie, we're introduced to Howard (Arnold Schwarzenegger), his wife, Liz (Rita Wilson), and their son, Jamie (Jake Lloyd). We're also introduced to TurboMan, the it superhero of the day and shown a commercial for the TurboMan toy, the new it action figure for the Christmas season. Jamie wants one naturally. We see Howard lie to Liz and say that he's already bought the toy even though he hasn't.We're exposed to Howard's busy work-life and his inability to make it to Jamie's karate belt ceremony early into the movie, which is a very important milestone to a young boy! Liz has a talk with Howard where she tells him how important this TurboMan action figure is to Jamie this year and how Howard's work has made him neglectful towards his family. Howard somehow decides that if Jamie doesn't get the TurboMan doll this year, he might end up as a bum, who drinks too! This is the set up for the wacky and usually exciting adventure that ensues. Every store is sold out of TurboMan action figures. We follow Howard through the entire Christmas day looking for this TurboMan doll, and everything that can go wrong, does. He meets Myron (Sinbad), a postal worker who also wants a TurboMan doll for his son. They help each other sometimes, set each other back other times. Generally, it's a fun relationship.I can recall great scenes such as when Howard is chasing a raffle ball throughout a mall and even into a ball pit, he fights a giant Santa (The Big Show) in search of this doll for Jamie. The movie ends in a spectacularly cheesy scene that most kids will love.My only real complaint with the movie is that it doesn't end with Jamie realizing the lengths Howard went to in getting him a TurboMan doll and that being more important than any superhero.In the light comedy category 7/10 "},{"Title":"Incredibly cheesy, but funny.","Date":"28 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Arnold Swartzenegger stars in Jingle all the the way. A very cheesy Christmas film but I still find it humorous. There are a lot of cheesy lines in this film. SWartzenegger has a few cheesy lines, Rita Wilson doesn't have that many, Phil Hartman has a couple, and the little boy, well, of course he does.Swartzenegger stars as Howard, a father who can't arrive on time to his child's activities. And gets pulled over a lot. By the same cop. Anyways,one night when he's late for his son's karate class, he tries to make it up to him by buying a toy of a Superhero named Turbo man.Howard's wife asks him if he had bought it. It's obviously a no. So, the next day, Howard sets off to the city, and does everything to get this doll. He fights people, gets attacked by people, and even goes with these criminals dressed like Santa to get one. He also gets involved in a feud with a mail man named Byron(Sinbad) who is after the same toy as Howard is. And will also do whatever it takes to get the doll.Rita Wilson stars as Howard's wife. The late Phil Hartman stars as Ted, the next door neighbor who is always hitting on Howard's woman. That is obviously a mistake. He should know that the terminator is going to kick his ass.I like all of the actors in this film. Sinbad is a bit of a scene stealer but that doesn't make a difference really. Jingle all the way is a cheese fest, but it is a funny one. I should be giving it a two and a half but I am not because I sort of grew up with this movie. So I would feel weird if I did. It's not the best Chrisatmas movie. Definitely not. But it is fun.Jingle all the way**1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Very funny and entertaining family holiday fun","Date":"24 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Howard Langston (Arnold Schwarzeneggar) is a workaholic salesman who is constantly missing his son's activities and neglecting his wife. Myron Larabee is an overworked mail carrier. Both of them are looking for a Turbo Man action figure for their sons on Christmas Eve. The only problem is that this particular toy is the hottest selling Christmas present ever and has been sold out for a long time in every store in the area. Their search for these toys leads them into all kinds of crazy misadventures including Howard's various run ins with the law (I'm sorry about the bike, the coffee, and the bus and the bomb) culminating in a wonderful action packed climax at the Wintertainment parade.Arnold Schwarzeneggar is at his best here, as is Sinbad as the mailman. Phil Hartman shines too as Howard's divorced neighbor who has eyes for his wife and Rita Wilson is great as Howard's wife. Even Jake Lloyd is great as Howard's son. The chemistry and relationships between the Langston family in this movie are touching.It is full of action which helps carry the plot and full of humor that keeps my children and I smiling and laughing throughout. And one can't miss the social message about the importance of family and against the commercialism of the holiday season.Overall, this is a highly entertaining movie that is a standard in my house year after year. "},{"Title":"This father will do anything to get his kid the perfect gift for Christmas","Date":"14 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Jingle All the Way is usually a mixed bag when you look at it's reception. It's basically just a fun and cheesy Christmas film that has no other purpose but plain and simple entertainment. Everyone's a critic though, and this movie get's called out on many things. Most people either hate it or love it, and though I feel like I belong in the latter, I'm going to have to indulge the haters too.Two rival fathers, workaholic Howard Langston (Schwarzenegger) and postal worker Myron Larabee (Sinbad), both desperately try to retrieve a Turbo-Man action figure for their respective sons on a last minute shopping spree on Christmas Eve. Mishaps, accidents and hilarious antics of course precede them along their journey on this day to see who can race and get the toy first. The plot is simple enough, like I said; it's a simple movie. The performances are questionable, as in, I really do not know how to feel about them, seeing as how they are just meant to be humorous and fun, and provide nothing worth praise, but they pass the film along. It's a mess of a film, but I think it's meant to be, and some people don't agree with that.What I really enjoy about this film is no matter how ridiculous or poor it may come across as at times, it never slows down. One scene in particular I really like contains a lot of department store Santas in an all out brawl because of some nasty moral questioning. The film is just childish, and you would have to be in that state of mind to really appreciate it, which I now know what I should be expecting, seeing as how I have viewed it many times by this point on numerous Christmas occasions. While just all out fun, I still am aware the movie is really cheap on a lot of things. Some things, like the ludicrousness of some of the calamities, make the movie utterly unbelievable and they try to fuse actual reality with the reality the film tries to set up.The movie just tries way too hard to please the audience; it's probably the film that tries the hardest to make everyone laugh continuously that I have ever seen, and that just gets annoying sometimes and that is what gives the film it's corny atmosphere. While I said I enjoy the energy of the film, the movie is really just all over the place in performances, script and overall play value. I think some people went to see this movie not expecting to just have fun, and ended up focusing on every little detail, which if you do that, there is no doubt you'll hate it.Don't get me wrong, I told you I love this movie, but I love it in a certain way. I feel like it does not deserve a 10/10 on any occasion, but that's just me. The energy and heart of the film are what I enjoy, but everything else is either mediocre or just plain bad, in my honest opinion. However, it is something that anyone can like in the right mind, especially at Christmas time with all your decorations, and family to watch it with you to, hopefully, make the experience more memorable and pleasing. "},{"Title":"Pretty much a one-trick pony of a film but Arnold is a delight","Date":"9 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Howard (Arnold Schwarzenegger) is a successful businessman with a lovely wife (Rita Wilson) and a darling son (Jake Lloyd). Yet, he puts in way too much overtime, neglecting his family at times. On the way to his son's karate exhibition, Howard is late and puts the pedal to the metal. Of course, he is stopped for speeding and the ticket process takes so much time that Howard misses the big event. His son is disappointed. More importantly, the only thing the young boy wants for Christmas is a turboman action doll, which Howard assured his wife he would secure. But, now its Christmas Eve, and not one store has a turboman doll anywhere. What will Howard do to gets his hands on one of these action dolls, to prevent his son from even more disappointment? Just about anything! Meanwhile, a perfectionist neighbor (Phil Hartman) is making some subtle but definite moves on Howard's wife. Will this be a happy holiday? This film is an acceptable holiday flick, yes, but it is not particularly memorable. Since the plot is mostly a mad dash for a doll, over and over again, the film can get a bit tedious from time to time. However, Arnold is one actor with genuine star power and his comic abilities truly carry this film farther than it should have gone. Sinbad is also on hand to entertain us, and Hartman, Wilson, and Lloyd hold their own, too. Then, too, the sets, costumes, and production values are fine indeed. Best of all, the ending is great, leaving the viewer with a nice, warm feeling. If you like the Govenator, you should not skip this one, as he is the primary reason the movie succeeds. Those looking for a new family film at Christmastime will find this one is not a bad choice, either. "}{"Title":"One of the few GOOD Christmas movies out there!","Date":"20 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I think the main reason I liked this movie is because it delivered what I asked for. It not to be dull, sort of boring, and kind of cheesy too like most Christmas movies are. And thank goodness it kept up it's end of the bargain. This is about what really happens if you wait to the last minute to get your kid a toy he's always been wanting. What happens when all Christmas Eve all you do it try to go looking for that one toy, only to find it's not so easy to please your kid as you thought it was and the true meaning between the love of a father and son. This is a wonderful movie with those classic characters we've all met in our life one time or another. It is also funny and there are points were your heart does start beating really fast just because of the suspense. It is wickedly entertaining and there is never, I repeat, NEVER a dull moment during the movie. And if you're worried about Arnold .S...don't worry. His acting is decent enough and he sure as hell won't ruin the movie for you. At least not that much if you really hate him. This is a very underrated Christmas movie, up there with Home Alone. Rent if you the holidays. I don't think you'll regret it. "},{"Title":"Underrated Christmas Film","Date":"7 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I just looked at the rating and wow, a 4.6 is kind of low in my opinion.I thought this film was the perfect family film. It obviously does not measure up to the standards of Home Alone or any of those classic puppet Christmas Films, but this film is good in its own way. Howard goes to get his son the Turbo Man action figure only to realize it is the hottest selling toy of the Christmas Season.The events that Howard goes through to get his son the simple figure seem drastic and unreal, but it is a movie here, and most of all- for the kids. The scenes he is in involving him and Myron battle for the one toy are hilarious, there is definitely a Christmas feeling in this film, Phil Hartman is excellent as the bachelor Tad, and most of all There is snow.Throughout the entire film, the father Howard (aside from trying to get the Turbo Man figure) has an inner struggle with himself concerning the promises he has made to his family- and he eventually does his best to keep his promises. "},{"Title":"A great film!! Very funny!!","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I thought that Jingle All Way was a great movie.They say that its a family film,but it has some stuff that might be offensive to some people,a dear gets punched,stuff like that.The comedy material is extremely funny,basically because Sinbad was in it.Lots of the stuff is funny,but parts like when Arnold Schwarzenegger says Poor baby,or other stuff like that,was just funny because Arnold says it.Other stuff like facial expressions can be found funny,most of the facial expressions in the movie are done by Sinbad.The acting was pretty good,Arnold Schwarzenegger doesnt play the bad-ass in this movie like he usually does.Other co-stars such as Phil Hartman,Rita Wilson,and newcomer Jake Lloyd do give pretty good performances.The plot is pretty good,but it kind of maintains a Liar Liar quality to it.Like in the movie Liar Liar,Arnold Schwarzenegger's character goes along the lines of Jim Carrey's character in Liar Liar,a father tells his son that he will do some stuff with him,like be there at important events,but never shows up.Like I said,some animal groups like p.i.t.a would get offended by some of the stuff,for instance,schwarzenegger punches a deer in the jaw,and he gives it beer.The whole concept of the film was very clever.One of the funniest parts in the film was when Arnold punched the deer.Overall,Jingle All the Way is one of my favorite comedys of all time. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"All time favorite Movie ..","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I can honestly say this is my all time favorite movie. I'm not to young either, I'm 14 and i still love this movie. Anyway this movie displays the magic that comes along with Christmas. All the hard shopping, the stressful baking and other things of that sort. This is a great movie to watch a few weeks before Christmas to get you all pumped about it, If you like Christmas of course.  "},{"Title":"Punching a reindeer-the NEW Christmas Tradition","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I'll be the first to tell you that this movie rather, well sucks.  Its not a very funny movie.  There are a few funny scenes, but not enough to make this a hit.  Of course, Phil Hartman pulls off another good performance.  The other guys, well....they did too.  Arnold did, however, have the best scene. Nothing will ever top someone punching a reindeer in a head.  That alone almost makes it an instant X-mas classic, but, no script, and lots of bad acting sort of messed that up for them. "},{"Title":"Good family film.","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Despite what people may think, Arnold Schwarzenegger is a very versatile actor.  He can do sci-fi, action, and comedy quite well.  This is a very good comedic family film about a parent trying to get the perfect Christmas gift for his son.  The story is nothing terribly complicated, it's pretty much just what I said, with the usual twist and turn here and there.  Some of the humor is obviously for the children viewers while some of the humor is geared towards adults, so that they can enjoy the film as well.  There is also a fair amount of special effects in the film too, which were done pretty well.The acting in this film isn't anything to get excited about, but there area good amount of big names in this film.  Rita Wilson plays an excellent mother to Jake Lloyd and wife to Arnold Schwarzenegger.  Phil Hartman plays his usual weasel character.  Sinbad plays a great antagonist that you can't help but feel bad for, because he has nothing but good intentions.  Robert Conrad plays the cop that just seems to be everywhere.  And finally the great Jim Belushi as the crooked Mall Santa, small role, but done quite well.If it's a good family film and a happy Christmas film that you want, then this is the film for you.  Don't expect a deep, intellectual film, just expect a good children's film.  I hope you enjoy the film, thanks for reading.-Chris "},{"Title":"Boring movie!","Date":"14 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I didn't find anything worth laughing in the movie!it was completely boring,they had stretched the story for an hour and 30 minutes,with most of the time Howard roaming around to buy the action figure!The essence of a Christmas movies was lost,they have tried to come up with comedy,but it turned out to be really a bore.They could have come up with much more heart touching material,rather than a chase for a dumb toy.The role of Myron(played by Sinbad) wasn't pleasing,there was lack of humanity,it was cheap in a way.There was way too much exposure of low budget jokes!In a way it all seemed kiddish and annoying to watch.Well its an old movie cant complain more,its 2016,hopefully there wont be another Christmas movie like this to ruin the holiday!! "},{"Title":"Jingling","Date":"13 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Worried that another broken promise will make him lose his son's trust forever, a workaholic father spends the whole of December 24 trying to track down an action figure sold out across town in this Christmas comedy starring Arnold Schwarzenegger. The film has a reputation as one of the action star's weakest films and the plot is admittedly thin (essentially one joke stretched out for 90 minutes), however, the film has many genuinely funny moments along the way. Much of the humour comes from how ridiculous Arnie looks scurrying around town, even chasing a little girl through department store play equipment, as he becomes lost in the materialistic toy craze that plagues so many families every year. The film does not offer a deep critique on consumerism and toy marketing, but satirical ideas do linger throughout. The film also successfully derives much humour from Phil Hartman as a slimy, smooth-talking neighbour and Robert Conrad as a police officer who keeps running into Arnie (the funniest moment though has Arnie scaring a bunch of carolers in a burning house). Less successful is a running gag involving an over-the-top Sinbad as a mailman also after the coveted toy. The film also contains too many pratfalls for its own good. Funny all the way or not, the energy that all concerned place into the film is hard to deny, and the film works almost on sheer vibrancy alone. "},{"Title":"Jingle This Film All the Way Down a Trash Compactor.","Date":"26 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Jingle all the Way (1996) Dir Brian Levant / Cast Arnold Schwarzenegger, Sinbad, Rita Wilson, Phil Hartman, James Belushi Perhaps the stupidest Christmas film imaginable. It had to be a real warped mind to conjure this garbage up. A man is stampeded by a group of immature adults seeking a Turbo Man action figure. This is obviously the Christmas version of lame action movies with violence toned down to Arnold Schwarzenegger clubbing a line of Santas with a giant candy cane. Directed by Brian Levant who was responsible for the horrible screen adaptation of The Flintstones. Well, he hits even lower notes here. Schwarzenegger and mail carrier Sinbad compete for the action figure in what can easily be described as career suicide for both. One particularly stupid scene at a radio station has Sinbad holding off police with a gift that he claims is a bomb. When it actually turns out to be a bomb, Sinbad asks, What is the world coming to? Perhaps the screenwriter can fill us in. In lame supporting roles are Rita Wilson as Schwarzenegger's wife and Phil Hartman as his womanizing neighbor who threatens to move in on Wilson. James Belushi plays a nasty mall Santa who candy cane battles Schwarzenegger and it is embarrassing to watch. The film so cheap that it should be wrapped in a trash bag in hopes that Santa will deliver it down the nearest chimney fire. Score 0 / 10 "},{"Title":"Arnold Schwarzenegger battling the masses on Christmas Eve for Americas most sought after children's action figure!","Date":"14 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Released in the mid 1990's, this should have been one of my childhood favourites but somehow I didn't see this as a child and only watched it for the first time this Christmas. The longer this movie went on, the clearer it became that had I watched this as a child I would have enjoyed it much more as an adult. There were some funny scenes and Arnie was at his child-friendly best but not having childhood nostalgia to rely on, I found it a little flat.It's Christmas Eve and Arnie and his wife have had a mix up, he was supposed to pick up a toy weeks ago for his sons Christmas present. Having forgot, he sets out early on Christmas Eve morning to get one from the store, little does he know that it is the hottest toy in America and everywhere is seemingly sold out! A personal battle begins between another child's dad and Arnie to find and buy a toy in time for Christmas day. The movie is based at Christmas and is of course a festive movie, but the emphasis is more on the action figure than Christmas itself.It has all the clichés of a holiday movie with plenty of slap stick humour and predictability as you would expect! Personally I thought that it started well and I was more entertained than I was expecting until around half way through. The second half started to get overly repetitive with a feel that they were struggling to fill the time with scenes. The ending was predictable but good fun nevertheless!Overall, Jingle all the Way is a relatively fun festive movie, however I feel that viewing it for the first time as an adult made it difficult for me to give a higher rating. I can certainly think of worse films to watch over the Christmas period though!5/10 "}{"Title":"Inane holiday fun","Date":"25 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Jingle All The Way is one of the most demented holiday comedies I've ever laid eyes on. It stars a yowling, hopped up Arnold Schwarzenegger as a neglectful dad stuck in a mad dash to get ahold of a special Toy for his son on Christmas Eve, plagued by all kinds of random, inane obstacles including trying to pronounce words so he doesn't sound like he's got a mouthful of eggnog in every scene. He's an odd choice to play the role, and it's almost as if Jim Carrey or Robin Williams called in sick for a month and he picked up the slack. It's stupid, it's clunky, it's beyond ridiculous.... and somehow works perfectly. Ahnuld's amps up his awkward, oblong charm and blunders around like an Austrian bull in a china shop, but sells the movie in his own unbelievable way. He's promised his kid (Anakin Skywalker) that he'll get a him a Turbo Man doll for Christmas, which just happens to be the hottest item of the season, causing quite an ordeal for him as the days goes on. He's hampered by a sleazy mall Santa (Jim Belushi), an angry reindeer, millions of rabid shoppers, his smarmy neighbour (the late Phil Hartman) and a mailman (cringeworthy Sinbad, whose picture you'll find next to both retarded and unfunny in the dictionary) who also seeks the elusive Turbo Man. The finale reaches sparing heights of unapologetic implausibility and just a hint of touching, father son bonding between the terminator and future darth vader. I dare not touch the sequel (starring Larry The stupid Cable Guy) with a ten foot North Pole. This one was a bundle of silly fun though. "},{"Title":"My favorite Christmas movie of all time","Date":"25 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Jingle All The Way is my favorite Christmas movie ever made cause of one little thing Arnold Schwarzenegger. This film is about a dad who tries to get a famous toy for his son for Christmas so Arnold goes on a trip to every store in order to find the Turbo Man action figure in order to win his son back and he has to fight angry and fake santa claus (also Big Show), police officers and Sinbad. I loved the things that he had to go threw in order to find Turbo Man and in the end he becomes a superhero himself and fights the main villain himself and he even saves his son. Also this movie has the greatest message of all time in the end his son doesn't need the toy since he can have the 'REAL' Turbo Man which is his dad. I loved this film and when i heard they were making a WWE Studios sequel i went furious but after i saw it it wasn't really that bad but you definitely don't need to see Jingle All The Way 2 just see this film alone because it's beautiful, action packed and hilarious. A great Christmas movie and a pretty underrated one. "},{"Title":"Perfect Holiday Film!","Date":"23 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Not sure why this film gets rated so low, maybe people saw Arnie and wanted an action flick? I don't know, he's done comedies before, but honestly any complaint I've heard of this film is just downright absurd, it's like, in case none of you got the message, this film is totally tongue in cheek.Does it have it's flaws, sure, sometimes Sinbad goes a bit overboard, and Arnold putting on the headband and doing the Karate bit should have been left on the cutting room floor, but overall this movie was just Christmas fun in every sense of the word. Phil Hartman was perfect as the annoying neighbor, great bits by Belushi and many others, Arnold is just having a blast, lot's of Christmassy stuff everywhere. Don't listen to the haters, this is a great Christmas film for anyone. "},{"Title":"A little manic, but a fun movie overall.","Date":"17 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Arnold Schwarzenegger does comedy again as he plays workaholic businessman Howard Langston, who promises his son, Jamie (Jake Lloyd), that he will get him a Turbo Man action figure for Christmas. When every store is sold out of them, he goes on a cross-city search for the toy and compete with a postal worker, Myron Larabee (Sinbad).There are lots of manic shoppers, people shoving others around, overly-excited acting and slapstick humor, making this one crazy film. The acting was overzealous at times and the script is slow in some parts. But, Arnold does play a pretty funny dad in the script and it is pretty entertaining seeing him go through so much misadventures in his quest for the toy, wondering if he will ever get to fulfill the promise.I thought Rita Wilson did a nice job playing Howard's wife, Liz, as did Jake Lloyd.It's non-stop manic entertaining, all to a very crazy and incredible climax! Grade B- "},{"Title":"The Terminator tries to get a Turbo Man  action figure for Anakin Skywalker","Date":"11 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Jingle All the Way is a great family movie, that has loads of laughs! It tells the story of two fathers who want to get their kid a Turbo Man action figure for Christmas.Howard Langston (Arnold Schwarzenegger) )is a successful businessman who finds out that he missed his son's Karate class. So, to make up for it he makes a promise to him that he will get him a Turbo Man action figure. Howard soon finds out that a a frustrated mailman Myron Larabee (Sinbad) also wants one for his son. This leads to a hilarious series of cat and mouse chases that are hilarious. Sinbad is absolutely hilarious in this film and actually won a Favorite Supporting Actor award (to which he truly deserves). His lines are truly funny and will leave you lol-ing on the floor. lol.I give Jingle All the Way a 6/10. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"6 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" The verdict Meet Howard Langston, a salesman for a mattress company is constantly busy at his job, and he also constantly disappoints his son, after he misses his son's karate exposition, he tries hard to come up with a way to make it up to him, this is when his son tells Howard that he wants for Christmas is an action figure of his son's television hero, Turbo Man. Unfotunately for Howard, it is Christmas Eve, and every store is sold out of Turbo Man figures, now Howard must travel all over town and compete with everybody else including a mail man named Myron to find a Turbo Man action figure, and to make it to the Wintertainment parade which will feature Turbo Man.The verdict Silly holiday fun from Arnie! "},{"Title":"The Terminator goes Christmas shopping","Date":"15 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Fun tale about a man, trying desperately hard to make his son happy and get him a particular gift for Christmas, after waiting until the last minute.Schwarzenegger actually does well with comedy, as it seems that he can be so naturally animated to begin with; Sinbad is annoying and confrontational, but his character is supposed to be the foil of Schwartzenegger's Angry Dad, constantly competing for the last of these obnoxious little toys. He serves his purpose in the film, because without his character, there would be no competition or confrontation to laugh at.Schwarzenegger at Santa's warehouse, trying to buy a black market version of the coveted toy, being attacked by nunchuck-wielding elves was an amusingly surreal moment, showing consumerism at its lowest.Phil Hartman was a humorously sleazy neighbour, trying to bang Schwarzenegger's wife (played by the always likable Rita Wilson) James Belushi is amusing in his cameo; which perhaps could have even been a bit extended.Surprisingly fun, for its first two thirds, but in the final act, it goes off into outlandish comic book/ video game territory, and that mars an otherwise funny movie. The film's third act isn't just simply out in left field, it's in the parking lot BEHIND left field, over by the guy scalping tickets to get in. "},{"Title":"Catch the last toy","Date":"19 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Arnie continued his quest of mixing bone crunching action films with kid friendly comedies that worked so well since he made Twins.'Jingle All the Way' wants to take pot shots at the over commercialisation of Christmas when each year the must have toy is highly sought after and in such short supply.Arnie plays a too busy executive who forgot to get the Turbo Man toy for his son and then rushes around at Christmas Eve trying to track this must have toy down. Hot on his tail is Sinbad, another father looking for the same toy. In fact Sinbad a postal worker is going increasingly crazy leading to several slapstick fights, even being held up by the police at one point.Phil Hartman makes one his final film appearance as the maybe too creepy neighbour trying to entice Arnie's wife and the film ends with Arnie appearing in a parade dressed as the real Turbo man and being unrecognised by his family despite a heavy Austrian accent!Its a lightweight, easy going Christmas film. Its neither smart or too funny. There is better slapstick in the Home Alone films and the satire is mild but maybe too much silliness rather than being zany. "},{"Title":"Jingle All the Way","Date":"6 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" A film all about buying your child's love? hmmm. Well its not all as bad as it sounds, the film does manage to turn that on its head by the end, just about, close call though.Yep so Arnie is a bad dad who only thinks about his work and misses his whiny kids karate class awards ceremony stuff. So to make it up to his little brat he offers him the choice of anything he wants for Xmas, bad idea. The little darling wants a Turbo-Man action figure which is massively popular with kids. So Arnie must now find this toy which would have been easy if he hadn't forgotten about it and was left with only Xmas Eve to find one. So the hectic day begins as Arnie strives to find a Turbo-Man figure. The plot is simply but pretty effective methinks, right away you know there is gonna be lots of mayhem and madness as parents scramble to get hold of this elusive toy. Even without seeing a trailer you can tell there is potential for some classic Chevy Chase-esque holiday hijinx. The fact its the Austrian oak adds to the fun because you can take advantage of his size by making him Hulk out in amusing places.I like the toy design in this film, they really managed to capture the type of toy and its universe perfectly. A kind of Mighty Morphin Power Rangers scenario with a 'Buzz Lightyear' looking hero. His adversaries were very much a visual blend of the MMPR's bad guys with that Japanese flavour and a hint of Marvel with Turbo-Man's arch-nemesis. The TV show we see in the film is a typical MMPR approach, virtually a parody of it, or homage.Apart from the loony pratfalls and childish visuals the film works because people can relate to it. I'm sure many parents know the horror of Xmas shopping for their kids and trying to get a hold of a particular toy. Hell even if you don't have kids you can relate to the nightmare of Xmas shopping and trying to get a hold of anything specific. So its fun to see Arnie as a regular everyday man trying to achieve something which would seem relatively simple. We can all sit back and watch someone else go through the hell we all know too well, much like travel ('Planes Trains and Automobiles').I think the best scene in the film for me is the warehouse full of seedy Santa's and mischievous little helpers which are led by an unsavoury Santa in the form of Jim Belushi. The whole underground Santa's grotto idea is really good and quite funny when you think about it. Belushi really really fits this role like a glove and the fight that ensues is brilliant, only for seeing Arnie beat up a bunch of Santa's. The whole idea of a bad, grouchy, sleazy, disreputable Santa that is mean or rude to kids is just funny, the fact there is an entire organisation of them churning out duff toys is hilarious.This is definitely one of Arnie's better comedies for me as it has a nice slightly dark side for adults as well as the soft marshmallowy side for kids. Adults have Sinbad vs Arnie, Sinbad threatening to blow up things because he's a disgruntled postal worker, seedy Santa's, a brilliantly slimy Hartman and the whole angry parents trying to kill each other at the shops thing. The kids of course have the actual toys in the film, silly pratfalls, Xmas and a nice mushy happy ending where Arnie proves himself to be a great dad after all.In the end its very enjoyable and Arnie proves he can still do comedy films almost as well as action...after his previous attempt with 'Junior'. The film holds up well today too, the Xmas setting will always work at the right time, effects towards the end are a bit crappy, bit too silly, but in general its quite a good holiday romp. The very final scene with the two happy parents leads to a neat and amusing little twist.7/10 "},{"Title":"The most under-rated Xmas film","Date":"15 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" This film must be the most under rated Xmas film ever! When I think about how awful 'Elf' is and yet has a better IMDb score than 'Jingle All The Way' it makes me weep. This film is great for kids my 17 and 15 year old boys have always loved it. But it's also great for adults we can all relate to the pressures on parents at Xmas and the crazy toy rushes ( not to mention the one parent who does it all perfectly and makes the rest of us feel bad). There are lots of funny moments in this film. Sinbad is excellent and so is Phil Hartman. I urge you all to give it a go. This film is much funnier than Elf and Fred Claus and all other so-called 'funny' Xmas films. "}{"Title":"Terrible, but in a good way","Date":"13 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Jingle All the Way is one of my favorite Christmas movies and it's also one of my favorite 'bad movies.' It manages to be either intentionally funny or unintentionally funny at almost every moment. Often both at the same time. Do you want to watch Arnold Schwarzenegger beat up a mail man? Do you want to watch him punch a reindeer (literally)? Yes? Then Jingle All the Way is for you!It has Sinbad, who has at least a few good moments. One of which has Sinbad committing an act of terrorism with a mail bomb. It has Schwarzenegger fighting a room full of Santas. Including a ninja Santa with candy cane nunchucks (and a nice cameo by WWE/WWF wrestler Big Show as a Santa). Really it's a bunch of good campy over the top fun. The massive overacting by Arnold only adds to the comedic effect.If you enjoy movies in the 'stupid but good' category, this is a can't miss classic. Even the times it tries to be funny and fails it's still funny in just how badly it fails. The laughs never stop. It alternates between intentional funny and unintentional funny. "},{"Title":"The ultimate Christmas movie.","Date":"30 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" This is my favorite family Christmas movie. It is hilarious. Just filled with laughs from start to finish. Schwarzenegger, Sinbad keeps the laughs coming as they duke it out to find the in demand sold out toy for their sons and Hartman plays the sleaze ball neighbor so brilliantly! As soon as Thanksgiving rolls around I set my DVR because I know this movie will begin to show on all channels and I watch it over and over until the holidays are over. It really a timeless movie and gives me a feeling of nostalgia, especially the parade scene at the end.The countless run-ins that Schwarzenegger has with the police officer are classic and Belushi playing a low budget Santa toy hustler was hysterical. This is just a great feel good movie about the holidays that you can enjoy with the whole family. "},{"Title":"Good Christmas Fun","Date":"30 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" A father (Arnold Schwarzenegger) decides to dream the impossible; to get a Turbo Man action figure for his son (Jake Lloyd) just before Christmas.Is this a good Christmas film? Maybe. A great one? No. But considering it stars Arnold and Sinbad, you should not be expecting much. And then you throw in Phil Hartman as a sleazy neighbor... although we get a great cameo from Martin Mull.The concept is pretty good and something we are all familiar with. We may not all wait until the last minute to buy gifts, but we all know what Black Friday shopping is like, and that is what this film reminds me of more than anything.Turbo Man is sort of a lame character, but at least he has Booster. Everyone likes Booster. "},{"Title":"Ridiculously outrageously campy and yet somehow cute enough to work","Date":"29 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Watching Jingle All The Way this year for the first time in a few years was almost painful at times. The excruciatingly bad dialogue, the ridiculous over the top stuns, the painful acting...and then there's the fact that the film is undeniably adorable and silly and completely watchable and kids will likely absolutely adore it. I felt like it has a bizarre message about material goods and yes, good old Dad learns his lesson in the end but it really focuses on the material aspect of Christmas. Then again, what doesn't. The best way to describe the movie is ridiculous. But you can't fault it for that because that is sort of what it sets out to be and it is fun, no doubt at all. The physical comedy in the film (something I am a sucker for) is hilarious even when it is downright stupid. The script is the furthest thing from brilliant and yet you can't help but smile through the whole thing. Its just meant to be one of those guilty little pleasures that I keep going back and forth in my mind trying to figure out if I had fun and enjoyed it or if it was just plain bad.If you read my reviews you know that I am a Schwarzenegger groupie. I love the guy which is why I was sort of excited to watch Jingle All The Way. This is easily one of his campiest films even out of his comedies. There is no doubt the guy is talented at comedic roles because his sheer presence in outlandish and yet real situations (like finding a TurboMan toy for his son) is funny sometimes inadvertently. He had to know this was bad though. His lines in this are just so ridiculous and his line delivery is excruciating at times. Still as other reviewers have said, he does still manage to get some classic lines in this. As if to add to the campiness you through Sinbad and Phil Hartman into the mix. Both of them are ridiculous and more annoying than anything else in their respective roles. I have to give it to Schwarzenegger because I think he really does hold the characters together. The mostly verbal battle between him and Hartman is sometimes amusing to watch and the physical battle between him and Sinbad is so silly that it works. Rita Wilson plays Schwarzenegger's wife and she is decent but underdeveloped in the role and just sort of there for the sake of a wife in the story. Jake Lloyd (remember Anakin from Phantom Menace) is the little boy and he's decent as well but also really campy and his line delivery is very stiff so fortunately for him everything else around him is campy too. And I have to mention the iconic Robert Conrad in a very amusing role as a police officer.In some ways Brian Levant is the king of cheeky and campy family movies. He has the live action Flinstones under his belt, Beethoven, Are We There Yet...he certainly has a distinctive style that works with some because those films and this one were financially very successful. The film is just trying to have fun and that is really all there is to it. It isn't brilliant and parts of it are very nearly terrible how can you dislike a movie that is just so much ridiculous fun. In some ways, it channels Home Alone in that crazy stunt sort of way and despite how ridiculous the entire TurboMan franchise is, they created something similar to Power Rangers that kids would truly be crazy for. We even get to see a little of an episode in the beginning of the movie and one of the best things they did was create this fictional superhero just for the sake of this movie. Jingle All The Way is ridiculous, silly fun so don't take it too seriously and don't look for a serious Christmas film and you'll be able to at least laugh. 6/10 "},{"Title":"My most embarrassing guilty pleasure.","Date":"24 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" OK I'll say this, Jingle all the way is an awful movie by all reasonable metrics. It has sub-par acting, writing, and directing. Yet somehow it has become one of my family's favorites around Christmas time. Perhaps the comedy is childish enough the my 4 and 1 year old children can be entertained by it, and just adult enough that me and my wife find ourselves chuckling every now and again. It has a decent message that Christmas is not about things, but rather about family (big leap of faith on that message). Phil Hartman and Sinbad are generally pretty funny. If anyone went into this movie expecting the next Christmas Story or It's a wonderful life will be sorely disappointed. With an open mind it works as a benign fun film for the family to gather around on Christmas Eve. "},{"Title":"Put That Cookie Down, NOW!!!!","Date":"22 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Truly a remarkable fun experience, been a great fan of Arnold Schwarzenegger for as long as i can remember! from start to finish this film has had me in tears. How Arnie can pull off being the average American family man on a low budget job and with a loving family who hates him working late all the time resulting to missing his sons special events.The film sums up what it's like to experience last minute shopping in American, people screaming and fighting over bargains and being called a pervent for getting their first. If you have Arnie running around for his sons Christmas present, then you best get out of his way! Instead he battles his way around stores with a untrustworthy sidekick to achieve his goal.If you haven't seen this movie, then may god have mercy on your soul. "},{"Title":"I actually like it for what it is. Arnold's charisma keeps this one afloat.","Date":"16 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Harold Langston (Schwarzenegger) plays a workaholic, who has a bad habit of missing his family's events. His son Jamie (Jake Lloyd) loves a show called Turbo Man. Harold was supposed to pick Jamie's (His son) Turbo Man action figure up two weeks in advance. He is so preoccupied with his job, that it completely slips his mind. He thinks he can accomplish a dangerous mission. Acquire a Turbo Man action figure on Christmas Eve. All Turbo Man Action figures are soled out, but Harold is desperate to make good on his promise for his son. What follows is an endless string of misadventuresThis movie will never be hailed as a classic. What do you expect with a title named Jingle All the Way and Arnold in a Christmas movie? I really do feel critics and other reviewers can be too harsh on some movies, and this is one of them. The obsession with the show Turbo Man was eerily similar to the fad of Power Rangers. Even the whole set-up of Turbo Man resembles it. I couldn't help but laugh at the rush hour sequences, in search for the Turbo Man Action Figure. They are so OTT, but I found them to be hysterical at times. It has some cartoonish violence. A bomb explodes in a comical hold-up sequence with Sinbad & bunch of cops led by Robert Conrad, and Conrad gets minor injuries (!) Jingle All the Way has a very good message to it. The message in my opinion is that family comes first, and you should always keep your promises, and of course&#x85; Make sure you do your shopping BEFORE Christmas Eve, to prevent potential suffering. There is a weird subplot involving Arnold's wife (Played by Rita Wilson) and Phil Hartman (Arnold's nosy neighbor)Hartman tries to steal her away from Arnold. It felt a bit out of place to me, and Hartman basically mugs his way through his performance, with all due respect. Arnold is the reason why this movie is as entertaining as it is. He is fully committed in his role. You can tell he's clearly having fun in the role, and isn't afraid to make a fool of himself in the process. It's a potentially embarrassing performance, but Arnold pulls it off with bravura. How can you not laugh when Arnold is mimicking Kung-Fu Moves, wearing a Karate belt on his head, as a headband? He was a lot of fun to watch. You gotta love Arnie! Sinbad is not a favorite of mine, and got on my nerves. He's not very funny. He does admittedly have a couple of funny scenes with Arnold. Jake Lloyd is a complete and utter nuisance as Jamie, and made me cringe, but I can't help but feel for him. He's known as the young Anakin Skywalker. That couldn't have been easy. He has my respect for enduring that, but his character of Jamie is one that I dislike. Rita Wilson is charming as the wife. WWE Wrestler The Big Show, James Belushi, Curtis Armstrong (As Booster the sidekick) all have cameo's. The ending is rather contrived, and quite unrealistic. The idea of what they were going for was solid, but the execution was nonsensical. How does nobody get apprehended, despite attempts of kidnapping, among other things? That's a minor carp, thoughFinal Thoughts Lighten up a little&#x85; It's not trying to be the greatest movie ever made, it's a family movie. For what it is, I always manage to find it fairly entertaining whenever I see it. It's cute, and innocuous, and I managed to block out irritating characters from hindering the entertainment5.7/10 "},{"Title":"Unlikeable characters; scattergun ethics and consistently unfunny humour, Jingle All the Way is not smart and not funny.","Date":"3 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Jingle All the Way is a series of slapstick set pieces melded together around this contorted message that reads something along the lines of it's better to put others before yourself. Rigid, nostalgic defenders of the film will try to tell you how it's additionally a fantastic comment (indeed, protest) on the materialism and commercialism that surrounds Christmas time as two fathers, along with dozens of others via extras, vie with one another over an action figure toy that's sold out everywhere. Problem is, it isn't about this at all it's about fully grown men falling over on the snow and ice and hurting themselves; it's about someone as well built as Arnold Schwarzenegger looking silly whilst doing silly things for silly causes. It's a film feeding off the transgressive qualities someone like Schwarzenegger has and the comedic carnage than can ensue when the two binaries inherent with his body and the scenario are meshed together. If the film thinks it has any sort of message at all, then it has such little confidence in its ability to convey that message that it requires one of its characters to, quite literally, shout as loudly as they can the required exposition at the precise moment hosts of screen writing seminars will tell you the setup has ended and the actual meat of it is about to begin.The film actually begins with a production within the production, a mock-action movie set up akin to a Power Rangers episode whereby heroes and villains duel to the end and the heroes triumph. It's all very self-aware, save the day stuff as cheesy bad guys are vanquished and good wins, but it resonates in a way that I don't think the makers were perhaps anticipating when the finale of Jingle All the Way itself arrives so as to descend precisely into the very things sent up here. The show is being watched by a certain Jaime Langston (Lloyd), and he observes in awe the might of its lead character Turbo Man, a red armour with a gold trim-clad super hero whose merchandise in the form of an action figure is the toy every kid wants for the imminent Christmas.Enter his father, Schwarzenegger's Howard &#x96; a ruthless business executive whose falsity extends to his telling of every customer with whom he deals down the phone that they're his number one. At his place of work is the Christmas party, but he chooses to plough on with business suggesting enthusiasm as well as his tendency to shun integration with those he sees every day. Disaster strikes when he stays too long at the office and is bogged down in motorway traffic, thus missing Jaime's karate graduation and has it outlined to him BY his son that on top of everything he's cocked up in the past, this is the final straw. It is amusing to watch the kid sit there, in a bedroom decked out in all this fantastic stuff with toys everywhere, reiterating this to his father through an almighty sulk. He's got everything, but wants more.Hark, for Howard's opportunity at redemption arrives in the form of being able to provide Jaime with a Turbo Man doll on Christmas morning &#x96; only, he forgot to buy it the months ago when he should have. Thus, the gauntlet has been laid down and now begins a mad dash around the stores for an edition of it. There is additionally some unpleasant ambiguity involving the Langston's next door neighbour, Ted (Hartman), who is practically everything Howard isn't, and whether Howard is actually out to get the toy for the sake of saving the bond with his son or just to get back at Ted whose already got the toy for HIS kids. It's established Ted has a bit of a way with women, but middle aged widower has eyes only for Howard's wife and with her as angry at Howard as Jaime is, there is a sense that he is at risk of losing her on top of his son's love. The film gets to unleash its funnier content when the two of them are at loggerheads with one another. There exists a sort of unspoken hatred between Howard and Ted; a happy, smiling exterior as they live next door to one another in a pleasant street that gives way to a mean, spiteful rivalry often feeding off the fact Ted is fond of Howard's wife and is domestically superior.The film is mostly just annoying, the set pieces might as well unfold in any order; there are worse things upon which to rely on driving your comedy than farce and slapstick, but the majority of it fails. The plot ultimately consists of Schwarzenegger duking it out with a postman who's after one of these dolls for his own son. Black to white; thin and nimble to large and clumsy; white collar to blue, the double act doesn't quite rank amongst the great cinematic comedic pairings. There is a dumb, clumsy energy to the film; something that pulls you along with it during its ridiculous, madcap 90-or-so minute runtime - but there exists nothing to get anybody excited; no scathing statement, no piece of comedy we haven't already seen and nothing really above and beyond the spectacle of a big guy like Schwarzenegger lumped with this big task only to right-royally screw it up. "},{"Title":"Put the cookie down!......","Date":"22 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Howard Langston, a salesman for a mattress company is constantly at his job, and also constantly disappoints his son.After he misses his son's karate exposition, he tries hard to come up with a way to make it up to him. His son tells him that what he wants for Christmas is an action figure of Turbo Man.Unfortunately for Howard, it's Christmas Eve, and every store is sold out of Turbo Man.Howard must travel all over town and compete with everybody else including a mail man to find Turbo Man, and to make it to parade...Another one of those movies that was really badly received on initial release, but has gained a little following. I for one think the movie is great, and while it does have some really silly scenes, it keeps the spirit of Christmas going.Schwarzeneggar is having a ball with his movie, and really shows the comic chops he was missing from Junior. But this was released at a time when the star was faltering a little from the A-list, and apart from True Lies and Eraser, he never really recovered.But this movie is a family favourite now, and like several other Christmas movies, it gets viewed every year.It's a fun packed movie for the kids, and it has a great running time, so no one gets bored.Go on, admit you like it, it's Christmas.... "},{"Title":"Better than expected","Date":"16 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" To be blunt, Jingle All The Way is nothing more than it is intended to be a fun, warm, Christmas-y movie with a good message about being the best father you can be (it also includes a not-so-subtle message about commercialism and fads).And I must say I was pleasantly surprised with Arnie's acting here. As Howard he is actually funny and you do root for him to find a doll. I do agree with some reviewers and posters that the wife and the kid were a bit too harsh with him, but he proves to be the best character by doing what was humanly possible to please his son.Now that the Christmas season is approaching, you can have an excuse to indulge and watch this film. You might just have a lot of fun, just as I did. "}{"Title":"Oh what fun it is to wait the day before the big day","Date":"7 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" If Arnold Schwarzenegger had not been the lead actor in Jingle All The Way, maybe I would've liked it more. He portrays his character in an awkward, out of place matter and sounds like he inspired Tommy Wiseau's voice in The Room. When considering the possibilities for a desperate father, hellbent on getting his kid something for the holidays, why did they have to go with such a tough guy like Schwarzenegger? Couldn't they pick someone who looks geeky and innocent like Rick Moranis? It's no fun when the desperation comes from some giant, intimidating man who, when smiles, appears to be in a permanent sarcastic state.Jingle All The Way remakes that faithful Christmas where Cabbage Patch Kids and Mighty Morphin' Power Rangers were selling like hot cakes in local toy stores. The mass sell out encouraged fights and I'm willing to bet many kids didn't get the one present they were hoping for. The story replaces the Kids and the Rangers toys with an ultra-cool TurboMan action figure equipped with the shiniest plastic around and five different phrases.Howard's (Schwarzenegger) son Jamie (Lloyd) wants nothing but a TurboMan action figure for Christmas, but Howard is such a workaholic that he completely forgets. His wife Liz (Wilson) is also getting tired of his work is more important than family attitude. Howard lies to Liz about getting the toy, and now spends his entire Christmas Eve frantically running around in search of comedic inspiration and a TurboMan action figure.The plot is very slim, and seems like it would be perfect for a twenty-two minute episode of Full House. You follow? Like Stephanie wants this gotta-have-it stuffed bear for Christmas, Jesse, Danny, and Joey try to obtain it on the twenty-third or twenty-fourth when it's out all across town. So, they return home with another similar toy, Stephanie opens it on Christmas and complains. The three men then tell her the true meaning of Christmas, and she becomes a bit happier, than by some miracle Kimmy Gibbler or someone gets her the bear and the credits roll.The same comic setup and ability could've been provided in twenty-two minutes, and didn't need to be extended into a feature length film. Jingle All The Way has the energy to make a fair attempt to carry the setup, as well as its ability to present its characters as likable people. What it doesn't do is show the true meaning of Christmas. The premise is very materialistic, and the characters always act on present emotions.This is holiday-fluff, and that's perfectly fine. Little kids will enjoy it, and parents will get the chuckle if they remember holiday shopping experiences like this one. It works both ways. Energy comes in mass amounts, the ending is cute, and colors are vibrant. But the fight scenes, like the one between Arnold and the con-Santas are tiring and relentless. Maybe next year, Arnold might try his luck with Black Friday.Starring Arnold Schwarzenegger, Rita Wilson, Jake Lloyd, and Sinbad. Directed by Brian Levant. "},{"Title":"Seriously Trippy","Date":"11 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Okay. This movie was weird. I don't know why I was so drawn to it or why I even wanted to finish it in the first place. It was WEIRD. You have to love the concept, or at least identify with it. We've all done some hectic last-minute shopping, and it never goes well, does it? So here you have an extreme literally everyone and their uncle is after the Turbo-man action figure. They're basically foaming at the mouth for it; they're breaking things and throwing each other everywhere, fist fights are breaking out. I love it, it's hilarious. I'm telling you, it is basically one huge hallucination. Odd things happen, the freaking mail man (Sinbad!) is a crazy, obsessive maniac. There are life lessons, a few tears, the meaning of Christmas, and characters that will make you laugh for whatever reason. It's so stupid and absurd. Enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Holiday Hijinks","Date":"20 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Howard Langston (Arnold Schwarzenegger) is in deep holiday dreg. His son (Jake Lloyd) wants the year's hottest toy a Turbo Man action figure. His wife (Mara Wilson) has planned ahead for him to get it. When Howard fails to stick to the plan, he must fight the entire world to make up for it--a world in the midst of the classic Christmas rush.It's imperative to note that this isn't any sort of deep, introspective cinema, any further than it's statement on the warped world-view of Christmas, but you've probably gathered that. What it is is a kind of unrestrained fun that rarely works on screen. Everyone is funny, including Arnold, but Sinbad far and away steals the piece. Live-action-Disney level silliness threatens to capsize things a few times, but that simple fun manages to shine through. It's probably more effective if you DON'T watch around the holidays, since it gets us to laugh at a simple truth--Christmas may come only once a year, but greed is always around. Don't bother with too much introspection, though, just prepare to giggle. "},{"Title":"Cute and lighthearted","Date":"22 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I am 13 years old and a big fan of Saturday Night Live, especially the reruns (which, sadly, are not on anymore). Phil Hartman has always been one of my favorite cast members and I had heard about this movie that he acted in from several people. My friend owns it, so we decided to watch it one night. I was five when it came out, and I bet a lot of five-year-olds saw it at the theater, but I just didn't.I had heard bad things about this movie. Some critic said that they just threw a few big names on the cast list and made a mediocre movie out of it (or something to that degree). I admit that I did think that a movie involving Phil, Arnold, and Sinbad would be weird since the three are nothing alike.So, as my friend and I sat down to watch it, within the first five minutes, I saw that there was some good adult humor in the flick and that it wasn't just for kids. The movie was a little cheesy in certain parts but I did cry at the end at the parade (don't ask why...I'm such a baby!)All in all, it was cute but very funny. I don't think this movie would've been very good without Sinbad. That man is hilarious. What ever happened to him? Also, it sort of reminded me of The Santa Clause. The whole film was funny and enjoyable for someone of my age but it still brought me back to my childhood somewhat.If you get the chance, you should watch this.  "},{"Title":"Silly...Yet Funny","Date":"21 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I thought this movie was not bad...a bit on the silly side but still humorous. The competition between Sinbad and Arnie was pretty funny and it's amusing to watch Arnold's performance in comedic roles. A nice Christmas flick for jokes.  "},{"Title":"Fun-tastic Holiday Hoopla!","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Arnold Schwarzenegger's Jingle All the Way is a pure, solid chance to explore the raw stupidity of a cheesy Holiday picture. Arnold plays Howie Langston, but it doesn't really matter anyway because he's just Arnold, like all of his other films.  In either case, he plays the father of Jamie (Jake Lloyd), a young boy who feels disconnected with his dad.  To further complicate things, neighbour Ted (the fabulous Phil Hartman) is pushing his way in to get cozy with the wife, Liz (Rita Wilson.)  With things amock at home, Arnold does his best to master his son's needs in the best way possible buying him a materialistic possession!  Of course, the tricky part is that it's Christmas Eve, and Arnold is yet to pick up the Turbo Man action figure that Liz advised him to do weeks ago.So off he goes, into the wonderful world of last-minute Christmas shopping, and predictably finds himself in store for a series of crazy gags, laughs, and scenarios.  All the while, Liz is at home being swooned by Ted, who, recently-divorced has bought his son the Turbo Man on time, of course.Insert villian here Everyone's second-favourite next to Carrot Top semi-washed up 90's comedian, Sinbad!  Sinbad plays the role of a disgruntled, confused postman who also wants to snag himself one of these sought after toys to buy his own son's love.  Sinbad goes back and forth with befriending/helping Arnold, and then turning his back on him when an opportunity or faulty opportunity to snag a Turbo Man comes along.The ending is predictable like the rest of the movie, but for some reason, through all the horrible aspects of this movie, it was undoubtedly enjoyable.  I laughed the whole way through, and I couldn't even decide if I was laughing with the characters, or at them.  Either way, I would definately watch this film again, due to its pure insane humour and unstoppable comic perks. "},{"Title":"Is Santa Claus... Arnold","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  It sounds like a bad joke...  Arnold Schwarzenegger, Action Hero number 1, in a Christmas movie. But it's NOT a bad idea. I think it's a great, funny movie and after you have seen it you will feel better. It's not a deep-thinking movie like Matrix but pure entertainment with some action, because it still a Arnold movie. I Like it, but I'm also a Arnold-fan, so if you want some Christmas-spirit, see it "},{"Title":"Brilliant holiday fun!","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Sinbad and Arnold are perfect in their comedy roles! Arnold as the dumb dad who waits until the last second to by a extremely popular toy called Turbo Man (a obvious poke at Power Rangers) for his son (played by Jake Lloyd, yes Anakin in Episode I). Meanwhile a zany Postman (played awesomely by Sinbad) is going for the toy as well. Racing through shopping malls, wringing each others necks, and even a fight for the toy in a radio studio give-away follows. Oh, and Phil Hartman is great as the OTHER DAD who has already bought the toy for his son and is tormenting Arnold about it. Great, just great!!! Downright hilarious the whole way through. Great true-to-life story about dumb fads like Beanie-Babies. Great fun for the holiday season, pick up Jingle All The Way Today!  "},{"Title":"Where's the doll?","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  How far would a father go to buy his son a christmas present? If your, Howard Langston (Arnold Schwarzenegger), you'll take about most the movie? And pretty far. His son Jaime (Jake Lloyd) wants a TurboMan doll. And Howard lies to his wife (Rita Wilson) that he already has the doll, when he doesn't. So on Christmas Eve Morning, Howard goes on a quest to find a doll. And runs into a mail man (Sinbad) who's kid aslo wants a Turboman doll. Good luck on finding it. This movie is like Jim Carrey's 97 movie Liar Liar, in which Howard disappoints his son when he doesn't make it in time for his son's class. In Liar Liar Jim Carrey was a dirvoced father who misses his son's birthday party. These two are not smart but they aways try to find ways to makeup for it.(10/10)              "},{"Title":"One of the best Christmas movies I've ever seen","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  JINGLE ALL THE WAY, in my opinion, is one of the best Christmas movies I've ever seen. I thought that Howard (Arnold Schwarzenegger) should have paid a LITTLE more attention to his family. The one person I REALLY couldn't stand was Myron (Sinbad). This was because of his attitude. Plus, he tried to hurt Jamie (Jake Lloyd). I must say that Howard was VERY foolish to wait so long to buy Jamie's present. Even my parents have more sense than that! No offense to you, Howard. If you ask me, Liz (Rita Wilson) looked VERY beautiful in the nightgown she wore. The part that REALLY made me laugh the most was when Howard broke into Ted's (Phil Hartman) house and stole the Turbo Man doll that was supposed to be for Johnny (E.J. De La Pena). This was because Ted's reindeer charged at Howard and caused him to set the living room carpet on fire. That was absolutely hilarious! In conclusion, I HIGHLY recommend this holiday smash to everyone -- Especially all you Arnold Schwarzenegger fans who have not seen it. When you see it, prepare to laugh and have a good time. "}{"Title":"Funny Holiday Fare","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Don't listen to the Scrooges who tell you this film is no good.  It's good-natured, fast-paced and often very funny, like a live-action cartoon. Arnold is one of those actors that come off larger-than-life but extremely likable because he's not above poking fun at himself and his image.  He's not afraid to be totally goofy if it'll get a laugh.  He and Sinbad here have a nice, unforced comic chemistry together.Besides being a comedy, the film shows the the total insanity and crass commercialization of the holiday season in this day and age, which is both funny and thought-provoking.It may never be an enduring classic, but I laugh alot whenever I watch this movie.  Put it on a double-bill with A Christmas Story for some great family holiday fun.   "},{"Title":"Wow...","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Wow is all I can say after watching a good portion of Jingle All The Way for a second time on HBO. Wow, wow, wow, wow...There are some points that must be made about this movie.   For starters, A) Arnold Schwarzenneger and Sinbad are truly a comic duo to be reckoned with in the flesh-crawlingly awful comic acting department.B) Anyone...and I mean ANYONE...can write a movie script that will attract a big studio funding these days.C) Some of Hollywood's biggest paid actors will sign on to a movie without even glancing over the said script.D) A Christmas dominated parade at the tail end of the movie features a miniscule Chanukah and Kwanza section. People are dancing and grooving in life-sized dredyl's and menorah's and African tribal gear, seen in split second editing cuts. Have we turned into such a politically correct-oriented people we must try to please everybody even if it means making them look really really silly for no reason?E) Phil Hartman is the snobby next-door neighbor who's eyes are on Rita Wilson, Conan's wife. Phil you should've stuck to NewsRadio and The Simpsons. What a role to leave behind for future generations...F) A bomb exploding in a police officer's hands is not funny. I don't care if it's a meaningless kid's movie and in the next scene he's wild-haired and wide-eyed and covered with gun powder. It's poor taste in the worst way.G) Sinbad, although giving an enthusiastic performance here, is best left to giving all of his performances onstage and at comedy clubs. Not memorizing and reciting lines with other actors on camera.H) Jingle All The Way is more like a Saturday Night Live bit than a holiday family movie. Just watch it for a scene or two the heavily-accented, muscle-bound foreigner in middle class suburbia, running around and interacting with other Americans and trying to act as average as them. The flubbed words and ignorance as to what word emphasis goes where is quite funny, especially with the fact that it's completely unintentional on both Arnold and the director's part. But sitting in a crowded theater watching it with a silence that borders on deafening just makes it uncool in every imaginable way.I) The flat-out stupid ending involving the parade (which was filmed in 90 degree July heat, by the way) isn't funny nor exciting.J) The gooey ending to the ending, the one that employs almost every shamelessly-by-the-book Christmas saying really does not work here. It rarely does.Okay, I guess that about covers it. I swear I am not a Scrooge. If you want a real Christmas movie, or a comedy, you can do better blindfolded in your local video store's drama section. Much, much better. Oh boy, can you do better...Afterthought Why is Conan's character such a sleaze for working hard enough to provide a comfortable life for his family? "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  underrated & funny cult film","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" OK, so Jingle All the Way is really a kids film. There is a roughness to the cardboard characters and the stupidity of the decisions they make and interactions they have.That aside, I laughed out loud several times, and the film wasn't nearly as dumb as I'd feared it would be. I think you have to get Arnold Schwartzenegger to enjoy this film, though. He is such a tough guy but in this film he is constantly the butt of the joke. He must be a really good guy to let himself be portrayed like that.I would have rated this film even higher, because it truly is hilarious, but similar to Big Far Liar, another kids film that I found accessible and hilarious, the ending was dumb beyond belief, basically blowing out the film. I have to admit there were others... it was sort of like a series of little skits (The Blues Brothers) rather than a real movie at times.Who should see this film-- parents who want a kids film they'll actually like for once-- Arnold Schwartzenegger fans, oh and see Last Action Hero, which is also highly underrated.-- comedy lovers who want a Xmas film to see, but only on a rainy day, a very rainy dayI'll give Jingle All the Way a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Merry Christmas from Ah-nold","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Arnold Schwarzenegger tries to strut his comedic skills again,with mediocre results. The subject Jingle All the Way, afamily-based holiday comedy. Big Ah-nold plays Howard, aworkaholic father who tries to get the perfect Christmas giftfor his son Jamie (Jake Lloyd, who later plays young AnakinSkywalker in Star Wars The Phantom Menace.), a Turbo Manaction figure. So Howard runs around frantically in shoppingmalls to find the toys, because they are in such high demandthey could make the makers of the Tickle-Me Elmo blush! In theprocess, Howard gets into everyone's case, including a maniacalpostal worker (Sinbad) and a very agitated cop (Robert Conrad ofThe Wild Wild West).This flick tried hard to reach the same comedic standards asSchwarzenegger's first successful laugh fest, Twins, back in'88. But, this movie was just all slap stick humor and no realfunny chemistry. It's just one bump and crash after another. So,Arnold, you  "},{"Title":"funny, keeps you exciting all the time, make you see it again","Date":"15 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" This is a movie to enjoy. It's funny, witty, keeps you interested for the whole time, a ton of laughs. It's a story of Christmas time and desperate parents hunting for a limited edition toys. Plus it's about honesty of marital relationship. About stereotypes and making fun of it's absurdity. It's also about good vs. evil. Good of course wins! I also learned that mailmen categorize people by a their types. For example  the type who puts the garbage in front of the mailbox so to make the a mailman's life more difficult. All around it's a clean fun and good family entertainment. I watch it every year around Chrismas and looking forward to do it again. "},{"Title":"Makes me miss Phil Hartman a lot.","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  With Ahhnold giving lines like That's really Kuuuul (cool) and Hartman's Your wife's cookies are delicious this is a lighthearted movie. Don't take it serious. I do advise that you should watch all the way through the credits to catch the end of the movie.       "},{"Title":"Plastic Action Figure","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  What can one say about Arnie's films? When he's in charge, they are horrid, dumb, usually bloated. But you have to give him some credit. He is intelligent enough to have scripts written that emphasize a dual reality a real guy and an imaginary superhero. Most of the projects he has initiated recently have this flavor, especially here and in `Last Action Hero.' So at least he aspires to do something intelligent.But the problem is that he has neither the depth to really develop a concept, nor the skill as an artist to craft the product. Too bad.As an aside, he seems to be an icon for extremists. When I said something mildly negative about him in another comment, I started getting disturbing email from skinheads. "},{"Title":"Arnie is out-acted by the kid who played Annie Skywalker -it's that bad.","Date":"18 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I laughed once -when I saw someone dressed as The Tick, then I shouted 'Spoon' at the screen.My kids laughed when the men hurt themselves -my kids always laugh when the men hurt themselves.Arnie is wooden. Sinbad is... I have no idea what a Sinbad is. Jake Lloyd is only slightly less annoying than his career defining turd-turn in Phantom Menace and next to Arnie he's Marlon Brando in this. James Belushi and Kramer's mate from Seinfeld make an appearance and aren't terrible, although it might only be compared to the company they're keeping. And unfortunately for Phil Hartman this appears to be his last live-action big screen release.Pants. "},{"Title":"Idiotic film showing insanity of Americans","Date":"16 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" This is a completely idiotic film that demonstrates the insanity of Americans at Christmas time. OK probably Canadians as well who knows. Why Arnold would stoop so low as do this piece of idiocy is beyond. Maybe he was desperate for the money. Some good comics in it as well including Sinbad, Phil Hartman and James Belushi. And I have always loved Harvey Korman. OK so what was I doing watching this piece of c***. Well by accident actually. I passed it while channel hopping. And confess couldn't for at least a little while not stop from looking at it. Actually this film is like watching a train wreck. You know it is bad but you can't take your eyes off it. "},{"Title":"Mostly unintentional laughs, but beggars can't be choosers","Date":"19 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Arnold Schwarzenegger plays an average American father in this movie, and that's even funnier than you would imagine. There's a lot of competition in this category, but I'm pretty sure Howard Langston is the least credible character name he's ever had. Most of the intentional humour of this movie falls flat and the sentimental stuff is even worse, but if that sort of thing annoys you you're in the wrong state of mind to watch Jingle All The Way. This movie is worth your while for moments like when muscle-bound Arnold is somehow intimidated by Jim Belushi and an army of winos in Santa costumes. Or for the fantastic climax where the kid doesn't realise he's talking to his dad until Arnold (or Howard, if you're in a generous mood) takes off his mask. The mask covered roughly 2% of his face and he'd been talking with a thick Austrian accent for minutes straight, so that big reveal just broke me. One thing I did wonder throughout this movie what if the main roles were reserved, with Sinbad as the average father and Schwarzenegger as the crazed antagonist? Seemed like that would have been a more interesting casting choice, but this one works almost as well. "}{"Title":"Very funny at times, but an overall poor film","Date":"26 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" When workaholic father Schwarzenegger misses his son's (Lloyd) karate class graduation, the only way to make it up to him is to buy a Turbo Man action figure&#x97;or, a stoopid liddle plahhstic dawl, as Schwarzenegger would say it in yet another role that inexplicably required him to have an Austrian accent for a character with an American name (hmmm)&#x97;but the toy is sold out everywhere, save some very few exceptions that will require some competition from others who are equally desperate (and that's where Sinbad comes in). The premise is wonderful, and there are a lot of genuinely hilarious moments. The downfall is how quickly the movies loses a grip on reality (which could've easily worked with the same amount of humor and fun), especially during the finale. Also, the lack of likability from Schwarzenegger and Wilson make this Christmas adventure a pretty brutal endeavor. The idea that Schwarzenegger's character has enough time for his job (and, let's not forget, the gym), but not his son, doesn't make him all that redeemable.** (out of four) "},{"Title":"Nothing Like Waiting 'Til The Last Minute!","Date":"21 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Arnold Schwarzenegger, Sinbad, Phil Hartman, Rita Wilson, Jake Lloyd, Robert Conrad and James Belushi star in this 1996 comedy. Schwarzenegger (True Lies) plays Howard Langston, a businessman who tries spending more time with his wife, Liz (Wilson) and their young son, Jamie (Lloyd), but is unsuccessful. He tries making it up to them by getting Jamie a special Christmas gift, Turbo Man, a popular action figure he wants. Since he waits 'til the last minute on Christmas Eve, Howard finds himself in a Christmas nightmare getting into mishaps and competing with Mailman, Myron (Sinbad) while desperately trying to find one. The late, Hartman (Houseguest) plays Howard's annoying neighbor, Ted, Conrad (The Wild Wild West) plays a police officer who Howard keeps running into, Belushi (Red Heat) plays a Mall Santa Claus and Martin Mull (Mr. Mom) also appears as a Radio DJ. This a pretty good holiday comedy and Schwarzenegger & the cast are great in it. I recommend this. "},{"Title":"Christmas Comedy","Date":"2 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Not a bad little Christmas comedy,, you have to admit it first it seems like Arnold Schwarzenegger is way out of his element, but actually as the movie progresses he seems to get into the whole Christmas shopping thingy,, he has a child who throughout the child's life,, daddy just seems to just on keep disappointing , then he asks his son what he wants for Christmas , and the child wants the most popular toy of the time,, which is called Robo-Man, well every parent on the block is looking for the same toy , in every store in town,, and of course all of the stores are sold out,, he also has to compete, with a real,, postal postman to get the toy as well,, enjoyable holiday movie,, not over the top,, kinda goofy yet above average. "},{"Title":"Its Turbo Time","Date":"24 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I Saw This Movie Last Night Since It Was Christmas Eve. Why Do People Think Its A 4.9 Its At Least A 5.4. The Plot Starts Off When A Son Is Watching Turbo Man (In This Sequence It Brought Back Memories Of Bad Superhero Movies Like Captain America (1990) & Punisher (1989) & Superman IV (1987) & Finally Batman & Robin (1997) (Yes I Know Arnold Was In That Too)) & Arnould Has To Get There In Time For His Kids Karate Class He Doesn't Make It Then He Tries To Make It Up To Him For Anything He Wants & He Replies I Want The New Turbo Man Doll(Not His Exact Words) & He Forgets On Christmas Eve He Tries To Get One & No Matter Where He Goes There Is No Sign Of A Turbo Man Doll He Ends Up Trying TO Steal It From His Neighbour's House & HE Ends Up As Turbo Man At A Parade His Son Is At & He Has To Pick A Kid To Get A Turbo Man Doll He Picks His Son & HE Encounters Another Father Who Also Wants It Dressed Up As Dementor (Turbo Man's Enemy) & The Other Father Tries To Get It Off Arnolds Son But Arnold Saves The Day As Turbo Man. All In All A Funny Movie With Insane Reindeer, A Mad Postman & A Message If You Go For Last Minute Shopping You Could End Up In All Sorts Of Weird $#!^. I Only Give It A 6 Because I Have Seen Arnold Better Than This & How Did He Forget Rating 6/10 "},{"Title":"Has it's moments, but nothing special","Date":"13 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Howard Langston (Schwarzenegger) is a well meaning but forgetful father. This film follows him as he tries to buy his son a toy for Christmas. The problem is, this toy is a very popular toy, so by the time he gets around to shopping for it (Christmas Eve), he finds it extremely difficult to find a store that has any left in stock.Like me, you may be a fan of the first two Terminator films, The Simpsons and Star Wars. However, don't let the cast fool you. This film certainly isn't either Bill Hartman or Arnold Schwarzenegger's finest hour, but nevertheless, some moments in it are genuinely funny. I found myself watching some scenes, and in my opinion, certain jokes that weren't funny could have been if they were written a bit differently.The really big let down for this film was the ending, as I feel it sort of began to trail off and took us out of the moment we were in. The way it ends does make you feel like the kid had been a bit ungrateful, as he gives the toy (his father at last having found one) that Howard went through quite a lot to get Jamie to the other father. The other father (played by Sinbad) does also go through quite a lot to not only get the Turbo Man toy, but also to snatch it from Jamie (the son), to the point of also endangering both of their lives.The film also includes a little extra after the credits, in which Howard's wife wonders what he has gotten her for Christmas, leaving us with an open ending, and a potential for a sequel (although one doesn't seem to have been made).Overall, I think this was an OK film, but I doubt it will be viewed as a favourite film of all time by anyone, or even best Christmas film ever, particularly if you have seen films such as Elf or It's A Wonderful Life. Don't expect a great film if you decide to watch this.My Rating See the top of the review. "},{"Title":"A Morally, Creatively and Intellectually Brain Dead Cash-In","Date":"26 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Completely brainless fluff with neither a sentiment nor a care in the world. All the pieces are there to revisit the Charlie Brown Christmas Special's message about materialism overpowering the true spirit of the season, but for whatever reason it never even threatens to get to the point. Arnold, in one of his cheesiest roles, (and that's really saying something) breaks laws of more than just a criminal nature in his search for an elusive limited-supply action figure on Christmas Eve. Without exception, every single character in the film is a disdainful, greedy, self-centered jerk with little, if any, redeeming value. Even the matriarch of Arnold's family, long the voice of reason in such pictures, is a judgmental, misguided wasp who graces the screen with perhaps the worst closing line I've heard in years. A pointless exercise that, astonishingly, seems to come to the conclusion that consumerism is good - so long as you buy early. "},{"Title":"It Goes Way, Way Overboard","Date":"9 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" It seems to me that a really, really good movie could be made about the holiday shopping rush. So far, though, that really, really good movie hasn't been made. Jingle All The Way didn't fill the void.It's Christmas Eve, and Howard (Arnold Schwarzenegger) - who has a habit of letting his family down with broken promises - is suddenly reminded that he was supposed to buy the hottest new toy for his son for Christmas a Turbo-Man doll; Turbo-Man being the new super-hero craze. Of course, Howard forgot, and now (on the day before Christmas) he has to desperately search for the doll, along with hundreds of others who want the same doll, and especially a mailman (played by Sinbad) who becomes his biggest rival in the quest.This works for a little while. I personally thought that it went way overboard, though. That feeling probably started with the group of black market Santas at the warehouse who hoard cheap versions of hot toys to sell at exorbitant prices. It just seems to go crazy after that. It has some laughs. There's no doubt about that. But it's just too much. Everything seems too forced; too extreme. It's not a bad caricature of the madness of the shopping craze (which I usually associate with Black Friday rather than Christmas Eve) and so it's a reasonable critique of the more negative aspects of the holiday season, and it does make a point at the end that it's family and not the stuff that really counts. So it's not a disaster, but I think the whole concept could have been better used. (4/10) "},{"Title":"All the Way Bad","Date":"1 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I'd say 'Jingle all the Way' would be ONLY watchable for children under 4, but even then its incredibly bad messages sent and shameless product placements means it shouldn't be viewed by anyone.And to boot, the actions portrayed mirrors life a little too closely, unfortunately, such as someone macing someone for a Christmas item. Sound familiar?What started off as a family-friendly and touching turned nasty to the core. Or bore. This fits in about when Arnold Schwarzenegger went south and fast. Much like what happened to his state, and eventual life, I suspect.Nevertheless, this should be avoided as is its messages. "},{"Title":"Great Christmas Movie","Date":"4 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Jingle All The Way, one of my all-time favourite Christmas movies. Its funny, its chaotic, its exciting; its Jingle All The Way! The unforgettable mail-man who always has something to complain about, and there is that big suck-up Ted. A movie I always get to watch through the holiday season, and one I'm never sick of. The characters are rather plain, the dialog is rather plain, but its the excitement, competitiveness, and joy that makes this movie so fun to watch. Arnold Schwarzenegger most likely known for his Terminator roll, takes of the glasses and the leather jacket and turns into one workaholic dad who forgets to buy his son's hottest-selling Christmas toy, and needs to on a cold, icy Christmas eve. A fun movie, who I recommend to anyone in the festive season. "},{"Title":"Not The Best Christmas Movie!","Date":"21 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Jingle All the Way is just a mediocre Christmas movie, nothing special or Oscar-worthy. I enjoyed the movie, but some parts just did not buy me in. The story is about a father played by Arnold Schwarzneggerand he must get a Turbo Man doll for his son. But, there is problem. The dolls are sold out and now he has to go against a crazy mail person, fake Santas, and nosy cops to get a Turbo man doll for his son in time for Christmas. As I said before, this movie is plain average. The script is OK. There are few cheesy moments and a few good moments. The music is not that good. it's just old Christmas songs that no one ever hears.I did like the action when there was any and the subplot involving Ted Maltin. I was cracking up every time Maltin came into the picture. Overall, I think kids will like this. I am not so sure about adults. I kind of liked it. I rate this movie 7/10. "}{"Title":"Adrenaline Fear the Christmas Rush.","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" ... There's good reason to warn you of that, too. This movie faithfully manifests the most undesirable qualities of the typical holiday crowd. It's often loud, obnoxious and downright unpleasant. Like the determined buyer, however; one quality it does display in sizable measures is sheer tenacity. It's difficult not to retain some admiration for a movie that persists in hurling all types of unsubtle humour your way. It's the equivalent of the regular advertising bombardment, come the festive time of year. You have to hand it to them for putting as much colour, noise and commotion as they can into selling frankly ordinary stuff. There's something grimly and desperately amusing about seeing Schwarzenegger become the living embodiment of a Chuck Jones or Tex Avery cartoon.However, one particular caveat kinda kills the set-piece finale. Dressing up in disguise shouldn't really be a viable option when you have a lantern jaw, and an accent as thick as molasses! Arnie's been used as a type of larger than life superhero ever since he arrived in Hollywood; this just represents the logical conclusion of that, I guess. "},{"Title":"A Very Turboman Christmas","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  A pretty standard kids movie, I'm sure it's bound to be played on television for Christmas's to come.... I think I liked it better when I saw it at the movies when I was 11. I gave Jingle all the Way a 5/10. 1 for Turboman. 4 for the adorable pre-star-wars-episode-I Jake Lloyd.   "},{"Title":"Unbelievable.","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" No really. It's unbelievable, as in, the comdey goes so far, you simply can't let your imagination stretch anymore. That wouldn't be so bad, but the problem is, it's just not that funny (Home Alone 2 had this problem, too.). In fact, the best stuff comes from Sinbad (This is a SICK world, full of SICK people; 911! 911!). Personally, I think Jake Lloydd should be banned from Hollywood (and he probably was after he ruined Episode one).** out of **** stars, for Sinbad alone. PS, the special effects stunk. "},{"Title":"Quest For The Rare Turbo Man Or Dad's Quest For Sanity!","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS         Ever been in a situation where your child wants a verypopular toy for Christmas and you realize it's already Christmas Eve and you haven't gotten it, only you realize the toy your kid wants isnowhere to be found? Well mattress salesman Howard Langston is in that same situation.             Howard has often let his son Jamie (Jake Anakin Skywalker Lloyd) down. He missed his karate class where Jamie got his purple belt. Howard promises to make it up to Jamie by buying him a toy he wants so very very much a Turbo Man action figure with jet pack, disc shooters and everything. Howard's wife, Liz, had told him to get a doll weeks ago and Howard tells her he did. But he didn't. Howard figures it will be easy to find, yet when he goes out the next morning (Christmas Eve) he finds the toy store sold out. He meets a disgruntled mailman Myron Larabee (Sinbad). Myron is also looking for a Turbo Man. The two launch into competition.          Howard searches all over for a Turbo Man but all the stores are out, but they have plenty of Turbo Man's sidekick Booster and arch nemesis Dementor. Myron and Howard meet up again and Myron wants to call a truce and work together. Howard declines, so they're back to being in competition.         They travel to the toy store in the mall that has gotten some Turbo Mans in stock and a number would be called and whoeverwas that number, would get a doll. (Kind of like the Cabbage Patch Kid fad). The numbers were on balls. One ball got away and fell into the hands of a little girl. When Howard tried to retrieve it, all mothers around began beating him with purses and calling him a pervert. Howard is then signaled over by a Santa Claus, who says he has a Turbo Man doll. He and his elf Tony, show Howard to their big warehouse. It's filled with people dressed as Santa and elves. Howard finds out the doll is no good and it launches into a fighting match with the Santas, until the feds bust the joint. Howard escapes by disguising himself as a detective.        Soon, his car runs out of gas and he stops at a diner. There, he meets up with Myron again, who tells him about a toy he wanted as a lad a Johnny 7 O.M.A gun. Hope soon comes when a radio DJ has a contest and the winner would get a Turbo Man.All one had to do to win was correctly identify all 8 of Santa'sreindeer. They race to the radio station. Howard has the right answer but Myron has a homemade explosive device, disguised as an ordinary package. It turns out to be nothing more than an ordinary package. The DJ announces that the prize was not the doll itself, but a gift certificate. Soon the feds arrive and Myron tries again with his bomb threat. The police open it and it explodes.         Howard returns to the diner to find his car had been stripped and MERI XMAS spray painted on the windshield. He was towed home. He saw his neighbor, Ted, in Howard's house with Liz. He also remembered Ted saying he had gotten a Turbo Man for his son, Johnny. So Howard breaks into Ted's house and snatches the present from under the tree. He has second thoughts and is about to return it, when he meets the family pet a reindeer. There's a fight, a chase, and the NativityScene catches fire. Liz doesn't believe Howard's story and just goes to the holiday Wintertainment Parade with Jamie and Ted.       There was going to be a Turbo Man show at the parade. Jamie and Johnny were excited. Meanwhile, Ted tries to move in on Liz. But she knocks some sense into him with a thermos of egg nog. And when hiding from a cop Howard had bumped into several times in the past and causing coffee to spill all over him, some people grab him and strap a suit on him. He soon arises from a float, dressed as Turbo Man! Also, a smug little weasel is Booster. Howard is to pick a kid so he can get the prize of a Turbo Man doll! Howard picks Jamie, just as Myron slides onto the float dressed as Dementor! They fight, Jamie escapes and Myron chases. They wind up on the roof of a building. Howard uses Turbo Man's turbo jets and struggles to get the hang of them. He rescues Jamie and causes Myron to fall into the hands of the police.         The movie's ending is happy. Who do you think ends up with the doll in the end? Is it Howard or maybe Myron?          The epilogue takes place that night where Liz is impressed by what Howard went through just to get Jamie a present, it made her wonder what he got for her.         You must see this film! You'll love it. I recommend it. It's a hip Christmas movie. A ***** out of *****.  "},{"Title":"Comedy?  I thought it was a documentary","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie might have been funny except that you can see the same thing every Xmas at the local mall.  This movie captures all that is materialistic and tacky about Xmas and puts 1 touchy-feely moment at the end to justify it all.  There are some funny moments, mostly slap-stickish, but every time I think about the underlying themes of capitalism and greed it made my stomach turn.  The only purpose of this movie might be to stick in the VCR to keep your kids occupied, but only if you are the type of parent that this movie is about.  Instead of this movie, try spending some quality time with your kids!  Blech! to this movie!  "},{"Title":"stop directing movies, brian levant, you suck!","Date":"2 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" it does not matter whether you are a child or an adult, this movie was abysmal! painful for both audiences. if you are over the age of 5 and still enjoying brian levant's movies, then you need help, in fact even if you are 5 years old you still shouldn't watch any movie that is directed by brian levant, he continued his mission to destroy children's cinema, and people seem to like this moron for some bad reason or another.arnold Schwarzenegger is a good actor, but he needs to keep away from films like this, because if he carries on, then he is destroying his own career, in fact every actor (except for the crappy ones) shouldn't say yes to being involved in any brian levant film.overall if you have money if your wallet, and if the only thing to do with that money is to spend it on this terrible film, then throw your money in the rubbish bin, it is better than wasting it on this movie. "},{"Title":"A plot more suited to a thirty minute short film.","Date":"9 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie had some moments, nearly all during the beginning of the film so the movie runs out of gas fairly quickly and thankfully is Arnold's last comedy movie other than a small role here and there in a couple of movies. This movie has a fairly nice start as the movie has a guy who has forgotten to get his son the toy everyone has been looking for, some stupid looking turbo man thing that I would not have wanted in a million years as it looks less like an action figure and more like a doll. The best part in the film takes place when his wife asks him if he got the gift and the shear look of terror as he realizes he forgot. This film would have been good as maybe a thirty minute xmas special on television, as it is the concept is quickly stretched to the limits and the only thing that makes the movie watchable is the late Phil Hartman's role in this film as the near perfect dad who got his son the gift months in advance. Making the movie nearly unwatchable is Sinbad's character of the psycho mailman who is also looking for the gift. The movie plods along to the finish of Arnold flying around to pad the film even more and add action to a film that needed none. "},{"Title":"ho! ho! ho! Christmas scramble!","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Howard Langston (Arnold Schwarzenegger) is a mattress salesman with a bad habit of putting his work ahead of his family. His son Jamie (Jake Lloyd), who wishes Dad would pay more attention to him, wants only one thing for Christmas, a Turbo Man action figure, with all the accessories. Howard promises both Jamie and his wife Liz (Rita Wilson) that there will indeed be a Turbo Man under the tree for Jamie on Christmas morning, but come December 24, Howard realizes that he hasn't actually bought the toy yet. Seemingly it would be no great problem to head on down to the toy store and pick one up, but it just so happens that Turbo Man has been the hottest ticket of the holiday season, and literally thousands of parents are scrambling for the last few action figures. Howard then spends a hilariously hellish Christmas Eve madly scrambling from store to store in desperate search of a Turbo Man; in the course of his adventures, Howard keeps crossing paths Myron Larabee (Sinbad), a postal worker who wants a Turbo Man even more desperately than Howard. And on the home front, Howard has to worry about Ted Maltin (Phil Hartman), an annoyingly perfect suburbanite obsessed with Christmas who has eyes for Liz. I thought this was a pretty silly movie, but so true The Christmas rush. Jim Belushi, Paul Wight aka The Big Show of wrestling, and Verne Troyer aka Mini Me have small, but funny roles in this film. I would say after watching this I will buy my presents in July. "},{"Title":"Funny holiday film","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This doesn't seem like an Arnold film, but than again neither did Junior. This film should teach you a lesson though.  Don't wait til the last minute to buy the years hottest toy!  Funny characters and Arnies one liners are enough for everyone to like it. "},{"Title":"Vere's yur Chrissmazz spirid?","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Whenever Jingle All The Way is criticised (and when isn't it?) there seem to be only two major complaints levelled against it1. It celebrates commercialism over traditional Christmas values. Debatable. I'd say it's actually a misguided satire of the commercialism of the age, with a timely spoof of the then-trend of Power Rangers. Arnold's quest for the whole movie is to show his son he still cares, the toy is just an attainable, physical goal for the audience to relate to. And Jake Lloyd does learn about family values over material goods at the end.2. It's desperately, abysmally, atrociously unfunny.  Errrrr......... fair point. 4/10. "}{"Title":"That Darn Turboman - or, How Brian Levant Raped Christmas, One Dwarf Tossing at a Time","Date":"4 September 2007","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Since I have no life to speak of, I could easily list all the things that are wrong about this film, but IMDb doesn't let you type more than 10,000 words so I'll try to keep this brief. If you watch Jingle All the Way expecting a heart-warming family film for the holidays, you're bound to be more disappointed than... um... say, someone who read this sentence expecting a somewhat funny punchline. I have to be honest about this movie's flaws, you being my number one customer and all1) This movie isn't funny. The only funny thing about this eggnog spill is that sometime back in 1996, George Lucas sat down in his Xanadu out at Lucas Ranch, popped this gem into his VCR, saw Jake Lloyd on screen and thought to himself This is it. I've found the kid who could do justice to the role of Darth Vader. Come to think of it, not even that's very funny. 2) This movie isn't heart-warming. In fact, it's more of an exercise tool for bulimia victims. They won't have to use their fingers or anything.3) What's with the rampant anti-dwarfism in this movie? Vertically challenged members of society are repeatedly tossed around as carelessly as babies with weed-smoking relatives. However, despite all of these flaws (and the 9,997 other ones that I wasn't allowed to list) Jingle is a mind-blowing experience for those with the right expectations. Like I said, if you expect a heart-warming and hilarious Christmas film, prepare to be disappointed. BUT &#150; if you expect a film in which Schwarzenegger does some totally awesome Arnold stuff the way only he can, like- trying to play a caring father but coming off as more of a closeted paedophile - fighting a huge, bare-chested Santa - punching a reindeer in the snout&#150; then, my friend, you will walk away from the movie a better person, with a big, earnest smile on your face and a steady stream of drool running down your chin. Personally, I watched with the right expectations, and loved the flick, even if it did kinda make me feel like my soul had just been besmirched with bucket-loads of hot grease from hell at times. But overall, a very satisfying experience for fans of the garbage Arnold has been churning out every now and then between his good stuff. Think of it as a big-budget Hercules in New York minus the legendary bear fight. Like Arnold would say Dees ees keewl! "},{"Title":"Not Funny","Date":"11 July 2006","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I just did not find this funny. Arnold Schwarzenegger as a middle-class suburbanite did not cut it. His accent sounded way out of place. Sinbad - whoever the hell he is - was supposed to be the other funny guy, but failed as well. Nobody in here was particularly good to watch.The film begins with the typical theme of a father neglecting his kids. Have you noticed since the classic era ended how fathers are almost always portrayed in a negative light in films? The most popular stereotype is that of the father who is never there for his kid's activities. Same thing here, so Arnold at least goes out of his way to make it up to the boy to the point of lunacy as the kid makes all these demands! Summary a very annoying and stupid movie. "},{"Title":"Sure, it's a terrible movie, but it's still lots of fun. A must see Christmas film.","Date":"12 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Sure, this movie sucks. Yadda, yadda. But you are all missing the point. It's not supposed to be taken LITERALLY. It's supposed to be taken as a silly Christmas film you can watch with your kids. Basically, it involves a workaholic Minneapolis, Minnesota father named Howard Langston, who doesn't spend enough time with his son, Jamie. So, his wife reminds him that he needs to buy the Turbo Man doll for Jamie for Christmas, which is the must have toy for the season. So, he forgot all about it, which is kind of hard to do, because Jamie is obsessed with the show. Howard than goes on a quest throughout the entire metropolitan area on Christmas Eve to find one of the dolls, fighting a postman psycho dad.Okay, sure, this movie is really bad. It's goofy, silly, pointless, implausible, and absolutely ridiculous. And I LOVE it! I can't see how anybody can't! It's the perfect mix of slapstick absurdity that I can't get enough of! And no, I'm not a mindless drone who loves slapstick, I just find this film a tradition to see every Christmas. Phil Hartman and Sinbad are lovable, and this film prompts a laugh a minute, weather it be from the ridiculous, over the top acting, slapstick humor, or one liners, this is still a fun family film and it is a tradition to watch during the holidays, and I watch it any time I can. "},{"Title":"pushes its premise a bit too far","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Wildly uneven comedy stars Schwarzenegger as a hardworking but neglectful father who goes on a frantic, last minute search to try and find his son a popular Christmas toy. What starts off as a routine search soon escalates into an all-out war when he finds an unexpected rival in the form of deeply disgruntled and unstable mailman Sinbad. An engaging cast, with some clever and funny moments make the film watchable, but eventually it goes overboard and too often resorts to brutal, Home Alone-style slapstick that's more desperate than funny. Not that bad per se, but derivative and not really suitable for the target audience. **½ "},{"Title":"just average","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Jingle All The Way isn't as bad as you may have heard, but it's still nothing special. Schwarzenegger is kind of funny at times as he and Sinbad go to war trying to find a rare toy before Christmas. The result is your typical slapstick comedy. The cast does their best, but the whole thing just seems totally flat. 2/4 "},{"Title":"A Classic!!!!","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie is very funny... The conflict between Arnold and Sinbad is hilarious!!! And the late great Phil Hartman is also very good... Its non-stop which my son enjoys. If you havent seen it, check it out. Arnold is very good and this movie has the best soundtrack ever for a Christmas get together!!! "},{"Title":"Average","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This 1996 christmas film is, in one word, average.  The humor can change from funny to just plain sadistic.  Arnie's acting is as wooden as ever but Sinbad is OK.  The only bit in this film that actually made me laugh was where the young boy tells Arnie the toy he wants for christmas.  I think this film will appeal to a younger audience that it is actually aimed at so in that aspect I give it a 6. "},{"Title":"Better for older kids","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Fun, if a little far-fetched at times, romp with Arnie trying to find his kid the ultimate Christmas present.  Very much a movie of it's time the Buzz Lightyear toy had been released the year before with similar results.Definitely not for younger kids as there is some violence, but older kids will love it.  For adults, definitely a sit down, relax, and turn your brain off movie. "},{"Title":"Immoral all the way, baby!!!","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is not a very good family film. It's very mean and immoral. A raindeer get's beat up. A subculture of black-market santas get's smacked around. It's all about a hunt for a toy. The picture of how horrible christmas has become. All capitalist-like and everything. How tragic. How terrible. HOW ABOUT WAKIN' UP, FOLKS?!!?This film is so damn funny I laughed all the way! I love the way it turns those sentimental christmas-films upside down, and shows christmas like it is One big capitalistic race for the perfect present.Schwarzenegger is funny, and functional. Not a great actor, but in this film he does a good job. His use of facial-comedy is great.You won't learn anything from this film, and the mushy ending is pathetic. But the In betweens are great enough, for me to be givin' this one an 8. "},{"Title":"Very Funny - But for older kids and grownups only!","Date":"17 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Any parent who has madly dashed from store to store looking for the gotta have it gift of the holiday season for their innocent tyke can relate. AH-nuld finds himself in pursuit of the elusive Turbo Man on Christmas Eve, setting off a series of comical misadventures in the holiday vein.Let me say right now, this is NOT a film to let your younger children see. There is plenty of myth-busting in it, including the truth of just how Santa REALLY fulfills the wishes of children worldwide, and some shady doings by a naughty Kringle-wannabe (Jim Belushi).  Add to that the nasty language, the borderline-cartoon violence (including the near-burning down of a house, the no-holds-barred rivalry between Arnold and mailman Sinbad, the scary chase sequence at the end), and the smarmy divorced neighbor putting the moves on Arnold's wife.  This film tells us exactly what the holiday season should NOT be... Jealousy, selfishness, over-commercialism, and beating everyone else out of the way to grab the season's hot item... Not what comes to mind for me each December!  (If this is all you can think about when the holidays approach, you have problems... Put down the clicker and see a shrink!)That said, this wacky action/comedy is actually very funny.  Although the star is the Turbo-nater himself, there is a great ensemble here that keeps you laughing and smiling.  There are plenty of holiday and pop-culture inspired puns, and self-referential gags floating about. The cast is a likeable gang of misfits, off-beat characters, second bananas, and harried straight men/women.  Rita Wilson is adorable and sexy as Arnold's frustrated wife. And Phil Hartman (as the too-perfect-Dad-next-door) oozes charm like a viper oozes venom.The holiday frenzy which overtakes middle America every year (right after the Halloween candy is doled out) is captured, chewed up, and spit out for us to see in all it's peppermint-cane coated glory.  We can identify with the poor dad who's let his family down once too often, even as we marvel at his quick thinking and the hilarious missteps that result in his attempt to fly in a superhero jet pack.This is not a film - it's an insane asylum in a Santa Suit.  The only vestige of model behavior comes from an 8-year-old kid (a pre-Anakin Skywalker Jake Lloyd!).  Shown to the right audience, this film pleases immensely.  Though, do yourself a favor and keep it away from the little tykes.  Otherwise you may have to deal with a lot of sensitive questions (How come he's buying a gift Santa's supposed to deliver?), aggressive behavior (looking for a reindeer to roundhouse), and generally nervous kids (Are you and mom gonna get a divorce too?)!  Take it at face value; have a late night laugh after the youngsters are in bed.Now if you'll excuse me, I have to go catch the billionth rerun of It's a Wonderful Life... "}{"Title":"Great Movie, ...All The Way","Date":"9 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Alright, despite all the bad comments here, I am here to tell you a good one.. I`m 14 and watch movies A LOT. Jingle all the Way is a movie like Major League 2 and Entrapment.. You can watch it over and over and not get tired of it.. You can recite the movie verbatim over and over, and still love it.. Jingle all the Way is an excellent movie, and a fine christmas movie for ANY ONE of ANY AGE to watch.. Arnold Schwarzenegger, Phil Hartman, Sinbad, and Rita Wilson show that Christmas IS the most wonderful.. And maybe most chaotic time of the year. "},{"Title":"Somewhat funny Arnie movie","Date":"7 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I don't know why everybody hates this movie. It isn't that bad. Ok, I'll admit it that I wasn't laughing non stop but I laughed quite a bit during this movie. Plus this movie does something that many movies can't do, it makes you smile and feel like a little kid. I'm 16 so I'm not that old, but watching this movie made me remember back when I was really little and wanted a certain toy.( Ghostbusters action figures, the new videogame) Man now I know how my parents must have felt! But,  I mean this movie is pretty good. Plus I am a fan of Arnie's so I will back anything that he does.  I love the part when he is drinking with the reindeer. Also this was one of Phil Hartman's last movies. So even see it for that reason alone. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Ahh-nold!","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I've noticed over some time that a lotta people are crying over this movie.  Fine, I'll admit you that this isn't the best movie for little kids or those of you who are easily offended by anything fun.  There are moments in this that display how grossly commercial and mean-spirited the holidays have become.  Growing up in the greedy-rich materialistic suburbs of Chicago, I see this side of humanity on a daily basis, and a movie like this can be a stark reminder of how cruel everyone has become.  To some, this may seem like a parody of the holiday craze...  I, as a child, had my arm broken by a crazed parent at a toy store during the Cabbage Patch craze.  From this point of view, I find this movie to be a comical interpertation of a brutal ritual (much like a Mel Brooks movie). I think someone who has been on the frontlines, busted their back trying to satiate their greedy brain-washed offspring, and enjoys a cheap laugh at someone's expence would love this movie.  Frankly, I don't think this is trying to be a no-brainer tra-la-la-happy movie, that'll put anyone over 4 to sleep...  And yet, I would have no problem showing this to my own children, if I had any.  I think if they saw how crazy and commercial the holidays have become, and they realize the pains that some people will take to please their family...  they would have a greater appreciation for the fine parts of the holidays. Plus, this movie has good slapstick comedy and it's funny watching Arnold trying to portray an ordinary Joe!  Jingle all the way!! "},{"Title":"Schwarzie, Sinbad, Phil Hartman and Jake Lloyd...It Can't Get Any Better!!!","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie is just hilarious - non-stop laughs all the way through. WHOEVER SAID THAT ARNOLD WASN'T FUNNY IN THIS IS JUST PLAIN CRAZY! And Sinbad, I can't say enough good words about the man - I swear I was on the floor killing myself laughing at his crazy antics. And Jake Lloyd CAN act! He gives a great performance...I've seen kids acting in movies, if you want to call it acting, and they are pathetic. They couldn't have casted a more sweet cute little boy. Phil Hartman, what can I say? He is down right hilarious. It is terrible that we won't be seeing anymore of his brilliant talents. And Schwarzie, the man is just crazy...he is so good for this role it's amazing. He is incredibly funny. And watch at the end in the parade... here's what you'll find Hilarious antics by Sinbad, Schwarzie, Phil Hartman(egg nog), walking Christmas presents/ornaments, the What The girl.  The 3 funniest parts of the whole movie feature Sinbad on a falling Christmas tree, Sinbad threatening a cop, and Sinbad and Arnold in a rumble for numbered balls in a toy shop. This movie is 100% humorous...check out other great performances by Rita Wilson, Rochelle Vallese, and James Belushi. Recommended to all for top-notch entertainment! ~Despite the fact that she is not associated with this film in any way, shape, or form...Rock On ALANiS!!!~ "},{"Title":"'Tis the season to be greedy....","Date":"1 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Is Christmas too commercial?Jingle All the Way thinks so, and observes what millions of fathers (two in particular here) will do to get a toy for their sons on Christmas Eve.First of all, this may be an all-too-accurate depiction of many families during the holidays, but Christmas is not supposed to be a time when you apologize to your children for not spending enough time with them by buying them the most popular toys. But there's Schwarzenegger, going through Yuletide hell to get his son (Lloyd) a Turbo Man doll for Christmas, in spite of the fact that they've been sold out for weeks.  Meantime, he has to contend with a postal worker (Sinbad) who's going...pardon the expression...postal, searching for the same said doll.They bump heads, they fight, they make up, they fight, they fight... did I mention they fight?  Well, they do.  Most of the movie is made up of their competition.  And while comical, their battles get repetitive and show off only Schwarzenegger's stamina and Sinbad's wild and crazy antics.All this while Schwarzenegger's wife in the movie (Wilson) fights off the advances of a lustful neighbor (Hartman, in his next to last performance).  More creepy that comical.It all culminates in a Christmas parade where Schwarzenegger and Sinbad, dressed in Turbo Man and Dementor costumes (respectively), duke it out for possession of the last free Turbo Man toy (in existence, I guess).In the end, it's all about spending time with your kids and not just providing for them but being there for them.  But for Jingle, the present is the prize and the message.  I don't think there's one person in this movie who doesn't have their own wants and greeds to address during the course of the film.  Even the kids.Especially the kids.Is that the Christmas spirit?If you said yes, then you probably already own Jingle All the Way.I do, too, but only because I bought it for my boy; I missed his appendix operation.*Three stars.* = that was a joke. "},{"Title":"It was okay, but only half original.","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  The movie gets part of it's plot from Liar Liar in that the father in this movie makes promises to his son and does not keep them. This movie has it's good moments, but can make parents feel uncomfortable. "},{"Title":"ARNIE makes us laugh again!","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Well, this movie is just for the toy-fanatic kids. The most funny scene in this flick is when the two TOY-store assistants makin´ fun out of ARNIE and SINBAD, due to the fact that the TURBO-MAN-doll is sold out a long time ago, this scene is hilarious. Overall it´s a chasey action-sequenced comedy with a high flying end when ARNIE performed as TURBO-Man at the parade. KIDS, check it out, cause even your DAD can be your TURBO-Man.  "},{"Title":"Excellent piece of neo-noir iconoclastic culture clash cinema!","Date":"16 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" The lighting was by far the greatest achievement in cinematic lighting history. The film was very reminiscent of the proto-noir films of the early 19th century. The acting spotlight shines on Schwarzenegger in his groundbreaking performance that surely signifies him as the best of the best. I love the way the director chose to incorporate both thematic elements, such as the character trapped in a situation and making choices out of desperation or nihilistic moral systems, and visual elements, such as Turbo man's heroic performances. This was hands-down the most groundbreaking piece of the 20th century, and will vastly influence generations to come. I LIED-Arnie(Commando) "},{"Title":"I work for the post office so you know I'm not stable...","Date":"30 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" A formulaic holiday film for the family, Jingle All the Way is a waste of Sinbad's and Phil Hartman's talents, though may be the best we could hope for from Arnold Schwarzenegger. We follow Howard Langston (Schwarzeneggar), the too-busy-to-be-a-good-father we always see in holiday movies, who has one job during for Christmas get the Turbo Man Doll his son demands. His wife, Liz (Rita Wilson), asked Howard to take care of this task weeks before the movie begins, but did he do it? Noooooo, of course not. So now we enter the holiday hunting season, and just to make it even more desperate for Howard, it's Christmas Eve!!! We follow Howard from toy store to toy store, trying to find this doll in an effort to keep his son happy and prevent him from becoming some bitter, evil adult. The son, by the way, is played by Jake Lloyd, who a few years later would play Annikan Skywalker in Episode I of the Star Wars saga, so I guess he does become a bitter, evil adult in the name of Darth Vader. Perhaps this movie's power reaches even that galaxy far, far away. Anyway, each toy store Howard goes to, Sinbad's mailman character shows up there too, and a rivalry of sorts begins, where they are both enemies in the search for the toy and contemporaries as fathers just trying to make it a good holiday for their kids. Sinbad, who I find very funny, is given very little to work with here, and he plays such a cartoon character, it is hard to take him seriously. The late Phil Hartman plays Howard's next door neighbor, Ted, who helps Howard's wife get ready for the holidays in an effort to get his own Christmas gift. This silly subplot went nowhere, and was just a waste of having Phil Hartman in the movie. Jingle All The Way is sort of entertaining for kids, though there is a potentially disturbing scene involving a gang of Santas who run afoul of the law. Adults will just roll their eyes and wish they were watching Chevy Chase spend his Christmas Vacation. "},{"Title":"I'm going to make it!","Date":"23 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I like the movie up until the stupid ending. Please. Sinbad was great and it was fun watching him with his home made explosive devices. I liked Jim Belushi and Arnold and so forth. It was escapism that escaped too far in the last fifteen minutes. Whoever wrote the dialogue would seem to agree, judging by its deterioration as well.The writer(s)was(were)obviously not female. Who in the world would have a mother telling an ersatz superhero that he had no idea how much her son means to me. Only a non mother would have the dumbs to put those words in someone's mouth. Some things go without saying.But I like the color and always love Phil Hartman. I watch this often and just turn it off at the point it becomes unwatchable. "}{"Title":"Average Christmas Movie For Kids","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Average Christmas movie for kids.Think Walt Disney style with Arnold Schwarzenegger.Christmas family movie basics are here,with Slapstick style and CGI effects thrown in for good measure.Expect these and if you are still interested,you will be entertained. Nothing spectacuar here.Just pure family Christmas movie fun.Could have used better screenplay and editing.Only for fans of family semi-slapstic comedy movies and big fans of the lead actors..... "},{"Title":"Ho Ho Ho!","Date":"17 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I love this movie! It's so funny because it's true!  I took my kids to see it way back in '96, and they were just like the kids in the movie.  It's good to see Schwarzenegger finally film a movie in Minnesota.  Our family used to live in St. Peter, MN, and we were really proud when we saw the St. Paul Hollidazzle shown in the movie.  This is the best thing Sinbad has been in since Houseguest. "},{"Title":"It's a Jingle all the way out there...","Date":"24 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" People complain that movies about Christmas are too much about commercialism. This one most definitely is about commercialism and NOTHING else. The little brat named Jamie(Jake I ruined Star Wars forever Lloyd) makes his father promise to buy him a Turbo man doll for Christmas and acts like a spoiled brat when he doesn't get what he wants. Attempts at jokes are lame and stupid. Sinbad is horrible in this movie, and Arnold's only funny line is Put dat cookhie down!. This movie also features the late Phil Hartman who is scummy and sleazy and evil in this movie. To sum up, the movie says you can ONLY be happy by getting material things for Christmas and it's worth it for adults to try and murder children for lame pieces of plastic. This movie is awful. If Arnold took out a gun, shot Jamie, shot Sinbad, and shot Phil Hartman(Yes, I know that's in bad taste), this would have been a tolerable movie. As it is though it is horrible, horrible, horrible. Avoid like the plague. "},{"Title":"An excellent Bad Movie","Date":"21 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" If you're renting this movie alone, or because you enjoy Arnold for is action movies, you're going to be disappointed. However, wrangle up your most sarcastic friends, rent this movie and enjoy. Everything about this movie is done poorly, but to the point that it is hilarious rather than taxing. Arnold Schwarzenegger's role is highly laughable, the role of the middle American dimwitted dad being comedically augmented by the choice of the Austrian strongman who seems to have gotten his accent in full swing. Sinbad's acting is pathetic, and his goofy facial expressions seem oddly placed, even for a children's film. Phil Hartman gives a pecuilar and bizarre performance as the creepy single dad next-door. This movie is not about good acting, great writing or excellent cinematography. However, the congregation of so much awful writing propelled by so much awful acting is definitely chock full of laughs for you and your friends. "},{"Title":"Christmas Classic?","Date":"30 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" That's right folks, I have heard people use the term Christmas Classic to describe this film! Why? God only knows! Not to mention the fact that this film's director Brian Levant, has made the most God-awful films in the history of cinema! Including, but not limited to Problem Child 2, A Christmas Story 2, The Flintstones, and The Flintstones in viva rock Vegas. One of the worst things about this film is that there was a LOT of comedic talent involved with this film. Arnold Schwarzenegger, Sinbad, Jim Belushi, Phil Hartman, and Curtis Armstrong. Unfortunately, no one is funny in this! The plot of the film is The Supposedly Good-hearted workaholic Howard, (Schwarzenegger) has been neglecting his family. Particularly his son, Jamie. Played by Jake Lloyd. (You know, that annoying little brat that played Anakin Skywalker in Phantom Menace? AKA Episode one of those God-awful prequel films, that all of us TRUE Star Wars fans wanna forget and pretend like they never existed?) So anyway, Howard misses his son's Karate class, which leaves his son very upset angry with him. Howard apologizes for his actions, and asks Jamie what he could do to make it up to him. Jamie then asks his father to get him a Turbo-Man action figure for Christmas. Which as it turns out, is the Hot-selling toy that year. Therefore, Howard must go to extreme measures, and overcome every obstacle to get his son the toy. I can only guess at what the film is trying to say here, but the message is buried so deep underneath this convoluted plot, that you can just barely make it out. I assume that the film is trying to say that we shouldn't let the over commercialization of Christmas overshadow it's true meaning, but the film never spends ANY time showing us the true meaning! The film inadvertently glorifies the commercialism of Christmas which is the antithesis of it's attempted message! However, that's not what REALLY bothers me about this film. What DOES bother me are 2 things 1, With the exceptions of Jamie, Jamie's Mom, and Jamie's best friend Johnny, there are NO good people in this film! Sure the film TRIES to make Howard and Myron (Sinbad's character) look like good people, but none of them do good things, or behave like good people do. Myron endangers the lives of policeman, and almost gets Jamie killed! Let's also not forget that Howard, broke into his neighbors house, and attempted to STEAL a Turbo-Man action figure that belonged to Jamie's best friend! The guy may have been desperate, but stealing from a child is where I draw the line! All of the things I said previously are just the tip of the iceberg folks, Here's why this film really sucks No one LEARNS anything! No one learns the true meaning of Christmas, No one is better person by the end of the story, no one changes! By the end of the film, everyone is exactly the same way as the were before! Look, if you are one of the people who enjoys this film, and call it A Christmas Classic then great, more power to you. If you want my opinion however, I'd suggest you stay away from it. "},{"Title":"Junk","Date":"30 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" One of Arnie's poorer films, this really has nothing to commend it. It's OK for young kids, but for those expecting to see a huge Arnie bodycount, think again! The script is full of dull xmas clichés and appalling sentimentality etc, but perhaps the most annoying aspect of the film is the typical whining little brat, Arnie's son. There are some co-stars who raise the odd muted chuckle from you, Arnie's cheesy and smug neighbour being one of em. The dialogue is so wooden that you can practically spot the woodworm and as for Arnie's attempts to look like a caring dad, they leave a lot to be desired. At times his performance is laughable its that bad! His wife is also excruciatingly boring, a real whiner. Arnie should really have stuck to grown-up films because in this offal he shames himself. "},{"Title":"Just Ok","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  One reviewer calls this movie sick, but I guess my years at the post office has twisted my mind, that nothing affects it anymore.  I can relate to the Sinban character, the job can drive you drink.  A lot of the people there behave off centre.  The movie lags in spots, but is entertaining.  It is a family movie, like the Santa Clause. "},{"Title":"I liked this movie... you didn't?","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I have seen some comments about this movie and I have seen that people didn't like it very much. I can even understand why some people hate this film, but I like it. I like it since the very first time I watched it, and I still like it every time I see it again. Too much violence? Oh, I don't think so. Not for the family? I bet that people who say those things let their children awake while they show really violent scenes on TV. An image of a man punching another man in a funny mood is nothing for a normal child. Images of people dying and killing are shown everyday in the news at lunch time. Isn't that much worse?As I said, I liked this movie. It's funny and the ending is wonderful for children. 8 out of 10 for me. "},{"Title":"Jingle All the Way","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  More like Disappointing All the Way. This one even tops Last Action Hero, in Arnold's bad choices department. Hartman hams his way through his role. Sinbad adds the only color to this bland Christmas film.   "},{"Title":"Worst Christmas Movie Ever","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I thought this movie was going to mock Christmas materialism and be extremely funny, especially with the comical cast.  But instead it ends up glorifying and justifying the whole idea!For kids the movie might be entertaining, but the whole stalking bit with Hartman and Arnold's wife is stale and not entertaining for children one bit.For adults, the movie has little to offer except a chuckle every now and then.  Some earnesty, but mostly mean-spiritedness make this move insulting.  If the plan is mocking a Christmas tradition, you don't do it by being mean to innocent people (and reindeer!); you do it through slapstick or through some other form.  And besides, the ending contradicts the whole point of the movie, that people shouldn't be materialistic.  I saw this in a theater with my girlfriend, and both of us were so disturbed by the movie we couldn't even cuddle with each other!Wretchedly horrible, but not the actors' faults (other than the fact they signed on to the script).  This makes The Santa Clause (from a year before) seem like Miracle on 34th Street.  One of the worst movies I've ever seen.  "}{"Title":"you picked the wrong day","Date":"2 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" If you haven't seen Jingle All the Way yet- upon it being its tenth-year anniversary- be warned, it's not one of the better family Christmas movies made. Matter of fact it's one of the worst, certainly in the field of Arnold Schwarzenegger's non-action film work. Gone are the actually funny lines and scenes to be found in Arnold's comedy collaborations in Ivan Reitman's films, and for the most part just really goofy sequences of action and suspense, leading to an ending that is about as ludicrous as can be (it's actually funny, in an unintentional way, how all of the main characters are duped as to who is Turbo-Man until the figure takes off his helmet, heh).Arnold plays a so-so father to a boy who just wants one thing for Christmas, aside from a loving and attentive father, which is the Turbo-Man action figure, the biggest thing to hit the shelves of the season, or maybe any season. The dummy he is, he thinks he can get a Turbo-Man on the 24th of December, when everyone is outside waiting for one in the packed holiday shopping frenzy. The filmmakers mean for this to all be a comment/satirization of the whole frenzy, but it falls flat upon it having to be very 'kid-friendly'. It doesn't help matters that Sinbad is a major player in the picture, as an also out-of-touch postal-worker dad who is also vying for a Turbo-Man, at all costs. I never really found him much funny on his own show anyway, and with this script he doesn't do that much better with scenes that are forced with the comedy.Maybe a little better is Phil Hartman, who probably has the best line of the whole movie from my perspective (when he finds out Arnold's character is caught red-handed with his own Turbo-Man doll kept under his tree), you can't bench-press your way out of this one. But even he is subservient to a character who is too thin to even fit into a one-dimensional character of the 'very kind and generous but really sleazy' dad of the bunch. In the end, after a daring feat of unexpected do by Arnold in the Turbo-Man costume (wackiness, of course, brought the costume upon him, among other contrite comic conventions), the very last bit with the son is just that much more insulting. While once or twice I did feel that the comedy did work, if only on a very stupid, base level, like when Arnold has to face off against an actual reindeer, or parts of his trip into the world of Santa con-men, it's really a flat endeavor that only has gotten lesser in quality years later.When I was younger and watched it even then I thought it was just 'ok'. Today, I don't see it as being the complete bomb like Schwarzenneger's next film in 1997 would be (Batman & Robin), it comes close, as one of those studio pieces of product tripe that come through the wheel-works at the most wonderful time of the year. Maybe if nothing else is on TV it's worth several minutes to see if it might be your cup of tea. But for me, it's not something I really want to watch again anytime soon. "},{"Title":"Struggles to jingle any of the way, but the ending is the real nail in the coffin","Date":"11 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Let me start this review by saying that I actually liked Jingle All The Way as a little kid. Shows how discriminating I was back then, huh? But something happened - I grew older. I saw this again back in 2002 and then 2005 (both times on Christmas Eve, coincidentally) and both times I hated it. I hated the little kid, and I hated the implied moral that Your kid will only love you if you give him stuff. But the worst part, I felt, was the ending. I still feel, a few months after seeing it, that it was a cop-out, where all is forgiven and everyone goes home happy. I would have at least told my kid off for yelling at me over the phone, but no, this kid gets off scot-free and that put me off.The story is about a man called Howard Langston, who rushes to get his kid a toy for Christmas after letting him down too many times. What follows are slapstick antics and a insipid battle with a postman (don't ask).The acting is OK, I guess, but nothing special. Arnold Schwarzenegger tries but is often reduced to smiling and mugging for the camera, while Sinbad presents his character as obnoxious and unlikeable, to the point where we don't care when he gets the toy. Jake Lloyd's character is an unlikeable brat and judging by his performance here, we end up wondering how he ever got to play Anakin Skywalker in Star Wars. Phil Hartman and James Belushi come and go without really managing to make an impression.All in all, this is one to avoid, even if you are a fan of Schwarzenegger. As for me, I felt like I was robbed of time I could have spent doing something more worthwhile.1/5 stars "},{"Title":"Jingle All The Way","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Brian Levant, the director of Beethoven and The Flintstones brings us a seasonal comedy about one man's struggle to get his son the toy he wants. Basically Howard 'Howie Langston (Arnold Schwarzenegger) has let his son Jamie down quite a few times in the past, and he now wants to make it up to him. So Jamie asks him to get the new and very popular Turbo Man doll. Unfortunately he forgets and now has only Christmas Eve to get it. He is trying everything he can to get the doll, but he has competition from father Myron Larabee (Sinbad) who also tries to get the doll. They both run into each other too much, and the struggle to get the doll goes on and on. Also starring Phil Hartman as Ted Maltin. It has giggly moments, e.g. wrestling and ninja like Santas' and a good ending, but it isn't that great. Once it was even voted the worst Christmas movie ever, beating Santa Claus Conquers the Martians. Adequate! "},{"Title":"Ah-Nuld makes a Chrizmaz movie","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Arnold stars as a down father who tries to buy his son a Christmas gift he should of bought three months ago and forgot, only to discover that the gift is the biggest Christmas seller. Now he is on the run for a action figure against a whole swat group of cops, an insane mailman, a warehouse of con men, and a greedy neighbor who wants Arnolds wife. Arnold makes another comedy that falls short! The characters are all good but the actors in their roles are not believable. Sinbad is great though, he was hilarious as Miron! The plot is fare but the jokes keep going flat. Arnold meets con Santa Cluases, Arnold burns a wise mans head, Arnold makes a cop spill coffee onto himself, Arnold rides on a float as a super hero. Right. This film though tries hard and gets something it deserves, a low credit. Jingle All the Way gets the big 6, another mediocre film that the whole family can see together at Christmas. Good for only a rental though. "},{"Title":"Yawn","Date":"10 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" This very boring filmed was played to possibly torture us a few Christmases ago at school. Yes, through this film I kept nodding off and averting my mind to something else. Anyway, this film is about a man who leaves everything to the last minute. A boy wants a doll based on an iffy superhero called Turboman. On Christmas Eve, the dad( played by Arnold Schwarzenegger) sets out to by this doll finding there are none left anywhere. Throughout this movie an annoying black man keeps popping up somewhere or other. Meanwhile, there is a winter parade going on in the middle of town. The father then realises he promised his son to be there and goes around battling evil Santas and elves. I lost track at this point in the movie ). Anyways, later on the man appears to be in a Turboman costume at the parade and that black man captures the boy. Turboman(Dad) then does something and they all live happily ever after. See, boring. "},{"Title":"Stinker.","Date":"22 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  You may wonder why this was made, well here are two qualified guessesArnold probably made this movie to show off his humorous side. Well, he shows us pretty well that he has no talent whatsoever when it comes down to making people laugh. The director probably made this to show us the true spirit of Christmas. Quite obviously, according to this movie, the true spirit of Christmas is give expensive gifts to your children so you can neglect them all you want.Even apart from these major flaws, this movie blows. Somewhere along the line someone came up with the moronic idea of turning an already abysmal, sugarcoated Christmas comedy into an actioncomedy. Problems are, as you might suspect, that a) this movie isn't funny, b) the action suck, oh yeah, this movie sucks too.Personally I'd prefer ebola as a Christmas gift, rather than watching this manure again.3/10  "},{"Title":"A career low point for Schwarzenegger - even Hercules In New York is preferable to this!","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"   Arnold Schwarzenegger's movie career began to decline with the wretched Last Action Hero in 1993, but this festive comedy marked his ultimate nadir. You have to go right back to his forgotten Hercules In New York to find a film in his filmography which is anywhere near as poor as this, but this is still marginally the worst of the bunch. In fact, Jingle All The Way has one good point only it is mercifully brief! Schwarzenegger plays a not-very-good dad called Howard Langston who has promised his son Jamie a superhero doll called Turbo-man for Christmas. Sinbad plays Myron, an equally lousy father who has promised his own son exactly the same thing. Alas, both men have left the Christmas shopping a little late and they soon learn that the doll is the hottest toy of the season, so much so that there isn't a single one left anywhere in the city. So begins a desperate hunt for the last remaining Turbo-man, with each man resorting to increasingly sadistic and unsporting tricks to get the better of his rival. If you like the idea of Arnold knocking out a savage reindeer with a mean uppercut, this might be for you. If you like movies which present materialistic, conniving scum-bags as heroes, you may also like this movie. If you like anything which has wit ahead of noise, and any hint of depth whatsoever, you will be appalled by this Christmas turkey of a movie! I didn't jingle all the way through this movie - I sulked!! "},{"Title":"Barf the herald angels sing . . .","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Lame, contrived comedy with Arnie forgetting to buy his son the popular TurboMan doll for Christmas and running around frantically at the last minute trying to find one. Sinbad is a mailman who is also on the hunt for the doll, and he and Arnie battle each other trying to get it. This may sound like a fairly good concept for a comedy, and it actually is, but what's done with it is pathetic. The film is full of missed opportunities; it sets up situations that are ripe for good slapstick and then either ignores them or blows them completely. The scene in the mall where a mini-riot breaks out as parents scramble for plastic numbered balls for a TurboMan doll lottery would have been handled ten times better by any halfway competent Three Stooges director; here Brian Levant lets it fizzle out almost immediately in order to let Arnie chase a bouncing ball through the mall. Really, really dumb. A previous poster has mentioned the criminal waste of Phil Hartman, and he's exactly right; Hartman gave it a valiant try, but David Spade could have done his part, it was that generic. Sinbad gives the picture the only life it really has, which shows you how lifeless it is, and the ending looks like it was dropped in from another movie. It's just an excuse to show off some not-so-special effects, and instead of provoking laughs, it just provokes irritation, because it goes so far off base. Arnie doesn't make much of an impression as a comedic actor. He tries hard, but he has always been more of a personality than an actor, and while that may be good enough to get by in action films, it's not good enough in comedies. And even if it was, this slow, lumbering, badly paced dud wouldn't be it.  "},{"Title":"Corny","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Ridiculously miscast Arnold Scwhartzenegger--as a workaholic dead beat dad--galavants around Minnesota on Christmas Eve, desperately trying to locate a 'Turbo-Man' action figure for his son, Jamie(Jake Mannequin Lloyd). Of course the doll is impossible to find, since it only happens to be the hottest selling Christmas toy EVER, but Ahnold tries and tries. Of course he winds up in a lot of goofy mishaps along the way, like being persued by crazy Myron the mailman(Sinbad No-Last-Name, who screeches all of his lines), who also forgot to buy a Turbo Man for HIS son, and an angry cop(Robert Conrad), whom he keeps bumping into. For what it is--a corn-ball movie with not much of a plot and obviously scripted dialogue and the world's most miscasted star-- Jingle All the Way is okkkkkaaaaaay. Arnold's goofy antics like punching a reindeer, his dry humor lines, and the whole stupid climax at the parade that had him FLYING(and looked very computer-generated) get tiresome. And why, WHY was the scene after all of the credits had rolled NOT just used as the last scene of the movie? I digress...It wasn't all together bad, though. The underground Santa ring made no sense, and while Arnold beating up the Santa's was incredibly, INCREDIBLY stupid, the bust made on them was sort of funny, as was the whole absurd premise. I also enjoyed Phil Hartman's(who also bellowed his lines) cheesy perfect neighboor character, and the cop was alright, too.So, while Jingle All the Way is very stupid and dumb and corny as can be, it also passes the time alright, and might be worth some other viewings, to mock, if all else fails. "},{"Title":"Jingles Some of the Way","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Jingle All the Way is a disappointing film about one father's (Arnold Schwarzenegger) quest to get that one impossible-to-find toy for his young son for the holidays.  Needless to say, he has no luck and is in constant competition with postman Sinbad to find one on Christmas Eve.  The film is mindless for the most part, there is no real screenplay and even less direction.  The late Phil Hartman is the greatest asset this film has. His ability to dominate when he's on screen makes the film watchable, but little else.  2 stars out of 5. "}{"Title":"Useful only as Psychological Warfare","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I always tend to have a whipping boy movie every year.  This movie is so bad that I hold a grudge against it for whatever time or money I spent to watch it.  The current, and still undefeated, champion remains Jingle All The Way.  I believe the best review I have ever read about this movie, or any movie for that matter, came from the review in THE ONION whose review's first line read, As mirthful as an icicle shoved straight up your !#*.  "},{"Title":"Bad movie, with waste of good talents","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Jingle all the way is a strained screwball comedy, that starts off well and goes downhill. The story has Arnold Schwarzenegger and other parents trying to get a hold on the toy of the Christmas holiday, and while trying to get it goes through hell. Fighting off frenzied parents destined to get a hold of that toy. Some of the parts are funny, mostly Sinbad is good. And Phil Hartman is funny too, but to me Arnold Swarzenegger is the best, yes the acting is good, but the movie isn't, it's dumb, gets boring after a while, and you wish it would be over soon. So Jingle all the Way gets a 2 out of 10. Rated PG for some comic violence and mild language. "},{"Title":"Car Crash Cinema","Date":"20 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Jingle All the Way is one of these films which is so bad that you can't help watching it. You know it's bad for you, but you can't help yourself.Howard (Arnold Schwarzenegger) is a workaholic salesman who neglects his wife and son. He promises to make up for it by getting his son's Christmas present, a Turbo Man doll. The problem is he left his Christmas shopping to last minute and ends up trying to get the most popular toy on Christmas Eve. He ends up going through hell, fighting grannys, nearly getting arrested, and ends up competing with a mad postman (Sinbad) and his next door neighbour and divorced superdad Ted (Phil Hartman (Troy McClure and Lionel Hutz from the Simpsons)). Howard tests his own moral compass to discover the true meaning of Christmas.Of course this film was never going to be very good, it's a slapstick, family comedy with one of the most wooden actors staring in it. The only modern Christmas movie I like is Elf. But as I said this film is so bad and so cheesy that you end up watching and laughing for all the wrong reasons. It's such cheap humour that it's unbelievable. I love to know what financial trouble that Arnold Schwarzenegger must have been in to do this movie? He was one of the biggest movie stars in the world at the time, staring in the Terminator Series, Conan series, Predator, True Lies and Total Recall, to this. I know he was trying to branch out of the action genre to do comedy films, but that really was a mistake. Arnie was not a comedic actor. Even the great Phil Hartman was unfunny in this film which is sad to say.The writing may as well been down by a computer, it was weak and robotic. Possibly a few words words was typed in and the writer just came up with a cheap screenplay. Empire have described the director Brian Levant as the worst directors in Hollywood. This is the man who made a career making lazy family comedies, Beethoven, The Flintstones (ruining a classic cartoon), Snow Dogs and Are We Done Yet (a sequel to a rubbish film in the first place). All his films just focus on bad slapstick. Luckily he doesn't have much of a career now.Entertaining for all the wrong reasons. "},{"Title":"Not Exactly A Christmas Carol","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  	At last we have a movie that celebrates the TRUE meaning of Christmas, capturing the spirit and the essence of all that is dear to so many.  What a wonderful gift, a holiday treat that can't be beat, and you can buy it at your local mall.  Actually, all sarcasm aside, `Jingle All the Way,' directed by Brian Levant and starring Arnold Schwarzenegger, is one better left on the shelf of the video store or in the bargain bin of your local Walmart.  Because a more sickening paean to commercialism has never been committed to film.  The plot (excuse me?) concerns young Jamie Langston's (Jake Lloyd) wish for the Toy of the Season, `Turboman.'  Mom Liz (Rita Wilson) leaves it up to all-too-busy-businessman dad, Howard (Schwarzenegger) to make the purchase.  But Howard procrastinates (lying to Liz that he has-- don't worry!-- the toy already in his possession), and by the time he gets to the mall on Christmas Eve, guess what?  Turboman is sold out!  And so begins the real adventure of the story, as Howard bazookas his way through mall after mall, toy store after toy store, in his desperate attempt to lay his hands on a Turboman.  And, like Tennessee Ernie Ford once sang, `If you see me comin' better step aside--'  Because no one-- man, woman, child, dog or reindeer-- had better get in Howard's way, because he's comin' through!  At any cost, Turboman will be his!	Unfortunately, that cost is pretty high, but not necessarily for Howard, but in the price the audience must pay to sit through these uninspired and unimaginative ramblings.  Working from a screenplay (I imagine there had to be one, but by whom I have no idea, nor do I want to know), director Levant delivers, if not a mean-spirited, then at least a `spiritless' movie that is nothing less than the antithesis of the Christmas spirit.  Even after peeling away the superficial layers to get to the heart of the story, you're left with nothing but empty peelings in your hands, because deep down, there's nothing there but a black hole (which is where this whole thing belongs, except that it would cause such a tremor in the Force that the entire solar system would probably be upset).  `Ernest Saves Christmas' had much more to offer even than this.  At least `Ernest' had some heart.  And how you can make a `Christmas' movie without any at all in beyond comprehension.  Was this, perhaps, a feeble &#145;90s attempt at being so `politically correct' that in some convoluted way greed and violence were deemed an appropriate substitute for the more traditional expressions of the season, so that those who do not keep Christmas would not be offended?  Is Howard supposed to represent a typical &#145;90s father?  I think (and fervently hope!) not.  	One thing is certain, Schwarzenegger's career has nowhere to go from here but up.  As if it matters.  The Terminator himself will always `Be back!'  It's just a shame that someone who is no doubt a caring father in real life would allow a travesty like this to become part of his legacy.  It would've taken an actor with some real depth to put anything like a positive spin on the character of Howard, and Arnold just isn't that guy; he just doesn't have the chops for it, try as he may.  His portrayal is cheerless and uncharismatic.  If there is anything about Howard with which anyone in the audience will be able to identify or relate, my guess is they will deny it vehemently.  it's a sad commentary to have to note that `The Terminator' had more heart than Howard.	As Howard's rival in the quest to score a Turboman, Sinbad gives a sinfully bad performance as a postal worker father in the same boat as Howard, going postal in his bid for the toy.  Suffice to say this is one that would be better removed from his resume.  Alas, count Sinbad as another victim of this heartless effort.	The supporting cast includes Phil Hartman (Ted), Robert Conrad (Officer Hummell), Martin Mull (D.J.), James Belushi (Mall Santa), Harvey Korman (President) and Laraine Newman (First Lady).  Humorless, cheerless and heartless, `Jingle All the Way' is a seasonal misfire proffered by some misguided minds apparently attempting to be all things to everyone.  In retrospect, the guy who gave the green light for this one should be run out of town on a rail.  Now, if not sooner.  When Lincoln said you can fool some of the people all of the time, he wasn't referring to this movie.  Because this one isn't fooling anyone, any of the time.  I rate this one 1/10.        		 "},{"Title":"Had potential but stuck with kid friendly antics and syrup instead","Date":"21 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Feeling guilty after working so hard that he misses much of his son's life, Howard Langston sets out on Christmas Eve to buy the hottest toy for him - the new Turbo Man action figure.  However the hottest toy is already sold out weeks ago and everyone wants it. Howard finds himself in a battle against other fathers and a cruel commercial system to buy his son's love.Greatly derided by most critics on it's release, it is immediately evident to me that this film actually did have potential.  It's basic script and theme shows a real acerbic edge towards the sheer commercialism of Christmas and the pressure that adverts put on children that eventually gets put on parents, however this theme is quickly lost under childish antics and pratfalls.The action is mostly silly gags and visual stunts that aren't very funny - the absurd climax at the parade is a perfect example of this (rubbish effects and all).  It's a shame because even those of us that aren't parents can relate to the rush and pressures of Christmas, so it is a loss that the film didn't at least add this stuff thicker for adults to enjoy.  Instead, as I said, the film is more about antics than anything else, but most of these are just silly and for children.  Only the hustler Santa and his crooked elf made me laugh (`this photo was taken today' says the elf of a kidnap-victim style photo of him, a newspaper and a turboman doll!).The cast don't do anything at all.  Schwarzenegger tries hard but he is overtaken by all the mugging the script requests of him.  Sinbad is colourful and livens the film up some, but he is a one trick pony and that one trick is tired way too quickly here.  The usually reliable Hartman is a real let down and brings none of his usual wit to the film.  Wilson is OK while Lloyd shows all the subtle skill that made him such a great Skywalker (can you say sarcasm?).  Cameos from Belushi and Woodburn are good value in the one scene that I laughed at.Overall this is a weak comedy.  The adult theme underneath is good and it seems like it will be used well from the mocking start, but it's snowed under by childish gags and mugging.  The effects are poor, jokes unfunny and the cast undistinguished. "},{"Title":"Decent Until the Far-Fetched Ending...","Date":"18 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"   Being a fan of Arnold Schwarzenegger, opposed to Sylvestor Stallone, I rarely call any of Arnold's work horrible. Unfortunately, like Batman and Robin, this film just flops. Arnold Schwarzenegger plays a working dad who never spends anytime with his son, Jake Lloyd (typical sentimental touch). In a last effort to win back his son's favor, he promises to buy his child the hottest new toy/doll. Big Mistake.  Despite Phil Hartman's co-starring character, Jingle All The Way is a decent family film, all until the end, when they throw in a bunch of cheap kid action stunts to try and satisfy audiences. The film had a good premise, spoofing the Furby and Elmo crazes of past years. It's just too bad they messed it up with cheap gimmicks.2/5 stars --John UlmerAlso note the cameo by James Belushi as the mall Santa. "},{"Title":"T'was the night before Christmas and all through the city, most every film showing made this seem a pity!","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Long had I condemned JUNIOR as being the low spot of Schwarzenegger's cinematic career. Then along came JINGLE ALL THE WAY - what can only be described as the low spot of EVERYONE's career! Par for the course for director Levant, former writer for Mork 'n Mindy who gave the world such gems as PROBLEM CHILD 2, and the two excrescent FLINTSTONE movies!Whoever advised Schwarzenegger to get involved with this flick is an idiot although what does that make Arnie for taking up the option? If to get a few laughs we have to see Arnie chasing toddlers through a department store, stealing a present from beneath the tree of his next door neighbor, punching out Santas Clauses and even a reindeer can you believe it?  things are bad this particular yuletide!One totally unseasonal and (as many have mentioned) highly mean-spirited flick with few redeeming features. (I didn't even like Turbo Man!)At the session I sat in on in 1996 it was a really Silent Night! "},{"Title":"Unfortunately I had to give it 1/10 in order to leave a review","Date":"1 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Well, what is there to say. NEVER watch this film unless you want to have your Christmas ruined. Films like this make me lose faith in humanity. After watching this I no longer believe in Christmas as it THE REASON THIS GOD AWFUL PIECE OF S**T WAS MADE. Whoever thought this film was in any way funny or that ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER should star in a Christmas film is so utterly deluded he needs to be locked away in a mental asylum, please I beg that the original reels to this atrocity are destroyed in the fires of any volcano,THIS FILM IS THE WORST FILM I HAVE EVER SEEN AND IF ANY CHANNEL SHOWS IT THIS YEAR I WILL THROW MY TV OUT MY WINDOWDo NOT watch jungle all the way "},{"Title":"Don't bother","Date":"24 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie really surprised me.But not in a good way.Although the commentary it makes on American gotta have it gift obsessions might be a worthy subject, mostly the comedy was extremely forced and not funny.My biggest objection, though, was the distinctly nasty characters that are the would-be protagonists. Had the violence been truly slapstick (think Keystone Cops or such) it might have been OK -- but touted as a kid's movie, this had far too much normal (if poorly acted) aggression and anger.I would DEFINITELY not recommend this movie for kids, and for that matter not for adult either.Rating 2 stars out of 10. "},{"Title":"About as much fun as getting socks for Christmas; but if you MUST watch it, stick around for the credits.","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Most of Arnold Schwarzenegger's ventures into comedy have been at least amusing, but Jingle All The Way fails on pretty much every level; the comedy's weak and occasionally offensive (hands up everyone who really thinks jokes about bombs in the post are funny), Arnie and the equally painful Sinbad as his rival after this year's must-have Turbo Man make you lament the movie's criminal waste of the late lamented Phil Hartman, and the scene where the big guy goes whizzing all over the place as Turboman in the parade climax just seems like an excuse to fit in special effects (which aren't that special, by the way). And the emotional moments work just as well as the comic scenes - i.e. they don't. (The kid isn't a help either.)That's not to say there aren't any good moments; the end titles feature a great Brian Setzer version of Jingle Bells, a reprise of David Newman's Turbo Man theme - how many movies has this man given music better than they deserve? (a pox on the Amazon.com reviewer who described Newman's two cuts on the TVT album as filler. Critics with a clue about movie music are about as common as people who like Kelly Brook for her acting) - and a Nat King Cole song. And there is one genuinely funny moment... but that moment comes after the end credits have finished, Produced and Released by Twentieth Century Fox and all. I won't give it away, but it does prove that Jingle All The Way is a one-joke comedy in the worst sense of the term. "}{"Title":"A tasteless, charmless and totally unfunny spectacle","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" STAR RATING ***** The Works **** Just Misses the Mark *** That Little Bit In Between ** Lagging Behind * The Pits After going back to what he did best for a bit in the 90s with action films like True Lies and Eraser, Arnie decided to have another pop at the family comedy genre with this 1996 Christmas offering. It turned out to be both a unanimous critical and commercial disaster and, having finally given it a pop for the first time today, I can see why.Howard Langston (Arnie) strives to provide for his family with his busy, high-profile job at a toy-store. However, without even realizing it, it's coming at the expense of spending time with his wife Liz (Rita Wilson) and young son. After letting his boy down far too many times, Howard makes him a promise he vows not to break he will get him a toy doll of Turbo-Man, a latest craze action figure that's sweeping the nation. Unfortunately, there's another father, Myron (Sinbad) who's also determined to get the toy for his boy. It turns into a desperate battle between the two men to come out on top and get the toy for their child.Serial offender Brian Levant, the man behind obnoxious kiddie fare like Problem Child 2, is back at the helm here. And he displays the same repellent lack of values and morality he displayed in that film, with jokes here involving violence, bomb threats and even paedophilia. Arnie's cynical, wise-cracking act really doesn't work here, with one or two scenes really coming off the wrong way. Sinbad, as a loud-mouthed, obnoxious arch-nemesis is really charmless and unlikeable. In terms of performances, the only one that comes close to successful is the late Phil Hartman as Howard's obnoxiously clean-living, infallible next-door neighbour always managing to out-do him at every turn.The film could have found a more touching edge by putting in some commentary on the commercialization of Christmas, but instead just comes off as a loud, garish celebration of America's over-blowing of the festive season.Ultimately, after listening to every other critic slam Jingle all the Way for being as truly poor a film as it is, I can only be angry at myself for so foolishly throwing away an irretrievable hour and a half of my life that I could have used to do something much more constructive. * "}]