[{"Title":"Captivating Piece of Film","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"33 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":"  After reading many of the previous reviews and commentaries, I'm beginning to wonder whether we all saw the same movie! I found the entire piece enriching, riveting, and suspenseful, and was immediately moved to call friends and family members to recommend it. The performances are remarkable Pacino is intense, Ryder catches the deer-in-the-headlights feel of her character perfectly. Baldwin is restrained and beguiling, while Spacey delivers his usual flawless performance. Penelope Allen was astounding. The movie serves, not to deliver the entire work-- analyzed, explained, and discussed-- on a platter, but, rather, to whet our appetites and bring Shakespeare to modern classes, and I felt it succeeded in this admirably. It also showed the thought and preparation that goes into such a production. I particularly enjoyed watching the actors discuss various interpretations of particular scenes, imparting their own ideas and feelings, and often disagreeing with each other. While we are both generally action movie or suspense fans, we found ourselves completely drawn into the drama, both in the characters and in the actors, and-- even knowing, of course, the ending in advance-- found ourselves on the edge of our seats as the film neared its climax. My one complaint? I wish they had then gone on to film their entire version of Richard III to offer as a companion piece. An excellent way to indulge yourself in an exciting, well-performed piece of movie-making, and actually come away having learned a little bit. Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Give Shakespeare another try.","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"27 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":"  To me, Looking for Richard is about one man's love of Shakespearean plays. This film is his vehicle to share that admiration with as many people as possible.  I'm glad Mr. Pacino made this film, because he is so well-respected by such a wide variety of people, that his presence will draw them first to this film and then hopefully to the theatre.I found the film extremely interesting. If you're at all interested in theatre, you'll enjoy watching the cast debate during rehearsals.  It gave me a greater insight into what's involved in actually putting on a play. Usually, you just see the finished product, and they make it look so easy. I was relieved to learn from the film that the actors and directors struggle with the text of the plays too.  So you don't have to feel bad if you don't understand all the dialogue - you will get the gist of it. The film is simply urging people to give Shakespeare another chance.  You might like it, or you might not, but at least you'll have given it a shot.  And if you do like it, it'll keep you busy for years.Since most people are initially exposed to Shakespeare in high school, I imagine that's where their phobia originates. I had an English teacher who was passionate about Shakespeare, and he instilled that appreciation in me. Unfortunately, everyone isn't as lucky. Boring classes turned them off, and that's all they'll ever experience of Shakespeare. They are missing so much. I hope all the English teachers out there who are less than comfortable with teaching Shakespeare will show this film to their classes to counteract any Shakespeare phobia-inducing incidents. "},{"Title":"a fine film that brings Shakespeare a living edge","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":" This film has fascinated me ever since I first happened upon it in the library of Millsaps College in Jackson, Mississippi. By a happy coincidence, I also checked out Ian McKellen's quite excellent Richard III on the same day and spent most of the afternoon viewing and comparing the two.It all works the performances, the interviews, the clowning around on the set. I thought Spacey was wooden, but Baldwin . . . wow . . . who would have expected such a performance.Highly recommended for anyone who reads and thinks.Rusty "},{"Title":"A celebration of art","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":"  From other comments I've read on this movie, one might get the impression that the primary purpose of this documentary is to explain Shakespeare and Richard III.  To me, this makes it seem like the documentary falls into the same trap Shakespeare tends to fall into in our culture, that of being medicinal; it tastes bad, but it's good for you.  While the movie does give you an insight into Shakespeare and Richard III, that is not its primary value.  Like the recent SHAKESPEARE IN LOVE, this is a celebration of Shakespeare's art, his wordplay, and his drama, communicated to us here by Pacino, who is a big Shakespeare fan.  It also shows how his plays connect with us and with our culture(as one critic said, playing Michael Corleone is a nice preparation for Richard III).  The cast pulls the play off with aplomb, and the interviewees make their points without becoming dry, didactic, or condescending.  But it's Pacino's show, and he shows not only his great acting talent, but why he's also a great director.  And again, this invites us into a celebration of art, rather than repels us by being a lesson.  "},{"Title":"Simple and fantastic","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":"  I'll admit to some possible bias here I like Shakespeare, I used to study acting, and I like Pacino.  And I thought it was wonderful how the three were mixed together to form this great documentary.It's not a film good just for entertainment; it's good if you feel like watching something educational, and enlightening.  What I loved about the movie was how it showed the process of acting, particularly Shakespeare. You go from actors sitting around a table reading from a script, to actors sitting around a table improvising to get a feel for their character, to the finished product.  And the acting is fantastic.I enjoyed how this movie showed how good professional actors are.  Because of his looks, Kevin Conway is just a character actor in Hollywood; the parts he gets are generally going to be all along the same lines.  But here he gets to show just how talented, skilled, and trained actor he is.  For me, Shakespeare is a litmus test.  I've rarely been impressed by Alec Baldwin as an actor (Glengarry Glen Ross excepted) but here he shows that he truly is a professional actor, not just a movie star.  Unfortunately, Wynona Ryder did not past the test.  I thought she was the weakest part of the movie; she did not sound at all natural.  While everyone else spoke their lines as Shakespeare is supposed to sound like, Ryder sounded like she was speaking Shakespeare.  I had similar problems with Leo DiCaprio and Claire Danes in Romeo + Juliet, especially compared to the smooth and natural performances of Pete Postlethwaite and Harold Perrineau.The movie is not for everyone.  But if you enjoy acting, if you enjoy Shakespeare, and/or you simply enjoy Pacino, this is a must-see. "},{"Title":"Cinematic meditation on Shakespeare play","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":"  Looking for Richard frames the essential postmodern question in its own terms Is this a film about Richard III, or is this a film about a film about Richard III?  Cameras follow Al Pacino as he wanders New York, sometimes on foot, but more often in the back of a limousine.  We're not sure what he's doing, except it has something to do with Shakespeare's play Richard III.  There are rehearsals with familiar actors, and actual performances, some seemingly on stage, some on sets, some on location, all of it interspersed with discussion about the play.  Is the play actually to be staged, or is it all a show for the film?  We don't know, and really, it doesn't matter.  For the most part, this is a pleasant meditation on its subject.Pacino has chosen a treacherous path on one side stands the dauntingly complex Shakespeare play, and on the other the patronizing attempts to simplify it for the modern audience.  There were several times when I felt talked down to by the actors, but just as many where I felt I benefited from the expanded explanation.  Also, with Pacino so vibrantly at the center of every scene and little attention given to others, the film unavoidably has the flavor of a vanity project.What the film does convey effectively is the power of theater to transport people intellectually and emotionally.  The contrast between Pacino's stuttering attempts to summarize certain plot points and his magnificent animation as Richard is fascinating.  Like the story (possibly apocryphal) about how Picasso, when asked to explain the meaning of one of his paintings, replied that if he could do that, he wouldn't need to paint, even inarticulate actors possess remarkable powers when inhabiting their roles. This insight was the film's central revelation for me. "},{"Title":"Great Great Great","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":"  Who would have thought that an Italian from New York City could play Richard the 3rd. ? Al Pacino is marvellous as he searches the stage and beyond for the true Richard the 3rd. Kevin Spacey, Winonna Ryder, and Alex Baldwin are just some who join him in the journey as he wonders the streets of New York and London for the true love of Shakespeare. "},{"Title":"A perfect example of the Shakespearean complex and relevance..","Date":"23 April 2005","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":" Being an actor, thus not only interested in but bewitched by Shakespeare and his genius, this movie is a wonderful paper on how his text and drama applies to all in all times. Pacino with friends and colleagues Bulleit and Berry (I think) try to digest the soul of the words and make them digestible to the everyday Joe. It's a riveting tale of the grand emotions that we all possess, but rarely express in this time and age and I deeply thank Pacino and his magnificent crew for taking us on this journey. Keep an eye out for the beggar who - in an unprecedented and most sincere way - tells us how Shakespeare lets us in on the secret how life is supposed to be lived and then walks off-camera and asks a businessman for a penny. 10 out of 10. And thank you. "},{"Title":"Very Impressive Movie!!","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":"  I caught this by sheer accident on BBC C4 last night backed on to another Shakespeare program.I was immediately caught by it..the fabulous comittment to culture in the face of 'dumbing down' shown by Pacino and his team was overwhelming. I too had not thought it possible from american film stars!!His characterisation of Richard was amazing. His fellow actors were equally impressive and the scenes where they discuss the plot, its meaning historically and it's meaning in human terms were gripping.The intercut scenes of British establishment lovies pontificating on why Americans can't do Shakespeare highlighted the pretensiousness of our approach. I would prefer Pacino anyday to a 100 Brannagh's or Jacobi's!!The costume scenes had a kind of byzantine grandeur and I was constantly reminded of Orson Welles, or his influence.Shore's music is tremendous and meets the high standard of the rest of this movie.I will be adding this to my collection at the earliest opportunity.Watch and be amazed!! "},{"Title":"Shakespeare to the common man.","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":"  Al Pacino brings Shakespeare to the common man in this documentary exploring the complexities of Richard III. If you can get past the insinuation that the every day ordinary man (or woman) is too slow to understand the intricacies of Shakespeare, you are left with quite an interesting, entertaining film. I have to be honest and say that many people do find Shakespeare a little bewildering, and tackling Richard III, one of his deepest, confusing plays, is no easy task. Therefore, let down your guard, and let the actors and scholars give us their interpretation of this most fascinating play. I found much irony in this simple effort, which made the film all the more enjoyable. In telling us of a story of a man, who wants so badly to become king as to betray all those he knows and loves, we learn the story of a singular, power hungry man, with an urge to rule his people. In his own admission, Pacino himself is on a quest to be the ultimate monarch of his own film, and tell us all, us commoners, the true meaning of this classic work. Whether or not the parallel is intentional, I don't know, but it still makes for interesting story telling.  And the ultimate irony of all is that some of the deepest and most intelligent quotes come from interviews with Joe Q. Public; the man on the street.   "}{"Title":"Interesting and amusing documentary.","Date":"3 July 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":" Nobody's really sure if Richard III was the scuzzbag that Shakespeare painted him as, but he really goes to town in the play, cackling over his own villainy, rejoicing in turning our everyday morality upside down.This documentary, directed by Al Pacino, cuts back and forth between actual scenes enacted from the play and real-time contemporary scenes in which the actors and others wrestle with the play's meanings and execution.And what a cast of characters. Yulin, Pacino, Spacey, Irons, Ryder, Parsons, Baldwin, Redgrave, Branagh, Gielgud, inter alia. All the principal actors are American, which brings up the question of accent. Mostly we're used to hearing Shakespeare done by English actors -- Gielgud, Olivier, Maurice Evans. Well, let's say, British actors. The Americans in this production don't come off too badly. Every male principal has played a modern criminal, either on the wide screen or on TV, but they adapt rather well to their roles, as they should, being actors. Even the performers with New York accents either manage to disguise them or use them effectively. Pacino, for instance, does Richard in a precise, hoarse whisper, which is okay. British and New York accents have lost the medial r. In both New York and England, garden is pronounced gah-den. The plot -- I usually get lost somewhere along the line, although the play is Shakespeare's second shortest I think, next to MacBeth. Basically, Shakespeare has Richard exploit, murder, and betray everyone who stands in his way during his climb to the throne. It's full of well-worn lines. A horse! A horse! My kingdom for a horse! And both the play and the documentary are pretty funny. It's the end of the War of the Roses between the houses of Lancaster and York. In his opening soliloquy Richard is shambling around, a rude lump of foul deformity, and comes up with, Now is the winter of our discontent made glorious summer by this sun of York. The sun turns winter into summer. But York is also one of the families involved in the conflict and it has just been settled by the Duke, a member of the house of York. Sun = son. Get it? It's called a pun. And now you know why a pun is the lowest form of humor. The play's full of witticisms, most of them better than that, despite being imposed, as they are, on some pretty grisly proceedings. Richard is one of those heavies that's so outrageous that he's engaging, a shameless moral idiot, like Vincent Price in The Abominable Dr. Phibes or Theater of Blood. Hitchcock might have rooted for him.The documentary is funny too. Pacino and Freddy are having an argument about how the experts should be shown during their interviews for the film. Fred feels that the actors know more than guys with PhDs, so the experts should not be shown talking directly into the camera. Cut to an expert being interviewed. He looks into the camera and says, Why does Lady Anne walk out on the street and meet Richard at that particular moment?And he answers himself I -- well -- I don't know.Al and Fred visit WS's house in Stratford and enter his bedroom. We get a shot of the not-especially-comfortable-looking bed that WS was supposedly born in. THIS is the BED? asks Freddy. I was expecting something more. I wanted an epiphany when I walked through the door, and I expected to brim over with inspiration. Pacino Why don't you go back out, then walk through the door again?The documentary also gives us an amusing party at which the intellectualizing guests are made fun of. The well-bred women carry on about the Jungian implications of the play or something -- one mentions the yin and the yang of it. Pacino leans over to Fred and whispers, Fred, you gotta get me outta this. It's gone too far. (The only significance the actors seem to find in the play is strictly political.)Yeah, I can see a cast like this pulling the play off. "},{"Title":"Pacino IS a Usurper","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":"  I love this stuff. But not because it is good -- because it is so bad and the fates have built into the very work a commentary why. And the commentary is by Shakespeare! Wonderful.IssuesThere's a real issue here that is just skirted at the beginning. Should Shakespeare be turned over to actors? Or should someone with a larger vision than mere visceral emotion be in charge and, well. direct, This is a very cogent question with Shakespeare. Clearly, the later plays are not actor's plays but are about ideas. The early plays, like say Romeo and Juliet are clearly actor's plays. They are about people and situations and human motivators. Hamlet is both an early and a later play, as it was rewritten and expanded. Actors alone have a terrible time giving us something whole out of Hamlet.Richard is a problem too. It is an early play, written while Shakespeare himself was an actor and still learning. Probably, some scenes were written by Marlowe. But it is a huge vision, and one must look at it whole and then abstract the threads that work. You can't build up something that works from immediate emotions and paste it together as Pacino attempts. All this produces are disconnected scenes that don't work together. And that's what we have here.Another issue. Shakespeare is work. It is work for us all, on both sides of the stage. Earnestness counts for nothing. Pacino's experiment is to get a bunch of non-Shakespearean film folks together. `We won't even work out who has what part.' We watch them stumble about. How revealing, especially when we see snippets from real actors Redgrave, Branagh, Jacobi, Gielgud. But sigh, no acting from them here.The real issue Pacino jumps into his roles with a heaviness that he wears and which pricks and grates. He generates nothing from inside, just spits about. Even if there were some subtle understandings that a group of actors could collaboratively find, it could never occur from this sort of crass in your face mugging.Richard is a usurper who both charms and forces his way to kingdom. But he doesn't have the internal clockworks to actually connect with his people. Likewise, in this role, Pacino tries to catapult past the basic work -- he forces himself into this role by dint of force without earning it. So he cannot connect with us, his audience.This is wonderfully educational.  "},{"Title":"Add this ingenious, powerful film to your sleeper list","Date":"9 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":"  Of course this film could hardly miss for me, a great fan of Pacino, who directed, starred in and wrote this film (with little help from his friend), and even greater fan of the Bard. What an ingenious concept---a combination of a documentary of film-making with portrayals of some of the most powerful scenes from this renowned dramatization and psychological explication of evil wearing the Crown of England.  Imagine Pacino as Richard III, supported by Alec Baldwin and Kevin Spacey, directed by Pacino!  The decision to show only  some of the most powerful scenes from this notoriously complex play was a wise one.   The aging, intense Pacino is perfect as the embittered, driven Richard who delights in flaunting his evil and daring anyone to bring him down. (And why is the deformed Richard evil? Since I cannot prove a lover, I am determined to prove a villain.) "},{"Title":"personal view of Richard III","Date":"24 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":" Al Pacino's first filmed brush with Shakespeare was this part adaptation of Richard III, and part documentary on the significance of Shakespeare's live and works.He himself plays Richard (and in the few scenes he chooses to play, is impressive). Other excellent readings come from (surprisingly) Alec Baldwin as Clarence, Kevin Spacey as Buckingham, and Estelle Parsons as Queen Margaret. Winona Ryder plays Lady Anne (but I think her voice was dubbed by Kate Burton?).The scenes from the play are done in costume and in a straightforward manner. The choices are good - introspective points and high drama for each character.The documentary bits take two routes - interviews with leading Shakespearians such as John Gielgud and Kenneth Branagh; and Al's own journey to Shakespeare country in Stratford-upon-Avon, to Shakespeare's house and beyond.What comes across is true devotion to the subject, and infectious interest from what was (at the time) an unexpected source. Very good piece of work and well worth your time - when is Al Pacino going to play Richard III on screen for real? "},{"Title":"Praise for Pacino","Date":"29 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie in English-language version at midnight in April 2004 on a Dutch commercial TV-station. Al Pacino is to be praised for making this movie, of which I have the feeling that it could not be made in these times (are there any indies left?). I was fascinated to see what a gap there is between American and 'European' (i.e. British) ways of tackling the problem of performing a play of Shakespeare the British interviewees were cool as cucumbers, the American actors (who all do a fine job) were sometimes desperate to find ways of passage through the labyrinth of the play. Pacino used a fine parallel he made a historic event (the play written by Shakespeare) into a work of art, as did Shakespeare when he turned the rise and fall of the Richard III of the fifteenth century into a play. I think Pacino also tried to do something with one of the most fascinating Shakespearean themes how life and play (or men and actors) are intertwined and often cannot be separated. But Pacino could not elaborate on that, probably because he felt that the film otherwise would be too long. Pacino did well in trying to find the most appropriate locations for the scenes. I was mesmerized to see how Richard could do all that he wanted when inside castles and towers, but was at a loss when he found himself in the open fields. Al Pacino, there are still a lot of Shakespeare's plays waiting for you! "},{"Title":"Shakespeare/Marlowe risen from the dead","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":"  A very difficult and rare thing is achieved in this movie  Shakespeare is made entertaining and easy to understand, even in it's 400 year old dialect. Pacino does even more for Shakespeare than Orson Welles did 35 years before him. That said though, the movie seems to have been made in the editing room, quite how much of it's success is down to Pacino, and how much is to the credit of the editor is debatable. If you can't stand Shakespeare, then this is the movie for you.(Just so you know, Shakespeare was the front man for Christopher Marlowe, a gay Brit exiled in Italy for political reasons. Don't believe me ? Go watch the documentary Much ado about something) "},{"Title":"Explaining Richard","Date":"3 August 1998","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":" Like Ian McKellen's unconventional RICHARD III, this film brings us into Shakespeare in an unusual and effective way. Al Pacino gathers a number of well-known non-Shakespearian actors and they not only stage several of the more important scenes in the play, but they also discuss the meaning of the scenes and the motivations of the characters. These discussion act as a prelude to the scenes and thus make the scenes not only much clearer but also far more powerful than the traditional productions in which the audience may be lost in the dusty old politics that saturate the play. See this one before you see any of the more traditional versions. "},{"Title":"Perhaps the Finest Actor Engages His Fans in the Substance of Perhaps the Finest Dramatist","Date":"16 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":" With what seems to be inadvertent coherence, film is both a performance of selected scenes of William Shakespeare's Richard III and a broader examination of Shakespeare's continuing role and relevance in popular culture. The movie guides the audience through the play's plot and historical background.Pacino plays both himself and the title character, making it an absolute essential for fans of Al Pacino, people like me, who cannot get enough of the guy's presence. His energy is infectious, his spirit is enviable.Combines crowd-pleasing with the widespread cultural turn-off Americans have with the challenge of Shakespeare. What an incredible cause. Kids seeing this film first may well end up with a better understanding of the Bard's work, because Pacino has made an informative, engrossing and hugely enjoyable movie that stands as a work of pure entertainment as powerfully as its inspiration, the very mixture he intends to apply to complicated historical potboilers like Richard III. And he does not condescend the masses by focusing entirely on the negligent view of Shakespeare as obligation. Stars who turn to directing rarely or never do things like this. "},{"Title":"Worth a Trip to Blockbuster in a Hail Storm","Date":"11 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":" I'm not sure I have ever given a -10- to anything I've ever reviewed here (including the fifty or sixty I have removed) - BUT - if you are an actor, director, scenarist, dialog writer, director or pretty much anything else in stage or cinema... and -haven't- seen this...You have -really- missed something remarkable.We have seen Pacino be artful (in the Godfathers, in Glengarry Glen Ross, in Sea of Love, in Serpico). We have seen him strike us dumb (in Scarface, in The Devil's Advocate, in And Justice for All). We have seen him slip us a mickey (in Scent of a Woman, in Dog Day Afternoon, in Dick Tracy). Here, however, we get to see him do -all- of this, -and- provide access to the man's boggling mind and force of charm.We can surely see here why &#150; and how -- Al has gotten his way for decades (even though Richard himself only got &#150;his- for two years).And see him do it in the context of the play that really made Bill Shakespeare when it hit the big time in 1633 -40 years- after it was written... along with a cast of stage monsters who make this 450-year-old revelation... Come... To... Life.Bear in mind, as well, how all this revelation must have been viewed a mere 125 years after all this blood-soaked chicanery in a court so similar to the one viewing it.For the king and queen who saw that first performance, this might have been rather like watching Gone With the Wind had it been screened for the first time in about 1880 when the world was as little changed from 1865 as 1633 was from 1485.Talk about The Godfather, this is the -original-. The intrigues are like torpedoes coming from everywhere. NO one can be trusted. NO one is safe. And we get to see it here in a way no film version (of pretty much anything by Old Bill) has ever made so evident... and relevant.This is worth a trip to Blockbuster in a hail storm. "},{"Title":"Engaging mish-mash","Date":"1 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":" Frequently fascinating film that is mostly documentary-based, with footage of a Richard III production inserted. Interviews are conducted and we see Pacino visiting key places in Shakespeare's history as well as interviewing actors (such as Vanessa Redgrave and John Gielgud) as well as academic historians. Lots of insight is given into the acting process as well as the difficulties Americans in particular may face when dealing with Shakespeare. Indeed, Pacino and his colleagues themselves are self-deprecating and frank when it comes to admitting what they do or do not understand, historical moments, and so on.Certainly one that Pacino fans should admire, as well as there being something quite perceptive for fans of the bard, also. The production of Richard III that we see in between other pieces of footage still manages to be stirring, and is memorably performed. It's hard not to get a kick out of actors like Pacino and Kevin Spacey discussing their craft and then seeing it in motion. "}{"Title":"Pacino's reparations?","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":" My understanding of this movie is that Pacino had been panned for a stage performance of Richard III, and that the motivation behind this movie was to emphasize the seriousness with which Pacino takes his craft.  There were some suggestions that Pacino had thought he might be resting on his laurels to some extent, or otherwise thought he could simply perform Shakespeare as he had any previous role.  Making this movie was a clear statement that if his previous performance was not up to snuff, he would demonstrate his willingness to learn and desire to be successful in such a challenging role.I think the movie seems less self-indulgent if viewed in this light, and it is even more fascinating to watch someone who's as highly regarded as Pacino show so much desire and interest in further perfecting his craft.  "},{"Title":"A unique and fresh look at The Bard","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":"  It's been a while since I've seen this film so I'm gonna have to do an overview.  While watching this film, I kept in mind that it is a documentary and not meant to be a theatrical picture.  This was definetly necessary. If you are looking for something with action or witty lines written down by some overpaid screenwriter in the back lots of Hollywood, you'll have to pick up a different film; however, if you can get past the impulse to veg infront of the tube and make this film in excercising your brain, it is quite remarkable.  Al Pacino and the rest of the cast do a great job of interpreting and explaining Shakespeare and his work.  It is a great film for those who are not Shakespeare buffs.  Pacino enlightens his audience concerning what goes on to stage and enact Shakespeare--the interpretation, the casting, the mindset.  Now, if you still aren't convinced that this movie is at least worth a shot, check out the cast.  It is a who's who of today's most talented actors and actresses Shakespearean as well as those from the other side of the big pond--Kevin Spacey, Kenneth Branagh, James Earl Jones, Alec Baldwin, etc.  My favorite part of the movie comes at the end when Al Pacino acts out the most famous scene of the play (A horse, a horse, my kingdom for a horse!).  It is truly a spirited performance. NOW, with all this said, Looking for Richard falls short of being indispensable. It's a good film but not great.  I think what it lacks is continuity.  It jumps around a little too much for my liking...but Looking for Richard, none the less, is a film that is worth checking out at least once.  Now if you want a truly great Shakespearean film, check out anything directed by Kenneth Branagh. "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":"  Some people miss the point here -- this is not really about Richard III. Rather it is an attempt to communicate (and it does so with amazing clarity and passion) the joy, frustrations, rewards, and sheer hard work of the act of theatrical creation!  YOU WANT TO KNOW WHAT IT'S LIKE TO BE AN ACTOR (OR ANY CREATIVE PERFORMER) THIS FILM WILL CONVEY IT! "},{"Title":"One of the most amazing films ever to treat Shakespeare","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":"  Pacino's quest to make Shakespeare more accessible to the masses is a brilliant piece of film. I study Shakespeare and Performance, and believe that this documentary/film should be required viewing for high school students as an introduction into what Shakespeare can offer our society, particularly when we take the time to ponder it and discover its meanings. Pacino and his supporting cast and interviewees do a superb job of shedding light on what still appears to be a hiss and a byword in our culture, the S word--Shakespeare. From wonderful experimental read-throughs, to innovative acting, delivery and setting, this sincerely is a must see film. Before you show any other Shakespeare film, show this one. I guarantee it will picque the curiosity of those that have already written the Bard off becuase of fear, poor performance or hearsay. Thanks Pacino "},{"Title":"A Shakespeare film, for the normal man.","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":"  I loved this film. And as a young man, this made me want to get into Shakespeare more than I have. It showed Shakespeare is not really for just the great mind, but for all. The plot line to Richard, is as old as time, it's all about greed & power. A great Doc/drama. It's very powerful seeing the actors act out the play around a table. If you have any interest in Shakespeare, rent this movie, you'll love it. I give it an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Pacino's debut.","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":"  Al Pacino's first directorial effort is a great account of Shakespere's Richard III. It shows us how to understand something in layman's terms. The film is captivating and worth watching several times. It borders on documentary and real drama, so don't expect a straight adaption of the play. Instead sit back and enjoy Pacino explaining and portraying one of the great tragic figures of English literature. "},{"Title":"Educational and Funny","Date":"12 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":" Looking for Richard, directed and acted by Al Pacino, has done something I have never seen done before. It takes a viewer on a tour through the development, design and rehearsal of the play 'Richard III'. Filmmaker Al Pacino combines scenes from Richard III being performed by top actors (Kevin Conway, Kevin Spacey, Alec Baldwin), rehearsals for parts, and on-location filming of where the actual events of Richard III took place. Al Pacino is entertaining, he's funny, and he shows unbelievable talent in making documentaries. The scenes are fun to watch of the actors performing the actual play in rehearsal. Kevin Spacey is his usual quiet self as the actors argue over how American actors would have a harder time than British ones on performing the play.The scenes are well filmed with on-site filming. The actors are fun to watch and listen to trying to go from the Movie Screen to the Stage. it would actually be pretty fun to see all of these actors put on the actual play. The movie is educational through the way it shows how much work it takes to pit on and act in a play. I would recommend it to at least any one interested in theater and stage acting.Looking For Richard. Starring Al Pacino, Alec Baldwin, Kevin Spacey, Kevin Conway, Penelope Allen, and Harris Yulin.4 out of 5 Stars. "},{"Title":"Looking Differently At Documentaries","Date":"11 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":" Though I have watched this documentary many times I find that now after watching it during my enrollment in a documentary film class I am able to appreciate the film all that much more. Pacino's passion as an actor is vividly captured in this documentary and the breaks that he offers in order for the audience to catch-up illustrates that he understands his notions as an actor place him in a better understanding of the Shakespearean play, Richard III; but, he does not impose that notion upon the viewer. He is dedicated to helping the viewer understand the play and in doing so gives off a great sense of authority over the play and the production. I enjoyed the rehearsal readings that showed the actors were somewhat in the same boat of misunderstanding as the audience was. By walking the streets of New York and discussing Shakespeare in the most usually of places demonstrates how Pacino envisioned Shakespeare to be a more intricate part of our daily lives. As a participatory film, Pacino demonstrates the art of documenting by choosing the scenes in which he is selecting the settings for the shots to be filmed, he controls the dialogue that takes place on camera and decides which scenes of the play with be discussed more extensively on camera. This film gained a new appreciation from an old fan by noticing the different cinematic techniques that Al Pacino considers while they take place on film. "},{"Title":"Brilliant in-depth study","Date":"8 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":" Looking For Richard is Al Pacino's monument to William Shakespeare. By taking the audience inside rehearsals for a production of one of the Bard's most famous plays, Richard III, the actor comprehensibly dissects the text and makes the play come alive.For me, in one respect, Looking For Richard is a disappointment. By taking the audience through the play like this, rather than actually just putting the play on screen he deprives us of what could have been a great Shakespearean performance. The snatches we see of him performing the role of King Richard by far outmatch his other on-screen Shakespeare, Shylock in The Merchant of Venice.Pacino takes us through the play act by act in a filmed production of it. This includes discussions with his fellow producers and also the popular actors he brings on board with him, among them Alec Baldwin, Winona Ryder and Kevin Spacey. He also visits Stratford-Upon-Avon, Shakespeare's birthplace, and also London, at the site of the reconstruction of the writer's Globe Theatre.Memorable highlights include a breakdown of iambic pentameter (that's something you don't see every day) as well discussions of Shakespeare with connisseurs like John Gielgud, Kenneth Branagh and Peter Brook.Without any of the expletives for which Pacino is famous in his roles, Looking For Richard could easily be an educational picture as well as family entertainment. I long to see Pacino come here to London and do some Shakespeare for real.As it stands, this comes thoroughly recommended to Shakespeare buffs and newcomers alike. "},{"Title":"What could be better?","Date":"28 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":" Al Pacino, tough guy- just the one you want to do Shakespeare, right? You bet! He did a great job in Merchant of Venice, and this project- Looking for Richard- makes me long to see the whole play. I enjoyed the discussions with various actors analyzing their respective characters and their transformation into those characters. Kevin Spacey, for example, was a very enjoyable as Buckingham; Kevin Conway, whom I enjoyed as the Irish sergeant in Gettysburg, played a terrific (emphasis on terror) Hastings whose betrayal by Richard and destruction at the council table leaves him dumbfounded.This film is billed as an introduction for those unfamiliar with Shakespeare, but as one who has seen three different movie productions of Richard III, I was engaged from the first, and watched it a second time with my wife and a third time because the performances, particularly by the well-known actors/actresses were so enjoyable. What could be better? Seeing the whole play! Why isn't that available? "}{"Title":"A revelation","Date":"18 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":" Shakespeare In Love? Mr. Pacino et al are in love with Shakespeare, truly, madly, deeply and thank God for that. While Canada's Stratford Festival began fifty-two years ago with decidedly Royal Shakespeare Company pretensions, while searching for its audience, voice and unique identity, (Alec Guinness opened the Festival in 1953 with a brilliant Richard III)it has staged some incredible interpretations of the canon with performances by British, American, as well as then unknown young Canadian actors including Christopher Plummer and my God, in truth, I once watched a young kid named Wm. Shatner from Montreal literally inhabit Prince Hal in Henry IV, I and II, with dynamism, boldness, wit, intelligence and unbridled energy. In Canada, Stratford has near singlehandedly made Shakespeare accessible and understandable, without condescension, in part through its inexpensive programs tailored especially for schools and the near messianic spirit of making the majesty of Shakepeare's English intelligible, in essence transcending the four century 'divide' with visually stunning,sometimes controversial but most often gratifying entertainments. Kudos to Al Pacino and company for undertaking their quest in America. Looking For Richard is truly a revelation. I always suspected that beneath the Method breathed the soul of a great, but frustrated artist, who seemed always to be searching for ...himself? How absolutely courageous and generous of Al and his colleagues to invite to share in their journey of discovery. This is not and was not ever meant to be another film version of the play. It is about becoming... "},{"Title":"Exercising Shakespeare","Date":"14 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":"  This film should be watched by all those who believe Shakespeare is too complicated or frustrating to understand.  Al Pacino does a great job in gathering opinions on the bard and interpreting scenes from Richard III. I personally prefer Shakespeare's tragedies over his historical plays. Universal themes, memorable quotations and bawdy language are the main reasons Shakespeare is still regarded as the world's greatest writer. "},{"Title":"Perhaps self-indulgent, but who cares?","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":"  Like a previous poster, I caught the film by coincidence on BBC4 and was captivated. It could be said that it's slightly self-indulgent, with Pacino showing off what he can do in a role (and how he can do it), but his enthusiasm, commitment and conviction are fascinating and can certainly bring the play alive, even for people who don't usually care about Shakespeare. The way he shot the ending in particular was memorable. "},{"Title":"Excellent exploration of a difficult play.","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":"  This movie was a thoughtful discussion of a very difficult work of art. Itreminded me of an idea that I read once concerning education. Theidea was that every high school student would be assigned aShakespeare play as a freshman. Throughout the four years of highschool, the student would read and re-read that single play. I thinkthe core idea is that there are good reasons to spend lots of timewith a difficult work of art - it takes time and work to get to thedeeper issues that it discusses. Only then can one begin tounderstand what the artist is saying. This movie illustrates why Shakespeare is one of the only artists thatcould stand up to this type of treatment and continue to challengethinkers for 4 years. I found the discussion within the film veryinteresting, even though I know little about Shakespeare. Theenthusiasm of Pacino is infectious. "},{"Title":"perfect Cliff's-note to prepare for Shakespeare","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":"  When jumping into the bard for the first time (or returning to him), this discussion of Richard III's underpinnings takes the sting out of absorbing the antique English of all Shakespeare's great works.  There's method to the murk of older word usage here, and big dividends for the effort to understand. "},{"Title":"Looking for Richard minus Winona Ryder=one heck of a show","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":"  Yes, it's disjunct, self-absorbed, and even drags a bit near the end.  But this film will help anyone interested to understand a very complicated Shakespearean play with very complicated characters on a fairly deep level. This is no small feat, and I wholeheartedly recommend the film, especially just before watching Ian McKellen's Richard III.However, my primary reason for writing this review was that I found it disturbing and sad to see Winona Ryder's name mentioned in a positive way in nearly every review on this page, while the incomparable Penelope Allen was not mentioned once.  Allen's performance upstages those of every other actor and actress in the film, including Pacino's excellent portrayal of Richard. Ryder, on the other hand, shows obvious signs of not comprehending the text or her character and is undoubtedly the weakest aspect of the film.  I think it's time for the female half of the acting profession to be judged on the merits of their acting, not on whether or not they are young, slender, and beautiful (particularly when discussing Shakespearean acting).So, if you have any interest in Shakespeare, Al Pacino, documentary film-making, great acting, and/or creative directing, rent Looking for Richard.  If you're only interested in Winona Ryder, rent Bram Stoker's Dracula or Girl, Interrupted again and leave this one on the shelf for the people that will appreciate it. "},{"Title":"Overlooked Gem from 1996","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":"  Al Pacino's Looking for Richard was an overlooked gem.  An insightful, funny and poignant look at the troubles Shakespeare causes American actors and film makers.Part Documentary, part dramatization of Richard III. Wonderfully acted especially by Winona Ryder who goes through a gamut of emotions in the seduction scene and Kevin Spacey awesome as usual.Give this a chance on video, a low A as a grade.  "},{"Title":"Liked it more than I thought I would...","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":"  I am, to say the least, NOT a fan of Shakespeare, but Al Pacino's documentary helped me to understand how actors go about to portray Shakespearian characters.  Through this, I felt more drawn in directly with the play and therefore, more intrigued and entertained.  The documentary was a little scattered at points but it was also interesting to see how actors like Pacino and Kevin Spacey go about representing their characters.  All in all, I thought it was definitely worth a look if you are a Shakespeare fan and only worth it to non-Shakespeare fans if you want to begin to understand his plays. "},{"Title":"Visual Cliff's Notes.","Date":"19 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":"  I didn't think this movie was very good. Too many times, Pacino gives advice about how to approach Shakespeare and then doesn't actually do what he has suggested. For example, he talks about how actors should try to avoid the idea that Shakespeare is, somehow, holy or in other ways difficult to approach. But, then when he is actually delivering the lines, he ends up taking on a very stilted and styled delivery that only goes to further muddy the audience's understanding of the words he's saying.Also, I would have rather heard about general things that an audience can do to enjoy Shakespeare more. Instead, you basically ended up watching Cliff's Notes on Richard III. Not really useful stuff if you're about to catch a local production of Hamlet.Lastly, I have great respect for Al Pacino as an actor. His character work in Scarface absolutely blows me away every time I watch it. The way he can transform a character and actually show you the evolution of that character throughout a story, is to be highly lauded. That being said, he really didn't do anywhere near his best work as Richard III.  "},{"Title":"Maybe tries to do too much but is still an intelligent, accessible and enjoyable film","Date":"20 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":" After the civil war is over, England is still suffering from the political split and one man, Richard, seeks the throne of England as his own. However his own brother, Edward holds the throne and Richard is only in line for the throne after Edward's two sons and his brother Clarence; so he plots to remove all those that stand in his way but reach the throne with no suspicion aimed at him. While trying to get to grips with the difficulties of delivering Richard III to a modern audience, Al Pacino shows us the rehearsals with American actors as well as discussions with scholars and fans on their thoughts about Shakespeare's play.This film sounds like a hard sell, and indeed, with the majority of the modern audience never having seen or read Richard III, it seems unlikely that a documentary about the production of the play would be anything other than a love-in of sorts. However Pacino manages to translate his enthusiasm for the subject into an enjoyable film that interests and entertains on several levels. The first thing the film does tis to provide an abridged version of the play, with explanation throughout; this works because it shares the passion for the play with the audience &#150; a play, it must be said, that is very difficult to fully understand. I remember the last time I saw a version of it was in New York in a $1 cinema; I saw it with my friend and a group of others &#150; I remember that the Latino girl who was in the group was simply lost and couldn't keep up with the dialogue &#150; of course I struggled a bit as well but I wasn't going to tell her that since she was ****ing gorgeous! Anyway, while doing this the film also looks at the deeper meaning of the play as well as taking time to talk to all sorts of people about the wider issue of Shakespeare to a modern audience.I would love to be knowledgeable about Shakespeare because I do try but the truth is that I do find it difficult and will usually read the play after I see a production (cinema or theatre) of it. So to me, this was a great film simply because it did give me an understanding of the play while also providing lots of interesting discussion. Some of it doesn't totally work and bits of it feel like they have been semi-staged (pardon the pun), meanwhile the actual play is delivered in a very sparse manner but, considering how wide the film grasps, these minor problems can be forgiven. Of the cast involved (which are stellar) Pacino is the standout; whether he is playing Richard or walking the streets talking to all manner of people his enthusiasm comes through in every scene and the film is very much his baby. He is ably supported by a cast of actors that includes Ryder, Spacey, Baldwin, Conway, Quinn, Yulin and many other recognisable faces. Commendable is the way that the film does give time to all sorts of people &#150; those that know nothing but are bluffing opinions, scholars, academics or, amusingly, people who can kindly be described as colourful.Overall this is a great film that maybe doesn't sound that good but honestly is. The most important thing it does is to translate the shared passion and understanding of Richard III to the screen and provide a documentary that works on several levels and produces a film that is as enjoyable as it is interesting and as educational as it is entertaining. "}{"Title":"Shakespeare at his best","Date":"30 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":" I was so delighted that I watched this movie many times. How do you introduce many to a masterpiece of a genius? Pacino searches for him in England's history, at the streets, at the stages and rehearsals, with British actors and scholars, in a beggar that taught us about feelings, feelings in words, not only in gestures, actions, while showing the noble drama in its political subtleties. It shows the beauty not only of a language and story, but a great actor's view of a great play. Surely one of the best movies I have ever seen about a play of Shakespeare. A film that anybody who likes Shakespeare and poetry will watch many times in order to fully understand its beauty "},{"Title":"There is no creature loves me","Date":"17 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":" Poor King Richard III. He's killed all his rivals for the throne and there's no one left to bow and scrape. And he can't even find a horse to ride away.Al Pacino doesn't explain why he chose this play of Shakespeare's 37, but he very successfully uses this gory history drama as a prism through which to demonstrate that Shakespeare is full of sound and fury, signifying a lot -- if Americans will just take the time to be aware.Wearing shades and a baseball cap, and clutching a copy of Cliff Notes, Al Pacino travels from New York to England talking to all manner of folk about the Bard, from men-in-the-street to ivory-tower English scholars. And he dramatizes the best scenes from the play with an ensemble of crackerjack American actors. The result is a compelling argument for giving old Will another look.I read in the IMDb notes that Pacino had originally intended to film his own version of Richard III but decided against it when he realized he couldn't outshine Lawrence Olivier's 1955 masterpiece.It was probably a good call.Pacino comes up with something entirely unique here and it's a delight through and through. Highly recommended for anyone who'd like to know more about the writer who knew us best. "},{"Title":"Keep Looking","Date":"9 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":" Ninety minutes of mind-numbing incompetence. Pacino played Richard twice on stage (in 1973 and 1979) and both times he was blasted by the critics, for the simple and sufficient reason that he has no classical talent. Prior to making this film, his only other venture into Shakespeare was as Marc Antony in an early 80s production of Julius Caesar here, too, the critics came to bury Al, not to praise him. But nothing can daunt a stubborn egomaniac. Well, almost nothing, for you'll note that this isn't a film version of Richard III, but rather a documentary about Pacino's search for the character. Interesting, that. Did Branagh make a film called Looking for Henry V? No, he made a film version of Henry V. Did Olivier make a film called Looking for Othello? No, he made a film version of Othello. So what's up here? Why is Al presenting us with a search for the thing instead of the thing itself? I'll give you three guesses. "},{"Title":"Falling from the shoulders of giants","Date":"25 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":" Despite being accompanied by some very fine actors and receiving some excellent advice, Mr Pacino turns a fine tragedy into an unintended comedy. He is clearly illiterate and ego-driven, a fatal combination when approaching the finest of all literary works. His performance mimics English actors - cadences, tonality and let's not forget iambic pentameter (could he even spell it?) - from the likes of Olivier, Gielgud, Burton ... Perhaps he was convinced that a switch of genre could work by Gielgud's triumph in Arthur and Burton's successes. Perhaps not. He seems at odds with the plot and language of the play throughout. So, why try? We are left to guess. Unfortunately, he simply makes himself ridiculous. You're very good at what you know, Al. But, you don't know this play, buddy. "},{"Title":"bringing Shakespeare to the masses","Date":"13 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":" Looking for Richard has Al Pacino, over a four-year period while he filmed various other things, delving into Shakespeare's Richard III with a cast of wonderful actors.The premise is that American actors approach Shakespeare too reverentially. Pacino gathers various actors, using places such as the Cloisters and St. John the Divine Church, to analyze, rehearse, and perform Richard III. Pacino amassed something like 80 hours, cut down to two.There are interviews with stars such as Kevin Kline, Vanessa Redgrave, F. Murray Abraham, Viveka Lindfors, Kenneth Branagh, Kevin Kline, John Gielgud, Peter Brook, and many others, including the man on the street. The final players include Kevin Conway, Kevin Spacey, Winona Ryder, Harris Yulin, Alec Baldwin, Estelle Parsons, Aiden Quinn and others.Scenes from the play are interspersed with discussion and rehearsal. Pacino's Richard emerges as raw, tough, and manipulative, whereas Olivier's was a complete slimeball. Both approaches work.This is an excellent film to show to high school students learning Shakespeare as Pacino takes some of the language apart -- the film makes the language and the human feelings and motivations behind the words very accessible.Truly excellent. "},{"Title":"You found him, Al!","Date":"9 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":" Having lately seen Kevin Spacey's marvellous 'King Richard III' at London's Old Vic (on Broadway in a month or two) I had to see again this splendid exploration of Shakespeare, Richard and the wariness by the American public of WS and the phobic approach to his work of some actors. Yet years ago Brando joined John Gielgud and James Mason to play a thrilling Mark Antony in Mankiewicz's 'Julius Caesar', and here an American cast show themselves fine Shakespearean actors. Spacey (young and handsome!) is most enjoyable as Richard's conniving spin=doctor, Buckingham, and in his inevitably fragmented portrayal Pacino shows what a dark, deadly and witty Crookback he would be - on film or stage. "},{"Title":"As masterful director as Al is an actor (DVD)","Date":"28 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":" From my education, Shakespeare isn't for common people and I praise Al to invest his stature to bring Shakespeare to us. Thus, this movie is really exciting because there are really two story lines nicely melted together the Shakespeare's play and the passion of Al.For those like me who rates Al as their best actor, this is a must-see. The character of Richard is black as coal and Al has always been never better with those perfidious and nasty guys. On the opposite, in the real life, Al is a warm-full, sweet person and with his documentary, he opens this door for us and offers to take a peek. In addition, it's great to see Al and his pals talking about the play, looking for great exteriors and visiting the original place of Shakespeare. You see the mystery of creation in art and this special birth is always a memorable event.Actually, despite being hard of hearing (and fearing to become deaf), I just like Al's voice it's amazing how much feelings he can show with it. That's why i'm just laughing when actors like Pitt are depicted as great because they are dwarfs compared to Al.In conclusion, beyond being the actor, Al reveals himself as an inspired director and he should direct more! "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"25 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":" I have to study Richard III and Looking For Richard for school and, lucky for me I like Shakespeare so I understand it. When I was told we were studying Looking For Richard as well, I was skeptical because often the English staff choose bad movies but I really did enjoy this film immensely.Al Pacino had a brilliant idea to try and make Shakespeare more accessible to the modern public, more so the modern American public and he does a brilliant job of this. It is different though because he does not really change it too much.The cast is also very good and contains a number of famous names. Even though I have to study this film for an English class I would gladly watch this film anyway which is a testament to the film. Absolutely fantastic. "},{"Title":"Wow","Date":"10 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":" Wow! I just found this. Been out of the country for a long time and I seem to have missed a lot. I love Shakespeare and have seen many, many productions and films. I find this fascinating and could have watched more. Some say it was laughable, I don't see it. It is a learning experience and Pacino captured Richard perfectly. Better then most I have seen. There is a lovely mix of the scholarly, the actor's processes and a good bit of fun. I felt as if I was discovering new views along with the actors. Maybe it isn't to everyone's tastes but it beats out the pablum that is the usual fair in these times. I too greatly regret the whole film was never made and released in conjunction with Looking for Richard. It would have been magnificent. "},{"Title":"Beautiful!!","Date":"24 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":" LOVED it! Al Pacino turned one of Shakespeare's most complicated plays into an absorbing experience, shedding light on how we can really deal with a Shakespearean text. He'll have you laughing, thinking, and wondering how you haven't noticed the beauty of such a play before.The integration of stage scenes and real life scenes, experts' opinions and ordinary passerbys' opinions, makes the documentary more vivid and engaging. Kevin Spacey as Bukingham was perfectly appropriate and fun to watch. And as for Pacino, now I can't read the play without imagining him as Richard. If you're not really into reading, go and watch Looking For Richard. Wonderful work! "}{"Title":"A wonderful walk with Richard and Al","Date":"19 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":" A wonderful film in my experience. An American team of players and directors trying to dig into the material of an unpopular play by Shakespeare, telling the story of one of the least popular kings in the chain of kings. Richard III. To follow the search for the soul in this play, and to try to understand the story, is the object of these persons' hunt. Al Pacino is Pacino, walking around in baggy clothes being Pacino Himself. Still, he manage to always be intensely interested in digging into the bones of the story. Maybe he don't success truly in this, still he manage to show the sentral scenes of this play in a dramatic new and powerful way. The scenes of this film switch between artists reading in modern environments, interwievs with British Shakespearian educated players, and scenes with full dramatic costumes. From Richard III in this film, one of the scenes that made me shiver was the one where Richard pretends to be hexed by some people close to him, and get people in his own ranks to be arrested and executed, in pure paranoia, or just to get rid of them. From that scene and on he went to his own undergang. Al Pacino is turning into this pathetic, mean man, a hunchback in this play as well (according to history). In the end, Richard stand alone, and cry for A horse!!!! .....My kingdom for a horse .... And in this scene Pacino manage to show the downfall of Richard. Even if the play failes to tell why the Tudors killed him. This film is about the play by the Bard. Not a history lesson.I should explain much better why I love this film so much. It's hard for me to explain the feeling this film gave me, and to my old parents. We knew the play, we have The Complete Works. But would never be snobbish about Shakespeare. I can't give a better explanation than this film showed me clever, extremely gifted people doing a very decent and heartfelt, even not brilliant, peace of work. I love it. "},{"Title":"Good directing debut by Pacino, unusual film","Date":"13 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":" Pacino's directing debut is a (sort of) documentary of him as he prepares to film Shakespeare's Richard III (with him on the title role, of course). We see him researching the material, going to Shakespeare's house in England, rehearsing with the actors, interviewing people on the street about Shakespeare, interviewing scholars. As the film progresses, we actually see him performing (parts) of the play with the actors (including Alec Baldwin and Winona Ryder, among others). Its enjoyable and informative, though it is sometimes irritating when Pacino asks questions to the scholars he already knows the answer to. It's a bit self-indulgent, also, though Pacino does come as a likable person. But his unpretentiousness seems a bit too studied, too labored (hey, Shakespeare is for normal people too, he seems to say, a little too many times). "},{"Title":"Looking for Richard","Date":"17 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":" This documentary mixed with great Shakespearean film-making is a good example of an actor directing his own film, especially a documentary. Basically Al Pacino (acting, directing, writing and producing) is attempting to turn William Shakespeare's Richard III into a film, and along the way there are moments and rehearsals from what will be the film, and interviews from experts and people that have used the work of Shakespeare, oh, and a few people on the street. People who appear in the film acting and interviewed include Pacino (also as Richard III), Penelope Allen (also as Queen Elizabeth), Gordon MacDonald (also as Dorset), Madison Arnold (also as Rivers), Vincent Angell (also as Grey), Bean's Harris Yulin (also as King Edward), Alec Baldwin (also as Duke of Clarence), Timmy Prairie as Prince Edward, Landon Prairie as Young Prince, Kevin Conway (also as Hastings), Larry Bryggman (also as Lord Stanley), Kevin Spacey (also as Earl of Buckingham), Winona Ryder as Lady Anne, Aidan Quinn as Richmond, F. Murray Abraham, Kenneth Branagh, Kevin Kline, James Earl Jones, Derek Jacobi, John Gielgud and Vanessa Redgrave. A great look at both a genius of the stage and writing, but also a great look of what film-making involves. Very good! "},{"Title":"Paul Gleason, RIP, shaking a spear for all","Date":"29 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":" An interesting documentary about Al Pacino putting on a production of William Shakespeare's Richard III, Looking for Richard is a neat look into everything. Much of the documentary features interviews with other cast members from the production putting in their two cents. A pretty perceptive movie, and it goes to show why Al Pacino is one of the greatest actors of our time. Also starring Harris Yulin, Alec Baldwin, Kevin Spacey, Winona Ryder, James Earl Jones and Kevin Kline. There's even an interview with Paul Gleason (aka Clarence Beaks in Trading Places and the principal in The Breakfast Club), who died yesterday. "},{"Title":"a close race between credible and parody","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":"  Looking for Richard is a great challenge for theatre students because watching both the scenes and the rehearsal process is as close to parody overtaking truth as I have seen on film. Or in life. The actors' arguments about how to play a scene will almost certainly encourage acting students to leap into the process -- a very good thing. I only hope that some will find honour in the self-absorbed pursuit of character and truth. Pacino, good in a few films early in his career, strikes fear into the heart of those familiar with the text or with playing Shakespeare. (Who encouraged his vocal affectations?)If the film aims to demystify the language of Wm. S, it has only reinforced that you cannot muscle your way by invoking The Method without technique behind it. I subscribe to the notion that yes, anyone can play the plays of the Bard without having had British training or lineage as a pre-requisite, but I'd go further than the film's endorsement of hiring those unfamiliar with language more dense than monosyllables and inhaled projection as the sine qua non.I am anxious to hear students' responses when I show this film alongside the Olivier and McKellen adaptations. "},{"Title":"Virtually unwatchable","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":"  Apparently Shakespeare equals high brow which equals in turn a bunch of folks not seeing something for what it really is.  At one point in this film, someone (I believe Pacino's producer) warns him that film is getting off track, that it was once about how the masses think about Shakespeare through the vehicle of RICHARD III.  Instead he decides to shoot a chopped up play with random comments sprinkled throughout.  Some scenes seemed to be included as home movies for Al (was there really ANY reason for the quick visit to Shakespeare's birthplace, other than for a laugh about something unexpected which happens there?), and, before the film has really even begun, we are treated to seeing Al prance around and act cute and funny for the camera.  I thought his silly act with Kay near the end of GODFATHER III with the knife to his throat was AN ACT - but apparently it's how Al really behaves in person.Enough rambling.  Here's a shotgun smattering of why I didn't even make it 3/4 of the way through this 1) pretentious - Al always knows when the camera is on him, whether he's acting as Richard or in a 'real' conversation with someone - you can see it in the corner of his eyes, also, some of the actors around the rehearsal table become untethered and wax hammy to the extreme.  If anyone reading this has ever spent any time with an group of actors and has witnessed this kind of thing from the outside, it's unbearable.  Look at me, chewing all the scenery!  2) Winona Ryder. When she appears as Lady Anne, this film comes to a screeching halt, which it never recovers from.  She has nothing to add in the discussion scenes but the camera lingers on her to bring in the kiddoes.  Her performance is dreadful, to boot.  3) the only things you really learn from this are told to you by the very scholars the filmmakers are trying to keep out of the picture.  Of course, you also learn that Pacino shouldn't be directing films (or doing Richard in the first place).  I'd rather watch BOBBY DEERFIELD than this.Lastly, read the play and learn it for yourself.  Go out and see it performed.  In 1997 I saw the play performed at the University of Washington Ethnic Cultural Theater, and it made what we see in this film seem like high school drama (except for the gratuitous throat slashing of Clarence!  My God!  Was that necessary?!)It's all just a bunch of sound and fury, signifying nada.  "},{"Title":"Definitely the best movie ever made!!!","Date":"6 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":" This is Al Pacino's first movie in which he both directed and acted. We see here that Pacino is not only an actor who takes part mostly in movies about gangsters, but within his brain he carries a perfect director. Looking for Richard is definitely what he really wanted to make; unlike the movies he is well-known to act in, it is an unusual combination of both a documentary and a drama based on a classic Shakespeare work. And Pacino made a wonderful choice in working this way. There are many versions of this Richard III story, both taking place in medieval Britain - as was the original script was - and in different places and times, like in the 19th century for a change. If he only made a drama or only a documentary, it would be a very usual and even boring thing, as repetitions of the same thing, even if it is pleasant, becomes annoying with time. This is definitely the best movie ever made, but was not a hit, because it can be understood only by a minority of people - I'll be a bit arrogant here, but I think I am right - above a certain IQ and cultural level. "},{"Title":"Don't waste my time.","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":"  While I can appreciate and respect Alfredo making this documentary to share his passion for Shakespeare I was terribly disappointed that it was nothing more than a documentary. I was hoping that it was perhaps the documentary of an actual production of the play. I was stunned that he had assembled such a stelar cast (who would have guessed that Alec could do do Shalespeare) and didn't actually film the play. For those of us that will never see the inside of a theatre these recent filming of Shakespeares plays are like nectar.  I am sorry I ever saw this film because it only made me want to see Alfredo as Richard and now I know that will never be.  "},{"Title":"Not a good induction to Shakespeare.","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":"  The film would have been better, if the actors perform the whole play without go back and forth from play to documentary. All the actors are good in their roles what they were playing, Alec Baldwin, Aidan Quinn, Winona Ryder, Kevin Spacey and Al Pacino who also directed. I wished he would more focus on Richard III after talk about his Shakespeake experience. "},{"Title":"Al Pacino as Writer, Director, Producer and Actor","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":"  From a creative viewpoint, this is significant in Pacino's career because he has creative control of his work. However, from an entertainment point of view, the film dragged and had lost me from the first ten minutes. It does, nonetheless, belong in the Pacino canon, not because of its entertainment value, but because Pacino wrote, direct, produced and acted in the film. "}{"Title":"wish they would have just done the play","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":"  I have a feeling that Al Pacino will soon be (or already is) too embarrassed to watch this movie.  Certain ideas probably seemed great at the time while they were swept up in the documentary style, (like lying on an old stage to soak up a vibe and choosing to wear the same mis-shaped hat backwards the whole time) but they really end up looking silly.  The parts I liked from the documentary aspects were the arguments and the interviews, but overall, I think the movie (with the cast Pacino got) would have been much better if they just stuck to the play.   Al Pacino makes a solid Richard.  For the most part he is not playing Al Pacino, but Michael Corleone and Big Boy Caprice occasionally show up in his portrayal.  I found the casting of Alec Baldwin as Clarence (Richard's benevolent older brother) a little odd, since Baldwin is almost 20 years younger then Pacino, but he was excellent.  Clarence has one of the most dramatic and powerful scenes of the play, and Baldwin was all over it.  Winonna Rider was good as Anne, who appears in the most difficult scene of the play, which worked well thanks to the work by Pacino and Rider.  Estelle Parsons was perfect as Margaret, I was really amazed.  Kevin Spacey and Adian Quinn were excellent choices for Buckingham (crumb) and Richmond (hero), I thought they were both really good.  All in all, I found myself groaning every time the movie switched from the marvelous scenes of the play to the obnoxious documentary scenes, but I would definitely not discourage anyone from seeing it. **1/2  "},{"Title":"Scattered, lost sense of what the documentary was trying to impart.","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":"  I would've felt I'd gotten my money's worth if the film had managed to convey a sense of the play or what the documentary portion was trying to convey.  I found it a somewhat pretentious and artsy piece with a marked lack of organization which is for me is the hallmark of a good documentary.I got the sense that the film couldn't decide whether to be a documentary or a portrayal of Richard III.  On the up side the film made me become interested in seeing a good portrayal of RIchard III. "},{"Title":"Simultaneously Condescending, Self-Absorded, and Idiotic","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":" Al Pacino and his production team spend the majority of the movie proclaiming the difficulty of Richard III and their desire to make Shakespeare accessible to the common people, yet the few scenes they actually film and Pacino's reading of Richard III could not be more standard. Period costume and set and traditional Anglo-inspired delivery--way to innovate and bring a new take on the Bard to the people, Al. He ends up suggesting that for his audience to fully understand Shakespeare, we ultimately need him and his opinions, rather than the play itself or any attempt to explain its meaning, or relevance. His street interviews and anti-academic slant are equally reductive and condescending. Having seen Pacino in the only slightly less abhorrent Merchant of Venice, I would offer the suggestion that he spare us his scene-chewing and bellowing renditions from now on--they haunt my dreams. In closing, I would suggest that, perhaps, people who proclaim their inability to keep track of basic plot points and character names in text should refrain from making movies about said text. "},{"Title":"Kind of a dumbing down exercise.","Date":"1 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":"  I like Al Pacino in many movies, especially, of course, Godfather 2. I've seen him on the stage & enjoyed his performances in O'Neill & Mamet.But to me Shakespeare is not his forte.  In this film which I find to be mostly an exercise in actorly self-indulgence, he comes off sounding like Mel Brooks both as narrator & especially in character.  I also find the intent rather condescending & for the most part irrelevant. The gap between English & American actors doing Shakespeare has to do with two elements Language & History. I didn't hear much commentary on these issues. Mostly the film sounds like a treatise for making Shakespeare palatable to grade schoolers. "},{"Title":"Interesting, but Pacino needs to study a bit more","Date":"5 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":" I really wanted to like this movie. I like Pacino and I love Richard III. Most of it is quite good, but I'm afraid that one scene will always come to mind whenever I think of this film.Pacino is working on the following speechPlots have I laid, inductions dangerous, By drunken prophecies, libels and dreams, To set my brother Clarence and the king In deadly hate the one against the other And if King Edward be as true and just As I am subtle, false and treacherous, This day should Clarence closely be mew'd up, About a prophecy, which says that 'G' Of Edward's heirs the murderer shall be. Dive, thoughts, down to my soul here Clarence comes.Pacino doesn't understand why Richard says that G will be the murderer. After all, the person that Richard is setting up is named Clarence. Instead of delving into the full meaning and believing that Shakespeare must have had a reason to use the words he did, Pacino just decides that he'll change the line to say that C will be the murderer.Arrrrrgggggggggghhhhhhhhhhhhh! It would only take one look at the list of the characters of the play to find out that the character referred to as Clarence is really George, the Duke of Clarence so that the G does refer to Clarence after all. Not only that, but the prophecy actually refers to Richard himself, since he is Richard, the Duke of Gloucester. Richard is G, the murderer.Much of the film is very interesting and enjoyable, but I'm afraid that Pacino's hubris in thinking that he knows better than Shakespeare did will always color this film for me. "},{"Title":"It Doth Sucketh","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":" Al Pacino is one of the most dynamic and charismatic film stars ever; yet he has always been hampered by his inability to pick good projects other than his hits for Coppla and Lumet. This film gives some clue as to why he appears to be as stupid as a block of stone. A big screen version of Henry Fonize Winkler's Shakespeare T.V. show, Looking For Richard is a harebrained idea run into the ground. Richard The III is one of the easiest to follow of all the Bard's works, that the dark prince is the bad guy stabbing everybody in the back is about all you need to know. Yet Pacino begins with the idea that the play is impossible to bring to modern audiences, it's just too complicated. His solution? Only do the juiciest bits with his Hollywood pals. Unintentional hilarity ensues. Beyond that, Pacino is a ceaseless bore, surrounded by sycophants who encourage him to make a behind of himself. In one scene, Pacino seems to be suggesting to young people that Shakespeare is cool because you get to seduce Wynona Ryder. In another, he keeps interrupting a bored John Gielgud. It's never mentioned that Pacino's on stage Richard III was an infamous production laughed off Broadway in about a week. Maybe it wasn't Al's fault. But the critics were a lot kinder to this silly film than they were to Pacino when he really took a crack at the Bard. "},{"Title":"Disappointing.","Date":"6 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":" I expected Looking for Richard to be a fascinating documentary. It was directed by one of my all-time favorite actors, Al Pacino, and is the sort of unique project that Hollywood is deeply lacking right now. I thought it would be educational and fun - the sort of wide-appeal title that would reach Pacino fans, Shakespeare fans, and average Joes who would go to see it simply for Pacino being in it.Unfortunately I was wrong. Although it has some fine parts a majority of Looking for Richard seems centered around Pacino's own ego and his fascination with Shakespeare. He's in-your-face with everything and approaching people on the streets about Shakespeare seems a bit of a cheap shot after a while (even though it's fairly amusing - at first).Pacino isn't a great director and the documentary isn't as well handled as I had hoped it would be. His voice-over is a bit tiring after a while because he's explaining stuff that's pretty self-explanatory.He essentially fails to connect with the audience. It's as if someone like myself who is fascinated with, say, movies, made a documentary about cinema - and made it as self-absorbed as possible, totally alienating non-fans who are just merely interested in the overall gist of it all.Die-hard Shakespeare fans will enjoy this but I found it so deeply rooted in its source that it just seems like Al Pacino running around with a camera telling people how difficult it is to put on a play and why more people should pay attention to Shakespeare. (Oh, and he doesn't fail to show us a few clips of him acting, either.)I'm not trying to sound ignorant. I appreciate what Al was trying to do and I appreciate Shakespeare - but I think many viewers (such as myself) will feel alienated because it's really an elitist sort of thing and I never felt very interested in the film itself. Hopefully someone will come along in the future and do something similar to better effect. "},{"Title":"Shakespeare TAP","Date":"17 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Drama","Review":" I have never laughed so much in all my life. This is the funniest mock-umentary every made. More hilarious than SPINAL TAP and as loony as A MIGHTY WIND. Easily as full with audience gasping guffaws as BEST IN SHOW. Al Pacino blustering and yelling Shakespeare in his best Noo Yoork Italian honk. My HAWSE MY HAWSE...MOI KINGDOM FOR MY HAWSE....(splutter)... Fantastic! It was like seeing Sylvester Stallone play Cole Porter or listening to Bob Dylan sing Christmas carols (with howling harmonica). For some reason the audience wasn't on in the joke in the first few minutes, but by the time he went to Shakespeare's house and hit his head on the doorway everyone was just falling about. I think I might go out and get a green felt hat, a cape and swan around Sydney spraying passers by with yowling Bard. I am so inspired. This is absolutely the greatest fall-down-funny expose of the most inappropriate actor to bellow Shakespeare I have ever imagined. What you say? LOOKING FOR RICHARD is a serious doco? Oh dear. "}]