[{"Title":"Even Seagal is good!","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"42 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  A fun, tense, and exciting action/thriller with an excellent ensemble cast, headed by Kurt Russell and including Halle Berry, David Suchet, and John Leguizamo. Even Steven Seagal does a creditable job, mainly because this isn't a Steven Seagal movie. His supporting role permits him to do what he does best (which isn't acting). He doesn't have to pretend to be witty, there's none of that awful smirking he does in a vain attempt to show emotion, the camera doesn't caress his body, and there's not one speech about how gol-dang *good* his character is. He even manages to enunciate his lines clearly!The plot might have seemed a little far-fetched when the movie was released, but not anymore.I'm not even much of an action film fan, but this one is really a lot of fun. "},{"Title":"Escapism with a touch of reality","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"32 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I saw this in 1996 and thought it was extremely entertaining--an action movie with emphasis on suspense over shoot-em-up thrillers and explosions. Seeing it again, after the events in the past 4 years, is a different experience. Some of the fictional dialog has actually been quoted by fanatics in the news. I had the same reaction with Black Sunday with Robert Shaw. A movie meant as pure escapism is now more like what if. Executive Decision does ask you to suspend disbelief several times, especially near the end. I would rank it up with Air Force One, which came out a year later and delivers the same type of suspense over explosions entertainment. And this film deserves extra kudos for making the ones that save the world a bit on the misfit side (Oliver Platt, John Leguizamo, Joe Morton, BD Wong, and yes, even Kurt Russell). Another nice slimy role for late character actor JT Walsh. And David Suchet makes a scary villain. Like the best villains (Alan Rickman from Die Hard comes to mind), he can be charming and terrifying at the same time. "},{"Title":"one word dynamite!","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"38 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Slam-bang thriller is an intense, pulse-pounding thrill ride from beginning to end. Russell stars as a smart but inexperienced intelligence analyst who's given the task of a lifetime when he, along with a group of rugged Special Forces commandos, must board an American 747 in midair after it's hijacked by ruthless international terrorists. It's a race against time as they must not only ensure the safety of all the passengers, but retake the plane before it can reach the U.S. eastern seaboard. Swift direction, exciting, skillful action sequences, endless suspense, and rock solid performances make this wild ride of a movie a definite must for action fans. *** "},{"Title":"The movie that you will never see as long as you're flying..","Date":"22 November 2003","Score":"43 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The film concerns a transatlantic flight, hi-jacked between Athens and Washington, D.C. The hijackers are a group of heavily armored suicide fanatical terrorists...Their motivation is supposedly to free a feared and wanted terrorist, recently handed over to US authorities, arrested, and taken to a warship in the Mediterranean...The President has two options to let the passenger fleet proceed to the United States or destroy it before it gets there along with hundreds of passengers... Steven Seagal is the commando leader who recognizes the threat, but proposes to use a modified Stealth fighter especially designed for mid-air crew transfers, and thus allow his elite anti-terrorist unit to sneak the Boeing 747, localize and eventually disarm the bomb, and overtake the hijackers...Kurt Russell is the Pentagon intelligence analyst, who believes that the hijacking is just a ruse, that the deadly nerve toxin is on board, and that the terrorists are planning to use it and the airplane as 'a sort of poor man's atomic bomb, to be detonated over Washington..'Halle Berry is the brave helpful stewardess who understood the message of the striking team... She has to identify for them, the passenger who is in control of the bomb...David Suchet is the terrorist who can endanger us all! He is Jaffa's deputy director, Nagi Hassan fanatically driven by hatred and violence... This nasty man seizes control of the air carrier and plans to kill everyone on board... Oliver Platt is the aerospace engineer, who can isolate the bomb's power sources only if he could control his nerves... Joe Morton is the bomb disposal expert who guides Platt through the disabling of the bomb...J. T. Walsh is the ambitious senator who wants to be seen as the savior of the hostages, an image that won't hurt him in the presidential elections...John Leguizamo (Seagal's second in command..) hopes for a good movie on board...Thanks to a solid cast and plenty of action and suspense, Stuart Baird's 'Executive Decision' could be a timely reminder to one deceptively simple question How can we stop hijackers from using planes as weapons? "},{"Title":"Skillfully crafted, and exciting","Date":"30 July 2009","Score":"14 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I am curious to know how many Steven Seagal fans walked out of the theater after the first twenty minutes demanding their money back. It is a good thing that Exectutive Decision does not direct its attention towards Seagal. Instead it chooses to focus on suspense and thrills which is exactly what it offers. It is slow and ominous, even claustrophobic at times. The plot stays consistent, never getting too thick, and it keeps you focused, Which is good enough for me.It will be hard to watch Executive Decision today and not think about 9/11. Islamic terrorists from Algeria highjack a 747 flying from Athens to D.C. they have loaded a nuclear weapon on board, and they are giving the US government until landing time to free one of the leading Islamic terrorist they have in custody, or they blow Washington. A small team of soldiers are sent out in a small aircraft, which will latch on to the jet and allow them to board in secret. With them is intelligence consultant David Grant, who knows that there is a bomb on board and what it is capable of. confined to the labyrinth of tiny corridors and storage cabins, our heroes have only a few hours, to find the bomb, defuse it and take out the terrorists, without being seen.This is the directorial debut for Oscar nominated editor Stuart Baird, and he does a sensational job of crafting tension. It is not until the climactic twenty minutes where Executive Decision lets out all its energy. Baird really takes his time, and just occasionally it feels like the story could use a little tightening, but not too much.The movie is not meant to be mind enriching, but in a way it does make you realize, how much we took freedom and safety for granted, before 9/11 occurred. If that disturbs you, than perhaps you should not see this movie. Anyone else who wants to be thrilled and on the edge of their seat should watch this one for sure "},{"Title":"Tons of Suspense, Almost Too Much","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"28 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Most of this movie is simply one extremely long suspense scene as a team of Americans try to board a passenger jet, disarm a bomb and capture terrorists. After a 10-15 minute opening to set the story up, the rest of it (two hours) is the constant suspense of whether the mission will succeed and what happens along the way. With that much tension for so, the movie would have been more effective had it been cut 15-20 minutes.However, it was never boring. It was far-fetched, however, but many action movies are just that, and this story wasn't stupid, by any means. I expected such with Kurt Russell and Steven Segal in it, but those two were much more subdued than usual.Oliver Platt, Halle Barry, John Leguizamo and Joe Morton rounded out a very diverse and solid cast. This is one of those films that really grabs you the first time you see it, but after that, loses its appeal since the suspense is over. Definitely recommended for those who like to sit on the edge of their seat and be entertained. "},{"Title":"Different After 9/11","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"34 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Like my review of Air Force One, the counterpart of this movie which came out the following year, this movie takes on a whole new element in the post 9/11 world. When released, a terrorist taking control of an airplane and using it against American Citezens as a bomb seemed the stuff Hollywood would make up and produce. After those shocking events, however, the movie takes on a quality of realism that it didn't before, and unlike the aforementioned Air Force One, is superior in many ways. First off, the cast Kurt Russell, Steven Seagal, and the star-to-be Halle Berry star. Russell proves himself as a versatile Character Actor. Afterall, his previous role was that of a Special Operations Soldier in the Sci-Fi hit Stargate, and in this movie he plays an intelligence analyst whom Special Operations Soldiers despise, and pulls it off well. Seagal completely convinces you he is the Soldiers Soldier that he is supposed to be. And Halle Berry, well, she deserves that Oscar she later won, and her abilities are showcased here. She was not the star then that she is today, and this is perhaps one of her many breakout appearances. Second, all branches of the Armed Forces (save the Marine Corps) have a chance to shine in this movie. It shows a true devotion among the men who serve the United States. The Special Ops guys are Army, the delivery pilot is Air Force and the Tomcat Pilots are Naval Aviators along the lines of Maverick from Top Gun. In conclusion, this is a good movie that is under-rated, and in the wake of 9/11, seems that much more real.  "},{"Title":"Surprise!","Date":"29 July 2004","Score":"28 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I am usually very picky about films and rarely watch action movies that don't have a nostalgic value but somehow I tuned into this one and I couldn't take my eyes off it. We're dealing with a flight hi-jacking and the situation has been seen before, but the way this story is told surprised me in a positive way.It's trying to be realistic, and succeeds! Credits to the screenwriters for writing a story that everyone thinks they've seen before and still keeping the intensity throughout the film. Good acting from Kurt Russel, Oliver Blatt and especially John Leguizamp. This is an action-movie well worth watching. My rating 7/10  "},{"Title":"Suspense and plot twists for everyone...","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed this one. Sure there were some implausible things the speed of the counter-action, the strange fact that a complete change of the aerodynamics of a stealth bomber seems to cause zero disturbance... But all in all it was well within bearable limits. Don't expect to see a 100% realistic plot in a movie that is supposed to contain heros! In reality, they usually get shot or explode before they have the chance to become one   -)Critical Decisions has a more than adequate mix of suspense, better-than-horrible acting, plot twists and mild humor to relieve the tension. Whereas a lot of movies in the same genre totally screw up one or more of those aspects. I'm thinking about the terribly balanced humor in The Rock, for example. Killing all tension and involvement..8/10JoH "},{"Title":"Great action film, that's quite effective, and rather tense, with a pretty solid story, and excellent performances! *Spoilers*","Date":"28 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is a great action film, that's quite effective, and rather tense, with a pretty solid story, and excellent performances!. All the characters are cool, and the only beef I really had with it was it was a tad overlong, plus Kurt Russell is simply amazing in this!. It's pretty well made and written, and the finale is especially tense, plus it was surprisingly unpredictable throughout. I will admit I disappointed that Steven Seagal got killed off right away, however I give him a lot of credit for taking this type of role, and Robert Apisa played a very good villain here and was menacing, plus it has quite a few shocking moments as well. All the characters are very likable, and Halle Berry has a small but cool role here, plus it has a decent amount of violence too. I was quite pleased with the ending, and a lot of the tense scenes were when Oliver Platt(Cahill) and Joe Morton(Cappy) are trying to stop the bombs, plus I would have loved seeing Russell and Seagal work as a team throughout the film. This is a great action film, that's quite effective, and rather tense, with a pretty solid story and excellent performances, I highly recommend this one!. The Direction is great!. Stuart Baird does a great! job here, with very good camera work, solid angles and just keeping the film at a very fast pace. The Acting is excellent!. Kurt Russell is amazing as always and is amazing here, he is extremely likable, funny, makes a very effective action hero, brought life and humor to his potentially boring character, and just did an amazing job overall! (Russell rules!!!!). Steven Seagal is very effective in his role, but we didn't get much time to know him because he gets killed off pretty quickly sadly, however I give him credit for taking this type of role, just wished he stayed alive (Seagal Rules!!!!!!!). Halle Berry is very good in her role here, she was charming, and made her part look bigger then it actually was, she's also gorgeous. John Leguizamo is pretty good here actually, he convinced me and was likable enough I rather dug him. Oliver Platt is great in his role, I'm not usually a big fan but he was great here. Joe Morton is great as the bomb specialist, I really liked him. Robert Apisa is excellent as the main villain, he was quite menacing, you will really hate him. Rest of the cast do fine. Overall I highly recommend this one!. ***1/2 out of 5 "}{"Title":"Three things make this the best Steven Seagal movie ever","Date":"23 March 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" (...and seriously, a heavy spoiler follows)First Seagal dies some 30 minutes into the film. Of course I, as a certified Seagal-hater, salute that fact and award a point to filmmakers. They couldn't escape catering to his ego, though, so his character was given an inappropriately high rank (in his other films he also always has some fancy title ex-CIA, ex-Seal, whateversoundscool... oh, vanity). But, still... what a refreshment to see him off. Indeed I would never have seen this movie had it not been for a film critic who had given away the main spoiler. For me it wasn't a spoiler, it was a glimmer of hope. The fact that in the same accident, that killed off Lt. Colonel Austin Travis (chorus Haaaalelujah), Joe Morton's character is left crippled, which in turn crippled Morton's notorious overacting tendencies, is worth another full point.Second Seagal is actually very decent inside those 30 minutes. Luckily he was given mainly procedural dialog so his range of acting skills wasn't challenged. That way I was able to acknowledge that the man indeed has a screen presence, somewhat akin to John Wayne. It would be actually nice to watch him if he was any good. Too bad that he probably felt discouraged for being killed after giving his only decent performance so after this movie it was business as usual for him.Third Killing off what the audience supposed would be the main character may have been an amusing gimmick, may have been a nod to Hitchcock but was foremost a strategic element in building up a proper suspense. Now you knew you weren't in for a typical shoot-em-up flick that would see Seagal slapping bad guys around and spewing unfunny one- liners. You were instead wondering how the hell was Kurt Russel's character (a snobby analyst, despised by fellow rescuers) gonna save the day and wouldn't he also buy the farm in the process.Perhaps another gimmick was casting of David Suchet. His fame mostly rises from portraying somewhat geeky and benign detective Poirot, and it presented such an effective and eerie contrast to make him the chief villain. He proved extremely convincing as charming, intelligent and brutally determined terrorist.Another thing convincing is the plot. It may have felt a bit outrageous and far-fetched in 1996. but not unfeasible. It certainly doesn't feel that way now, no need to say why.These elements, along with good (but not exceptional) direction and presence of beautiful Halle Berry, is enough to recommend Executive Decision. I wonder how it will fare some 50 years from now, on its own merit, free from the context of audience knowing the cast and having expectations based on the knowledge. Perhaps not that bad, as it doesn't have that many flaws. Of all the Die Hard clones (which this movie is) this is one of those that captured the spirit of the original well in terms of putting an involuntary and unfit hero (in this case a group of them) to utilize what ever he's got and overcome the adversaries in a closed space. "},{"Title":"*** stars","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Have you noticed all Seagal movies are never longer than 105 minutes? That's because the man doesn't waste time. If he hadn't got killed 40 minutes into this one, the movie would have been a lot shorter as he would have efficiently wiped out these hijackers. Despite that, this is a reasonably suspenseful assemble the squad action flick. Seagal's the best action star around, but it might help his box office career if took some more supporting roles like this one. "},{"Title":"Life reflects art.","Date":"4 December 1998","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" In the modern world, Exec Dec strikes closer to home than it originally intended as it eerily foreshadows 9/11 and other acts of terrorism. It makes for a perfect flip-side companion piece to the little-seen Paul Greengrass film United 93. In the world of Exec Dec the heroes save the day and America wins. In United 93 (and the real world) life isn't that simple. But since this was made 5 years prior to 9/11 it should be judged purely as entertainment and not as any political statement.Kurt Russell plays David Grant, a United States Naval Academy graduate who works as a counter-terrorist expert for Army Intelligence who is called into the Pentagon when a group of Muslim extremists taken over a flight from Athens to Washington DC. After blowing up the restaurant of the London Marriott, they demand that their recently captured terrorist leader El Sayed Jaffa (think O.B.L.) be released and that they be given millions of dollars in gold bullion. Grant, suspects that this is merely a ploy to get into US airspace to set off a massive bomb rigged with huge supply of DZ-5 poison gas.Their only apparent option is to blow the plane up over the ocean, killing everyone on-board and sending any evidence that they might have straight to the bottom of the Atlantic. But Colonel Travis (that's Steven Seagal folks!) suggests hooking up the 747 with a modified F-117x Remora stealth bomber while it's still in the air so he and his commandos can kick some terrorist ass. Dragged along for the ride, Grant and computer nerd Dennis Cahill (Oliver Platt) are to supervise the link-up and identify Cell Leader Nagi Hassan (David Suchet) from the Remora. But the link-up falters and only 4 commandos plus Grant and Cahill make it on-board. Travis is killed and the Remora is destroyed, along with most of their equipment.With only a few hours before the plane reaches US airspace and the bare-minimum of equipment the group have to sneak around in the crawlspaces of airplane attics, cargo bays, and elevator shafts searching for the bomb and spying on the terrorists.It's highly intense, superbly photographed and expertly edited entertainment. What first attracted me to Exec Dec was obviously the casting of Russell and Seagal but link-up with the Remora and the 747 is definitely one of the most unique action scenes in the past two decades and was the major selling point of the film for me.I do realize that Seagal has many critics and most of them judge him far, far to harshly and play up his character's death in this film claiming that the only good thing about Exec Dec is 'the death of Seagal 10 minutes into an extended cameo'. Which is a totally foolish and untrue thing to say. Seagal is in the movie for a full 45 minutes before he dies. Which was done to shock the audience into believing that if Seagal dies then any of the cast could be next. And even if you're a Seagal hater (understandable considering his recent poor output) don't let that overshadow the rest of the film which is, in it's final half-hour, so exciting that you'll be so on the edge of your seat that you won't actually be sitting on it.It does lose some of it's power when compared to the horror-show that is United 93, but like I said, they are either side of the same coin. In the world of Executive Decision the terrorist attacks of 9/11 would never have happened. And if 9/11 was an always inevitable event, then I guess the film IS far-fetched. But it was made pre-9/11 for entertainment, nothing else, so I guess I can forgive it for being so. "},{"Title":"Does most things right","Date":"2 June 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is a great 90s action movie. It has the exciting moments, the interesting plot and the mixture of characters that the period's action movies all tried to have. But at the same time, it downplays the one-man heroism that is often a big part of them (looking at you, McClaine!). The movie refers to this with the character played by Segal.The most important part of this movie is the team. Early on people tries to break with the team, but mostly everyone is on the same page throughout the movie. At the end of the movie, one character kind-of goes against his team, but the focus is also on trusting one's teammates, something that the other guys does during this moment.If you want a quintessential 90s action flick, this is a good pick! "},{"Title":"Good watch, suspenseful","Date":"28 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I thought this movie was pretty darn good. It had a lot of suspense that lead up to a great final action sequence and decent acting. I think a lot of people are saying that the storyline is somewhat contrived because it deals with Islamic extremism, which by now has been done to death. In 1996, however, it was the in thing to do since movies with Soviets were dying down due to the end of the cold war and since it had not been explored as much before that.In general, the characters are believable but the bad guys are a bit too over the top evil. Maybe I am only saying this because I couldn't actually imagine someone having such an evil plan to destroy the eastern seaboard of the US. But that's just me.All in all, a good watch and a good example of how the 90s have some of the best action/thriller movies. "},{"Title":"The Pentagon is gonna shoot us down.","Date":"20 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Terrorists hijack a jumbo jet with the apparent intention of getting an incarcerated comrade released from captivity. The American government are quick to react, and using a stealth plane, smuggle a crack team of commandos on board the mid-air jet. However, all does not go to plan as the terrorists motives come to light and the commandos are severely hampered by ill fortune and their resourceful foe.Forget common sense or any semblance of probability, and just accept that Executive Decision is mindless, unadulterated fun. Every hostage/hijack cliché in the book is used by first time director Stuart Baird. From the roll call of character staples-the hero in waiting out of his depth- nerdy electronics geek-heroine trolley-dolly and Gung-Ho soldiers, to the by the numbers set of complications that come our intrepid heroes way. This is simple stuff that, although obviously given added emotional impetus post 9/11, remains a whole slice of tension pie laced with a disaster movie sauce.Kurt Russell heads the cast as fish out of water suit, Dr. David Grant, and joining him for the malarkey is Halle Berry, Oliver Platt, Joe Morton and Joe Leguizamo. Steven Seagal appears in an uncredited role, a role that in turn will either delight or annoy fans and haters of the pony tailed one. Leave your brain at the check in desk and board this particular jumbo jet. 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"I hope there's a good movie on this flight. The action film guaranteed never to make it as an in-flight feature!","Date":"28 June 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Executive Decision starts as intelligence analyst for the US Government Dr. David Grant (Kurt Russell) learns that middle Eastern terrorist El Sayed Jaffa (Andreas Katsulas) has been captured & handed over to US officials to stand trial. Meanwhile in Athens, Greece an Oceanic Boeing 747 headed for Washington D.C. is taking off, shortly into the flight a group of Islamic hijackers lead by extremist Naggi Hassan (David Suchet) forcibly take control of the air-plane taking hostage it's 400 passengers & crew. Naggi demands the immediate release of Jaffa (cake?) & safe passage to Washington, in a high level meeting Grant says he believes that a large amount of a deadly nerve gas that would be enough to wipe out the entire Eastern seaboard is on the plane ready to kill millions of Americans. A plan is quickly devised to board the 747 in the air & take out the terrorists before the plane reaches US airspace. What could possibly go wrong?Directed by Stuart Baird this is the big budget action flick that may make uncomfortable viewing these days after the events which occurred a few years later & you know exactly what I'm talking about. The script by producers Jim & John Thomas is your typical Hollywood action fare, the patriotic American military charge into some dire situation & save the day, the hostages & America. Don't get me wrong because this is a perfectly decent & entertaining action film although I would lean towards describing it as more of a thriller as most of it's running time is devoted to the disarming of a bomb & the race against time before the terrorists get a chance to use it on America. It's just that it makes for strange viewing after world events, the plot of middle Eastern terrorists who hijack a plane & intend to use it to create widespread destruction & death cuts a little close to the bone these days, don't you think? Anyway, this has a few plot holes & a few far fetched coincidences like the only guy who can defuse the bomb happens to break his neck, the military team who always just about manage to avoid being seen & someone being able to land a 747 without ever having actually been inside the cockpit of one before. When all said & done though Executive Decision isn't anything more than a big budget popcorn flick with some memorable set-pieces, a likable main hero, some eye candy, lots of guns, shoot-outs & explosions along with fairly tightly paced story. Executive Decision is pretty good for it's type actually, you could do a lot worse.Making his directorial debut Baird does OK, he keeps the one-liners & wisecracks down to a minimum although I did think it went on for about 15 minutes too long & I think a two hour duration would have been better. For those interested Seagal dies fairly early on & doesn't get much screen time which I thought was an odd choice because at the time was a rising star. The violence isn't overly excessive, there's a fair amount of gun play & gory gunshot wounds but not much else. The action scenes are quite well done with the climatic landing of the 747 probably the best sequence although some of the model shots look a bit fake.With a supposed budget of about $55,000,000 Executive Decision had enough cash spent on it so it goes without saying this has the look & polish of a big budget Hollywood flick, it's well made with a good star studded cast including Kurt Russell who I've always liked, Steven Seagal who apparently at first refused to film his death scene because he thought his fans wouldn't like it (I wish he was that considerate regarding some of his latest films!), John Leguizamo, the ever awful Halle Berry, Oliver Platt, Joe Morton, the ever excellent David Suchet & the imaginatively named Ahmed Ahmed!Executive Decision is a solid big budget action flick that I liked if not because it kills Seagal off early on & I've always liked Kurt Russell, however it's sometimes not an easy film to watch considering world events & at well over two hours it's a bit too long. It has a strange sort of feeling but it's a good film none the less & what subsequently happened in real life wasn't it's fault. One for action junkies. "},{"Title":"Glad I wasn't on that plane","Date":"30 July 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I couldn't believe it when I started to view this movie and who do I see but Steven Seagal. I thought, boy, I'm really losing it - because no way would I have watched it had I known he was in it. However, I'm so glad I did.Executive Decision is a 1996 film and also stars Kurt Russell, John Leguziamo, David Suchet, Halle Berry, Oliver Platt, B.D. Wong, Joe Morton, Len Cariou and a special appearance by Marla Maples Trump as Berry's fellow flight attendant. A team of American special forces commandos, led by an intelligence analyst rushed to the scene while he's still in his tuxedo (Russell) board a plane (in the most fascinating way) after it has been hijacked by terrorists in order to take out the terrorists and defuse the dangerous gas planted on board.This is a movie jam-packed to the gills with heart-pounding suspense, tension and excitement. One of the best things about Executive Decision is its offbeat casting in the commando department energetic, quirky John Leguziamo, Oliver Platt as a nervous wreck who is borderline nervous breakdown for most of the time and Joe Morton as a wounded bomb expert who manages to keep his sense of humor. On the villain side, David Suchet of Hercule Poirot fame proves again he is one of the best actors around - he's no fussy little Frenchman here but a steely-eyed, violent and committed terrorist. Kurt Russell does a terrific job, and boy is he great to look at. Halle Berry is a brave flight attendant - she has very few lines but does a lot of reacting. Marla Maples Trump looks very pretty.In some of the film's tensest moments, there is some humor, making for a very entertaining film beautifully directed by Stuart Baird. I really didn't mind Seagal, either.This is a pre-9/11 movie, and one wonders even then how these terrorists could have gotten so many weapons on board, not to mention that gas. Today of course, watching the action on the plane, it doesn't seem all that fictional. Next time I fly, I won't silently curse when I have to take off my shoes. I just hope the security is actually better. "},{"Title":"Any movie with Seagal in it, well................","Date":"25 January 2006","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Maybe I am not the person to ask, but when Steven Seagal is in a movie, I just have to see it however big or small his part is in the movie. I am a fan and I have collected all of 'his' movies. I am a bit sad that he is getting a little older, but I watch the movies in a different perspective. His moves aren't what they used to be but in this movie you don't notice that at all ;-) On a serious note, the movie is well worth watching because of the plot. It's not that it is original but it is one of the best executed in it's genre. It makes you wonder if the terrorists have watched some of these kind of movies and got inspired to do something similar. Enjoy the movie!!! "},{"Title":"Underrated Action Thriller","Date":"11 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Executive Decision is an underrated action thriller that should have done a lot better at the box office. The movie itself is very neat with several twists to keep everyone in suspense and the movie interesting.The movie begins with a US Army Commando Team led by Lieutenant Colonel Austin Travis (Steven Seagal) who raid a safe house in Italy where it is believed members of the Chechen mafia are in possession of a stolen nerve agent DZ-5 which turns out to be unsuccessful. Dr David Grant (Kurt Russell) is later informed that a passenger flight from Athens to Washington, D.C. has been hijacked by Nagi Hassan (David Sutchet) and several other terrorists. The hijacking is in response to the capture of the world's most feared terrorist, El Sayed Jaffa, and Nagi Hassan want Jaffa to be released. It is also believed that the hijacked plane is carrying the stolen DZ-5 with the intention of detonating the bomb over U.S. airspace, wiping out the entire Eastern seaboard. A plan is made for a mid-air transfer of the commando team onto the hijacked airliner using an experimental F-117 stealth aircraft. Lt. Col. Travis's commando team includes Rat (John Leguizamo), Cappy (Joe Morton), Baker (Whip Hubley) and Louie (B.D. Wong). Also attached include aerospace engineer Dennis Cahill (Oliver Platt) who is responsible for the plan and Lt. Col. Travis insists David Grant comes along.The mid-air transfer is almost successful however the mission runs into a few problems. Cappy is seriously injured and rendered paralyzed, leaving him unable to disarm the bomb. Lt. Col Travis sacrifices himself as he closes the 747's plane hatch and the boarding sleeve tears and sucks him out to his death. In a movie first and a shock to Steven Seagal fans worldwide, the invincible Steven Seagal has died in an action movie, not even making it half way through the film. Also, other equipment vital to the mission including communications were lost in transit. Now it is up to the remaining members of the commando team, David Grant, and Dennis Cahill to disarm the bomb, neutralise the terrorists, and save the passengers on board the plane as well as millions of innocent lives below. Also assisting the team as the eyes and ears on the plane is flight attendant Jean (Halle Berry).Kurt Russell was excellent as intelligence officer David Grant who is thrust into the middle of the action. Kurt Russell is normally well known as the action hero in such movies as Escape from New York (1981), Tango and Cash (1989), and Stargate (1994). Here he is seen as more brains than brawn, much similar to a Jack Ryan movie. Steven Seagal was surprisingly good in a supporting role as the leader of a commando team. You'd be forgiven for thinking that Steven Seagal was the main actor of the movie, but his death surprised a lot of audiences. David Sutchet as the leader of the hijackers Nagi Hassan was good value. The supporting cast including John Leguizamo, Joe Morton, Oliver Platt, Halle Berry, and J.T. Walsh were also excellent.There is not a dull moment in Executive Decision, and there are plenty of plot twists and a neat plot that keeps the movie interesting. Executive Decision was definitely underrated on release and it seems like it was dismissed an an implausible movie, but in this day and age particularly after the events of September 11 2001, it seems like a potential scenario that could occur. That aside, Executive Decision is still an enjoyable movie.8/10 "}{"Title":"Solid Action Flick!","Date":"28 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I had my doubts about Executive Decision, but this turned out to be a mostly entertaining popcorn movie. It's light on the script and characterization, but it's heavy on the thrills and the action which effectively carries the film. This film can be described as a guilty pleasure, but that's how I feel about most movies Kurt Russell star in. This movie clearly reminds me of a similar movie in Air Force One, but this movie doesn't have a serious tone and it's fun to watch.Stuart Baird's film is about a man named Dr. David Grant who learns that a most wanted terrorist El Sayed Jaffa has been taken into custody. But an airplane from Greece heading to Washington D.C has been hijacked by Jaffa's lieutenant named Nagi Hassan and he demands the U.S to let Jaffa go. But Grant believes Hassan is up to no good, so he and some Special Forces secretly board the plane to get the plane under control once and for all.Is the acting really great? No, not really, but there is nothing awful here. Plus, everyone seems to be having a fun time. Kurt Russell is always effective and he seems more laid-back here compared to other roles of his. We get some good supporting turns from the likes of Steven Seagal, Halle Berry, Oliver Platt, and John Leguizamo.Overall, Executive Decision is a solid action film and it's your typical popcorn flick that is action-packed and features expendable characters. With these kind of action flicks, a tight script isn't the highest priority and it's clear here. But just watching the task force board the plane without anyone knowing was a thrill to watch. This is a solid, better-than-expected, brainless action/thriller. I rate this film 8/10. "},{"Title":"Russell and Seagal attempt to retake a hijacked 747 in midair!","Date":"13 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" When terrorists hijack a 747 bound for Washington they demand the release of their group's leader who had recently been captured. Initial plans are to play ball with them until they land then deal with them but State Department analyst XXX Grant believes the terrorists are in position of a deadly nerve agent and their demands are just an excuse to get the plane in to Washington airspace. If this is correct there are only two options; blow the plane out of the sky or use a classified stealth plane to transfer an elite commando group led by Col. Travis onto the plane in midair! Grant goes along too as his knowledge of the terrorists may be needed. An accident mid-transfer leaves the team aboard the 747 with half their kit missing, no way to contact anybody and with important team members dead or injured&#x85; if they are to save everybody on board Grant will have to identify the lead terrorist and the person in charge of the bomb before the plane enters US airspace!This film has plenty of action and the times in between the action are very tense as the commandos could be discovered at any time as the move through the areas of the plane passengers never see. There are some major surprises including the death of somebody most viewers will expect to be one of the stars of the film! There are plenty of well known actors including Kurt Russell and Steven Seagal as Grant and Travis; Halle Berry as a helpful stewardess and David Suchet as the leader of the terrorists aboard the plane; other main characters are played by familiar faces too. The cast does a fine job and Director Stuart Baird keeps the tension high from start to finish. Inevitably there are a few cliché moments but one expects a few in films like this. If you like action thrillers then this one is well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Very tense throughout except for a weak ending","Date":"27 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Kurt Russell does it again! It is very rare to catch Kurt Russell making a bad film and it's no surprise to me that he makes this film just as exciting as the many others that he's done in the past. And it's not just him either; Russell is paired up with several other actors to make this movie good. Executive Decision (1996) is the story of when a small military group and a few civilians take on an impossible looking task when an airplane is hijacked by terrorists.There isn't much to say about Kurt Russell and his character, Dr. David Grant, because it's likable like any other character that he's done before. Because Grant's a civilian in this story, of course he's going to be much more nervous than his military counterparts. Two other civilians that play key roles in this story is engineer Dennis Cahil (Oliver Platt) and flight attendant Jean (Halle Berry). Platt is good making his character sound like he knows what he's talking about, until he's called upon to diffuse a bomb, but hey, I'd be nervous too if I was him. Halle Berry also plays her role quite accurately as a nervous but strong willed flight attendant. If the situation were for real, it would take a lot of guts to put herself in so much danger.John Leguizamo, BD Wong, Joe Morton, Whip Hubley and Steven Seagal play the military squad. All of which I commend for their believable and entertaining performances as troopers under the gun and under a lot of pressure. Even the actors who portrayed the terrorists did a good job at instilling fear in the plot.What specifically makes this film so good though is how continuously stressful the situation is and becomes as the plot runs it course. Plus, there are several times where the possibility of the covert operation being discovered by the terrorists. And if it's not this, it's the fact that there's the possibility of a bomb going off. In many peoples' opinion, the stakes are way too high and there are too many odds against them. And for a while, I was thinking that too!Adding to the suspense is Jerry Goldsmith's score to the film. In some ways it sounds like a premature attempt at the Small Soldiers (1998) theme, but either way it works well. My only complaint with Goldsmith is that he couldn't make one last track for the credits. Why? Which leads me to the problems I had with this film. The ending is good to this movie but the way it transitions in tone from high tension to relaxation is way too abrupt. I won't say much, because I don't want to give it away but how does playing a Frank Sinatra tune at the credits appropriate to the ending? It's like the main characters are just purposefully forgetting all the damage that occurred through the whole movie! Yeah,...everything's all happy-go-lucky.Then there's the whole issue with the innocent bystanders who die in this movie. Yes, this movie is rated R, not everyone lives (but I won't say who)! How did the Thomas brothers (Jim & John) forget to write in a scene where the people who were lost are given a respectful burial? Isn't that kind of important? And finally, if any viewer doesn't like constant whispering, then I would not recommend this film because for the most of the beginning, everyone's whispering. To me, it wasn't a big deal but speaking softly is preferred than whispering. Overall, I was satisfied with the result, I just wish the ending wasn't so oddly weird.The suspense is really high in this film and all the actors play their parts really well. Just watch out for the ending, which seems a little out of place. "},{"Title":"A sold Action thriller that might come off a little been there, done that.","Date":"21 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Action movies as a whole don't tend to be very original. Most of them borrow from the previous hits and that's usually okay as long as they have their own spin to things and a solid cast, a kick ass hero, and bad ass villain. But there is the danger if you release an action flick in the ocean of action movies and it bares just too much resemblance to the some of the others, perhaps superior ones that are out there and I think that might be the one faux pas that befalls Executive Decision. The movie has a solid story, a decent cast, decent action, decent villain, decent hero...but that's just it...decent. It doesn't aim to really blow you away in the likes of Die Hard, or Air Force One (which Executive Decision bore some striking resemblance too besides just being on a plane even though Air Force One was released two years later.) It's also up against and comparable to Action hits like Con Air, The Rock, and the aforementioned Die Hard. Still there is plenty of good old fashion action to be had in the movie but they seem to focus very heavily on the fish out of water heroes. They also tend to pack a lot of heroes into one movie with a bunch of really great characters that all seem to want to be the one to lead the movie which confuses the viewer away from the main hero. I mean who doesn't watch Lethal Weapon and say Riggs and Murtaugh are wicked or Beverly Hills Cop Axel is the main man but you watch Executive Decision and say Wow all those guys are going to save this plane. You can't root for any one guy despite some big names. Kurt Russell mostly headlines the cast as terrorism expert Dr. Phil. David Grant. Russell's character isn't the field agent type but he inadvertently gets caught up in the action aboard the plane. I like Russell a lot and he's done a lot of great films, some of them amazing action flicks but this performance was a little toned down as his character wasn't supposed to be the hero type but because of that it took away from his role a little bit. John Leguizamo plays a great role as sudden leader of the SWAT team Captain Rat. His role is unfortunately small considering how many characters they had to juggle because he alone could have been a great action hero and he has never really carried a movie that I've ever seen and this could have been his chance but he's still great and the relationship between his character and Russell's is terrific if not a little under developed. Terrific character actor Oliver Platt plays a good role as another fish out of water as Engineer Dennis Cahill who also happens to end up on board. Platt's character is left mostly under developed as well when it could have been a lot more but he does a solid job. Joe Morton and B.D. Wong round out the team as good strong characters but again under developed. Halle Berry plays the head flight attendant Jean and does a decent job but as the case in so many of Berry's roles she doesn't look REAL. She looks like a barbie doll and even if she gives a half decent performance it never really fits? David Suchet could have been one of those kick ass villains I mentioned previously and he does a good job of being terrifying but is left as under developed...see the pattern. Finally it should be mentioned that action great (I've never cared much for him) Steven Seagal makes a brief appearance as the first leader of the team but is mercifully killed off very early in the movie. I wonder what made him take what is literally a cameo performance.Although director Stuart Baird was no stranger to action having worked on the crew of greats like Lethal Weapon and Demolition Man this was his first job as director. He does a decent job but as you can probably guess from my previous description of the cast he doesn't capture any personality with the characters and has so much going on with them that it loses something. Under the hands of a much more experienced director and maybe a better re-write and cutting out some of the multiple heroes this could have been a top notch action movie. There certainly isn't plenty of moments of intense thrills and it almost goes for suspense more than action if not for the multiple gun fights and terrorists and an edge of your seat ending. Overall Executive Decision sadly comes across as a little bland and it hurts even more because it could have been something great. Still worth seeing but certainly won't wow you in the action genre. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Trouble On t'Plane.","Date":"2 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" 'Executive Decision' is one of those edge-of-the-seat thrillers that Hollwood does so well.It begins with a strange and quite needless digression about an American military snatch team on a secret mission somewhere in eastern Europe. The team is led by ubiquitous movie hard-case, Steven Segal. They are looking to recover a stolen supply of apparently deadly nerve-agent. Their efforts prove unsuccessful.Cut to a US intelligence officer learning to fly a light plane. Kurt Russell is our man. You can just tell from the circumstances and dialogue that we are being set-up for later drama.Cut again, now, to a jumbo-jet. Some particularly nasty hijackers seize the aeroplane over the Altantic en-route to New York and demand the release of a detainee (seen captured earlier). There's a meeting of security minds. Russell explains that he believes the hijack to be a front. The real mission is to use the plane as a poor-man's weapon-of-mass-destruction. He suspects that the missing nerve agent is almost certainly concealed on the plane and will be used to poison the population of New York in an over-flight suicide detonation. Trouble is; there's no way of knowing for sure. The only safe solution is to shoot the jet down over the ocean, killing its 300 mostly US citizens. That's the interesting dilemma.The unexpected solution takes the form of a stealth aircraft, modified to link-up with other planes. There's a flexible, pressurised transfer-port. It's a very long shot. Russell suspects that their will be a bomb on board as well as the heavily-armed hijackers. Steven Segal leads the team once more and Kurt Russell comes along in an advisory role like 'Ellen Ripley' in 'Aliens'. But the transfer goes horribly wrong. The stealth aircraft is lost, Segal is killed. Surviving team members smuggle themselves through a service hatch onto the jumbo jet.What follows is wonderful high-drama Hollywood style. Nerve-racking, roller-coaster, all of the popular clichés suit this movie to a tee. As the jet heads steadfastly towards the USA, Russell and the remaining team scuttle about its obscure recesses, tracking the terrorists and looking for the poisonous agent. Russell knows that time is limited. They will never be allowed to enter American airspace.Acting is absolutely first rate. The whole cast turns in a sterling performance. Kurt Russell gets better with age. Segal happily disappears; this is more a thinking than an action movie. David Suchet, as terrorist leader, abandons his 'Poirot' moustache and turns in a role of such malevolence as to equal Lawrence Olivier's 'Doctor Zell'. Even a plausible turn is squeezed out of Halle (gosh, I'm so pretty) Berry, suitably cast as an air-hostess.Lighting, editing, and any special effects are as good as they should be. Theme music entirely suits the situation, and the sound effects -so often taken for granted - are first rate. You really do need a good sound-system here. There's a wonderful mix of claustrophobic tension within and huge aeroplane drama without. This is a big-budget movie with the money well spent.Tyre-kickers will inevitably find plot-holes. I know I can find one or two. But if you're willing to accept the overall premise and not look too hard; the tension, petty conflicts, and top-notch acting will surely draw you in. If I have a grumble, it is with the clichéd ending. You knew that Russell's character would eventually have to fly the plane - And sure enough. There's still action all the way, but it begins to assume a hokum that borders on the Disneyesque and culminates in the corniest of punch-lines. Those last couple of minutes spoil it for me. It's a simple case of more being less. And this is where I've docked 2 stars. The drama should have concluded with a final, intelligently-scripted confrontation between Russell and Suchet. However...This movie compares very favourably with 'Airforce One', is far superior to 'Con Air', and knocks 'Flight Plan' into a cocked hat. With all of the little plot twists there's never a dull moment.Coming just 4 years before 9/11, you begin to wonder if it didn't provide a little inspiration to the wrong people. And maybe it should have provided some for the right people. Else what's 'intelligence'for? "},{"Title":"Paint-by-the-Numbers Thriller, But Baird Knows How to Stay in the Lines","Date":"25 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Executive Decision is a purely paint-by-the-numbers techno-thriller. The script and direction are entirely pre-determined by genre convention. And, like the paint-by-the-numbers paintings it emulates, the end result is a rather plain and unenlightening picture. But director Stuart Baird and his screenwriters deserve credit for knowing how to paint within the lines. They deliver a taut thriller far better than its reputation. Every element of the script diligently adheres to genre convention&#151;or subgenre convention as the case may be. ED's story pilfers its premise straight from Die Hard's infinitely serviceable storyline about a man (in this case men) trapped in a confined space with a gang of ruthless terrorists and their hostages. Still, in many ways ED outstrips its predecessor. Die Hard's script tended to be loose and unwieldy with a few too many tenuously connected story elements (e.g. the nosy reporter bit went on too long). ED, on the other hand, is as tight as any thriller out there. With the exception of the first two scenes, which do little but introduce Steven Segal's and Kurt Russell's characters, there is barely a line of dialogue that does not move the story forward. Some dialogue even lends us a bit of a character development as a bonus&#151;but who needs characterization anyway. And the screenwriters deftly elevate tension by mounting complication on complication, maximizing the premise's potential for suspense. The plot structure of ED is essentially a model of how to construct a screenplay for a techno-thriller. Not unlike the script, Baird's direction is pedestrian, but it is also unobtrusive. Even in the mid 90's, when this film was made, Michael Bay-style movie making (quickcuts, shaky hand-held cameras) was in vogue. But none of that baffling visual mish-mash in ED. The action is clear and coherent, complete with a now quaint fetishizing of military technology funded by the Reagan/Bush administration. Make no mistake, this film's right-wing jingoism seeps from its marrow; but, its racism (or perhaps religionism) is not nearly as egregious as some critics assume. Instead of the hodgepodge of Euro-terrorists in Die Hard, ED capitalizes on nascent fears of Islamic fundamentalism in the 1990's. It does not portray Middle Easterners (well, Muslims) in a flattering light, but neither does the nightly news. How can you blame the movie makers for working off real-world events.Regardless, Baird and the scriptwriters refrain from making haphazard attempts at stretching the genre past its natural limits. Indeed all of the characters, not just the Islamic terrorists, are cardboard cutouts in service of the plot. Still, too often recent directors have taken such a heavy-handed approach to movies that should fit snugly in the action-adventure or comic book hero genres. Superman Returns (2006) and Batman Begins (2005) are notable examples. Both movies are far too serious&#151;Superman with its hackneyed religious motif and Batman with its brooding, moody too-decent-to-be-an-anti-hero hero. But, ED plays it straight. There are no tortured heroes, only a guy in a difficult situation who must overcome personal anxieties to prove themselves worthy to the team. Banal? Yes. But never strained.Spoiler!The movie does have one surprise&#151;an entirely welcome one in that. You have to admire any script that kills off one of its lead characters (played by an international superstar no less) in the first act. That's all the surprise a movie like this needs. Beyond that, it should stick to the genre and be an efficient thrill machine, not unlike the efficient machines the film fetishizes. ED is exactly that kind of machine. "},{"Title":"Not the best actioner, but it works.","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Any movie in which Steven Seagal dies before the action even gets started is all right by me.  And Oliver Platt is just cool.  Good tension is created with the 'sleeper' terrorist plot device.  I like an ensemble cast in an action movie better than the 'one man against the world' style of Die Hard.  7/10 "},{"Title":"Unexpectedly good","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I don't like neither Russell nor Seagal. Also I believe most of the Hollywood actions to be trash-movies. That's why I was stunned with the quality of Executive decision. With all those goofs mentioned at IMDB (a lot of them are visible) it is still very nice film to watch. You wouldn't forget these 2 hours of adrenaline. From my point of view it is real ACTION as it must be.  "},{"Title":"Best Segal film ever (spoiler in review)","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, I accindentally zapped into this one and didn't know who were in it. After seeing Segal I was tempted to switch it off again. I hate that self-worshipping pile of martial arts tricks. Luckily Kurt Russel showed up a few seconds later, so I decided to give it a chance.Lucky me; after about 15 minutes Segal gets sucked into thin air and there was no miraculous survival trick. Needless to say I watched the rest of the film through rose-coloured glasses and with a big grin on my face. And was it any good? Well it was a bit standard fare and predictable, but a decent thriller nevertheless. It amused me for an evening. 8 out of 10 (extra points for Segal's early death ) "},{"Title":"Great action thriller","Date":"11 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A terrorist group hijacks a commercial airliner demanding the release of their leader. Everybody is advising the plane be allowed to land in Washington, but Dr. David Grant (Kurt Russell) believes the terrorists have a nerve agent DZ-5 and plan to use it on Washington. Lt. Colonel Austin Travis (Steven Seagal) leads a special ops team along with Dr. Grant and Dennis Cahill (Oliver Platt) on a daring plan to retake the plane. When things go wrong, the surviving members of the team must complete the mission with the help of flight attendant Jean (Halle Berry).It has some outlandish aspects, but it still works quite well. The tension is expertly maintained throughout this movie. The acting is terrific. Kurt Russell is solid, and we get to have some early fun with killing off Steven Seagal. Even the terrorists led by Andreas Katsulas are great. This is a fun action thriller ride. "}{"Title":"I hope there's a good movie on this flight....","Date":"4 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Terrorists take over a plane bound from Athens to Washington, to effect the release of their leader.Intelligence expert David Grant suspects another reason and convinces the military that the plane should not be allowed to enter U.S. airspace.An assault mission is planned, using a plane designed for mid-air crew transfers, and Grant finds himself aboard the plane with a team of soldiers who have to defuse a bomb and overpower the terrorists....Everyone knows this film because it's the one where Seagal dies halfway through, and this would have more brilliant if they hadn't shown this pivotal scene in the trailer.But beyond that, it's a really good movie, and all the cast are great. Yes it's basically Die Hard, but there is so much urgency going on, it's forgivable that it's following such a simple format.Suchet is wonderful as the villain, very calm, but very deadly at the same time, and the film is full of humour, which comes as a relief in some of the more tense scenes.If you are a fan of Joel Silver, it's one of his better films from the nineties, and is pretty old school, in it's delivery of lines and tropes.Plus it's the best film ever made where it looks like two people are going to high five, and then the film cuts to a different scene... "},{"Title":"Clever if longish entertaining suspense/action/thriller.","Date":"2 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" When terrorists (Lead by David Suchet) hijacked 747 in midair. A team of Anti-Terrorist Operatives (John Leguizamo, Joe Morton, B.D. Wong, Whip Hubley and Steven Seagal) find a way to get on the 747 by using the Romora F117X. Their mission is to locate and disable a nerve-toxin bomb that could destroy the whole U.S. Eastern Seaboard. The anti-terrorist operatives receives help from an inexperience intelligence analyst David Grant (Kurt Russell) and an engineer (Oliver Platt) to go along with the mission but the leader of the ATO dies. Grant has no other choice to take command of the mission and as well for disarming the bomb before it arrives in Washington D.C. But the team are also in luck, when a Flight Attendant (Oscar-WinnerHalle Berry) decides to help to stop the terrorists.Directed by Stuart Baird (U.S. Marshals, Star TrekNemesis) made an entertaining action-thriller that has some suspense and exciting action sequences. The cast are good here (especially Suchet in a strong role as the lead villain) but one of the reasons why Executive Decision remain memorable for over the years is Seagal's supporting role. Especially when the Seagal's character meets his unfortunately fate. The premise is surprisingly believable as well.DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (2.351) transfer (also in Pan & Scan) and an good Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD doesn't have any bonus features. This is a well made action-adventure that is a bit long as well but it features, good solid entertainment. Worth a look. Written by Jim Thomas & John Thomas. Which the Thomas Brothers are best known for writing Predator and Predator 2. Joel Silver (Lethal Weapon Series, The Matrix Trilogy, Die Hard) produced this movie. Panavision. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"It thankfully takes a few rests momentarily, because the action-suspense sequences are killer.","Date":"1 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" My Take Works as a thriller. Blows you away as an action movie. Obviously inspired by the previous years surprise hit SPEED, and perhaps a little bit of BROKEN ARROW which was released the same year, EXECUTIVE DECISION copes for yet another Mad Bomber movie. It is wherein the plot concerns a someone (or a group of people) threatening to blow up a certain transport, containing a lot of people, if his/their demands are insured. In this case, we have a stolen nerve-toxin placed by terrorists on board a 747, with them hijacking it for effects as well, and threaten to activate the bomb as it reaches Washington, wiping out the entire Eastern Seaboard. Now it's up to a commando unit and an intelligence analyst to board the plane in midair, via a stealth jet, and defuse the bomb before it reaches the Washington airspace, and before the plane is blown out of the sky, killing everyone on board.EXECUTIVE DECISION is among the films I classified as Great Action Movies, those action flicks that provide such action, thrills and suspense, that you are forced to look for a seat belt at the height of all the thrills. EXECUTIVE DECISION is that kind of thrill-packed package that never seemed to run out of ways to keep the viewers on the edge. It thankfully takes a few rests momentarily, because the action-suspense sequences are killer.With such great action film, comes always a talent behind the camera. This time, it's first-time director Stuart Baird. Baird is also the film editor of other great action films like the LETHAL WEAPON films and DIE HARD 2. He combines the elements and bits of these other films, and many other action flicks, and results into a major filmmaker's first.EXECUTIVE DECISION is what you'd expect from a mindlessly entertaining action flick, but I still recommend this film, especially to action fans, and give it a high rating of ****.Rating **** out of 5. "},{"Title":"Where's Seagal??","Date":"19 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Executive Decision is really nice. It's extremely exciting through the entire movie. The only thing that really SUCKS is that Steven Seagal 'falls' out of the movie almost in the beginning of it. You don't even see him again in the ending of the movie. He's in it for like 15-20 minutes in the beginning, and only say's like 5 sentences. Then when they are about to go on board while the plane is flying, Seagal falls out of the plane. When that happens you thinkThen how will get on the plane now? He has to. He's the main character. Then you thinkOf course the plane will land, and Seagal will be there and own them all. He's not. But actually the movie is pretty good without him. In my opinion it would have been better if they didn't use him at all. On the other hand, I probably wouldn't have watched the movie then.It's obvious that his name has only been used for attracting audience. Because of that detail I only rate the movie 8. Else it would have been 9. "},{"Title":"Decent thriller which  promotes action and suspense.","Date":"25 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Formerly an ace film editor, Stuart Baird here makes his directorial debut with a sleek escapist action flick. Executive Decision is a bit of Airport, a bit of The Delta Force, and a bit of James Bond, all rolled into one. From a post 9/11 standpoint, the idea of an aircraft being used as a weapon against the United States is almost queasy. However it's important to remember that the film was made in 1996 and was intended purely as an action blockbuster. Compared with the other adrenalin-pumping action films made around that time this one still holds its own, and is actually a good deal better than some of the less successful entries in the genre.A team of anti-terrorism commandos headed by Colonel Travis (Steven Seagal) raid a villa outside Trieste in search of a stolen nerve gas. Though their raid is successful in some ways, they do not find the deadly substance that they seek. Shortly afterwards, a plane from Athens to Washington DC is hijacked by a gang of terrorists led by infamous fanatic Hassan (David Suchet). Initially Hassan indicates that the hijacking is designed to bring about the freedom of an imprisoned terrorist colleague. However, Dr David Grant (Kurt Russell), head of an anti-terrorist think-tank, believes that Hassan has somehow smuggled the nerve gas aboard the plane and is actually planning to release it, resulting in the loss of millions of lives. Having convinced the top brass that his theory might be correct Grant is sent, along with Travis and his commando bunch, to deal with the threat. They travel by a prototype stealth jet and secretly board the hijacked plane whilst in flight. Once on board, their mission is to locate and neutralise the nerve gas bombs, then regain control of the plane by taking out the terrorists.Although Executive Decision is a largely by-the-numbers action offering, there are a few angles that make it slightly different from the norm. For instance one of the main characters meets an unexpectedly early death, all the more surprising because we in the audience are banking on him being present for the requisite happy ending! The suspense is maintained pretty well throughout, with many hardships befalling the heroes and lots of nerve-jangling moments along the way to the denouement. Also, veteran music scorer Jerry Goldsmith adds an agreeably dramatic air to the proceedings. But these strong points are negated by some unfortunate shortcomings &#150; among which can be counted simplistic posturing, moments of silliness, and a misjudged and overwrought ending. Overall, Executive Decision is an enjoyable and well-packaged action flick in spite of its occasional shortcomings. If you catch it in the right frame of mind, it genuinely hits the spot. "},{"Title":"A Suspenseful Action Flick","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A 747 has been hi-jacked and loaded with a nerve-toxin bomb that could wipe out the U.S. eastern seaboard. A stealth mission to board this aircraft is lead by Steven Seagal, but when it doesn't go exactly to plan, Kurt Russell and Oliver Plait have to race against time before the U.S. military blasts the plane from the sky.Executive Decision is crammed with suspense and tension, using this approach rather than big bangs and explosions. The Direction from Stuart Baird is once again up to his usual standard and the cast deliver fine performances helping this thriller become a great ride that's fun to enjoy.7/10 "},{"Title":"Underrated action thriller that was ahead of its time","Date":"28 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Why Executive Decision is not better known is a mystery in itself since it is easily the equal of the other top examples in the action thriller genre such as Die Hard and Speed. Furthermore, since its release in 1996, events have overtaken it so that once what was seen as unlikely Hollywood fiction has taken on a different complexion since the events of 9/11. In fact a film which features a suicide bomber in a restaurant in London and a plot to crash a 747 into Washington D.C. with enough nerve gas to wipe out the Eastern seaboard of the United States would be unlikely to be made today, so closely does it resemble recent current events.However, this alone is not the only reason for recommending this film from start to finish. The film itself is a class act both in front and behind the camera. There are good performances from the entire cast, including Kurt Russell, Halle Berry, John Leguizamo, B.D. Wong, Joe Morton, Oliver Platt (who never gives a bad performance), David Suchet (refreshingly underplaying his villain in the same way that Alan Rickman did in Die Hard) and even Steven Seagal rises to the occasion here. Behind the camera, editor Stuart Baird succeeds in his directorial debut in making a tense thriller that relies on suspense rather than being a simple shoot-em-up. Baird is one of the best editors working today and it is a shame that none of his subsequent efforts as director have matched this one. With a great script from Jim and John Thomas (a surprise considering their previous hit, Predator), an excellent score from the always brilliant (and sadly missed) Jerry Goldsmith (who manages to excel himself here - no mean feat given the quality of much of his previous work), great editing from Baird, Die Hard editor Frank Urioste and Dallas Puett, some classy camera-work from the great British cameraman Alex Thomson and a great 747 set from production designer Terence Marsh, the whole film is an example of what happens when you get a good team of people together and let them do what they do best.Sadly only the end lets this film down. It is obvious from the very beginning that Kurt Russell will have to fly the plane at the film's end and the sequence in which he has to fly the plane while Halle Berry reads from the manual is silly, further let down by some lame special effects (which is a shame because a majority of the film's effects are excellent). A lesser film might have got away with this but the sequence jars so badly here only because the rest of the film is so good by comparison. Nevertheless this is still a throughly recommended film that deserves to be better known than it is. "},{"Title":"Excellent action film, and truly beyond belief...","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  First off, I'd like to say that this is, without question, my favorite Steven Seagal film of all time. His acting talents have never before been more appropriately utilized in a film. Secondly, this is the movie that proved that Marla Maples is the human equivalent of a book cover with no book. She is pure wallpaper in this film, and even this stretches her acting abilities to the limit.That being said, 'Executive Decision' has a completely implausible plot, and yet the film works very well as a whole. Like 'Die Hard' and 'Die Hard 2' (AKA 'Speed'), there are elements to this film that simply require a tremendous 'suspension of disbelief', but the story flows smoothly and the characters are strong enough that it makes for a very cohesive, enjoyable film. Halle Berry is quite good; J.T. Walsh is, and always was a real standout (R.I.P); but I think it's Kurt Russell that really makes the film 'fly'. He's kind of like a combination of Bruce Willis in 'Die Hard', Nicholas Cage in 'The Rock', and Harrison Ford as Jack Ryan in any of the Tom Clancy films, and if it wasn't for him I believe this film would fall flat.After the tragic events of September 11th 2001, the plot takes on a very different feel... just a little too close to reality. Interestingly enough, when the film was originally released, there were protests about the 'unfair portrayal' of Islamic terrorists. I think history has now proven this to be a moot point. Neither I, nor the film, suggest that all Arabs or all Muslims are terrorists, but knowing that people like these terrorists clearly exist makes it all the more chilling. All in all, it's a great roller-coaster of a film. Highly recommended.  "},{"Title":"A lot of fun","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  What with Steven Seagal and Kurt Russell, I expected this film to be action packed with a lot of blow ups and shooting and mayhem. It isn't!  this is a very suspenseful film.  An Arab terrorist hijacks a 747 jet with a very bad nerve gas.  Kurt and his crew somehow get aboard the plane (don't ask how) and attempt to thwart the hijackers. Oliver Platt was good as an engineer/computer nerd type guy, and Halle Berry was fine as the flight attendant.  One of Kurt Russell better recent efforts. "},{"Title":"Terror in the air that rates a look-see.","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Action packed story of a group of commandos that board a 747 mid flight and attempt to overcome the terrorists who've taken control. Kurt Russell, the non-military interloper, has to take charge of the situation in Steven Segal's absence. Good entertainment and faults aside, well worth a look. Rating 6/10 "}{"Title":"Unintentionally Hilarious","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Warning SPOILERSThis action film was clumsy and silly, but was still fun to watch, in part to enjoy its ridiculous aspects.  Not long after it starts, we learn that Kurt Russell is learning to fly(Hmmm, how could this airline hijacking movie end?).  The dialogue was silly, and the scene when Halle Berry unfolds that map with Washington on it was so overdone that it was amusing.  It hard to get angry over the movie's negative images of Arabs because they, like everything else about this, just looked clumsy, in particular when the dissenting terrorist is clearly thrown in to try to deflect such criticism.  When thing about this movie that made me very happy though was that they get rid of Segal rather early in the film.  I wish they would do that more often.   "},{"Title":"Morally dubious, but mindlessly entertaining","Date":"28 December 2004","Score":"19 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" EXECUTIVE DECISIONAspect ratio 2.391 (Panavision)Sound formats Dolby Digital / DTS / SDDSNormally, the name Steven Seagal would be enough to send any self-respecting movie fan screaming from theaters in a state of advanced colonic distress, but he makes only a brief appearance in this barnstorming blockbuster as the leader of a crack commando unit who is unceremoniously dumped (literally) from a great height during a botched rescue mission, leaving terrorist expert Kurt Russell to save the day for Humanity and the American Way. David Suchet (Hercule Poirot himself!) is the villain this time out, a fanatical Arab assassin who hijacks a passenger plane and threatens all manner of unpleasantness if the US doesn't release a fellow terrorist from custody. Russell manages to sneak on board the plane with Seagal's commando unit (now led by John Leguizamo), but they find themselves sharing space with a deadly nerve bomb, which Suchet intends to detonate over Washington DC, come what may...Former editor Stuart Baird (THE OMEN, SUPERMAN) makes his directorial debut with this gung ho potboiler, which looks decidedly hammy post-9/11, and which could never be accused of enriching our understanding of the Human Condition. But the melodramatic script (by Jim and John Thomas) twists the screws for its papier-mâché characters before reaching a frenzied boiling point during the climactic confrontation between slimy foreign upstarts (mown down like skittles, without a second thought) and All-American good guys (invincible in triumph, martyred in defeat). Baird directs with sure-footed economy (the film doesn't feel padded at all, despite the 132 minute running time), and while some of the early scenes threaten to submerge viewers beneath a wave of unbridled testosterone, matters improve when Russell takes center-stage, playing the Everyman hero who proves every bit as resourceful as his militaristic companions. Halle Berry plays a terrified stewardess who helps save the day, while the main cast is bolstered by dependable talent in secondary roles (B.D. Wong, Joe Morton, George Coe, Len Cariou, etc.). Overblown stuff, and morally dubious to boot, but mindlessly entertaining nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Suspenseful action stuff","Date":"3 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Executive Decision is a solidly mounted riff on the 'Die Hard on a plane' motif, which can be awesome (Air Force One, Con Air) or a mess (Passenger 57, Non Stop). This one's got a wicked cast in its corner, and to me that's the key with making any airplane set film work When it's just our hero and the terrorists clean cut, there's no magic. Having a bunch of distinct, colorful people all coupes up in their holds interest better. A valiant Kurt Russell stars here as Dr. David Grant, an intelligence analyst who comes up with an idea right out of a movie after hearing that a passenger airliner has been hijacked by violent terrorists. He accompanies a commando team led by Colonel Travis (Steven Seagal in a character arc you've never seen him do before) to secretly board the plane mid air and eliminate the threat by force. It's a volatile plan rife with opportunities for suspenseful situations, which we get in spades, sans the occasional flag waving which got annoying in Air Force One. in addition to Russell and Seagal here we've got Halle Berry as a flight attendant with remarkable survival instincts, JT Walsh as a senator in the wrong place at the wrong time, A very scary David Suchet as the terrorist leader, with terrific work also from. Oliver Platt, Joe Morton and others. My favourite performance comes from peppy scene stealer John Leguizamo as Rat, the most charismatic dude on the commando team. He's got such a winning quality to his work that even in small riles he becomes the benchmark of any film for me and always one of the key elements I take away from it. This one is surprisingly modest for an action flick of scope, not resorting to bombastic third act fireworks to wow the crowds, but remaining somewhat intimate with what's going on in the interior of the plane and drawing clammy suspense from it. Great stuff. "},{"Title":"Breathtaking, pulse pounding, nail biting...in short an excellent thriller movie!","Date":"13 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The plot and story of the movie can be narrated in one line like hijacking and then rescuing. But my word! the ingredients and flavors added to this one line plot are absolutely breathtaking.I watched this movie on TV. I was just going through all the channels and only by chance I tuned in to this one. From the moment I started watching it I never left my seat. It is that thrilling. The suspense in the movie is one of the best I have ever seen. Full credit to the director. I have watched many other hijack movies like The Air Force One, Con Air....many I forgotten the name also but Executive Decision is cut above the rest. Last but not the least, the end of the movie could have been better. Should have given more credit to the commandos and the landing of the flight could have been shown on the main airport. Thank you for reading. "},{"Title":"****","Date":"3 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Most definitely a taut thriller and really appropriate due to the present world conditions regarding terrorism.This fascinating film deals with one terrorist who has his own ambitions and even when prodded by his superior, he defies everything. Attaching the commandos to the plane was something in itself.Other than the doomed U.S. Senator whose aboard the hijacked aircraft, the film doesn't delve in the personal lives of the affected passengers aboard. In other words, it's not a plane in trouble in the way that we saw 1954's The High and the Mighty.A wonderful cast keeps the tension growing, especially Halle Berry as the courageous stewardess and Kurt Russell.Just when you think that the terrorists have been thwarted, there is more excitement when the plane is crippled by dying terrorists shooting it up and that landing was memorable. "},{"Title":"Ungainly action-thriller...not much progress from the previous decade","Date":"28 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Arab terrorists hijack a 747 mid-flight after the United States has captured one of their leaders. More terror-in-the-skies hysteria, with the current state of international panic exploited by producer Joel Silver and groomed into rousing family entertainment. It's really just a big-budget extension of those heavy-handed Golan-Globus movies from the 1980s (The Delta Force, in particular). The cast is well-equipped to handle the terse situations, with Kurt Russell relatively convincing as an intelligence analyst who comes to the rescue. The only member of the team who doesn't quite jell is a curiously-placed Steven Seagal (playing a commando who is mostly used as a prop). Directing debut from veteran film-editor Stuart Baird, who ought to say a thousand mea culpas after this one, though the film did perform well at the box-office. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"21 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is a tremendous movie. Not a big Steven Seagal fan, and I'm glad he isn't the main character in this one. The rest of the cast is excellent. Kurt Russell is great and David Suchet is tremendous, in a most non Hercule Poirot role. Suchet is such a versatile actor, having played Middle Eastern, French, Belgian and English characters in his distinguished career.The movie is a bit long and drags in a few spots, but that just makes it all the more suspenseful. The supporting cast is very good, with Oliver Platt and Joe Morton shining. Much better than Passenger 57. Definitely recommend this movie. Worth watching and re- watching. "},{"Title":"Steven Seagal Didn't Suck","Date":"19 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Plot In A Paragraph When terrorists seize control of an airliner, Dr David Grant (Kurt Russell) an intelligence analyst accompanies a commando unit led by Col Travis (Steven Seagal) for a midair boarding operation.Kurt Russell has been a bit hit and miss the last decade and a half, but back in the mid 1990's when this was made, he was a very reliable actor. Halle Berry (in her first $1million dollar role) was the best she had been at this point, but for some reason it would be four years before she hit the big time with X-Men John Leguizamo is reliable as always in his supporting role. Oliver Platt, who seems to have disappeared over the years was solid support too, as was Joe Morton, JT Walsh and in a smaller role Mary Ellen Trainor. The biggest surprise to me at least was Steven Seagal didn't totally suck. In fact I'd rank it in his top two movies. Under Siege being his best.It is a bit predictable. When it is nine minutes in, and you see the main character learning how to fly and land an airplane, you know it will come back up later (probably the finale) in the movieDirector Stuart Baird has directed a movie that is a highly professional piece of work, swift and suspenseful, with a good sense of pace and atmosphere it makes for great entertainment. I'm surprised he only directed 2 more movies. "},{"Title":"Great film with minor problems!!!!","Date":"20 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This film was amazing! All of the actors were brilliant and Kurt Russell should definitely stick to being a buisinessman who knows how to shoot. Also, David Suchet - seeing Hercules Poirot as a bad guy was undeniably a work of a genius. The storyline was great and realistic but now i'll get to the flaws.For starters Steven Seagal died during the epic mid-air transfer. ( That was their first mistake. It should never have happened. Next, with the amount of times Halle Berry had run-ins with Suchet she should have been shot through the head! Next, the simple fact that the terrorists took ages to check the service hatch was wrong. They should have checked straight away. And last but not least was the fiasco where the master terrorist got released from prison and put on a jet at the end. I don't object to that but when the pentagon found out that the plane had bee secured they should have immediately brought the plane back or shot it down. Anything to stop the terrorist from escaping. Anywy don't let the bad deter you from watching this film. Despite the flaws it was still a satisfyingly good watch. P.S. I know there are spoilers but they were necessary. "},{"Title":"Top Flight Heart-Stopping Action Motion Picture Experience","Date":"9 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Without question, this is one of the very best action suspense thrillers ever with top flight performances by everyone! As someone else has stated here This is one of the greatest Action Thrillers of all time...it keeps you at the edge of your seat, no matter how many times you see it. I agree, I've seen it several times this weekend as it is being shown on Encore HD, and it gets me hooked every time.Skilled Director Suart Baird is also one of the best editors of action films in Hollywood. The sights and sounds are mind-numbingly realistic. When Russell is forced to land the plane, you live every second with heart-stopping tension. "}{"Title":"One of the Best Action Thrillers of all time... up there with the First Die Hard Movie ***** out of *****","Date":"26 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" In the mid 90s there were quite a few similar Terrorist/madman on a plane movies, which included Box office Smash 'Air Force One' & Box office disaster 'Turbulence' to name two.Executive Decisionn is I feel much better Than 'AFO' even though it didn't do so well theatrically, More people wanted to see Harrison Ford as the President than Kurt Russell (whose career was on the slide by now) as a intelligence officer.The script by the writers behind the modern classic Sci-Fi Arnie starer Predator, try and do something slightly different, yeah you've got your usual fundamental Islamic terrorists (led by David 'Poirot' Suchet who hasn't really had much luck stateside, as he's been typecast as the Belgian Detective) who hijack a 747 and have a deadly nerve gas on board and plan to kill as many of the 'infedels' as possible. What's different, (or at least was at the time, before various Straight to Video rip offs have tried to emulate over the years since) was the way that the Commandos get on board the jetliner, and how they manage to overcome said terrorists.There is great tension throughout, especially with the two guys trying to diffuse a bomb, and at the end when the Film turns into a 'Airport' Movie. This is one of the greatest Action Thrillers of all time... 2nd only to the Original Die Hard Movie, It's slightly overlong & for the most part is far from original, but it keeps you at the edge of your seat, no matter how many times you see it.***** out of ***** (RARE 5 STAR MOVIE) "},{"Title":"I think we're looking up the ass-end of a dead dog, but it's worth a try","Date":"5 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I watched this movie with very low expectations and I must say, they were highly surpassed.This movie is not even close to a work of art, but I'm rating this based on what I think of it.The setting was sort of basic but also very suspenseful.The effects were OK, there was one shot of fighters passing the airliner that made me upset because of how bad it was but that didn't make me not like this movie.Performance-wise, everything was great. Kurt Russell delivered as Dr. David Grant, the expert on the mission on the explosives on board. Steven Seagal even delivered as Lt. Col. Austin Travis, the group leader. Halle Berry was great as Jean, the gutsy flight attendant on the hijacked plane. John Leguizamo was perfect for Captain Rat, the loud-mouthed, cocky member of the team. Oliver Platt was perfect for the part of Cahill, the kind of wimpy engineering expert. And finally, Joe Morton was great as Cappy, the smart, calm team member.As for music score, really setting. Everything was perfect and very suspenseful.Over all, a good movie for action and thriller fans.9/10. "},{"Title":"trivia","Date":"19 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Add to Trivia that Oceanic Airlines, boldly displayed on the side of the plane, is the fictional airline in the TV series LOST where a plane crash of Oceanic 815 strands the castaways. This has spawned numerous Oceanic.com sites of LOST trivia, a few unfortunately closed as we anticipate the start of the new season of LOST. It is amazing how famous the varied cast of this gem of a movie have become, and how current the plot line seems. The James Bond references seem pulled from today's news. Seagal gives a most believable and understated performance, and Russell breaks his new age, hippy image and plays against type to be suave yet likable. "},{"Title":"Call the President. It's an executive decision now.","Date":"28 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" For so many executive decisions that were made in this film, the Secretary of Defense can't wait for the President to return his call and makes them himself the release of the terrorist leader from his London captors, the decision to board the plane in flight with all the inherent risks involved, the decision to divert the flight by Navy fighters before it lands in D.C. In the real world, these should indeed have been made by the President, but his involvement is nowhere seen in this picture. That criticism aside, it's very suspenseful, with surprisingly little action for a Steven Seagal movie. Had he not been killed early on, it's a good bet that you would have seen more shooting and definitely more hand-to-hand fighting scenes. Not having him aboard and his second-in-command badly wounded allowed the other commandos and expert advisors to deal with the matters at hand and it enhanced the suspense generated. How the anti-terrorist squad works out their internal squabbles and accomplishes its mission, with the aid of a brave stewardess, played by Halle Berry, makes for an intriguing ride aboard the not-so-friendly skies. In the tradition of THE HIGH AND THE MIGHTY, AIRPORT and AIR FORCE ONE, it turns out to be a well-made thriller with a fine ensemble cast and stirring Jerry Goldsmith score supporting a fine Kurt Russell performance. Dale Roloff "},{"Title":"Edge of Your Seat Action, But A Suspense Overload","Date":"12 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This film features a decent story, generates great suspense, and exhibits an ability to combine action with levity in a well proportioned delivery, but the suspense it generates is so intense and goes on for so long that you practically become bored with the premise. It pushes the envelope in generating appropriate suspense, but it pushes it too far, as it takes itself far too seriously, while trying to mix levity into the picture. While it does so rather well, there are moments of inconsistency wherein the suspense overplays its hand and fails to deliver a payoff, and the levity has you laughing, but sometimes in the wrong places.Aside from that, the action was great and the cast contributed professional performances. Dialog delivery is phenomenal, maintaining the timing, even when the surrounding elements are out of step.This was entertaining, and a sure hit with the Friday Night Is Guy's Night crowd.It rates a 6.8/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Very good! A very-suspenseful action film with a great cast.","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This film was excellent. A truly great cast and a fantastic storyline. Arab terrorists hijack a commercial airliner and they somehow got a very large nuclear bomb on board and plan to crash it in a suicide-attack in Washington DC (unknown to the passengers). So a team of special-ops soldiers (Russell, Seagal, Leguizamo, and 2 others) get on board the plane in mid-air by attaching their fighter jet to it, and they attempt to save the plane before it is too late. This is one of the greatest action films I have ever seen (even better than Air Force One and Passenger 57) and is full of suspense that will keep you on the edge of your seat. Halle Berry is excellent as a flight attendant who tries to help the team out. My only complaint is that Steven Seagal was in only a few scenes (he is killed early in the film). Feel free to email me with any questions or comments.   "},{"Title":"Everything but the kitchen sink....","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I've seen bits and pieces of Executive Decision and never seen the entire movie and, as of this writing, I saw the final hour on the TNT cable channel. And considering that it was an edited version, I guess this review is not complete. It's not because I didn't enjoy what I saw. Many plot points were stolen from many other movies I listed, in no particular order the Airport movie series, Airport, Airplane, Skyjacked, Operation Thunderbolt, The Rock, the Die Hard series, Air Force One, Speed and probably some more that I don't remember and despite all of this, it's still a very intense, suspenseful movie.I always thought Kurt Russell is better as an everyman hero (e.g. The Mean Season, Breakdown) than an action hero and he works well here. Halle Berry (several years prior to her Oscar-winning work) did a good job playing essentially what is starting to become a cliche the Sandra Bullock heroine role. I missed Steven Seagal in the picture but, according to some other postings, it looked like Seagal didn't mind playing a cameo and had some fun with it for a change. Some strong supporting work by John Leguizamo, Oliver Platt and Joe Morton and a hissable villain played by David Suchet (who, I hope, doesn't become the next Bruce Dern or Don Stroud. The actor to go to when you need to cast a bad guy.) made for a better than average, check-your-brain-at-the-door thriller.  Hopefully, I'll have some time to see the movie from beginning to end...one of these days.... "},{"Title":"Wow!!!","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I love Kurt Russel! He is one of my greatest action-heroes. He does action-films witch are so full of action. When i was a little boy, like ten-eleven i saw a movie, big trouble in little china and it was so good and i saw it hundreds of times. He has never done a very bad movie too. Executive Decision is one movie full of entertaining and action. It happens things all the time in the movie. You people who gives this movie an 1 at the voting thing....you are crazy. I gave it a 9. "},{"Title":"excellent","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Clever, tense, and slam-bang action thriller about a military team that must rescue a hijacked plane from an international terrorist group. The script provides enough action and plot twists to hold your attention throughout, but also gets help from a great cast.(That excludes Steven Seagal) 3/4 "},{"Title":"A pleasant surprise","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  A movie about an airplane hijack featuring Steven Seagal? Normally I wouldn't even bother to check it out, but somehow I decided to give this one a chance. At first Executive Decision seems to be nothing more than a typical genre flick with the usual hokey elements, but stay tuned--it turns out to be clearly better than the average film of this sort. Russell makes for a likeable hero and Seagal's limited screen time is a definite plus. There are plenty of extremely tense moments (rather than boring shootouts) but alas the ending is rather unconvincing. "}{"Title":"Certainly worth watching - actually it's a doubleheader - action AND comedy!","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The first 90% is certainly a good action movie. 'Logic' holds together pretty well and 'characters' credible. But I have to disagree with the previous comments rather than having you in a sweat, the last 10 minutes will have you rolling in the plane's aisles! This section should surely have been part of Airplane 2!Sound track good on 5.1 (actually resulted in good 6.1 on Outlaw). "},{"Title":"Whoa, Man...","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  It boggles the mind if Steven Seagal agreed to be in this movie, knowing his character's fate (and how early he meets it), then he must be much more of a team player than I ever gave him credit for.  Can you imagine Jean-Claude Van Damme agreeing to appear in the first twenty minutes of a movie, then handing it off to the real actors?  Kudos, Steven.Now, this is what happens when all of Hollywood's creative cylinders are firing.  Executive Decision is designed as a thrill ride, and it pulls it off admirably.  The script is tight and intelligent, with plenty of twists and turns, and the cast makes their individual characters into believable, memorable people.  Sure, it has its silly points and plot holes, but what movie doesn't?  Executive Decision quickly gets up to speed and pulls you along fast enough that you don't break your willing suspension of disbelief until after you've left the theater (or rewound the tape, or ejected the DVD, or whatever the case may be).The reviewer for my local paper said this movie felt like the first of a series.  Perhaps the greatest compliment I can pay Executive Decision is that I wish that were true I would really enjoy seeing these characters (Grant, Rat, Louie, Baker, Cappy and Cahill) team up again. "},{"Title":"Best Seagal Movie Ever!","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Anytime that Steven Seagal is killed in the first act is a good thing.  I have nothing against Seagal just the movies he makes.  He needs to give up control of his movies and let someone else direct and produce.  He's got to quit making movies where his character is the same ex-military god-like commando. "},{"Title":"Gripping!","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  A tense, gripping, edge-of-your-seat movie.  Not a lot of action, but the suspense more than makes up for it.  Don't miss this one! "},{"Title":"Yeah, some excitement, but how about realism occasionally?","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  As soon as I saw Steven Seagal's name associated with this movie, I was nervous.  Mercifully, he doesn't last very long, but the rest of the movie is filled with the usual (and hard to escape) big-deal unrealistic action sequences.  If more thought had been given to the story line and less to the special effects, this movie might have had a chance. "},{"Title":"Very Underrated","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Often there are times when quality movies slip through the cracks, this is one of them. Executive Decision bares a very haunting resemblance to the events of 9/11 and this movie happened five years earlier. The movies response to the terrorist boarding a plane headed for the United States was far better than the actual response on that fateful day. This movie has great tempo and is done with a realism that makes you think that this is exactly what would happen if a terrorist attack of that magnitude were to actually happen. Oh wait it did happen and who would have thought a movie would do a better job than the real thing. Anyway I rank this as one of the best action flicks of all-time, cool story and great action music to keep the movie moving along nicely. "},{"Title":"Stevens Segals best movie.","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I have watched a lot of movies that star Steven Segal, and this is the closest that comes to being the best of them. Under Siege was good too, but this was a better made movie. Kurt Russell was good as well as John Leguizamo, Halle Berry, Oliver Platt, and Joe Morton. They all give believable roles and are very heroic. The late JT welsh was excellent as the slimy Senator who wanted to get public attention by negotiating the release of the hostages. As for Segal, he doesn't hurt the movie very much with his acting, because he's only in the first 50 minutes of the movie. I recommend this for anybody who wants two hours of solid good fun. "},{"Title":"Blown away!","Date":"18 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  !!!SPOILERS!!!This is definetly not an action flick, that's for sure, even though it does have Steven Seagal (who is uncredited in the opening credits). The plot is that a plane is hijacked by terrorists with DZ-5. Problem is, the plane's in the air, and they can't let it land (they might use the DZ-5). What do you do? Well, you could blow the plane out of the sky or, as Seagal suggests, go up in an aircraft (built by Oliver Platt)that can dock onto the aircraft, and smuggle Seagal's army unit on board. The unit also brings Dr. Grant (Kurt Russell) to keep an eye on the lead terrorist's (David Suchet). However, this plan goes rather badly, and ends up with half the equipment and without a leader. Now Grant has to help the unit by leading the team (John Leguizamo & Joe Morton, among others) while getting help from a flight attendant (a pre-famous Halle Berry). The tension rides high this thriller, that plays better than any Jack Ryan movie. As a bonus, Seagal is sucked out of dock in mid-air, 40 minutes in. How good is that!  "},{"Title":"a pleasant surprise!","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Suchet's terrifyingly convincing portrayal as the mastermind behind the hijacking proves once again the versatility of his talent. It left me wondering how he'd had felt about that role upon the recent events to which this story is similar. Russell successfully shook off the boyhood actor in my mind with his taut and effective performance and Berry demonstrated her Oscar quality and kept the tension at a high level throughout most of the film. Ultimately watchable, though technically unrealistic, as with every turn of fortune brings a new situation that again kept the audience on its toes despite some suspension of reality. As I am not at all a Seagall fan, or of any one of his bigger-than-the-building ego action flicks, I was, needless to say, somewhat relieved that he had a brief part. The ending scene was somewhat odd, and even inappropriate, with a certain disrespect to the whole event as if it was of very little importance with the invitation for a coffee. "},{"Title":"Very strong thriller...","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I was surprised with this movie,it was really,really good.Of all the action movies that comes from Hollywood,this must be one of the last 10 years best! A kind like Die Hard in a airplane,but with more suspense and lesser action.This is more of a thriller than an action movie. Kurt Russell is very good in this one,so is Halle Berry.Steven Seagal died during the movie.I didn`t care,he did no good in his part. David Suchet(you now the Poirot guy) is pretty mean as the chief terrorist,he does a fine job.So everyone,rent this one-you will NOT be disappointed!Rated 8/10. "}{"Title":"It was better than the Academy Awards on ABC","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I watched it on CBS opposite of the 2002 Academy Awards, which I cut to when there was a commercial interruption of the movie, a frequent 4 minute respite from the gripping visceral reaction I had to the movie itself. Apparently I didn't miss much using this methodology to watch both venues. But the movie did promptly draw me back and keep me rivited until the very last minutes. Now I don't even like action/adventure stuff. Maybe it was Kurt Russell. After all, I liked Top Gun, another movie I would never elect go to see, except for the fact that I, like Rosie, really like to look at Tom Cruise. "},{"Title":"it would be a good decision to watch this one","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  A slam bang thriller! There are plenty of intense action scenes, a terrific story, top-notch acting, and plenty of suspenseful situations. Once the action starts then hang on! This film rarely lets you take a breath. A must if you're willing to put aside the fact that Steven Seagal is in it. 3/4 "},{"Title":"Excellent action thriller that predicted the future","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is well worth the video rental.  As an action thriller it keeps you on the edge of the your seat.  As a movie from 1996, it is scary to see how prescient it was in predicting the events of September 11.  Most of it is very believable.  Family entertainment that should have been rated PG-13. Suitable for teenagers and up.   "},{"Title":"Not Just Another Die Hard Clone","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  While the title is a bit misleading (the presidential decision of whether or not to shoot down the plane is actually a minor point in the story), that doesn't keep this film from being one of the best terrorism action movies out there.  Especially after the September 11 attacks, the story of a group of specialists who board an airplane in an attempt to stop an Islamic militant is surprisingly even-handed and very satisfying.  To keep this brief, I will simply list the things I love about this movie.More like Die Hard 2 than Die Hard; the good guys can't just jump in and shoot the bad guys.  They have to outsmart them.The military is portrayed as intelligent and heroic (as opposed to, say, The Rock in which highly trained Navy Seals look like idiots).Teamwork.  Not only can none of these guys stop the terrorists alone, they can't even do it without the help of a stewardess and a U. S. Marshall.  This plane is full of heroes.Even cliched scenes are handled in an original manner.  Okay, so the idea that an amateur pilot has to land a 747 is hardly new.  But it's fun watching him struggle to remember everything he needs to do before landing.  Landing gear!Just the right amount of humor.  This movie never tries to be a comedy, but that doesn't mean there aren't a couple of good lines in here.  Just enough to keep the mood fairly light.This is not Islam.  This is your hatred . . .If you like intelligent thrillers, this movie is a must-see.  I would say it's even a pretty good family film.  While it is rated R, there is very little blood.  One brief scene where some passenger fly out of the airplane may frighten younger viewers.  But I would think this movie must have been considered for a PG-13 rating before someone finally decided against it. "},{"Title":"Due to current events, this film might make you feel better.","Date":"19 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is an excellent Kurt Russell action-adventure film.  Very well casted.  Most of the action takes place on a passenger-filled airplane.  There are plenty of twists and intellectual surprises.  I applauded the  demise of Steven Segal.  Halle Berry is beautiful to watch and it is wonderful to see her in a strong, mature role.  John Leguizamo is a plus.  Leguizamo is always likeable in every role he plays.                                                                                        If you are sensitive to the real-life current events of the World Trade Center and Pentagon terrorist attacks, then perhaps this is not the best film for you to see at this time, however, the hi-jackers in this film are Arabs and the ending of this film might make you feel better.                                                                    I'm ready for a sequel! Any scripts written? "},{"Title":"one of the best","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This thrill-a-minute action movie, set aboard an airplane, is nothing short of remarkable and excellent. The action and suspense never let up as a team led by Kurt Russell tries to sneak aboard a 747 to fight terrorists and defuse nerve gas while racing against the clock before the President decides to blow it out of the sky via military aircraft.I get excited each time I see this film. It delivers continuous thrills, and you'll love it. Guaranteed.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"What could be better than Steven Seagal dying?","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT> I've always thought Steven Seagal movies were lame and wasn't too happy  when a couple of my friends brought this one back from the video store.  The movie is actually a pretty good thriller, but I just loved it when Seagal died.  It was a tacky attempt at heroism, but it was so early in the film that you don't remember anything about him being in it, except that the acting was suddenly so much better.   "},{"Title":"Very good action movie","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This turned out a very good action movie, mainly because the makers focused on keeping the action coming and suspenseful (which is where most low-budget actioners flounder). I'm no Kurt Russel fan, but here he saves much of the movie by acting very well. And, then there's Halle Berry who is gorgeous and saves her role by hardly wimpering at all (the downfall of most women's roles in action movies).In all, I came to this one with few expectations and was very pleasantly surprised. And that's more than enough to stop me going over the inevitable down points.I think the makers put a lot of thought into the action, and it shows and pays off very well.They should make more like it.Alex "},{"Title":"A First Class Action Thriller","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Executive Decision is a first class action thriller. It takes a familiar premise and story and makes it in to a very entertaining movie. This is probably my favorite Kurt Russel movie. This film has a lot of suspense and the suspense is very effective. The supporting cast in this film does solid work also, for anyone who likes this movie I also reccomend Air Force One "},{"Title":"Russell & Seagal in a movie together","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Russell teams up with Seagal & others 2 stop hijackers on board a plane. Great action & suspense in the high skies. Its over 2 hrs but its worth it.Sad thing is that 1 person dies early(45 min.) into the movie. It surprised me & my dad. Its still worth having, a great action movie. "}{"Title":"good action film---tense drama!","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Executive Decision beats the hell out of Air Force One!!!  I especially love the ending sequence.  I taped the movie and watch this part over and over.   "},{"Title":"Great movie!!","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Executive Decision beats the hell out of Air Force One!!!  Kurt Russell's character, David Grant, having to take over the plane and land it is a GREAT sequence.  I watch this sequence over and over on my tape of the movie. I get a kick out of Halle Berry's remark to Russell (when he asks out loud What am I forgetting?)  Who cares!  Just land the plane!!Oliver Platt is his usual humorous self.  I was rather surprised when Steven Seagal ended up having a bit part. "},{"Title":"My Decision","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  A first class thriller!This is the type of movie I like.  It has action and it has suspense.  I love action movies set on planes or trains.  Unlike other recent movies along these lines this one was so much more believable.I am a fan of Kurt Russell and I think he was perfect for the role of David Grant.  I must say I was glad to see that Steven Seagal was killed off early.  I don't believe the movie required his gung ho heroics.If only they made more movies like this. "},{"Title":"Above average action movie","Date":"1 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The words 'Steven Segal' would be enough to put most people off a film, even action buffs. For this I can't really blame them. But don't do this with Executive Decision, you'll miss out on a good movie.Film starts off with a suicide bomber blowing up a London restaurant (I bet the filmmakers didn't realize just how accurate that scene would be.....) When a group of terrorists capture a Washington bound 747 demanding the release of their leader, a special forces team led by Segal is assigned to board the plane in mid air via a F-117. Ok it sounds rubbish, but bear with me on this one........This films success rests on 2 factors. First of all, Steven Segal isn't in it for long and isn't his usual 'no-one Can lay a punch on my character' type. Also the main reason I enjoyed this movie is that instead of the goodies simply walking on board and blasting dozens of terrorists to kingdom come, the film actually relies on suspense and the teams attempts to go undetected. The ending spoilt it slightly for me by going too over the top, but that aside I have few complaints.7/10 "},{"Title":"A strong action film","Date":"21 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  A lot of people I know think this movie is boring but I dont know what they're talking about.  I know it runs over two hours but its never dull or boring.  Its got tonnes of suspence, action, and interesting characters.  Kurt Russell is good, this time playing more of a nerd in this film as opposed to his usual macho characters.  All the other actors in the film are solid making this in all a very enjoyable action film. "},{"Title":"Unusually brainy thriller","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Let me start by saying how tired I am of movies which seem to think all Arabs are terrorists (though at least here, David Suchet doesn't foam at the mouth, like all terrorists seem to be required to do on film).  Having said that, I did like this film quite a bit.  The fact that Steven Seagal is killed off after only 10-15 minutes of screen time tips off that this is less an action movie and more like a Tom Clancy movie, particularly since the hero, played by Kurt Russell, is an analyst.  The whole movie, it could be argued, is a tug of war between Russell and John Leguizamo (like Russell, he's very good), the leader of the commando team and a member of the shoot first, ask questions later club, and the fact that it comes down on the side of the analyst is refreshing.It's also refreshing that director Stuart Baird and writers Jim and John Thomas take their cue from the hero, making a movie which respects our intelligence, unusual for a thriller.  They draw us in through plot tension and character, rather than gunplay and explosions.  And as for the women, while Halle Berry's role as the flight attendant who helps Russell may not seem like much at first, she's allowed to be resourceful as well as vulnerable, and not turn into a bimbo. "},{"Title":"Relax, and fly the airplane","Date":"9 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Every bit as respectable in counter-terrorist circles as Andy Davis' Under Siege, Executive Decision(1996) is astonishingly prophetic when compared to even United 93(2006). As the best movie about counter-terrorism aboard commercial airliners, this delicious, well-rounded Warner Bros actioner is virtually The Hunt for Red October(1989) at altitude.The 1990s were an era of high-octane franchises. Warner Bros' Bob Daly & Terry Semel indulged their taste for technothrillers; but in 1999 they just quit the studio. Luckily, they got the Lethal Weapon- and Under Siege-franchises, and -Decision into theaters, but movie-going for me simply hasn't been the same.Scribe-duo Jim & John Thomas fought so hard for their knowledgeable screenplay that they received producer credits beside Joel Silver and Steve Perry; but the final product probably owes its coherence to editor/director Steven Baird.I do have one problem with the coherence the 3x editors who eventually polished the movie never quite extricated themselves from the Col.Austin Travis(Steven Seagal) subplot with more panache than to simply prematurely expend him. True, Seagal made us cringe whenever he mumbled ay-sap, but that's no reason to kill him off; although when he bullies his own mission-specialist Dennis Cahill(Oliver Platt), Travis seems to invite the audience's lack of trust in his judgment--again mitigating against his sudden loss.I don't much like his commandos in a power-vacuum, either. Rat(John Leguizamo)'s behavior especially feels like nails on a blackboard he's pushy, twitchy, and is allowed to assume command despite being not nearly the smartest tool in the shed--Jean the airline attendant(Halle Berry) would've made better leader. His character's hasty promotion apparently satisfied the Latino community clamoring for equal screen time, but for me propaganda is still just propaganda. Leguizamo sucks as the Latino poster-boy. His rep will be much better served when he commands the screen with the precision of, say, Courtney B.Vance from Hunt(1989).While the general breakdown in discipline supposedly derives from the rushed- and ill-prepared mission itself, the team's embarrassing reactions constitute the screenplay's attempt to show that commando training isn't always adequate.The plot, for the first time, features a High Altitude Rescue Vehicle (HARV)--in this case an F117 Nighthawk stealth bomber, called Ramora, for its sucker--with an extensible, pressurisable and thoroughly phallic-looking docking collar. (Planes that can't dogfight are called bombers--they move like a fish/ steer like a cow.)This method of in-flight commando intrusion has only been theorised. The flight envelope of real 747s doesn't support attached rescue vehicles with large enough docking-collars for humans to fit through, but perhaps the new mega-A380s might. (So far that's the only intelligent--yet unpublicised--reason to actually up-size commercial fleets to A380s.)Films featuring career intelligence officers are going to be more important in the early 21stC, but this is an early, almost harbinger effort from the late 20th.Decision(1996) has virtually everything the final depiction of a suicide bombing in England, a frustrated black-ops mission where the intel was correct, just late; a realistically courageous and smart female flight attendant vs a headline-grabbing dumb politician, naval aviators actually worth a damn, a HARV, and Steven Seagal in (only) a cameo.As observed elsewhere, the Achilles' heel of intelligence-gathering is analysis. Lack of manpower or proper local knowledge loses us the context (meaning) of what's been gathered, and this is what causes the much-vaunted intelligence failures. Unfortunately, the single-most devastating CAUSE of this is the politicization of intelligence, as the heartbreaking real-life example of Tall'Afar, Iraq shows (TIME, 9/26/2005, pp 24-38).David Grant(Kurt Russell) is introduced in the movie as a male analyst learning to fly a Beechcraft Bonanza. The device implies he's an intelligence weakling trying to better himself. Analysts typically get little respect from field personnel partly because it's hard to take hits on someone else's best guess; although as we see, analysts deserve quite a bit of respect for often guessing correctly. In the face of unknowns--which in the military is the only kind you get--for missions to succeed, everyone must cooperate well.Throughout the movie, Grant is never overconfident, just a concerned and thoughtful pro. This is NOT typical Kurt Russell, who usually likes to play macho; but he's to be commended for his restraint as the Jack Ryan-like analyst pressed into extraordinary service......Not sure if his repeated attempts enticing women to hockey were necessary, but his friction with Travis later inspires Grant to step up to serve, to honor Travis' memory.Another atypical, completely unfunny performance is turned in by Oliver Platt as the Ramora engineer. He's utterly enjoyable with his one prop--which crescendos significantly later, in the only funny bit of business Platt gets.Kudos must also go to Berry, who plays Jean with enormous aplomb--and shimmering eyes. She, almost more than anyone else, becomes the hero of the piece; but the movie successfully imparts that avoiding catastrophe takes everyone's cooperation (and it's sometimes still not enough).Jerry Goldsmith's brassy theme music bolsters our confidence in the entire movie. There is such a sea of stress along the way that were it not for his bars, many people might be tempted to opt out. Decision(1996) is instead the thinking man's thrill-ride--with just enough dramatic licence when necessary.We wanted him, and now we got him.....and all the baggage that comes with him, muses Grant at the opening about their recently bagged chief terrorist. He's voicing the pragmatist's problem with the type of political arrogance that besets some US Presidents. The movie cleverly implies that some wily terrorists can and do use America's gung-ho attitude against itself. What do terrorists do with one of their own when he's become too much of a liability?--They give him to the Americans to hold by the tail.I'm sure we're all curious to see what will eventually be made of real-life chief terrorists currently cooling their heels in secret CIA-prisons.(9/10). "},{"Title":"A thrilling ride!","Date":"31 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"     This is a good movie from producer Joel Silver and Stuart Baird who makes his directorial debute. Kurt Russell is excellent as an Intellegence Agent who turns soldier in the movie. Steven Segal has one of his brief but better parts. The supporting cast is great and a great music score by Jerry Goldsmith plus a good thrilling plot. The only draw back is in some scenes, the 747 looks too much like a special effects model and didn't look real enough (especially the scenes involving the mid-air transfer from the F-117) but that's not really that important it's just something I noticed. Give this movie a try, it's worth it. "},{"Title":"Close-ups on screws turning, levers moving..... yeah, really exciting","Date":"13 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" What does Kurt Russell have in common with Tom Cruise? Give up? That one expression stupid tongue between teeth dumbbell smirk.Extremely boring 'action' film which is 90% close-ups of wires stretching, pulleys rolling, compartment doors sliding.... zzzzzzzzz -- oh, sorry! What were we talking about?...... huh?...... executive decision? What's that?.... oh, the movie, yeah...... um..... well..... can we talk about something more interesting like what flavor pop tart I had this morning? It was Frosted Strawberry! Mmmmmm.......Do yourself a favor and pass on this sleep-aid film which has all the suspense of a turtle nibbling on a lettuce leaf. "},{"Title":"Megalomaniac, Big Chemical Bomb, and a Holy-Book","Date":"19 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Suspenseful nail-biter with a good Cast and an Editor turned Director debuting with an Action Movie that has less Action than most but relies on tight claustrophobic conditions to propel the Story of perils on a plane hijacked by a nut-job.He is of the Belief that destroying millions and millions of Men, Women, and Children because they are different will somehow make the World a better place. Get the straight-jacket! Good ol' Planet Earth has contended with such Evil since forever and the only thing that has changed is the amount of time it takes to wipe out so many with so little planning by a deluded, brain washed Megalomaniac.This is a thrilling ride and is worth a view. Thankfully, there are minimum explosions, minimum automatic weapon fire, but a maximum of pulse pounding scenarios. Just a bit different and at the same time the same and that results in a Movie that is exciting Entertainment. "}{"Title":"Decent riff on the Die Hard formula","Date":"24 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" One of a number of airborne riffs on Die Hard to come out at the time - Air Force One among them. This is up there with Air Force One on the loopy scale, what with it's 'F-117X Remora' modified stealth fighter that would not look amiss if it was called 'Thunderbird 7'.While there's nothing particularly surprising about it, it does provide effective entertainment, and does a good job of ratcheting up the tension level.Kurt Russell is a hero of the Jack Ryan mould, an intelligence desk jockey out of his depth when thrust into a crisis. Despite his feelings about the film, Steven Seagal isn't too bad as the combat team leader. John Leguizamo is as you'd expect. Halle Berry always has our sympathies as the brave stewardess, while David Suchet makes a truly terrifying villain, who's just as quick to execute one of his own men as he is any of the passengers.In the end, it's nothing special, but action fans ought to check it out. "},{"Title":"747 Changes Engines Mid Flight???????","Date":"5 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This film has and incredibly far fletched plot. Right from the beginning of the production one sees technical gimmicks that somehow or other are too unbelievable. Not getting into the story I find it unbelievable that the jumbo jet takes off with Rolls Royce engines yet halfway across the Atlantic Ocean the jumbo is sporting Pratt and Whitney engines. That is quite a feat, being able to change engines on a heavy jet while in mid flight. For me that destroyed the credibility of this movie. No matter how good the rest of the special effects were this fatal flaw showed an oversight on the part of the technical consultant and is unbelievable for such a highly experienced director such as Stuart Baird. "},{"Title":"solid nail biting suspense flick with above average action sequences","Date":"2 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" i had watched Executive Decision maybe 5 years ago and i remember enjoying it then.however,i was more impressed this time.Kurt Russel does a good job as on of the heroes of the piece.a great supporting cast surrounds Russel.Halle Berry is very convincing in her role. Steven Seagal makes an appearance,giving another one of his usual wooden performances.thankfully he is not the star of the movie.there are some great action sequences,but the film's focal point is more one of dramatic suspense.and there are some nail biting moments.these are handled very well by both the director and the actors.The bad guys are well represented,all giving fine performances.The main villain is played by brilliant actor David Suchet,who really inhabits his character.you really hate this guy.There is not a lot of character development,but that does not detract from the quality of the film.the script is very tightly written,which helps to overcome the very unlikelihood of the plot.the only other minor complaint i have is that in some of the flying scenes,it is apparent that the scenes are simulated.but this is a minor issue.overall an above average suspense/action flick 7/10 "},{"Title":"Will Mr. Heston please pick up the white courtesy telephone?","Date":"29 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I taped Executive Decision off of CBS in the spring of 2001 and finally sat down to watch it a few days ago. I think it came to network television fairly intact--you can tell where the blood and language have been sanitized--so I didn't feel cheated by the network censors. ED (no Viagra jokes, please) is exactly what it's supposed to be, an action/terrorist/disaster movie. It's designed to entertain, even though the phrase action/terrorist/disaster has a whole new meaning now.The strength of Executive Decision is in its straightforwardness with a dash of silly inventiveness. There's no big message here, just a story of terrorist baddies hijacking a plane filled with Americans and nerve gas, and the effort to take back the plane while in flight. Check your brain at the door and just enjoy. Kind of like James Bond, only less stylized, more serious.Its weakness is in the fact that action/terrorist/disaster movies are just about a dime a dozen on the open market. The analyst who gets thrust into the action isn't new unless you've never heard of Jack Ryan. The mad-as-a-hatter terrorist leader can be found in any of the 243 Die Hard movies. The female leads have slowly become more courageous, but Halle Berry is only slightly less formulaic than Elizabeth Hurley in Passenger 57. There's a scum-sucking politician, various sweating general and flag officers pacing about (They're only 12.7 seconds from the fail-safe point, sir!), obligatory fighter planes (This is Whiskey-Tango-Foxtrot-Dogsniff Leader to the 7-4-7 with the big crate of nerve gas, over?), and lots and lots and LOTS of groovy hardware and software to fill out the cliché quotient.The only things missing are the drunks, the gravely ill teenager, the retired movie star waxing philosophic, and, for crying out loud, Chuck Heston. I mean it's a 747 in trouble. Why didn't he and George Kennedy help out? Hmmm? You can just guess what I'm going to write about Airport 1975 when I get around to it.Okay, I'm sorry, back to Executive Decision I liked it. I'm glad I saw this silly, little thing on TV. I didn't have to pay for it. I got almost the whole movie intact. Halle Berry has the nicest skin I've ever seen and I'm not afraid to say that Kurt Russell is as handsome as Berry is beautiful.So many movies make me mad because they're just plain stupid and they expect you to see them as intelligent. Executive Decision is just a movie, no more, no less.Bravo. "},{"Title":"Nice and intelligent action movie.","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  ***Starring  Kurt Russell, Halle Berry, Oliver Platt, and John Leguizamo.Terrorists hijack a commercial jet (I know it's at the wrong time but this is a review) and threaten to kill all its passengers on it.  Kurt Russell and a group of stealthy men sneak into the plane and kick some serious terrorist a**.  Well...kind of.  The movie is very intelligent and is not accompanied by many hijacking plane movie flaws which makes it nice and neat. "},{"Title":"My Seagal's favourite Film!","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, i don't like Steaven Seagal, his films are nasty, but this film is the best of Seagal. He does nothing, he dies. Perfect. Superb. My question is why he appears in the portraid of the film? Publicity? Lot of my friends didn't come with me to see this film because the name Seagal was in it portraid. I watched the film loonely. The day after I said to my friends Go to see this movie, enjoy it, and if you don't like I will pay your ticket. Finally They went to see it.... at the exit of cinema they kissed me and said Thanks! please see this amazing action film. "},{"Title":"Pity about the ending","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is a fine action movie, with some surprising twists, but the ending leaves the hero looking a bit foolish.  He's just learned to fly, you see. Anyway, the dream of any private pilot is to somehow wind up at the controls of a 747 (Attention, passengers, is their a pilot in the house?).  Only Russell, the jerk, crashes it!!  It might make for a spectacular finale, but I left the cinema shaking my head in disbelief.  Obviously Kurt just did not have the right stuff. "},{"Title":"Disguises The Clichés Well","Date":"19 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" An Islamist terror cell hijacks a trans-Atlantic flight . They demand the release of El Sayed Jaffa who is held in custody and a daring rescue mission led by special forces officer Colonel Austin Travis and academic Dr David Grant do their best to thwart the terrorist planEXECUTIVE DECISION is a well worn clichéd tale of terrorist nutjobs bringing death and destruction to the United States and it's up to some good old stock characters to stop them . The special forces team is composed of a white guy , a black guy , a Latino and an oriental making up a fine cross section of the American public same as Hollywood as a violent street gang of thugs composed of a white guy , a black guy , a Latino ... There's also a stewardess who cometh the hour cometh the ballsy heroine and of course the bad guy is despite being an Arab with theocratic leanings is played by a well regarded British actor In other words this is a clichéd movie where no clichéd stone is left unturned and yet another cliché raises its ugly head . And yet despite this EXECUTIVE DECISION disguises the clichés very well . What helps tremendously is the way it pulls the rug out from the audiences feet where early on when a character played by a very well known actor is killed off early on . David Suchet plays the chief villain in a way only British actors seem capable of by making Nagi Hassan if not a sophisticated multi-layered three dimensional baddie then certainly not a one dimensional parody the character could have been This is a thriller produced between DIE HARD and 9/11 and is obviously the sort of movie that wouldn't be produced today . It's a film that was produced simply as enthralling popcorn entertainment rather than portent warning but as popcorn entertainment it works very well and disguises the numerous clichés throughout the plotting "},{"Title":"Steven Seagal's Small Part","Date":"4 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I always wondered at Steven Seagal's part which seemed unusual for him.But in the reading the 1991 screen play the character that Steven Seagal plays is in 96 of 232 scenes which is over 40% of the total scenes.It must be the editing of the movie that make his role seem so small and limited.The acting is fine but as so often happens in movies, the movie makers assume the viewing audience won't notice unrealistic scenes, and ideas and can not handle subtle actions and plot twists. So this movie often over plays actions and character's roles despite an actors skill. And this, kind of, cheapens the movie and adds a flair of cartoon-ism which makes it hard for the viewer to take seriously. "},{"Title":"great action movie","Date":"23 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This movie is by far one of the best Action/Thriller movies ever made and there are 2 reasons why this movie is so dam great and the reasons are1.All of the really great actors and actress in this movie like the great actor Kurt Russell from the kick ass movie Escape From New York,The really hot Halle Berry,John Leguizamo,Oliver Platt,Whip Hebley and the good action star Steven Seagal stars in this movie for only 25 min and he was cool but he was not in this movie long enough in my book.2.All of the great action scenes like when they are trying to turn off the bomb and when Kurt Russell crash lands the plane in the end of the movie.Over all this movie is great and it is worth watching and my rating is 7 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Correction on private pilot training","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The basic private pilot certificate is for Aiplane/Single-engine/Land. Pre-solo training is normally done in a single engine fixed gear aircraft with a fixed pitch prop.It's not matter of cheap, it's a matter of simplicity and ease of control. A small (relatively less expensive) aircraft fits these needs very well. A student pilot has more than enough on his/her mind without having to worry about manifold pressure, prop settings and gear handling that come with a complex aircraft.Our hero may be aware of some of the flight characteristics of a 747 because of personal knowledge, but it didn't come from his pre-solo training. "},{"Title":"ACTION MOVIE WITH A KICK.","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This film was completely, predictable from the beginning to end, but was still exciting enough to watch, Halle Berry is so gorgeous you just want to look at her throughout the film, Kurt Russell always does a good job playing the tough guy ,and knocked seagal out of the picture, well out of the plane anyway. This is a movie with a kick, even if it has already been done to death by other films. "},{"Title":"Average.","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The movie Executive Decision in no way deserves loads of accolades. It simply wasn't that good. But a small amount would be a better fit. This movie does have an interesting plot and seems very like something Tom Clancy would put out. Overall this movie is pretty good some good action, with some good realism especially with some of the stuff that occurs on the plane. Some of that is extraordinary in my opinion. The acting is pretty good and the crew working the film did pretty well. Overall 5.9 *'s out of 10 *'s. "},{"Title":"the action and intensity keeps you on the edge of your seat...","Date":"15 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  1st watched 10/20/1996 - (Dir-Stuart Baird) Although obvious editing mistakes, the action and intensity keeps you on the edge of your seat.  Russell is perfect in the role as a nerd who turns into an action hero. "},{"Title":"Superb, Great, Fantastic, etc.!!!      (slight spoiler)","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I loved this film! I think it was Russell's best film yet and also Seagal's best. The reason why I say Seagal is because he dies in the first 45mins! Kurt Russell plays an intelligence officer in the pentagon but finds himself aboard a hijacked 747 when a mid-air transfer for some special forces operatives goes horribly wrong. The captain ('Cappy') is incapacitated and can't do anything to help. But there's more to it than a simple hijack. The plane is carrying a deadly nerve-gas bomb that is about to annihilate the entire eastern seaboard! Some great action sequences are included but the story is more based on trying to remain stealthy while planning the take-over.Overall this is a very gripping and exciting action film with some great performances and a fantastic ending(which I'm not going to tell you about as it would ruin the experience for you), and a great storyline to match.SEE THIS FILM AND PREPARE TO BUY IT!  "},{"Title":"Puts Con-Air and Air Force One in the shade","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  One of the more intelligent militaristic movies of recent years - a great ensemble cast pitched just this side of believable, good special effects and enough tension to keep you wondering how things will play out right till the final reel. If your taste runs to macho posturing, gunplay and bloodletting this is not the film for you. For those who can appreciate it, there's subtle intelligence in the hero (Russell) and the villain (Suchet at his most enigmatic). Although the premise may be a little dated and the climactic episode stretches one's credulity, an absorbing thriller which avoids the excesses of so many 1990s body count specials. "},{"Title":"Magnificent ---the best ever action-suspense-thriller movie","Date":"25 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Hello This is Rajeev from India (erstwhile living in Chapel Hill, NC and New Orleans, LA).I must congratulate EVERYBODY associated with the making of the film EXECUTIVE DECISION!!! Everybody  the actors, director, editor and all the 'behind the screen' crew --- ALL of them deserve my HEARTIEST CONGRATULATIONS for producing such a MAGNIFICENT FILM!!! 'Executive Decision' is THE BEST SUSPENSE-ACTION-THRILLER FILM I HAVE EVER SEEN...and guess what...I have seen it seventeen times! I must add that I HAVE PURCHASED AN AUTHORIZED (NOT pirated) COPY OF THE VCD/DVD.The plot is grippingly suspenseful. It is the strongest dose of adrenalin that one could ever get! The cast, the direction, the actors...everything is just par excellence! This film is an epitome of patriotism, counter-terrorism, putting an end to crazy religious (!)fanaticism. Actually, this movie should serve as a role model for any action+suspense+thriller film(s) in the years to come. What is so special about the movie is that there is not only one hero, it is through teamwork, undaunted love for their country (as opposed to 'synthetic' patriotism) that the goal is finally achieved. This is a story of how the soldiers, with their unflinching zeal circumvent the snags and impediments to lead to victory, albeit ill-equipped ...and all of this with their race against the devil called 'time'! This movie should not be regarded as just a fairy-tale psychological wish-fulfillment type. This movie should provide some technological research material for actual air-to-air linkages. The 9/11 incident has taught us lessons the hard way and this movie should also trigger technological advancement toward counter-terrorism perpetrated by barbarians, of the ilks of the diabolic culprits of 9/11 ... culprits against humanity! Thank God, the American soldiers, along with the brainy Dr. David Grant (Kurt Russell) and Dennis Cahill (Oliver Platt) prove more than a match against the virulent terrorists intending to destroy Washington D.C. and most of the Eastern U.S. !!! There is not a single moment when the movie stagnates or becomes a dull monotony. Every second, the watcher is thrilled, every minute the suspense thickens... it is a story of human endeavor for a good cause, to save unsuspecting innocent people from nefariously fanatic terrorists. Executive Decision falls in the same class as Air Force One! CONGRATULATIONS, EVERYBODY ASSOCIATED WITH THE MAKING OF THIS UNIQUE MASTERPIECE !!! --Rajeev. "},{"Title":"An intelligent, imaginative action movie!","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is a good guys-v-the Middle Eastern terrorists movie that really does the trick! Kurt Russell, Halle Berry, Steven Seagal, David Suchet, and Oliver Platt head up a solid cast playing out a terrorist scenario that hits home post-9/11. The story's premise, while pretty far-out (or maybe not so far out), is carried off with a good script and fantastic acting by the players. Behind the whole movie is a Jerry Goldsmith soundtrack that absolutely grabs you and keeps you in your seat.If you are a fan of the action genre, this movie is definitely worth your time to see and worth your money to own! The soundtrack is also very much worth your time to give it a listen. "},{"Title":"Entertaining actioner more so than the usual genre fare","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  EXECUTIVE DECISION (1996) *** Kurt Russell, Halle Berry, John Leguizamo, Oliver Platt, Joe Morton, David Suchet, Steven Seagal, BD Wong, JT Walsh, Whip Hubley, Len Cariou, Eugene Roche, Marla Maples Trump (film debut) (!)  Better than average on the edge-of-you-seat actioner with Russell spearheading a small group of commandos to dispatch a terrorist siege of an American jet airliner en route to Washington, DC with enough nerve gas to wipe out the eastern seaboard.  Some nice tight claustrophobic direction and just the right amount of Airport theatrics blurring melodrama and camp!  Shrewd supporting choice by Seagal who should continue this line of thinking in upcoming film roles. "},{"Title":"It will keep you on the edge of your seat with it's never ending suspense.","Date":"12 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A group of terrorists armed with nerve gas hijack a plane heading for Washington D.C. If detonated, on the ground it could wipe out the city, in the air it could wipe out half the Eastern U.S. Seaboard. To prevent the catastrophe from happening, a group of commandos proceeds with a risky mission - to commence a mid-air transfer via a state-of-the-art stealth jet capable of transferring people from the jet to an airplane.Kurt Russell has the spotlight in this movie and shines all the way through, although the rest of the actors - Halle Berry, John Leguizamo, Oliver Platt, David Suchet, Joe Morton, J.T. Walsh, and even Steven Seagal in his minor yet important role - gave above-average performances. Suchet almost stole the show as delusional terrorist leader Nagi Hassan, who makes you think he's not to be taken for granted. Leguizamo delivers great one-liners and Kurt Russell is outstanding as the hero, as his Snake Plisskin character. The story overflows with great dialog and outstanding tension. Credit for these goes to writers Jim and John Thomas, who likes to come up with a dangerous situation in a closed space to inject claustrophobia into any scene. It's just one terrific suspense scene after another. The music score by the late great Jerry Goldsmith indeed fills the tension even more, and keeps you hanging on for the ride. And with such a class direction, I did not even know that this was veteran editor Stuart Baird's directorial debut. Special effects are also excellent here, even parring with today's CGI effects, especially during the mid-air transfer scene. As the DVD cover states, producer Joel Silver indeed has added one more hit to his string of hits.Back then in '96, the film was deemed absurd by many people, considering it to be unrealistic and over-the-top among other complaints. Overall it made a respectable $121 million worldwide, but critics were still complaining. Then came September 11th, 2001, and everyone had second thoughts of this film.Overall, a landmark in action movies, and certainly ranks one greatest hijack movies ever, but still way behind Paul Greengrass' United 93. An instant action classic.7.84/10 Delton.(PS, By the way, in case you're reading this review and you think this movie is less than what you would expect, I'm an action movie buff) "}{"Title":"Flawed but fun and tense action movie","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  When a group of Islamic extremists who have `misinterpreted their faith' hijack a trans-Atlantic aircraft the US Government weigh up their options.  However one intelligence expert believes that Nagi Hassan has got a large amount of a missing biological weapon and that he intends to use the plane as a suicide bomb over Washington if allowed to enter US airspace.  To prevent this a team led by Lieut. Travis including Dr Grant and Dennis Cahill, who has designed an aeroplane capable of boarding the aircraft.  However an accident occurs during the breach and a skeleton crew is left on board to try and take it over.At the time of release this was billed as a mix of disaster movie and Die Hard style terrorist movie, but I think it is different enough from those genres to justify viewing.  However it does still have elements of both in the film.  The plot is more stealth based &#150; there is action but the majority is a solid sustain of tension.  The first 20 minutes are excellent and full of tension and the odd surprise, but once on plane the film plays with the promise of action and delivers a good solid tense atmosphere which I enjoyed.Yes of course it's flawed &#150; it's all quite clichéd for one.  The climax is straight out of Airplane it's such a disaster movie cliché, and the passengers do fall into the odd stereotype here and there.  Also people come to just in time to avert disaster and so on.  The dialogue at times grates as well!  ` I take back every squib hating thing I ever said about sea monkeys' (or words to that affect) says one character about the Navy.  But these are minor flaws that you expect from any action blockbuster and I could live with them.The cast is good and full of well-know (if not all a-list) faces.  Russell carries the film very well and does a heroic everyman well.  Seagal is brave to take this role and actually grew in my estimations as a result of this film.  Berry is pretty but has little to do outside of the traditional female-in-peril stuff.  The rest of the cast is filled out with good performances &#150; Suchet hams it up for the cash as Hassan, Platt does well and the actual team includes a good Leguizamo (yes! Good! It surprised me too!), Wong (HBO's Oz), Morton and a passenger in the form of the late JT Walsh.One thing of note about the film is how keen the makers were at the time to show that Hassan was not acting as a Muslim would in line with Islam by attacking America.  They even go so far as to have some of his men question him and state that attacking America is not Allah's will.  Now that Islamic terrorist carrying out suicide attacks on the US is no longer just fiction I wonder if they would give this concession again?Overall this isn't a classic film nor a wonderful action movie.  It has many flaws if you want to pick holes in it.  However it is pretty tense in a multiplex way and is pretty cool fun if you need something that doesn't need much work to get into it. "},{"Title":"Fasten Your Seatbelts; It's Going to Be a Bumpy Flight!","Date":"16 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Two incidents occur; at first unrelated, they will be connected to a terrifying plot to bomb half the Eastern Seaboard of the United States. First, a US undercover team fails to recover a supply of the nerve toxin DZ-5, recently stolen from the Russians. Second, the US captures the world's most feared and wanted terrorist. Of course, Islamists are furious. Led by dastardly David Suchet (as Nagi Hassan), a gang of Arabs hijack Oceanic Airlines flight #343, an American 747 bound for Washington DC. The terrorists want their leader released, or they will shoot over 400 passengers, one-by-one...Executive Decision features a great stunt, amid the usual clichés. Herein, a stealth aircraft attaches itself to the hijacked plane so heroic Kurt Russell (as David Grant) and a group can secretly get on board. A cool, workable, idea - though some of the other, more minor, stuff is implausible. Nobody steps on any probes (they could have said the plane has security cameras and tap into them)...Leading the crew are engaging John Leguizamo (as Carlos Rat Lopez), straw-chewing Oliver Platt (as Dennis Cahill) and wire expert Joe Morton (as Campbell Cappy Matheny). Strange castaway Steven Seagal (as Austin Travis) is included for box office appeal, but it's difficult to explain the presence of Donald Trump's (then) newest wife. Pretty flight attendant Halle Berry (as Jean) is helpful...The film maintains excitement very well, but there is some turbulence in the production. Pieces of film sometimes appear too loose and others seem missing. For example, a hijacker in disguise is suddenly transformed into reality, hair and make-up looking perfect; we see a shot of him before and the disguise after, but no shot establishing him offing the disguise (even if the disguised actor was a stand-in, something could have been done). You're often not sure where you are, but it's still an entertaining ride.****** Executive Decision (3/15/96) Stuart Baird ~ Kurt Russell, Halle Berry, John Leguizamo, Oliver Platt "},{"Title":"Some unfortunate flaws spoil an otherwise good film","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  For me this is a film that could have been so much better but was let down by one major flaw.The beginning sequence was promising and the plot was developing nicely but the method of getting the counter-terrorist unit aboard the plane was totally unbelievable and I don't think the film really recovers from that.That said, Kurt Russell and Halle Berry give good performances and I liked David Suchet as the lead terrorist.This is a good film to watch if you can overlook the impossible mid-air transfer. "},{"Title":"Formula with a missing link...","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  As a Seagal fan I have to say that this film has the intrigue of the famous Silver-Seagal personality dispute.  The film in its final version appears chopped up.  The film starts with Seagal and builds an interesting relationship between Seagal and Russell-Seagal lacking respect for the Escape From L.A star due to poor intelligence.  The film builds and then kills Seagal off suddenly, almost as if it was injected into the film out of force.  Although a masterful job at making Seagal's absence work, it is clear that this was intended originally as a Seagal film with Russell as the second bill-yet somewhere along the way there was a falling out between the two (a.k.a Critical Decision).  The film still pulls through as a thriller, however the absence of the action icon leaves the film contrary to the opinion of the critics.  Another black mark in the career of the troubled actor. "},{"Title":"Not that good, not really bad","Date":"16 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Let me put it this way a movie that kills off Steven Seagal in the first 20 minutes can't be THAT bad. For this Executive Decision will always have a special place in my heart.And then of course there is Kurt Russell to lift the whole thing up. All in all Executive Decision is fun to watch - if you switch off your brain for two hours... "},{"Title":"Very cool action movie","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Executive Decision has to be one of the most edge of your seat action movie I have ever seen.  It was very interesting and the performances were really cool.  The plane is hijacked by some terrorists and Kurt Russell and friends go to the rescue.  It was interesting how they got into the plane and maneuvered they're way in.  I have to say though (This may be a *spoiler*) Steven Seagal bites the big one.  Really he just soared in the wind.Overall a great action movie, always kept me on the edge of my seat and was very interesting on how they got in.  Rating 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Die-Hard on a plane...again?","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  There were loads of die-hard clones, heck even Harrison Ford did one in Air Force One - but why is the Die-Hard-in-the-Air overused?  Perhaps producers didn't think that the other films did it justice?  Well even so, this is a very well produced and sometimes well-rounded action film that delivers not bang-for-your-buck, but more tension-for-your-buck.Kurt Russell plays a James Bond-wannabe and is recruited with a top level SWAT styled team headed by Steven Seagal - at first I was hoping for a mish-mash, a chalk-cheese type background between these two characters - but instead they do one better, they kill off Steven Seagal.  When I saw this in the cinema, everyone cheered (I'm not kidding) when they saw him fly out...that scene although is meant to be serious just plays as being very funny.The rest of the film is fine with well-meaning tension stuff, it just doesn't seem to flow or feel like a die-hard type film.  Suchet (another English bad guy!) is vastly underwritten and he plays his role far better than anyone else (even overshadowing Russell).Its a shame Suchet's character wasn't written as well as it could have been - and its a shame that we didn't get to see this executive decision carried out, whatever it was meant to be.Anyway, its a good film for a lazy Friday night, but if your wanting a good old time, its better to stick the original - Die Hard.Overall 3/10 "},{"Title":"Thrilling.","Date":"9 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Executive Decision has non-stop thrills.  It has conflict on top of conflict.  It is a lot of fun with a great performance by Kurt Russell.  The Steven Seagal cameo was bold and original for him, not trying to steal the show.Its only bad point is its direction.  Stuart Baird is a fine editor (Lethal Weapon, Demolition Man) but he should have stuck with it and not tried to direct.  So many filmmakers are moving into the director's chair after years in Hollywood and they are failing miserably.  Cinematographer Mikael Salomon (The Abyss, Backdraft) did Hard Rain, special effects supervisor John Bruno (True Lies, Titanic) did Virus and actor Bob Sagat (Full House, America's Funniest Home Videos) did Dirty Work.  I think one of the only successful transitions in recent memory is cinematographer Barry Sonnenfeld (Misery) who directed Get Shorty and Men in Black.  Baird had no originality in his use of the camera.  His camera movements were boring, shaking and poorly framed.  He did try to get anything out of his villain that would make the audience hate them or root for the good guys.Jim and John Thomas' script was full of poor dialogue but the action and suspense was first-rate.  They haven't thrown out a good action script since the first Predator so it was nice to see them back in the swing of things.Oliver Platt was very funny as the nervous aero-engineer.  Joe Morton was good.  Legwizaumo was poor as usual but who cares.  All in all, Executive Decision is great entertainment.      "},{"Title":"Silly with Capital S!","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  It is a silly movie that really stretches the limits of our suspension of disbelief.---------------------------------------- SPOILER AHEAD (Maybe?)It is about an airplane that is hijacked. A team of commandos is sent aboard (in flight) to rescue the plane, the passengers, and do mayhem to the Arab terrorists... (And the twits in Washington never heard of hijacking planes to...) Don't they watch movies? Anyway, of course that in order to make the plot even more outrageous there has to be a bomb on board. The commandos, hiding from the terrorists in the cargo area find the bomb in the first 5 minutes of the movie and then spend the rest of the movie trying to diffuse it...being that it is an incredibly intricate bomb design. My question is...why not just toss it out of the plane?Of course not! The movie still had 2 hours to go! It as silly as the hole in the plot, which is as big as the plane itselfBy the way, the team of commandos has some of the smallest fighting men ever in an action movie, including John Leguizamo and B.D. Wong. But hey, it's Hollywood!P "},{"Title":"Ridiculous...!!!","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  It is hard for me to fathom that anybody would even think about comparing this Van-Damme League stupid man's suspense thriller to the superb and absolutely riveting Air Force One!!! Here's a thriller packed with action and edge-of-your-seat suspense. But THIS. what can I say. It is foolish and I feel sorry for Kurt who truly IS a great actor. Only see this movie if you like MI-2, Passenger 57 and True Lies. Do NOT see this movie, however, if you prefer Where Eagles Dare, Das Boot and The Cider House Rules.IMDb rating 5  "}{"Title":"being boring","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This film is very boring. Of course if you're silly enough to think that any of Hollywood movie might have no happy end, you will enjoy watching it. You might guess, if Grant and his wooden-headed commandos win etc. If you're clever one, you certainly know from the very beginning that all the terrorists will be abolished (without single sacrifice from good guys'side) and this bomb will not be detonated etc etc etc. Honestly, to show that there were no need to invent over 2 hours of boredom! Well, the only reason why did I watched this movie, was David Suchet's acting. He is a Great actor and his acting was the best in this stupid stereotypical movie. I'm so sorry that such a great actor wasted his time to perform in this GOVNO. "},{"Title":"Average thriller masquerading as an action movie","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  First of all, this ISN'T an action movie. Despite the presence of Seagal, the only action is a two minute shoot-out at the end. The rest is a bunch of marines and Kurt Russell attempting to take over an airplane hijacked by terrorists.This just isn't exiting. Or even remotely original. A fat and cooly calculating Arabian terrorist, with a group of terrorist thugs, take over a commercial plane. The good guys attempt to stop them. Guess what? There's also a bomb on board. Guess what? A brave female hostess helps the good guys. Guess what? At the end the good guys shot the baddies. Guess what? At the end, the hero has to land the plane on his own after only a few flying lessons.It's not exactly boring, but it's painfully predictable. The moment you see Kurt Russell having a flying lesson you know that he'll be flying the jumbo jet at the film's climax. The acting is competent, but Russell is the only character approaching 3D realism instead of being a stereotype. Halle Berry and John Leguizamo in particular.Basically, don't rent this. Get Con Air, which has endless action, truly nail-biting suspense, a great hero in Nicolas Cage, an army of very scary villains including John Malkovich, great music and awesome visuals. It's also far more original.    "},{"Title":"An dull 'Die Hard' knock-off...","Date":"9 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A near actionless knock-off of 'Die Hard' in which intelligence analyst (Russell) and commando (Seagal) must sneak on board a high-jacked airliner to prevent the terrorists from detonating a bomb over Washington D.C. Meanwhile, the President is wondering whether or not he should avoid the risk altogether by having the plain shot down, civilians and all. It sounds exiting but it's really very uneventful. Apparenly, (spolier) Seagal's character was killed-off early because he was being a jerk on-set and everyone was tired of working with him. I guess you could call that an 'executive decision' on the part of the producer. "},{"Title":"pass on this one","Date":"10 August 2004","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was unexpectedly bad. I thought it would be a solid 5 out of 10 (I like Steven but don't much like Kurt's acting - go figure), but despite how its plot seems so apropos of the times, in scene after scene I was left snorting in derision.Bad writing, poor delivery, choppy editing. If they'd left all the bad scenes on the cutting room floor there'd be precious little left. Some memorable parts, good and badThe F-117 takeoff was very well done, visually.The commando team was continually inept. One hopes an actual team sent on an actual mission would be a little more competent.The dialogue as Kurt and Halle attempt a landing is dreadful. What am I forgetting? You forgot to edit the script, that's what!Indeed, the dialogue during the action sequences was uniformly poor. It was as if they worked out all the visuals, and only five minutes before the camera started rolling, they remembered Oh, we have to have them say something! What will they say? Um, here, we'll just write it as we go...Computer geeks beware the bomb-handling scenes will be painful, especially the sight of an operating hard disk with no cover. Can't they hire a $20-an-hour computer tech to avoid filming something ludicrous?  "},{"Title":"An Executive Decision Not to See This Film.","Date":"22 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Executive Decision (1996) Dir Stuart Baird / Cast Kurt Russell, Halle Berry, Steven Seagal, Joe Morton, Oliver Platt Recycled terrorist hijack plot about high-pressure thinking. The screenwriter didn't do much high-pressure thinking because the screenplay contains nearly every clichés in the book. Steven Seagal leads a mission to find a deadly toxic nerve gas, which is not in the intended location. Islams wish to use it as a bargaining chip to free a leader and they are loading it onto an American 747. Once hostages are taken then a second mission goes into action. Director Stuart Baird is backed by a fine production but the story is completely recycled offering only an early dispatched Seagal, which likely shocked the living crap out of audiences everywhere. Kurt Russell is playing a role that has been portrayed by numerous actors and he follows through to the disarming of the bomb and disconnecting the right wire. Halle Berry is the best casting as a stewardess who is thrown into action when she becomes the only connection to Russell and his team. She will play the damsel just so the clichés aren't completely ignored. Seagal is dispatched surprisingly quick and isn't particularly missed. Joe Morton plays an injured crew who should have went out when Seagal did. Oliver Platt appears and is greatly underused. The screenplay needed an executive decision that rendered it several re-writes. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"Hasn't it occurred to anyone...?","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I am surprised that even after reading all the comments about this movie, that no one seems to have noticed something about it, with only two comments even touching upon this fact. This movie came out in 1996. That is a few years BEFORE the terrorist attacks on 9/11. The plot line revolves around a group of Arab extremists (does Hollywood know of any other kind?) hijacking an airplane and using it to wreak havoc on Washington. Bin Laden is part of the Royal Saudi family and before his rebellion against them and the values they are encompassing, was very well off. (He may still well be) Hasn't it occurred to anyone that he may well have seen it and got the idea for this type of attack from this movie? I am not going to make any comments about the movie itself. That's not my point here. My point is does anyone in Hollywood take responsibility for putting such ideas out there. I think that in spite of our saying that there is a lack of plausibility, writers would do well to consider the world we are currently living in and make films that would be impossible for a terrorist to actually make a reality. I know many will feel this flies in the face of the creative process, but perhaps they could get a little more creative and do this in a way that the audience wouldn't particularly notice. Thoughts anyone? "},{"Title":"heehe","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  One thing I can't understand is that Steven is one of the head-actors in the credits and so on... I mean, even on imdb he's the second. BUT, he isn't really a part of the movie. Well of course he is, but he dies in the beginning of the movie... well... Can't say I'm sad about it... anyway, when I saw it on my TV here in sweden the commercial went on like kurt russell, steven seagal, in .......   I mean HELLO. It would be better if it just was an unknown actor. well well, cya "},{"Title":"Decent enough thriller, doesn't rise much above average.","Date":"3 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Kurt Russell is always worth watching, and that is pretty much the sole reason for me seeing this film. Executive Decision doesn't offer much that isn't offered by numerous other films of the same type; but it carries the story (which has more meaning now than when the film was made) off well and the action sequences are generally fun to watch and full of tension. The film isn't a straight action thriller (despite the small part for Steven Seagal), but rather features scenes of action as well as some more story/character building scenes, which vary in their effectiveness. The basic plot focuses on terrorism. Some terrorists have overtaken a public aeroplane as their leader has been caught by the US Government. However, a top intelligence expert thinks that they may have an ulterior motive and so it is decided that he, as well as a bunch of soldiers, must jump in a Stealth Bomber and somehow board the plane. However, there is a problem and the intelligence expert ends up having to head up the operation to thwart the terrorists on the aeroplane.Despite heavy themes of terror, this really is pretty light hearted viewing. There is little actual violence and what there is isn't really very shocking (considering how shocking real events like this are). Director Stuart Baird manages to crank the tension up on several occasions - and certain parts of the movie are very exciting (the climax in particular). However, there are also occasions when the film isn't all that engaging and certain scenes and sub-plot really add nothing to the overall movie, and Executive Decision could certainly have benefited from some additional trimming (ironic considering most of Stuart Baird's work was as an editor). The film features a good cast, headed up by Kurt Russell and also featuring appearances from the likes of John Leguizamo, Oliver Platt, Steven Seagal and Halle Berry. Despite it's flaws, it has to be said that Executive Decision is decent entertainment throughout and while I wouldn't recommend going in with any raised expectations, if you just expect an average thriller, you shouldn't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Hope you aren't a Steven Seagal fan.","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Just a warning I'm about to give away a bit of the plot.  Anyway, I went to this movie with the anticipation of seeing another great Steven Seagal mindless action flick with all of the blistering-fast fight scenes we've come to expect but after the first 30 seconds of action they kill him off and we're stuck watching a nerdy Kurt Russel defend mother, apple pie and the good ole USA.  However I must admit Oliver Platt as the engineer was hilarious. "},{"Title":"Man Was Never Meant to Fly.","Date":"28 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" David Suchet and his Arabic-speaking goons hijack a 747 with the intention of exploding a bomb filled with nerve gas over Washington and wiping out the eastern seaboard. The hijackers demand the release of an Arab prisoner of indeterminate national origin. Washington is worried.They need not be. Not with Steven Seagal organizing his own squad of electronic wizards and commandos who board the airliner over the ocean. Seagal swiftly disappears from the plot, having business elsewhere, and the team of professionals is an ensemble led by Kurt Russel.This isn't a stupid movie like Air Force One. It's just another dumb action movie, and if it seems subdued in comparison with some, it's because you can't have multiple shoot outs with high body counts at a high altitude. So the movie perforce must rely on suspense in addition to every cliché in the Action Movie Handbook.As it is, there are several shootings that take place without, luckily, the slug passing through the recipient's body and then the hull of the airplane. The writers and producers don't trust you to be absorbed enough in the electronic innards of the 747 enough to sit through an hour with no bullets or blood. There is gore aplenty, though, once the airplane's altitude drops below 15,000 feet, enough to wake up the sleepiest, most bored audience of children.Below 15,000 feet decompression can occur, as the Handbook stipulates. Actually, it takes place at altitude, and we see the usual screaming passengers groping for their oxygen masks through the loudly swooshing escaping air stream filled with whirling papers and other debris. (Cf., page 251 of the Action Movie Handbook.) No stereotypical incident or character is avoided. David Suchet is a fine actor but he's given lines like, Today I free the sword of Allah and plunge it into the heart of the Infidel. There is the inevitable pair of wire cutters poised, trembling, over the green wire or the black wire connected to the bomb. There is the lip-biting sequence in which the perspiring amateur pilot who has never soloed must land the 747 without help. The sequence was better parodied in the original Airplane. Suchet's stated motive must be revealed as fraudulent. He's not doing it for Allah. He's doing it for reasons of personal revenge. One must not offend any Moslems in the audience. (Footnote, page 241.) I didn't mind so much the fact that this is recycled garbage. What really irked me was the presence of Steven Seagal. Every time I see him I try to remember how to spell his name and always wind up getting him mixed up with the horde of other Seagals in Hollywood -- or Siegels or Segals -- they all spell their names differently. There's even a Barbara SEAGULL. The voices tell me that this is part of a cosmic conspiracy on the part of the Seagal Meshpuchah, designed deliberately to drive me mad. And I'm inclined to believe them. The voices never lie -- although they usually trick me when it comes to the stock market. They must have their occasional pranks and I don't object to pranks if they're funny, but this movie is a prank that isn't amusing at all. If you want to see a better version of an airplane-in-jeopardy movie, watch Airplane instead. And if anyone insists on doing a remake of this movie -- Executive Decision II -- the very thought makes one blanch -- I'd like to suggest that instead of hijacking a 747 with Halle Berry as a stewardess, they just hijack Halle Berry and forget the airplane entirely. More fun for everyone involved. "}{"Title":"OK action flik built on faulty premise","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Early in the film we discover what the plot is. Terrorists have hijacked a plane and have a cannister of super potent nerve gas DZ-7, a pound of which can kill everyone in a large city, and they plan to blow up the plane over washington DC . Well hell - you don't need a hijacked plane for that, do you? Just leave a few jars of the stuff in select spots on the ground with an m-80 and a cigarette fuse attached and you're done, right? I never did get an answer to that and it kind of ruined the film for me but if you can overlook that flaw, it's a good flik.As usual, lots of improbable scenes in the movie. At one point the good-guy commandos who snuk on board the plane want to send a signal to another plane. Just like that they find the electrical wiring handbook for the plane and use that to send morse code with the rear lights!!!!!Kurt Russell is the star and as usual he's quite good. Hale Berry is a stew and as usual has nothing to offer. She's all skin and bones and she's not pretty. Johnny Carson used to joke that the greatest mystery in the world is how whoopi goldberg ever got to be a star and i feel the same way about HB. "},{"Title":"More horrific in the new millennium","Date":"18 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  In 1996 a film about terrorists using a plane as a tactical weapon against the United States came and went with moderate box office success.  Maybe the audience didn't quite relate to this type of terror threat or thought the idea too outlandish for reality.  Whatever the reasons, looking back on the film in the new millennium, it draws eerie parallels to the September 11th attack on the World Trade Centers and an encore viewing prompts some of the same questions we were asking our neighbors on that fateful day in 2001.The movie was Executive Decision starring Kurt Russell and directed by first-timer Stuart Baird who was known more as an editor in Tinseltown having worked on the Lethal Weapon franchise and Superman The Movie.  It surrounded a group of Arab terrorists who gain control of International Flight 343 and request to re-fuel in Washington, DC.  Dr. David Grant (Russell) is with US Intelligence and believes that the intention of the hijackers may be to land and then release a chemical weapon stored on board. A round table discussion of Pentagon officials agree that the plane should not be allowed within US airspace and concoct a plan to intercept the commercial airliner in mid-flight and board a team of commandos to take out the terrorists.Now the fun begins.For a newbe, Baird does a formidable job with the films pacing.  From the opening storming of a mid-East compound to the very energetic and crash ending, there are few voids of boredom between credit rolls.  I suppose being a good editor helps when it comes to keeping the flow going forward, and Baird does just that.  I also have to credit him on being able to pull off one of the more surprising character demises in recent memory.  To reveal the scene would be to spoil the fun, but early in the film there is a 'I didn't see that coming' event that should leave you aghast.I also note the cast whom in 1996 was an up-and-coming list that have all added to their stock value in the past ten years.  Halle Berry, Oliver Platt and John Leguizamo were virtual unknowns at the time of the release, and even Joe Morton (Terminator 2) and D.B. Wong (Law & Order SVU, Oz), might be more familiar to you in present day.Coupling my comments on the cast and the pacing, you would think that the movie was of the top rate quality, but unfortunately, its shortfalls cannot be easily overlooked.  For starters, there are the generic characters, each one stereotypical of every other macho or evil presence filmed throughout the 80's and 90's.  There is the plot, which outside of the action sequences consists of the outsider (Russell) saving the day and thus gaining the respect of the soldiers who thought him soft.  And then there is the dialogue.  Only in a film of this caliber would you get a line like, `I think we're looking up the ass-end of a dead dog, but it's worth a try.' Whoa!  Sounds more like Shane Black than Shakespeare.Executive Decision is one of those movies that was once 90 minutes of fun and now looks so horrifically possible. When White House officials discuss the option of shooting down their own plane before it reaches the coastline, you can't help but wonder if the same discussions occurred during that warm September morning in 2001.  When you watch how easily these terrorists seize control of the flight, you have a better understanding as to why airports are so bogged down in the new era with strict policies and procedures. Granted, I am probably stretching the analogies, and this may be no more plausible than 1997's Turbulance, but it did allow my mind to wonder.The sum of its parts, Executive Decision is a fairly good film that is missing a few components which would have propelled it to a loftier appreciation.  In 1996, it competed with the unrealistic Independence Day, Mission Impossible, Twister and The Rock for box office wiggle room and I guess there was just no money left in our wallets to shell out for mindless actioners.I guess the best thing that could have happened to Executive Decision is time.  It's not as if ten years has turned an average film into a very good one, but it has turned a formulaic action film into one with plausible horrors. "},{"Title":"Deserves to be a full point higher than Air Farce One","Date":"12 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Now, I'm not saying AFO was particularly bad, or that this one was particularly good... but Executive Decision was surprisingly better than expected. Indeed, the best executive decision they made was to kill Seagal off (that martial arts fatty-boombalatty) before he brought the film down with his squinting. Anyhow, this is a very serviceable and fun hijack-thriller. The acting is above average for reasons specified above, and it was decently written. Smarter than the average action movie, too. I think the best thing that can be said is that despite being incredibly predictable, this film is actually quite thrilling. "},{"Title":"Docking Stealth Fighters and Horrible Writing","Date":"5 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is a laugher where terrorists take over a 747-400 and a squad of crack anti-terrorist troops sneak aboard, in flight, by having an F-117 Stealth Fighter dock with the '47. Stop! PLEASE, make it STOP! This one is actually painful to watch. One of the few redeeming factors is the Steven Segal character gets killed early in the movie (oh, thank you!) so you don't have to listen to Mr. Roboto any more. Halle Berry could be a redeeming factor, but if I want to get a Halle Berry fix I'll watch Monster's Ball. This movie should be classified as hazardous waste. "},{"Title":"SILLY!","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is a very silly movie.<SPOILER!> --------------------------Since they were able to climb on board at 35,000 feet,why it did not occur to the fabulous commando team (or to the screenplay writer!) to simply toss the BOMB out of the PLANE?But of course, that would have meant that the movie wouldhave ended after 25 minutes.DUMB! SILLY!Don't waste your time.McQ "},{"Title":"I hope there's a good movie on this flight","Date":"15 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This film was made with the full cooperation of the Pentagon and The Department of Defence, so of course it's about dark skinned warriors of Islam who kill senselessly, hijack air-planes and plot to poison the entire east coast of America.It's thus up to our cast of noble white guys (okay, multiracial Americans) to band together and stop these cartoon villains, utilising a variety of high-tech gizmos, Mission Impossible styled gadgets and good ole American brawn.In other words, it's the kind of racist Cowboys vs Indians stuff John Ford made decades ago, only here it takes place in the bowels of a 747. Maybe in a couple decades, this sort of stuff will be spoken of with the same kind of embarrassment that films like Drums Along The Mohawk and The Green Berets manage to illicit today. Or maybe not.7.5/10 &#x96; Die Hard with added altitude, this film works best as a claustrophobic techno-thriller. What's strange is that all these films portray Islamic terrorists as barbaric lunatics who, because they are hell bent on sacrificing their lives, must be completely out of their frickin' minds!. Didn't everyone cheer when Randy Quaid sacrificed his life in Independece Day by ramming his fighter jet into an alien mother ship, thereby saving his country? Perhaps the ultimate irony is that on September the 11th, the air-force, because it was completely unprepared, scrambled jets into the air which carried no weapons. Their job, if more hijacked kamikaze airliners were discovered, would have been to themselves fly suicidally headlong into the hijacked aircraft. Kamikaze vs kamikaze, who's insane and who's heroic in such a scenario? Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Ridiculous idiotic drivel.","Date":"31 May 2005","Score":"6 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Some may object that I am only going to refer to technical considerations in this comment. But the scenario in this movie depends entirely upon such technical considerations. So I feel justified in claiming that it's technical illiteracy sinks it completely.The mission shown uses a version of the F117 Nighthawk stealth bomber. Firstly, this is a plane big enough to carry one pilot and a bomb. Here, however, it is shown as having some kind of cargo bay big enough for the entire team.Then again, the outside of the plane in the film doesn't correspond with the size of the inside. Nor with the size of the airliner.When aircraft in real life dock to re-fuel in mid-air it is a lengthy, slow and precise procedure that requires hours of training, is carried out in the straight and level, with the pilot of one plane gradually meeting a boom in front of them. Even then, it requires a specialist operative in the tail of the tanker plane to steer that boom. But in this film, they just fly up underneath an airliner that in reality would be bobbing about all over the show. It doesn't know they are there. It mates with it even though the pilot cannot actually see the point of contact. Then they extend that ridiculous contraption which in reality, at the speeds involved. would have been ripped away in aerodynamic torque, probably pulling both planes out of the air in the process.I know some will say it's all just fun. But to anyone with half an education in such matters it certainly isn't fun to have to sit through such garbage. "},{"Title":"Executive Decision","Date":"8 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I'm afraid to say that I didn't full attention to this film at all when it was on, but to be honest I'm really not that bothered, from what I could gather it looked a little dull for a film rated three stars out of five, from director Stuart Baird (U.S. Marshals, Star Trek Nemesis). Basically terrorists led by Nagi Hassan (David Suchet) have hijacked a plane, flight 747 bound from Athens to Washington D.C., and they are demanding the release of their leader from prison in exchange for all the passengers on board. Dr. David Grant (Kurt Russell) discovers however that this is not their true plan, they have a bomb on the plane that when dropped will release a large amount of nerve gas on detonation. So with the help of Lt. Colonel Austin Travis (Razzie nominated Steven Seagal), Captain Rat (John Leguizamo) and bomb expert Dennis Cahill (Oliver Platt), Grant and the small United States Army Special Forces team get themselves on board, unnoticed, and try to save everyone. At the same time, hostages including plane flight attendant Jean (Halle Berry) follow the instructions of their kidnappers, while trying to find a way to get help or spoil their plan. Also starring Joe Morton as Sergeant 'Cappy' Matheny, B.D. Wong as Sergeant Louie, Len Cariou as Secretary of Defense Charles White, Andreas Katsulas as El Sayed Jaffa and J.T. Walsh as Senator Mavros. I was so in and out of the film, I wasn't dozing off, I was just doing other stuff at the same time, so I even missed how Seagal sacrifices himself, it didn't look all that engaging or exciting, but when I did pay attention, it had its very, very tiny moments, a fair action thriller. Okay! "},{"Title":"I don't like to be fooled","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This film is nice but I don't like it when a film fools you and tell you someone is a main character there as it did with Steven Seagal. I mean really, what were they thinking? For the acting he did there he shouldn't have been in the main credits, it's like Tom Cruise was in Austin Powers 3 but isn't shown in the main credits. Anyway if you expect to see Steven Seagal in this movie you are going to have huge disappointment, the idea of the movie is only nice and not enough to really make you say wow. Watch it only if you don't have anything better to do because after all it's watchable movie, nothing more. "},{"Title":"silly as all American movies.","Date":"3 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" i don't want to put American movie business down here. but the movies in 80's was much more better. the writers didn't write so much craps as they do this days. i didn't watch the whole movie but i have seen the scene when they want to deactivate the bomb. as i know about electronics's more than all producers and the actors on this site i will tell u that u can't measure with ohm meter ANYTHING/NOTHING when is some el. devices under the voltage! that is so stupid. every electrician will tell u that! Second thing if u have made the be-pass u don't need to cut the wires.Kind regard, Tupaic - that is my last name. "}{"Title":"Had Potential until Seagal dropped out!","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Why was Seagals name plastered all over the cover when he was nothing more then an extended cameo?  Was fooled into thinking it may be a decent action flick.  As soon as Seagal dropped out any hope of some good action was gone especially with the character Russell was playing. "},{"Title":"Bomb on the producers!","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Warning  Spoilers!!!Stupid, racist film again.  I don't care about the rest of the movie, all I remember are negative stereotypes.  I think Islam is a big Religion and we have NO right to offend it so much, especially when we are basing it all on inaccuracies.  How would we like it if they made a movie making fun of Christ and refering to his disciples as women raping terrorists?  It is just as offensive to Muslims that we made this movie.  I think it is the responsiblity of all people to stick up for others when they see a pathetic movie like this come out.  I boycott this movie, and I urge others to boycott it also.  I would love to see it's production recalled permanently.  If people can't learn to make movies without so blatantly offending a group of people (obviously purposely by the way the scenes were shot) then they should STOP MAKING MOVIES.  PEOPLE'S FEELINGS ARE MORE IMPORTANT THAN AN ACTION MOVIE. "},{"Title":"Why couldn't they have waited until AFTER September 11 to do this?!","Date":"13 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I don't know what Executive Decision was trying to do, but it came out as a racist screed just another story about crazy Arabs hijacking a plane and some people have to stop them. I would expect Steven Seagal to appear in a movie like this, but even Kurt Russell has done better than this. To tell you tell the truth, if they're going to make movies about terrorists, can't they just portray American terrorists? Maybe they would be more sensitive about nowadays, after what happened on September 11, 2001.Here's what would be my ideal movie about terrorists taking over an airplane and some people having to stop them Some corporate CEOs (probably played by Robert DeNiro, Michael Douglas, Al Pacino, Joe Pesci and Martin Sheen) never have anything to do; they're just bored rich white guys. They all get together and decide to hijack an airplane for fun. After they hijack the airplane, the pilot secretly sends his friend (probably played by Jim Carrey) a message telling about this. So, the friend gathers all his friends (probably played by Dan Aykroyd, Mel Brooks, George Carlin, Jackie Chan, Chevy Chase, Margaret Cho, Billy Crystal, Whoopi Goldberg, Goldie Hawn, Steve Martin, Bill Murray, Mike Myers, Carl Reiner, Chris Rock, Adam Sandler, Will Smith, Jon Stewart, Ben Stiller, Chris Tucker and Robin Williams) to board the plane with him and kick terrorist ass! A ridiculous idea? Maybe, but it would be better than the average movie about terrorists. It would be dedicated to the numerous comedians who are no longer with us Charlie Chaplin, Laurel and Hardy, the Marx Brothers, Abbott and Costello, Rodney Dangerfield, Lenny Bruce, Richard Pryor, John Belushi, Gilda Radner, John Candy and Chris Farley. "}]