[{"Title":"Beyond the conventions of the tear-jerker","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"50 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film took this jaded, tough-to-manipulate moviegoer and reduced him to a blubbering mass of water. Instead of the usual over-the-top death scene, the film finds a clever, non-contrived way to end by leaving these characters at a magical moment of mutual understanding. It is one of the most powerful endings I've ever seen in a film, and believe me, I've seen thousands. What I found most remarkable about it was how the film reveals--despite the sisters' major character differences--how similar they really are. Both abandon one part of their family to sacrifice for another part--they each merely take different parts, and that's why Lee's character is not as bad, selfish or one-dimensional as she first seems. Lee's problem was understanding love. Despite all her lovers, Lee (Streep) had to learn the real meaning of love from her spinster sister Bessie (Keaton).The film is full of irony. One such moment is when Lee, rather tactlessly, says to Bessie that she finally feels as though her life has begun. To which Bessie, who is surely about to die, can only sigh. The greatest irony, of course, is that Lee finds herself at the same juncture she was 20 years prior. Will she choose to sacrifice to care for her sister, just as her sister had chosen to do with her father and aunt? Bessie, in contrast, had come to find that she hadn't thrown it all away to care for sick relatives. What first seemed a sacrifice had become transformed, through her own experience, into another valid way of experiencing life. To Lee's perspective, the elders where millstones, hindrances, inconveniences robbed of their humanity--almost the antithesis of life. Yet, behind the eccentricities of Aunt Ruth (Verdon) and other-worldly silence of her chronically ill father Marvin (Cronyn), she had found, and reveled in, their uniquness, their humanness. Making Lee's two sons very different also added complexity and depth to the film. It's obvious that Hank (DiCaprio) is his mother's son, it's just that his mother doesn't realize it. Hank too is at a crucial moment of choice Will he abandon his selfishness, or will he abandon his familial and moral obligation to help Bessie? And what accounts for the polar opposite behavior of the younger son Charlie (Scardino)? The movie doesn't give an answer. Genetics, environment, relationships and all the other things that make us who we are are complex things. The scriptwriter is smart enough to realize that. Touches of humor keep this from becoming an oppressive Bergmanesque angst-fest, and its patient character development steers it out of obvious soapy (ie. Terms of Endearment) territory. Although the thing has a sort of TV-movie aesthetic in the staging and the scoring, the writing and acting are everything you'd want. Beautiful.  "},{"Title":"The screenplay is really the star of this film.","Date":"15 January 2005","Score":"27 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's such a wonderful story, not at all as dreary as one would expect. The late Scott McPherson injected so much humor and heart into this film, it's hard not to just go along with it. Diane Keaton got the Oscar nomination, but Meryl Streep's character drives the film, as she works her way back into a family she turned her back on so she could have a life of her own. She was right to do so, as her sister (Keaton) has become consumed with caregiving for her father and aunt, taking absolutely no time out for herself. The film also features a nice departure for Robert De Niro from his typically heavy roles. That alone is worth seeing, and fans of his typical performances should be forced to watch this.This quiet film may not have enough action for some, but it is far better than most films dealing with serious illness. The journey these sisters begin is something that has been explored in countless TV movies (think Lifetime), but what separates it is the humor and the character development that makes the viewer wish he/she could stay and watch the family long after the film ends. The film also benefits from the presence of Leonardo DiCaprio, who gives an unlikely nuanced performance as the older son who develops some character and helps his flighty mother grow along with him. The great thing about his presence in the film is that younger viewers (mostly female, probably) will be more likely to see this movie and get something out of it in the process.Finally, a word about Gwen Verdon and Hume Cronyn. Their contributions to this film are immeasurable. And as already mentioned, it's great that younger viewers can watch this film and get a last look at them in these touching roles and see how charm never fades with age. Cronyn has little to do but lie ill in bed, yet somehow his character remains a focal point. And Verdon's comic relief pairing with the younger son is a real highlight. She also manages a poignant moment or two in a her scenes with Keaton. This truly is an ensemble piece, and it wouldn't have been without their talent. Why I don't yet own a copy of this sweet film is a mystery. "},{"Title":"Great acting, simple story","Date":"6 August 1998","Score":"24 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie should be reviewed for its great performances from some of the  best actors today. Meryl Streep does not fail to shine out as one of the  best actresses of all time as an emotionally distraught mother in this tale  of hopes, emotions and intense feelings. Keaton, on the other hand portrays  her best performance ever, and Leonardo DiCaprio proves that he has talents  besides being a heartthrob. This movie really moved me, not because of the  story itself but the acting was very realistic....I believe that they all  should have received an Oscar nomination. Well done! "},{"Title":"Keaton/Streep Melodrama","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Marvin's Room (1996) Dir Jerry Zaks Finally a movie of substance that harkens back to Keaton's earlier successes. Keaton co-stars with drama heavyweight Meryl Streep as two estranged sisters who reunite to deal with Keaton's recently diagnosed leukemia.  Keaton's character is hopeful that Streep or one of her two screen sons can be a bone marrow donor for her and thereby possibly save her life. Meanwhile, Keaton has been caring for the sister's long suffering and long dying father, Marvin (Hume Croyn).  Adding a little box office punch to the flick is current heartthrob Leonardo DiCaprio as one of Streep's problem boys.  Though the plot reads like melodrama, and to an extent it is, the movie is fairly subtle and unexpected in its story line choices.  If nothing else, one doesn't have the feeling that the writers wrote the screenplay over beers and an episode of Married with Children.Nominated for Best Actress, Keaton gets to present a more controlled and quiet persona than she usually displays. Streep is typically fine as a used to be good time girl who finally is about to graduate out of beauty school and is having trouble dealing with her sick sister, her dying father and her whacked-out teen son.  Definitely worth a view if for no other reason than to fill in the missing Keaton and/or Streep movies you may have missed. And gosh, doesn't Leo look cute! "},{"Title":"I Have A Confession","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"   This film was on the end of Eraser that I taped off Sky Premier, it was purely accidental that I watched it. I started to watch it thinking that it might get me to sleep, but then I found it great. Robert De Niro had all the best lines with his pathetic brother, Bob(Dan Hedaya). Meryl Streep also shone in her screen time with her son, Hank(Leonardo Di Caprio in his best role ever). I loved the whole dramatic sequences, and found the acting touching and Oscar worthy. Diane Keaton provided all the tears in the film, with the others all providing laughs. This film was a huge surprise. I don't usually like dramas(although I loved Di Caprio's and De Niro's other film together, This Boy's Life), and I recommend this to everyone who loves good dramas. Rating=4/5 "},{"Title":"Better Than It Should Have Been","Date":"16 June 2009","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This stage to screen adaptation about two estranged sisters attempting a reconciliation after one is diagnosed with cancer is sentimental to the extreme, manipulative beyond forgiveness.....and had me close to blubbering like a baby by the time it was over.Chalk it up to the fact that I had recently lost a grandmother to cancer, but this film nearly devastated me even as I was mad that it was so maudlin. The fact that it works as well as it does is due largely to the fact that such good actors are cast in it. Meryl Streep and Diane Keaton play the sisters (Keaton is the ill one), and while it would never have occurred to me to put these two actresses together, the decision was inspired. And right before he rocketed to international fame, Leonardo DiCaprio does strong work as Keaton's troubled nephew.I won't even try to defend this film against those who say it's too schmaltzy to bear, but please let the rest of us enjoy it in blubbery peace.Grade A- "},{"Title":"Intimate dramas are the hardest to film - well worth the effort when they work though","Date":"26 September 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Small cast, intimate dramas like MARVIN'S ROOM, NIGHT MOTHER or STEEL MAGNOLIAS are among the hardest to adapt from the confines of the stage where the imagination can open the plays ideas up and make what might seem maudlin, real and life affirming to the more realistic form of film where it is harder to see beyond the mundane bed pan realities of life. In order to reinvent the best of these - like the plays mentioned above - to the new genre, every break is needed starting with bravura casts who, one hopes, an audience will want to see even reading the phone book. When a play turns around the characters dealing literally with confrontations with death at the core of the plot as in these three great plays, what HAD been on stage a single set intense evening is frequently opened up with all sorts of other locations and events almost as if to distract us from the very issues which we are supposed to be attending to.On stage and screen MARVIN'S ROOM may well be the best of these three death plays, all of which started and thrived Off-Broadway (only NIGHT MOTHER made the leap to a Broadway house in its initial production). While, somewhat amazingly (considering that one of the standards of the award is depiction of American life), MARVIN'S ROOM was not even a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize for Drama in 1992, it did win a number of other accolades which virtually demanded that Hollywood attempt to bring it to the rest of the nation - and they certainly gave it their all starting with the genuinely all star cast which is both the movie's blessing and its curse. It enraptures with the bouquet of bravura performances even while moving focus away from the central earth-mother of the family forced to face her own mortality while trying to care for and hold her collapsing family together around her (Diane Keaton's Oscar nomination - the film's only - notwithstanding).Ultimately, the film gets where the play was going (as well it ought to have, since Scott McPherson had the luxury of adapting his own play - he may have written his screenplay simultaneously with, if not before the tighter stage version, since he died in 1992, the year MARVIN'S ROOM received its Off-Broadway production at Playwrights' Horizons, winning the Outer Critics' Circle and Drama Desk Awards as best Play of the Year), but the power seems to have shifted from the play's revelations themselves to the dazzling performances. It's still well worth taking the trip, but more to appreciate a monument to more than a dozen brilliant stage and screen careers than a revelatory experience on the meaning of humanity in the face of life and death that the play had been.Do, by all means see the movie. It works. ...but if you ever get a chance to see the play which either suggested it or grew from it, by all means do - it's smaller but even better. "},{"Title":"Oh what a difference a screenplay makes!!!!","Date":"14 September 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I came across this movie on Netflix and thought I would give it a go! Surely a movie with Meryl Streep and Dianne Keaton wouldn't disappoint! It sure didn't! While the story has been done before in various formats it's the screenplay that makes this movie a real gem. The main three actors really do a great job. But with Streep, Keaton and DiCaprio one would expect nothing less. For me the the late Gwen Verdon steals the show. she really shows how comedy should be done. The scene with the orange is one that stands out. A mixture of comedy and heart wrenching reality showcases how underrated she has been. This for me should have definitely gained a nod in any supporting actress awards. This movie certainly won't change your life but it really does provide you with food for though about love, family and the importance of life! Give it a go. It won't disappoint. "},{"Title":"It's Never Too Late To Mend Broken Relationships Until You're Gone","Date":"21 March 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Scott McPherson adapts a beautiful screenplay from his own play. 'Marvin's Room' could have easily been just another one of those sentimental disease-of-the-weak type TV films but McPherson stays true to the story injecting it with a delightful dose of humour. The film focuses on broken relationships and how it's never too late to take the step to mend them until you're gone. The execution is simple and that works very well. The score is in sync with the flow. The writing is beautiful. The dialogues are cleverly written.Diane Keaton is marvelous in a role that could have easily turned out to be a cliché if it were played by a lesser actress. She plays her part naturally with a quiet and yet layered restraint. Meryl Streep does a fine job as the slightly more rebellious and estranged sister who had escaped from having to take care of her father and is proud of her diploma. Leonardo Dicaprio isn't bad either. Robert De Niro is great in a more laidback role. He also reveals a flare for comedy. His scenes with a splendid Dan Hedaya had me laughing. Gwen Verdon is a delight and she provides excellent comic relief. Hume Cronyn doesn't have a scene out of bed but he definitely makes the viewer take note of his performance.My favourite scene is towards the end when the two sisters chat in the kitchen. Keaton's Bessie may have been 'consumed' by taking care of her ailing father and aunt, not 'leading' her own life like the typical American woman but the amazing thing is that she doesn't regret it because she is proud that she has given them so much love and that she can do the same now with her sister and nephews. Then there's the ending which is superbly done. You're left wanting to know how these wonderful characters are doing but at the same time one can acknowledge that it's the best way to end. "},{"Title":"An Underrated Gem","Date":"1 May 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I happen to rank this movie as one of Leo's finest. It is definitely not as main-stream as his others, but the content and the acting was brilliant. I am a sucker for movies about dysfunctional families and this one takes the cake. It was so human...there was nothing Hollywood about this at all. Each character has their own emotional turmoil and when Lee comes down with Hank and Charlie, the characters are forced to come to terms with it. Leo delivered a stand-out performance in a cast of film legends. Meryl Streep is also wonderful as Lee, the self-centered mom who left her family behind in search of her own dreams. "}{"Title":"Ironically there is humor found in illness.","Date":"7 March 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" MARVIN'S ROOM is a character-driven drama based on the Scott McPherson play. Director Jerry Zaks manages to get the best from an all-star cast. Bessie(Diane Keaton)is a care-giving soul that discovers she has her own health dilemma. Bessie takes care of her bedridden father Marvin(Hume Cronyn), who always seems to be nicely dressed right down to his bow tie. Marvin has retired himself to his room. Aunt Ruth(Gwen Verdon)is a handful that is not too damn close reality. She likes to wear a garage door remote around her waist and insists on huge hugs. Bessie is told by her own physician (Robert De Niro)that she has leukemia and needs bone marrow. She is forced to contact her sister Lee(Meryl Streep)with whom she has had a 20-year old feud. Lee, a beautician, seems to be only interested in supporting herself and two sons. Ten-year old Charlie(Hal Scandino)does well to stay sane by ignoring the drama that surrounds him. On the other hand 17 year-old Hank(Leonardo DiCaprio)is earthy and troubled after being institutionalized for burning down the house. There is a lot of emotional ground the two sisters must decide on to discard and what to forgive and forget. The characters are so well defined and its easy to understand where each is coming from. Isn't it great that life allows humor to be found in times of discouragement and ill-fortune. "},{"Title":"Beautifully played drama","Date":"8 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Jerry Saks' simple, heart warming and touching tale of love and giving to others selflessly is beautifully played out by its superlative cast.The story concerns a dedicated daughter who has given twenty years of her life to aiding her ill father. When she becomes sick, her estranged sister and family are contacted in the hope they can provide a compatible donation.Diane Keaton is superb as Bessie, the long suffering daughter now terminally ill herself. She is no saint however, having failed to keep in touch with her sister for two decades, and never having acknowledged her nephews. As Lee, the self-centred single mum who cannot cope with her strong willed eldest, Meryl Streep is extraordinarily natural and more than readily believable. Once again Streep shows her phenomenal talent. Hume Cronyn plays the bedridden Marvin with sensitivity, and Gwen Verdon is also a revelation as the highly strung soapy addict, Aunty Ruth. Leonardo Di Caprio shows natural ability once more in bringing to life the trouble young Hank, while Hal Scardino plays his little brother Charlie. The ever enjoyable Robert De Niro graces the screen as the well meaning Dr. Wally, and Dan Hedaya plays his bewildering brother, Bob.Coupled with this is the insightful, intelligent script from the late Scott McPherson's play which makes the work of the afore mentioned ensemble that much easier. With its telling dialogue and in-depth characterisations, it contains much truth about giving and self-sacrifice, love and family.For a film that moves the heart and touches the emotions, Marvin's Room is a must.Sunday, May 11, 1997 - Balwyn CinemasIt is not often that such a genteel, yet emotionally strong film as this comes along. Jerry Saks does beautifully with the adaptation of Scott McPherson's play, presenting an intelligent drama.Capping this is the superb cast, led by the marvellous paring of Diane Keaton and Meryl Streep. Support comes from Leonardo Di Caprio, Robert De Niro, Gwen Verdon, Dany Hedaya, Hume Cronyn and Hal Scardino.Thursday, June 11, 1998 - Video "},{"Title":"Brilliant !","Date":"23 November 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Marvin's room turned out to be a brilliant movie assisted well by a great performance by some veteran actors like Meryl Streep, Diane Keaton, Leonardo DiCaprio, Robert De Niro ( although he wasn't the center of attraction as he was the doctor ).Meryl Streep and Diane Keaton are two sisters who have estranged each other for 20 years and Diane calls upon her sister to take care of their father as she herself realized that she was suffering from Leukemia. Leonardo portrays the character of Hank who does not get along with his mother Meryl on account of her abusive behaviour. Diane Keaton wants Meryl to take care of her Aunt Roth and their father when she would be gone. Meryl portrays a mean woman who is afraid of responsibilities and is troubled by the deliberate acts of her son Hank (Leo). The movie is a beautiful depiction of how Meryl Streep decides to eventually aid her dying sister by stepping into her shoes and taking enough pluck to set things right between herself and Hank. Diane Keaton and Meryl Streep acted exceptionally well not to forget Leo. Altogether their performance was brilliant. I was touched by the movie. I'd rate it a 7 on 10. It was certainly one of the finest flicks that I've watched. "},{"Title":"Reuniting Dysfunctions Under One Roof","Date":"18 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" We were raised under the lie that families are and should be the epitome of perfection. Ozzie and Harriet. The Bradys. The Nelsons. However we all know that this is never the case and more often than not a trivial incident is the dividing moment where siblings decide to go their separate ways, and this is the case here two sisters have been estranged for about twenty years. Bessie has stayed with her parents and has taken care of them while Lee has pursued her own interests with a marked selfishness that hides an inability to cope with familial duty and in the interim she has raised two boys of her own. Now, father Marvin is ill with senile dementia and can barely muster words. Bessie has been diagnosed with leukemia and her chances of survival depends on a bone marrow transplant and only her estranged family can give her that. And on top of this, Lee is having her own trouble with her oldest son Hank just burned their house down and landed in a mental institution, so the thought of traveling down to Florida to visit Bessie seems less than welcome and more than an inconvenience.Bessie and Lee's reunion is appropriately awkward and filled with tension that is simmering under the surface, ready to explode at any time. Like enemies they circle around each other throwing their personalities at each other and there is a confrontation scene that is inevitable but doesn't quite resolve anything. I was reminded of Ingmar Bergman's CRIES AND WHISPERS, in which two sisters and a maid were taking care of their third sister who was dying, each of them with their own baggage of self-hatred and inability to love and be open. Jerry Zaks' film is not that deep or stylized nor does it intend to be. His is an honest, straightforward examination on Scott McPherson's stage play about the shadow of death lingering over one family and occasionally lapses into humor with its supporting characters. That works well, because to make this a heavy-handed meditation of death, especially when three of its characters are on the brink of it, would be asking too much for its audience. Only its implied nature is seen here but its effect is no less devastating, even if glimmers of hope seep through the fabric of this family and makes its bond tighter.Being a slice of life story, characters are on center stage at all times so they must be defined through their tempers. Lee is quite a shrill woman who throughout her stay at her parents' seems on the brink of just grabbing her things and driving as fast as she could and could be a version of any of the healthy sisters in the Bergman film. Meryl Streep takes on the role against her ethereal type and uses her body language and strong voice to convey a loud woman who needs so much reassurance that she can't see a little thing as family getting in the way. On the other hand, Bessie is closer to the maid's character in CRIES AND WHISPERS, and Diane Keaton's portrayal is quiet, thoughtful, and on rare occasions only hinting at her own terror as her illness progresses.The third actor who reveals himself here is Leonardo diCaprio. He plays the troubled son Hank and his interactions are mainly with both sisters. Watch his body language with both whenever he's with Lee he's angry and borderline threatening. I get the hint that even when the credits are over, they will always have a brittle relationship, and this is due to Lee's own selfishness. Meanwhile, Hank and Bessie break the ice and in one touching scene share a drive on the beach. Their childlike laughter speaks volumes of what their relationship would have been had there never been an estrangement. Leonardo DiCaprio tackles the role with intensity and urgency and there are a couple of moments when I thought he might resemble James Dean without the pout but the sheer anger.MARVIN'S ROOM doesn't try to give simple answers; after all, all families have dysnfunctions, but instead is like a canvas that reveals itself for the many layers of dynamics between its players and does so in an uplifting manner, much like the beautiful moment when Bessie and Lee witness Marvin's delight in seeing a display of light coming from a mirror Bessie is holding. It's a quiet moment, one of intense love, that shows the power of family despite the odds, and what better way to end the film with Gwen Verdon's last line? Hope is all around. "},{"Title":"Finely Acted Movie About Familial Bonds And Love","Date":"8 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Two sisters try to set their familial differences aside -- one in hopes of saving her own life -- in this drama with comic accents.Marvin's Room is a film based on the play of the same name by Scott McPherson.The play, which was directed by David Petrarca, was adapted for the screen by McPherson and directed by Jerry Zaks. It stars Meryl Streep, Leonardo DiCaprio, Diane Keaton, Robert De Niro, Hume Cronyn, Gwen Verdon, Hal Scardino and Dan Hedaya. Bessie has lived in Florida for the past 20 years, where she's been caring for her chronically ill father Marvin and her Aunt Ruth, who does not seem well acquainted with reality. While Bessie's life has not been easy, she feels that it's rewarding in its way, and she's come to love her father very much. However, when Bessie is diagnosed with cancer, she's told that the only treatment likely to save her would be a bone marrow transplant from a close relative -- which leads Bessie to contact her sister Lee for the first time since their father fell ill. Bessie and Lee have a number of issues with each other that they've never resolved, many concerning their responses to Marvin's illness as Bessie rushed to his side, while Lee preferred to stay away, and Lee's own life has been difficult. She's gotten herself out of a bad marriage, has only recently started supporting herself as a beautician, and has to raise two kids on her own. Ten-year-old Charlie tries to simply ignore the chaos going on all round him, while Hank, a troubled 17-year-old, was recently institutionalized after burning down the family's home. As the straight-laced Bessie and the earthy Lee reestablish contact after two decades, they discover just how much emotional ground they have to cover before they can meet on common ground. Based on a play by Scott McPherson's who died of AIDS, it's impossible to watch the well-acted film particularly Diane Keaton, who got an Oscar nomination,as she was given a rare opportunity here to remind us that she's not simply a fine comedienne, and she's marvelous.Meryl Streep, Robert De Niro, Leonardo DiCaprio, Hume Cronyn and Gwen Verdon add to the greatness of the cast's brilliance and excellent performance.And most of all,it provides great themes about the various approaches to love; the strength of family bonds in times of death, aging parents, reconciliation; and the healing power of selfless love.It was one good movie inspite of being dull and slow at times.A can't miss movie. "},{"Title":"Exceptional","Date":"4 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Marvin's Room is a 1996 film that stars Meryl Streep, Diane Keaton, Leonardo DiCaprio, Hume Cronyn, Gwen Verdon, Robert DeNiro and Dan Hedaya. Just goes to show you the kind of cast a good script can attract, even for a little film.Little film, big emotions. Marvin's Room is about two sisters who haven't been in touch for 20 years. Diane Keaton is Bessie, the sister who stayed home and took care of her elderly relatives - her father, Marvin (Cronyn), who is bedridden and non-verbal, and her dizzy but sweet Aunt Ruth (Verdon). Meryl Streep is Lee, the sister who got out of Dodge (Dodge being Florida), got married, had kids, got divorced, and is about to get her cosmetology license. When Bessie is diagnosed with leukemia and is told she needs a relative's bone marrow, she calls Lee. Lee packs up the kids and drives to Florida so they can all be tested.The film begins with Lee's son Hank (DiCaprio) burning down the family dwelling and getting arrested. It's an understatement to say he's angry with his mother, blaming her for the divorce. He forms a bond with his Aunt Bessie, and doesn't want to leave. His mother vehemently doesn't want to stay. In their big confrontation, Bessie accuses Lee of being selfish in not staying and sharing the burden of taking care of their family. I took care of my family, Lee reminds her. I had a husband and children, and I never heard from any of you people. This is one of those family dramas that hits home, and with the boomers now in the position of taking care of their parents, it's even more relevant than it was 13 years ago. Each member of the cast gives an honest and realistic performance. As the smoking, no-nonsense, nothing can touch me Lee, Meryl Streep is marvelous. I have to admit that I am not always a fan of hers, only because I can sometimes see her making acting choices. Lee is one role where she just IS the character. Keaton is excellent as the softer, warmer, more nurturing Bessie, who sublimated many of her own dreams. As the rebellious teen, Leonardo DiCaprio gives a wonderful performance as the confused Hank, who discovers family he knew nothing about.There are two sisters, and there are also two brothers - Robert DeNiro, who plays Bessie's doctor, Dr. Wally, and Dan Hedaya, the doctor's slow brother Bob who works in Wally's office. Bob isn't much help, but Wally seems to tolerate him with no problem. He's family, and Wally's responsibility.One scene that really cracked me up - Aunt Ruth loves soap operas, and when we first see her, she's watching a soap opera scene with veteran soap star John Callahan (All My Children) and Kelly Ripa. It's hilarious. I mention it because later on, it comes into play.Jerry Zaks' directing is excellent. Just have a box of tissues nearby. It's a story about a family, with lots of love underneath the problems. "},{"Title":"Above average drama about family dynamics in the face of aging and illness","Date":"17 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Bessie is a middle-aged woman who has been caring for her father Marvin since he had a stroke some twenty years earlier. Marvin is on his back in bed and cannot speak, but he does have a limited understanding when spoken to. Marvin's sister Ruth is also in the household and, while still in possession of her faculties and ambulatory, her life seems to center around what is happening on her favorite soap operas. Bessie finds out that she has leukemia. What to do? Bessie's only hope is for a bone marrow transplant and the only possible donors are her sister Lee, estranged since Marvin's stroke, and Lee's two sons.Rather than concentrating on the grim details, the focus is on the changes in the family dynamics precipitated by Bessie's illness. Bessie calls Lee and tells her the story and Lee packs up her two sons and takes out from Ohio to Florida. All those years ago Lee and Bessie split over Marvin's illness and care - Bessie took it over and Lee got away as fast as she could. So, a good part of the movie has the sisters dealing with old wounds. A subplot concerns the relationship that develops between Bessie and Lee's rebellious seventeen year old son Hank. What raises this film above the ordinary is the great cast and some well written scenes. Streep and Keaton are in good form and play well off of each other. There are a lot of awkward and intense moments between them - I particularly liked the scene where they meet each other for the first time in twenty years. Hume Cronyn, as Marvin, never says a word, but his presence is felt throughout the film. Leonard DiCaprio, as Hank, is so good that you wonder if he is playing Hank or just being himself. Playing against type Robert De Niro puts in an appearance as Bessie's somewhat maladroit doctor.What didn't work for me was the attempted comic relief. Ruth seemed just a bit too ditsy and her pain relief device operating the garage door was forced humor. De Niro's brother's role was solely to interject some dim-witted comments.Bessie's comment about how privileged she had been to have loved so deeply stuck with me. I had never stopped to think of the delight in loving as something to be valued in itself, requited or not. "},{"Title":"A poignant, sentimental, and warmly humorous story about living","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Marvin's Room tells of two long estranged middle aged sisters; one who's spent 20 years caring for her bed-ridden father in Florida (Keaton) and the other, a hair stylist who's raised two boys in Ohio (Streep). When one is diagnosed with leukemia, the sisters reunite and begin long over due reconciliations. Marvin's Room is a warmly humorous film which tiptoes around the matter of cancer while telling a sentimental story of a dysfunctional family pulling together in a time of need. An enjoyable, middle-of-the-road dramady with an excellent cast and both Oscar and Globe nominated performances worth a look. (B) "},{"Title":"Further Proof Meryl Streep Is The Best...","Date":"24 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw this movie shortly after it came out back in '97 I think, and loved it! I just got out my DVD and watched again last night. You probably have seen this already, but if not, it's a real gem! Robert DeNiro produced this, and has a supporting role, but the two principle leads in this are the ladies- Diane Keaton and Meryl Streep. Streep plays the blue-collar mom to a pyromaniac son (Leonardo DiCaprio), who takes the family from their home in Ohio down to see their cancer-inflicted sister/aunt (Keaton), who needs a bone-marrow transplant, and one of her two sons may be a match. The late (I think- ??) Hume Cronyn plays her dying father- the titular character, who doesn't have much in the way of dialogue in the film due to him being pretty out of it. And that kid actor from The Indian in the Cupboard is the younger brother.What I remember about this movie most are so many little scenes here and there that just grab you and make you take a second look at life's little moments, and also continue to prove that Meryl Streep is the best there is- wow! The scene with the hair brush (if you've seen it already, you know what I'm talking about). On a side-note- you may recall this movie before it's release as the Disney World movie Meryl Streep, Diane Keaton and Leo DiCaprio were all filming, maybe due to it being a small film still within the Miramax division of the overall Disney conglomerate-?? "},{"Title":"If you ever wonder about life's priorities .. )","Date":"19 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie was a beautiful source of inspiration in my life. Whenever I'm confused with all the burdens, remembering this movie tells me what to do.The beauty of it is how it shows you the difference between wasting your life with someone, and offering your life to someone. There's a great difference which we tend to sometimes not pay attention to. Diane Keaton Bessie shines in one of the brightest scenes I have ever seen in my life, telling her sister how she loved offering her life to her sick father and aunt, and how true love takes different forms and comes in ways we never to expect. Meryl Streep Lee on the other hand, succeeds brilliantly in showing us that pursuing our idea of a full free life can be a waste of time, an illusion. Maybe the best things in life aren't about what we think we know. This piece of art is a gem for anyone who likes drama and is interested in learning a real lesson or whoever liked One True Thing and other wonderful movies which didn't get the recognition they deserved. The movie is very entertaining, provoking and beautiful although it gets sappy at some parts. An applause to real movies' makers. "}{"Title":"Better than i expected","Date":"24 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There is a movie channel at the cable in here, Turkey. They usually air boring movies. Today I was blue and had nothing to do. Opened this channel and realized this movie is starting in 5 minutes. I thought ehh another silly old TV movie but when saw Merly Streep and Di Caprio's name, thought that, how come I heart nothing about this movie. Started very good and I started to feel better. This is a warm movie and you can watch with your family. It's really hard to find this kind of sincere American movies nowadays. I loved and thought it ended very early, wish they made it a little longer but cool anyways. Director and everything is very good. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Honoring a vision","Date":"12 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Even more interesting than the film Marvin's Room is the short tragic life of its creator Scott McPherson. Four years after he died after just completing the screenplay adaption of the play this film was based on, Marvin's Room came to the screen. No doubt the director and cast felt a particular responsibility to honor his vision.Watching Marvin's Room I was reminded of South Riding a novel that has been adapted once to the big screen and twice as mini-series for British television. The author Winifred Holtby had a short life as did McPherson and wrote a novel based on her love of the Yorkshire area of England and the people she grew up among. Though her story is an epic and McPherson's a family portrait both represent a race against mortality that both authors endured to have their work live. I recommend the film South Riding very highly, it stars Ralph Richardson and Edna Best, see my review here.Although Diane Keaton was honored with a Best Actress Oscar nomination the whole ensemble could have been honored. She plays a woman who is the chief caregiver for her aged father Hume Cronyn. Keaton has been diagnosed with leukemia and is in need of a bone marrow transplant. Among likely donors are her sister Meryl Streep and Meryl's sons, Leonardo DiCaprio and Hal Scardino. DiCaprio is a kid with some issues, he was in a mental institution for burning down their house and Streep has to get him sprung for the trip.Nothing is ever resolved for any of these people, but they do come together kind of in this crisis. That's as far as I'll go.One performance that doesn't seem to be talked about much is that of Hal Scardino as the younger son. He reminded me a lot of my younger brother, the age spread between DiCaprio and him is about the same. My family had a lot of drama as well and my brother developed certain defense mechanisms of observing silently what went on around him without necessarily participating thereof. Marvin's Room is a great ensemble production and I certainly hope that Scott McPherson one of the innumerable talents lost to the AIDS epidemic is pleased with what was done with his creation. "},{"Title":"i liked it","Date":"25 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" i liked this drama starring Meryl Streep and Diane Keaton.the movie starts out as two seemingly separate stories,which end up connecting together under less than ideal circumstances.Leonardo DiCaprio also stars.the acting is good here,particularly from Streep,although Dianne Keaton is good too.DiCaprio(one year before he exploded into super stardom from Titanic)is good but his role is small.Robert De Niro has a role in what amounts to a bit more than a cameo appearance as does Dan Hedaya.you would think the movie would be depressing,but i didn't think it was.it is however,all about the drama,and so it's not fast moving,so that could be a put off for some.if you like dramatic movies,you might like this one.for me,Marvin's Room is a 7/10 "},{"Title":"Dysfunctional Family Matters Leavened with Unexpected Black Comedy in Well-Acted Sudser","Date":"24 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" How families fall apart and mend themselves is the point of this star-laden 1996 movie, but stage and TV director Jerry Zaks, screenwriter Scott McPherson, and a trio of fine performances transcend the formulaic aspects to come up with something more resonant. Based on a play by McPherson before he succumbed to AIDS, the semi-autobiographical plot focuses on two estranged, middle-aged sisters. In Florida, mousey spinster Bessie has spent twenty years as caretaker to their ailing father Marvin and their eccentric aunt Ruth. In Ohio, Lee escaped family responsibility to get married and raise two sons in Ohio only to see things fall apart. Lee is on the verge of turning her life around as a licensed cosmetologist when Bessie is diagnosed with leukemia and reaches out to Lee and her sons as potential bone-marrow transplant candidates.The rest of the movie is mainly about how the sisters cope with each other when they reunite and what they do to deal with the inevitable. Intriguingly, while the soap opera elements are strictly by-the-numbers, there is a persistent undercurrent of black comedy that effectively blunts the potential sentimentality of the piece. It also helps that Meryl Streep and Diane Keaton play the sisters. As the embittered, guilt-ridden Lee, Streep moves easily back into blue-collar, Silkwood territory, and she unapologetically shows the edginess and jealousy of her self-centered character. However, it's a vanity-free Keaton who really radiates as Bessie finding inner strength and contentment under increasingly dire circumstances. A year before Titanic, Leonardo di Caprio effectively plays the last of his juvenile hellions as Lee's oldest son Hank, a textbook example of teenaged, pyromaniac angst.The rest of the cast is fine in limited turns - Robert DeNiro (one of the producers as well) as the bumbling Dr. Wally; Dan Hedaya as his even more pixilated brother Bob; Gwen Verdon as wild-eyed, soap opera-obsessed Aunt Ruth; Hal Scardino as Hank's self-controlled little brother Charlie; and Hume Cronyn, who is forced to play Marvin with severely limited expression. There are predictable moments throughout, but some surprise and a few actually enthrall, including a seriocomic scene of quiet reconciliation when Bessie recalls the drowning death of her open-mouthed carny boyfriend. There are no extras with the 1999 DVD release. "},{"Title":"Very quality story and acting, but overshadowed by movies with better film value","Date":"24 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Marvin's Room is undoubtedly a solid film that slipped through the cracks during the slough of great films of the mid 90s, getting overlooked in 1996 by Fargo and The English Patient among a few others. It's sole recognition was an academy award nomination for best actress for Diane Keaton.Keaton stars as Bessie, a middle-aged woman who has spent her entire life taking care of her father Marvin and Aunt Ruth who both are not mentally sound, who has discovered she has leukemia. Her doctor, played by Robert DeNiro, informs her that her only chance of survival is if she can convince her sister (Meryl Streep) who she has not spoken to in 20 years or nephews Hank (Leonardo DiCaprio) and Charlie who she has never met. The drama that ensues is all built around the family tension, as Streep's character Lee has not spoken with Bessie because she refused to help take care of their father.Keaton and Streep both deliver fantastic performances, and we even get a taste of pre-Titanic DiCaprio. The performances make the movie, which is simply the play put on the silver screen, which comes as no surprise when the playwright, Scott McPherson, is also responsible for the screenplay. Keaton's honesty and innocence due to her living her life as her father's aid are incredibly apparent in everything she does, and Streep clearly lets Lee's roller-coaster ride of different emotions become apparent at every stop.The film's weaknesses lie mostly in the deeper thematic areas. The symbolism felt much more appropriate for the stage, where from a film perspective there was nothing very active about the plot aside from a few moments. Most of it is dialogue and hitting on themes through character interaction, which is vital in the theatre, but not as effective in film. So, those that love the theatre will find Marvin's Room very good for those reasons, but those who have a deeper love of film will find something missing from this story despite the stellar acting and touching story. "},{"Title":"It never gets too sappy or overdone.","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This drama was a surprising good one. The story might sound over-dramatic and sappy but the execution of it all is surprising good. The director chooses an approach with lots of humor present. It makes Marvin's Room a well balanced drama that despite its heavy subject never feels overdone- or gets too heavy to watch.It's sort of too bad that this movie is always sort of regarded to as a Leonardo DiCaprio-flick. Its a movie from the period when he wasn't a well known male Hollywood lead yet. The mainstream audience had yet to discover him, which they did a year later with Titanic, while certain smaller groups of movie viewers already discovered this great young talent in movies such as What's Eating Gilbert Grape, The Quick and the Dead and Romeo + Juliet. This movie however deserves so much more than just being regarded as as a Leonardo DiCaprio-flick. I'm sure of the fact that this movie is regarded as such, scares lots of people of from watching this movie (mainly Titanic haters). Yes, Leonardo DiCaprio is in the movie but no he doesn't play the main lead, or a pretty boy, which he more often did in his later movies, which are the reason why he also has so many haters all over the world. So really, if you're not a fan of DiCaprio's later movies (after 1997) you'll most likely still enjoy this movie. So please, just give this movie a chance, it's certainly worth it.I was not sure what to expect from this movie. The story sounded over-dramatic. It's the sort of story were one problem is not enough. Basically every characters has several problems and issues. A movie like this can easily go over-the-top or it can get too sappy and overdone. I'm glad to say that the movie however surprised me and surpassed my expectations. Because of the fact that the movie is told with quite some humor, it doesn't make the movie an heavy one. Sure, there are plenty of dramatic scene's still present in the movie but it all is extremely well balanced all. It never gets too heavy but it also never gets too humorous either. It makes both the drama and the humor work out really well in the movie.It also certainly helps the movie that there are lots of stars present in it. They make the characters and events feel more likely and realistic. Meryl Streep is perhaps one of the best actresses of all time, although this role is certainly not her best one but I think that says more about Streep herself rather than her performance in this movie. Of course Diane Keaton is no light-weight either. She delivers a powerful performance. Also Leonardo DiCaprio shows that he is more than just a pretty face. A smaller role is there for Robert De Niro. It's the sort of role basically everyone could play and it doesn't make a very big or lasting impression, so don't expect much of him when watching this movie. The only reason why he plays a small role in this movie is because he also was one of the producers for this movie. But if you take away all those great actors, would this still had been such a good movie to watch? I don't think so. At certain moments while watching this movie I even wondered why all those famous actors ever agreed to be in this movie. I think that the movie had some great casting persons and some powerful, influential producers. It probably also had to do with the director Jerry Zaks who was a very successful award winning Broadway director prior to this movie. (Perhaps he also had already worked with some of the stars out of this movie?) But really, the story on its own is not good or powerful enough to carry the entire movie or make it an incredible interesting or emotional powerful one. So on its own, the movie is a pretty empty and formulaic one but it is made interesting, good and powerful thanks to the wonderful cast and refreshing directing and approach by Jerry Zaks.Of course this movie is mainly for the lovers of drama movies but everyone should be able to appreciate and enjoy this movie thanks to its approach of the heavy themes and the professional cast playing the characters.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Way more enjoyable than you'd think.","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a surprising movie. Considering the subject matter - sickness, old age and mental illness - the film turns out to be very funny and warm. This is due to no small measure by the excellent performances of some of the best actors in Hollywood. Hume Cronyn, whom we've come to expect only good things from, is effective and moving without saying one intelligible thing! Leonardo DiCaprio is perfect as the disaffected son. But the strong, convincing work by Meryl Streep and Diane Keaton as long-estranged sisters carries the movie along. Two more treats are the performances of Robert De Niro as a befuddled doctor and Gwen Verdon as a slightly-off-center aunt.  "},{"Title":"Marvin's Room (1996)","Date":"9 March 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If you're an avid film-goer, you're bound to reach a certain point where you've seen just about all there is to see and -- upon viewing an ad for or reading the synopsis of a movie -- you can nail just about anything into a specific category for example, if you were to see a preview for Marvin's Room, you'd probably file it under woman-dying-of-cancer, family-reunion-ensues. But this only makes it increasingly pleasing when a film you'd conceive to be just another genre movie ends up moving you in totally unexpected ways -- as was the case with this small gem of a film. Marvin's Room follows two sisters leading very different lives Bessie (Diane Keaton) is living in Florida and watching over her dying father (Hume Cronyn) and soap-opera-watching aunt (Gwen Verdon), while Lee (Meryl Streep) is taking care of her two fatherless children, Hank (Leonardo DiCaprio) and Charlie (Hal Scardino), in Ohio -- as far away from home as she can manage. They may seem like the atypical loyal and rebellious siblings -- and maybe they are -- but they are portrayed with such sincerity and humanity that we hardly even consider their cliched nature. Following a blood test for what she thought was nothing more than a vitamin deficiency, Bessie discovers she has leukemia, but she may have a chance of survival if she can locate a match for her bone marrow. So in enters the other side of the family Lee (whose house was burned down by Charlie -- now in a mental institution) drags her kids to Florida in hopes that one of them will be able to save Bessie's life. Marvin's Room is a delicate balance of two genres that -- while often attempted to be combined -- rarely work together (those genres being comedy and drama, or dramedy as they have been so aptly labeled). But director Jerry Zaks (whose only previous experience was in TV sitcoms) somehow makes it all work, and he infuses just enough originality to allow it to stand apart from everything similar to it. And what it lacks in originality, it makes up for in performances Streep is known for giving hell-bent-for-awards performances, but that doesn't diminish just how good of an actress she really is. DiCaprio is obviously trying to fight against his pretty-boy reputation (see also What's Eating Gilbert Grape and Total Eclipse), and while he might try a little too hard at times, he's still one of the most promising young actors out there. Which brings us to Keaton, the most naturally likable, unconventionally beautiful, and emotionally charged actress to ever grace the screen if this role had been given to anyone but her, the film would have fallen apart. Scott McPherson's script (adapted from his stage play) may not be the most unique piece ever written, but it's certainly heartfelt and genuine. It also features the best driving-on-the-beach sequence since Terms of Endearment (which was obviously a big influence on this picture). Add cameo appearances by Robert DeNiro and Dan Hedaya -- along with an original theme written and performed by Carly Simon -- and you have a spectacular family ensemble drama that's bound to please. Marvin's Room is far from perfect, but that's part of its charm it never tries to present itself as anything other than what it is -- a flawed portrait of flawed characters trying to cope with life. Complain about its triteness all you want, but if you aren't moved at all by the end of the movie, you must have no heart.Grade A- "},{"Title":"This family put the dys into dysfunctional.","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is really the little movie that could.  It is a very good film that likely got made only because Robert DeNiro co-produced it and thus had the clout to raise financing.  With a script at different turns funny and wrenching and an exceptional cast that by and large does a great job playing a family that occasionally makes the Addams family look mundane, particularly Diane Keaton and Leonardo DiCaprio.  Am I the only one who's noticed that DiCaprio does his best performances in little films (read small-budget) that make up for limitations by, wonder of wonders, good scripts and perhaps more challenging roles.  He can act; all too often he doesn't seem to want to from his selection of parts.  Yes, I am talking about Titanic.  Good movie, even if it isn't going to save the ozone layer or bring about world peace.  It is an entertaining way to pass not quite two hours and it does have Hume Cronyn, whom I'd gladly have watched reading a newspaper and drinking coffee, he was so good.  Well worth seeing.  Recommended.      "},{"Title":"Meryl Streep does it again","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Meryl Streep has unparalleled talent. (and no, I don't mean just her much joked-about ability with accents) She constantly takes less than sympathetic parts and gives them a luster few others can, e.g. The French Lieutenant's Woman, A Cry in the Dark, Kramer vs. Kramer. Her performance in Marvin's Room is another tour de force. Diane Keaton is also marvelous, and DiCaprio is at least playing a character he looks old enough for.  "}{"Title":"Very Good Representation McPherson's Vision","Date":"1 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I was recently in a production of the stage production of Marvin's Room (yes, there was a play. It came before the movie). I was cast as Hank. I found it a challenging role to portray, but I feel I came out in the end with a good representation. I'll be the first to tell you - I don't have the stunning looks of Leo, but the looks are just a superfluous bonus. Anyway, back onto my comments. I think the movie really captured the deep meaning of the play. The connections family makes, and how such great distances can be crossed emotionally by showing love for someone. I really enjoyed watching the movie, it brought back all the memories of the experience in acting this show.Bravo to them all! "},{"Title":"A good feel good drama with great performances from the cast","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Marvin's Room was a surprising film full of humour, sadness and an excellent cast.Although the story may be limited and slightly predictable the director manages to create the relationship between the characters so well that you are immediately drawn into it forgetting the over the top soppiness. The ending also was an anti-climax however the cast's performances manages to make up for these imperfections. Leonardo DiCaprio makes up for his performances in films such as Titanic with a great performance as the angry son who is in a mental institution, Robert De Niro plays the part of the incompetent doctor to perfection (a change from his gangster-like characters) Meryl Streep also redeems herself as a talented actress with her performance as the inadequate mother who finds it hard to look after her children and Diane Keaton also makes a stunning performance.Overall a great film well worth seeing even if its only for the cast.4/5   "},{"Title":"The deep parts of the movies...could be considered spoiler.","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I found that the Lee/Bessie/Marvin situation paralleled the Bob/Doctor situation.  You have family, you know they can't go anywhere else so you felt compelled to help them.  I was told that the point of this is 'Family Matters Most', but I personally disagree.  I see this as being humans having a natural instinct to want to help people and share in their pain no matter how much they think they don't (i.e. Hank changing.)  I also liked it how it showed you someone can be COMPLETELY different around two different people (i.e. Hank/Bessie.) I usually never cry in movies...but this got my eyes stinging. "},{"Title":"How'd This One Sneak By?","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I rented this movie without knowing a thing about it.  Now I'm wondering why this movie snuck by me until now.  An excellent storyline, Keaton is at her best, DiCaprio was wonderful in his role as the lonely teenager, Gwen Verdon was a hoot, and Streep did a great job in a part unlike most of her others.  The relationship between Keaton and DiCaprio was the best part of the movie - well-developed, and nary a false note.  All families have relationships within them that have developed for various reasons but this family I ended up caring about.  This was a wonderful movie - rent it, you won't be sorry. "},{"Title":"This is a truly touching film!","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is a very realistic film.  Every character in this film is very realistic and memorable.  Young Leonardo Dicaprio is excellent as is everyone else's acting in this film.  Everyone in this movie acted beautifully.  This is a film that is truly touching and that can't be forgotten! "},{"Title":"a moving story","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Marvins Room was a moving story. It was one of the most wonderfully acted out films I've ever seen, it wasn't made out to be glamorous but realistic. Although it was a drama, I thought there was a lot of humour in it, to lighten it up.  "},{"Title":"Excellent Film","Date":"23 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Marvin's Room is a rare and powerful film thanks to a great screenplay and wonderful character development. It is also an acting masterpiece, as all of the actors involved embody their characters flawlessly through what must be a clear understanding their state of mind. Streep is superb as Lee, Keaton is luminous as Bessie, Verdon is perfect as Ruth, and De Niro is a treat to watch as Bessie's dysfunctional doctor. Young DiCaprio shines brightly among his renowned co-stars, offering an intelligent and transparent performance that lets us see Hank's reality in his eyes (a remarkable accomplishment, considering the  character's potential for a superficial and stereotypical portrayal). Again, everyone involved is excellent, lending depth and humanity to their characters. And as if that was not enough to make Marvin's Room an excellent film, the story's ending was perfect, refusing to surrender to simplistic Hollywood standards. "},{"Title":"Superb and heartwarming","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie has laughs and cries all rolled into one.  Filled with Oscar winning and nominated actors that prove they have talent.  Robert DeNiro is wonderful as actor and producer.  Meryl Streep gives a wonderful performance as the rebel daughter that ran away from home and is forced to go back to help her sister played by Diane Keaton.  Of course Diane Keaton was nominated for an Oscar in this role and it was a very deserving nomination. Leonardo DiCaprio proves that he is a man of many talents and not just another heart-throb that comes rolling out every couple of years.  He'll be around for a while.  The story had many funny times and many sad times it was filled with a roller coaster of emotions.  I loved this movie and any one whose family has been affected by cancer can relate to what it is saying. "},{"Title":"one of the best films of the 90s","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I adore this film.  Streep and especially Keaton are amazing, even though it took a few viewings for me to like Lee.  My favorite scene is when Bessie talks about losing the love of her life, the carny, and just the matter-of-fact way she says And he didn't come up...just breaks my heart. the thing that strikes me most about this movie is the way it ends...so many Hollywood cliches could've been played out (Marvin or Bessie dies, Hank wants to stay with Bessie, Ruth falls ill) but they just ended it without any conclusions.  How long did Bessie survive?  We will never know, and that's perfectly alright.  A beautiful, touching film. "},{"Title":"great performances","Date":"3 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Though I normally don't like Leonardo DiCaprio I must admit that he is  amazing in this part. I also thought that the rest of the characters gave  a moving and honest performance.  "}{"Title":"Loved this one!!","Date":"12 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I absolutely loved this movie. But than again, Keaton and Streep are always great. This movie truly moved me because of the fine acting and the sad but touching atmosphere. A true must-see. Especially the end was very, very depressing. And of course, it's an absolute tearjerker. But one with class, that's for sure!  "},{"Title":"Had me in tears","Date":"26 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Marvin's room is by far one of the greatest tearjerkers of all time. I basically cried through the entire thing. Fantastic performances from all the actors, including Leonardo DiCaprio who I despised in every movie of his I'd seen (take into consideration I have yet to see What's Eating Gilbert Grape, which I hear is also fantastic). Meryl Streep blew me away as she always does, but this movie gets a no-doubt-about-it 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A beautifully crafted mosaic about angst and repression.","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Marvin's Room (adapted by Scott McPherson, from his play) is the story of two sisters, Lee (Academy Award-winner Meryl Streep) and Bessie (Academy Award-winner Diane Keaton) who have not spoken to each other in years.  Bessie has spent her life in Florida caring for her ailing father, Marvin (played by Academy Award-nominee Hume Cronyn) and her Aunt Ruth (Gwen Verdon).  Lee, a beautician who lives in Ohio, loses her home when her eldest son Hank (Academy Award-nominee Leonardo DiCaprio) sets it on fire in a fit of rage.  When Bessie discovers she has leukemia, Lee and her sons pack up and head to Florida, where inevitably, old wounds are reopened.  A surprisingly low-key film, generated by the emotionally-wrought performances of its stars (and an interesting cameo by Robert De Niro as Dr. Wally) gives us a simple tale about love, pain and forgiveness.  A triumph! "},{"Title":"short but sweet","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I really wasn't sure what to expect out of this film as I sat down to watch it. The only real reason I was watching it was that it starred a certain somebody (Leo). However, I was very pleasantly surprised. It was both sad and amusing, and overall very entertaining. The cast all gave very good performances, and the storyline was short but sweet. Teenage girls like myself will enjoy it, and I think it is very much a girly movie. My mum and grandma both liked it, but I don't know what men would think of it. It's worth watching, but don't expect too much from it. "},{"Title":"Sad, touching, and very funny. But still not the greatest.","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was in the mood to watch ONE TRUE THING yesterday, but I couldn't find it, so I had to settle for MARVIN'S ROOM, which sounded very similar. I was very impressed with the performances from Meryl Streep, and even pretty boy Leonardo DiCaprio. I didn't think the Academy Award nominated Diane Keaton was anything to brag about, but she was still good.The film had a good sense of humor and I would recommend this film along with the other dysfunctional-family satires PASSED AWAY and THE ROYAL TENENBAUMS, that are very good and similar in the sense of all being comedy-dramas about family.I always discarded this film as being nothing good, but it was still very entertaining. I recommend this to anyone with a sharp sense of humor and who likes to see family related comedy-dramas.MARVIN'S ROOM gets 4/5. "},{"Title":"All great performances except for one","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  And unfortunately that was one of the stars, Diane Keaton.  This was my second viewing of this movie and my opinion has not changed. I found her interpretation of Bessie to be all teeth, in fact, I became nearly obsessed by how much she showed those teeth and I found her irritating even in her inter-reactions with her father using a mirror. Something I took to be uneven about her feelings towards him as well, at the beginning of the movie when she says she had been twenty years watching him die, I took her interpretation to have a resentful tone, but at the end she says it was a privilege to have loved him so much which left me doubting my first impression which I replayed and sure enough, she does sound unhappy with him.  H'mmmm. I loved the rest of the cast, Gwen is a little over the top but Meryl makes the most of her part and gets some wonderful nuances out of her performance. Hume plays the tiny part of Marvin well. I would have run screaming from the doctor's office of Robert De Niro, the guy did not sound competent enough to deal with a hang nail, never mind cancer. the guy who plays his brother is excellent as is Leonardo Di Caprio in a challenging role. 7 out of 10 with a great ending. "},{"Title":"Modest drama with more than modest cast","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Marvin's room is quite an excellent movie for people who are willing  to see a good, simple, touching and quiet little drama with marvelous acting. Meryl Streep and Diane Keaton are both giving their best. Their outstanding performances as Lee and Bessie - sisters with some friction between them - are clearly the salt of the film. Leonardo DiCaprio's older movies (ones he made after his superstardom Titanic finally gave him) like This boy's life (1993), What's eating Gilbert Grape (1993) and The Basketball diaries (1995) proofed that he's really an excellent young actor - full of uncontested talents if he's in the right film to use 'em. In Marvin's room he is splendid as Lee's son Hank. Still, best performance comes from an old legend in a great supporting role as Dr. Wally. During his long and brilliant career Robert De Niro has played almost anything from gangsters and psychopaths to the creature of Frankenstein. It's still enjoyable to see him in a completely nice, warm and friendly role - he handles it just as well. Not a masterpiece but very interesting, human and impressive film - I'm gonna have to recommend it. I'm looking forward to get some more motion pictures from Broadway-director Jerry Zaks. "},{"Title":"Over-all I liked it!","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I watched this film last night (20th Nov) on S4C a local welsh channel & it's been a long time since I've been on the IMDB (Just started a film studies course) so I here's my thoughtsThe film was interesting. It seemed to me, very arty & adult family orientated and I've seen other film just like this The Straight Story is one that comes to mind, and in fact I think the straight story is pure genius. However this film had an incredible depth of emotion.The only flaw in the film is the ending. This film doesn't really have one.I definitely recommend it. Just don't expect anything too flashy.  "},{"Title":"A Small Gem of a Movie","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Initially performed off Broadway in 1991, Marvin's Room was written by a man by the name of Scott McPherson. At the time, he, his lover, and a number of their friends were suffering from the effects of AIDS. We all take care of each other, McPherson wrote in the play's program, the less sick caring for the most sick. But at times, an unbelievably harsh fate can be transcended by a simple act of love. Marvin's Room, is about just this. By no means is it a story about cancer or terminal illness. Instead, it leaves all television disease of the week cliches at the door, and stands as a gut wrenching testament to the healing power of love. Eloquently brought to screen in this handsome production, Marvin's Room loses none of its beauty in its transition to film. The performances are excellent across the board with Meryl Streep, and Diane Keaton shining in their roles, and Gwen Verdon and Leonardo DiCaprio giving equally fine work. Veteran stage director Jerry Zaks does an excellent job with his material as the picture is filled with several moving images and moments. It is hard to forget the scene in which Lee is pictured cutting her older sister's wig, or when Hank is finally shown reaching out toward his aunt. But of all the film's many well executed moments, nothing can match the story's touching and emotional ending for its shear impact and genuine humanity. Watching this film is pure cinematic joy. There are moments of pure hilarity, and scenes so moving that the viewer's heart almost stops. There is no bathos, or sentiment in this movie. Just simple and honest feeling and emotion. "},{"Title":"Streep disappointing, but rest of film good","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I am a huge fan of Meryl Streep.  I think she's one of the best actresses working today, and while others grouse at the nominations she gets, most of them, in fact almost all of them, have been for outstanding performances; maybe not one of the top five of the year, but definitely up there. Therefore, I was surprised at how ineffective I found her in this film.  I didn't see the original play, but I did read it, and writer Scott McPherson brings to her character a great understanding, so while we may not condone her actions, we can empathize with them.  But until the end, I felt little of that empathy for her character; I felt she was a spoiled brat.Nevertheless, I do think this is a film worth watching, primarily for the performances of Leonardo DiCaprio and Diane Keaton.  Anyone who thinks DiCaprio is just a pretty boy should watch this film, for it shows real acting talent.  Keaton usually doesn't work for me when she's not opposite Woody Allen, but she's quite restrained here, and doesn't play for easy pathos.  Those two, and the writing, carry the movie. "}{"Title":"Come on in.","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I've come back to this film several times now, and like it more each time. The entire cast shines, the writing is exquisite, and the direction warm and gentle.  A small, totally overlooked gem.  "},{"Title":"Touching and wonderful!","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I am a big fan of Leonardo DiCaprio's acting being a young male actor myself. I couldn't believe what a wonderful movie Marvin's Room was. It touched so many parts of my heart and spirit. Anyine who has a family can relate to some part of this movie. All of the actors were spectacular. I feel it was majorly over-looked by the academy! I have never been more touched by a film. Each line had such meaning and symbolism. There are life lessons and self discovery to be learned from this Film! I love it and it wasdefiantely one of my favorite movies Ever! "},{"Title":"Keaton's Best...","Date":"31 July 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I want to highly recommend this movie as it contains a terrific performance  from Diane Keaton.  I normally think she's always the same in every movie  (like Jodie Foster and Gene Hackman), but in this movie she really created a  character.  The movie is very moving, a little stagey, and Streep and Leo are  great, too. Leo and Gwen Verdon should have been Oscar-nominated, as Keaton  was. There are many beautiful moments in this movie, none better than Keaton &  Streep on the kitchen floor near the end.   "},{"Title":"Was an awesome movie with great actors!!!","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Marvin's Room is an awesome movie!! This is one of Leonardo DiCaprios movies where is just touches your heart. All of the acting is great! Meryl Streep and Diane Keaton were good together. I was surprised because Robert DiNiro was in it but didn't have a big part. I didn't get why the people thought that Hank(Leo DiCaprio) was a threat. I think nobody was willing to give him another chance. You'll have to watch it to find out what I mean by watching it. The movie was nicely laid out with the plot line. It had its sad moments. It had a lot of drama in it too. I wonder how old leo was in it. Diane Keaton never ages even in her most recent movies. "},{"Title":"All-star cast in emotional drama","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" MARVIN'S ROOM Aspect ratio 1.851Sound formats Dolby Digital / SDDSJerry Zaks' dry, unobtrusive direction threatens to derail this soapy drama about estranged sisters (Meryl Streep and Diane Keaton) who are reunited when one of them (Keaton) develops leukaemia. However, Zaks keeps things moving at a sprightly pace, and he's well-served by an all-star cast (including Leonardo di Caprio as Streep's rebellious teenage son, and Robert De Niro in a significant cameo as the doctor who diagnoses Keaton's condition). Of them all, however, Gwen Verdon steals the show as a slightly dotty aunt who utters the film's best line (Which one of you handsome boys is in a mental institution?). Overall, the characters ring true and their conflicts have an authentic emotional charge, but the film never reaches boiling point and ends ambiguously, with the situation only partially resolved. Fine score by Rachel Portman. "},{"Title":"Sloppily-constructed sentiment...","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Neurotic, selfish chain-smoker Meryl Streep goes to visit estranged sister Diane Keaton--currently the caretaker of their dying father--and all their old grudges come to the fore. Comedy-drama about sad sacks leans heavily on its sentimental trappings, with each character learning a thing or two about 'the bonds of family'. Despite the fact she obviously doesn't smoke, Meryl Streep is very amusing; Robert De Niro has an incredibly benign role as a befuddled doctor; Diane Keaton is convincing as a smudgy drudge who stops fussing every now and then to beam with life; Leonardo DiCaprio is good as a sullen teenager (who also gets an education); but Hume Cronyn has an insulting role as a stroke-victim (a gratuitously-injected character who seems an after-thought of the screenwriter). This is the kind of toothache-tearjerker that hasn't gone away since the 1930s; sloppy, simplistic, it nevertheless has its strengths, not the least of which is a truly talented cast. Not a bad film, just a routine one. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"This film is one of the most i have ever seen!","Date":"25 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is one of the most touching film ever and I thought it was a brilliant film. It's basically about two sister who have never spoken to each over for 20 years. Bessie is played by Diane Keaton who looks after her illed dad and her aunt and is diagnosed with cancer and needs a bone marrow. While the other sister who's called Lee played by Meryl Streep who lives with her two son. The oldest is called Hank who's played by Leonardo DiCaprio and the youngest is called Charlie played by Hal Scardino. Bessie need some one to donate a bone marrow out of her family and decide to call Lee and asks her to help her. While Lee son burns the house where his mum and brother live he is taken to the mental hospital where his mother Lee visits him and takes him with her to visit his aunt Bessie. When Lee arrives with her two sons Hank and Charlie, Bessie feels like she has missed ever having children but bonds well with her nephew Hank but Lee notices how they bond together like mother and son and feel a bit jealous. But when they go to the hospital so they can get checked to see if they can save Bessie there we start to think who will save her or will she die..... "},{"Title":"Streep's Room.","Date":"23 March 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Marvin's Room (1996) Dir Jerry Zaks / Cast Meryl Streep, Diane Keaton, Leonardo DiCaprio, Robert De Niro, Hume Cronyn Convicting drama about priorities that end in Marvin's room where love, unity and memories survive. Two sisters come together after seventeen years due too a health problem. Marvin is their father and he is under care by one of them. She is threatened with leukemia and is asked that her sister and two sons be tested for a cure. Her sister is about to earn a scholarship but her son interrupts things by burning the house down. He is institutionalized and released only to help the aunt he has never met. It is clear that he has differences with his mother but his aunt manages to form a connection. Outcome is predictable and flawed with its outlook on death. Directed by Jerry Zaks with an issues many households are affected by. Strong performances by Meryl Streep and Diane Keaton as the sisters. Streep is under pressure due too interrupted plans, and Keaton wishes for life and reconnection. DiCaprio steals scenes as Streep's son whose turnover is no surprise. Robert De Niro adds humour as the doctor who gives sound advice with the wink of an eye. Hume Cronyn plays Marvin who says nothing but much goes on within the confines of his bedroom. Strong theme of supporting others that stops dead at death instead of moving on. Score 8 / 10 "},{"Title":"great cast","Date":"18 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Bessie Wakefield (Diane Keaton) takes care of her father Marvin (Hume Cronyn) and her aunt Ruth (Gwen Verdon). Marvin has been bed-ridden since a stroke 17 years earlier. Lee Wakefield Lacker (Meryl Streep) is Bessie's estrange sister. She's a single mom to Charlie and angry Hank (Leonardo DiCaprio) who set fire to the house. Hank gets sent to the mental ward. Dr. Carter (Robert De Niro) diagnoses Bessie with leukemia and she needs a bone marrow transplant. She contacts Lee. Lee takes Hank out of the hospital to go get themselves tested but neither of the boys even know they have an aunt.This is a powerhouse cast and they deliver great performances. Gwen Verdon is hilarious. Keaton and Streep act the living stuffing out of their relationship. DiCaprio is excellent. Director Jerry Zaks is probably the weak spot. The directions are functional but it lacks a certain panache. Nevertheless there is no denying the first rate acting. "},{"Title":"The two sisters who should have had each-other's children.","Date":"23 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Even though it is almost 20 years old I only managed to see this movie now. It is mainly notable for DiCaprio's performance as a troubled teen right about the time he was in 'Romeo + Juliet', a movie I didn't care for, and about a year before 'Titanic' a movie I like very much.Meryl Streep is Lee, a hair dresser and not a very caring mother. She has two sons, Leonardo DiCaprio as 18-yr-old Hank and his younger brother Charlie. It is clear early that Hank does not like his mother and misses his dad. To the point that he takes a box of photos, dumps them on the upstairs bedroom floor, douses the pile with lighter fluid, and burns the pile.Unfortunately the whole house burns down so Hank ends up in a mental hospital to deal with his anger and poor decision-making.The movie's primary story really gets going when Lee's sister down in Florida, Diane Keaton as Bessie, lets her know that she was diagnosed with a form of leukemia and her only hope might be to get a marrow transplant from a suitable, compatible family member. So Lee, Hank, and Charlie make a road trip.The dad of the two sisters is Marvin, he is very sick and barely lucid, Bessie is his caregiver. He has his room he mostly stays in Marvin's Room, which seems a rather arbitrary title to choose.The story is about family dynamics, including Hank's anger, Aunt Bessie seems to understand him and deals with him in a productive manner, something Lee can't quite seem to grasp. Bessie has no regrets, there has been so much love in her live. When Lee agrees that people loves her she corrects that, it is the love Bessie has been able to give to others, something Lee had never understood before.Good, interesting movie but not great nor memorable.Robert De Niro has a nice supporting role as Bessie's physician, Dr. Wally. Old veteran Hume Cronyn, just a few years before he died, is Marvin. "}{"Title":"Battle of the Oscar Winners.","Date":"25 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There is going to be subtle debate for years as to which leading lady steals this film-Golden Globe Nominee Meryl Streep or Oscar Nominee Diane Keaton, playing unlikely sisters reunited after a long estrangement when Keaton discovers that she has leukemia and may need bone marrow. Streep vanished years before in order to prevent herself from being trapped by taking care of their ailing dad (Hume Cronyn), now bedridden, and suffering from all sorts of malady's including obvious dementia. All he does is groan and mumble, making this a very difficult role to watch the beloved Broadway veteran play.Cronyn's Cocoon co-star, Broadway musical diva Gwen Verdon, steals every moment in which she is on screen as his equally ailing sister who has a mechanism implanted in her hip which causes the garage door to either open or close every time she twists it. She's a soap addict who wears a fur and tiara to the wedding of her two favorite characters, played by All My Children's Kelly Ripa and John Callahan. Ironically, All My Children was the only soap on which Verdon ever appeared. Streep's youngest kid, a bespeckled geek, shows an eerie talent for applying make-up as he prepares Verdon for the wedding with subtle hints of what he will grow up to be.The oldest son, Leonardo DiCaprio, obviously despises his mother, and probably for good reason. Streep plays one of her most unsympathetic characters, and at times, doesn't fully seem comfortable playing this role. Even though she's a cosmetology student and very capable as to what she does, she's far too messed up emotionally to always look so physically well put together. Of course, the character is hiding behind a facade of bitterness, so as Streep pulls away these layers, the character becomes a bit more tolerable even though she's often inconsistent.Getting away from the La Dee Da attitudes she's inhibited in most of the roles she's played since Annie Hall, Diane Keaton for me make the film pull out its heart. She has given up her own life and romantic possibilities in order to take care of the pathetic Cronyn (who by the way they talk about him should have died years ago) and the dizzy Verdon, and it is obvious from the time she meets the troubled pyromaniac DiCaprio she wants to make up for lost time in getting to know her nephew. When he angrily smacks her hand away from his face during a light caress, you can see her invisible tears flowing, and it is heartbreaking. However, joy takes over when they bond with a wild ride on the beach, and even the lost child DiCaprio plays seems to return to humanity as his heart opens to the aunt he hadn't met until recently.DiCaprio is a tough nut to crack here, showing an iron shield for long periods of time interrupted by the bleeding little boy inside, not understanding the resentments of his maternal family and aching for his unseen father, a race car driver who abandoned his mother years before. So while this is a very tough film to like, especially when it interrupts the family drama with the presence of the befuddled doctor played by Robert DeNiro, and his idiotic brother (Dan Heydara) who works as his receptionist (after the regular receptionists resigns simply by typing a note which says I Quit!), there's some truth in its dissection of the fall of families over the past few decades and how dysfunctions of earlier generations can carry on to the next. "},{"Title":"Superb cast, great acting","Date":"12 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I loved the aunt in this movie-the old lady.  In my book, she was superb! Leonardo was fine as the good kid with the tough exterior, perfect for the role. What can I say about Diane and Meryl??? They were great, as usual.  What would one expect? This film should make anyone who is out of touch with their family, immediately pick up the phone. "},{"Title":"streep captured the essence of her role perfectly, as did keaton and dicaprio. i really liked this movie, and saw it for the first time on 'starz' today.","Date":"8 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  i saw this movie on 'starz' for the first time today. it was kind of soapy and depressing, but streep was excellent in her role, as were keaton and dicaprio. diniro didn't have too much to do, but he played it well. i liked it a lot....... "},{"Title":"Like watching a train wreck...or the winners of the Most Awful Family of 1996 award!","Date":"16 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If you are looking for a feel-good film or something nice, do NOT watch Marvin's Room. It's incredibly depressing and awful--sort of like watching the life of Job as every possible awful thing happens to poor, sweet Bessie in the picture. It's so bad that at times I felt like cringing as I watched the film.Here's the low-down in this god-awful film. Bessie (Diane Keaton) is the sole caretaker for her father, Marvin (Hume Cronyn), who has been bedridden, brain damaged and unable to talk after a stroke which occurred many, many years ago. Bessie is also the caretaker for her mentally ill and wacky Aunt Ruth (Gwen Verdon). Bessie is a selfless and nice person but she has no life apart from these two. Now, she's just learned that she has Leukemia and may die unless she gets a bone marrow transplant.Bessie's sister, Lee (Meryl Streep) is a selfish train wreck. She's clueless, self-absorbed and a horrible person. She never offered Bessie any help in caring for these sick people and they haven't spoken in nearly two decades--and expecting any change in this is very unrealistic. Not surprisingly, her oldest son, Hank (Leonardo DiCaprio) is seriously disturbed...however, he's SO disturbed that when the film begins, he deliberately burns their house to the ground. As a result, he's committed to a mental institution. There is a much younger son- -an oblivious lost soul.It turns out that there's trouble finding a bone marrow match for Bessie and she has to rely on her sister and her family. Lee takes Hank out of the mental hospital to which he's been committed in order to take him cross country to see if he is a match. She DOESN'T tell Hank this and based on Hank's seriously disturbed and crazy behaviors, it sure ain't likely that he'll agree when he finds out the truth. Now, this incredibly sick group of weirdos are all brought into the same home and the viewer is wondering what the heck sort of awfulness will happen next.The acting is fine in this film. In addition to the folks I mentioned, Robert De Niro is also in the film...but with all the craziness he does get a bit lost. That's because the script is just too much--too much craziness and the ending is WAY too much because it makes little sense. It is also so painful to watch and if you come from a rather dysfunctional background, it might really scare you away or remind you of your own issues (for good or bad..but probably bad). And, many of us watch movies to escape--not to feel unpleasant. I myself used to be a family and individual therapist--and the film just reminded me of the worst of the clients I worked with...and that wasn't altogether welcome. Plus how satisfying can it be to sit and watch this long train wreck?! And realistic can an ending be where, miraculously, the problems seemingly just vanish?!Hard to watch, hard to love. I can see why this wasn't a big money- maker when it debuted. "},{"Title":"Robert DeNiro was funny!","Date":"7 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  For fans of DeNiro who have never seen him in a comedy, you should rent this !  He's got some very funny moments, tho' the overall mood of this film is  pretty sad.  Streep, Keaton, and DiCaprio are all terrific as well.  "},{"Title":"Not yet another TV-movie about a sad subject","Date":"21 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Normally I'm not a fan of this kind of movies, because most of the time this isn't more but a shallow tear-jerker that hasn't much more to offer but some cheap sentiment and a bad storyline. But I've got to be honest, sometimes I'm wrong. The movie isn't actually that bad at all.It tells the story of a family that has been ripped apart after a feud many years ago. One sister, who now has leukemia, has stayed with her bedridden father since his first stroke 17 years earlier. The other one moved to another state and has never visited her family ever again, partly because she already had enough problems of her own, but also because she's a bit egoistic. Her life is a mess, but she is trying to make it all come together again and she has two sons of her own to take care of (The oldest of the two has been committed to a mental institution after setting fire to his mother's house). Because the leukemia can only be cured with the bone marrow from the right donor, everybody in the family has to be tested, even the son in the mental institution. Everybody is tested but he refuses, only because he doesn't want to be tested, not because he's afraid. But not everything is bad. Gradually the two sisters start to appreciate each other again, despite the many problems and the 20 years that they haven't seen or liked each other.Marvin's Room is an interesting movie that could have been very hard to swallow, but that is quite nice thanks to the humor used in it. This isn't yet another TV-movie showing us how hard life can be when you have cancer and you haven't seen your family for years... No, thanks to the humor this is a lot better than I ever expected. I give this movie a 7/10. "},{"Title":"Short but nice","Date":"8 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Although this movie features a bundle of Hollywood megastars I was quite surprised how little use the director made of them. De Niro, for example, could have easily been replaced with a different actor, because his role just goes completely to waste; there just isn't enough time for him to offer us something through his performance. But Diane Keaton is very good(that's a rare occasion) as was DiCaprio. A very, very short movie that has its moments but the best scene comes right at the end.      7/10 "},{"Title":"Dropped threads","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Why would Robert DeNiro take a part like this?  I found so many things in this movie annoying - all the characters are overplayed, including the son. Bone marrow extracts are not done in a doctor's office - they are done in a hospital.  Were De Niro and his brother just comic relief?  And what about that little brother with no will or personality?  Why use Hume Cronyn to play a person who can't talk?     "},{"Title":"DiCaprio's comment about Disneyworld was the best in the whole movie.","Date":"5 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'm a person who can take a lot in a movie, but Marvin's Room just turned me off. There are far too many movies about people dying and how it reunites the family (why hasn't Leslie Nielsen done a spoof version of this?). And although I consider Meryl Streep a great actress, it seems like her movies get really too sappy sometimes.As for the best line. Amidst the possibility of going to Disneyworld, Leonardo DiCaprio's character shouts out I don't give a f--- about Disneyworld! He, more than any other character, reflects what I felt while watching the movie. It's not just that I tend not to cry while watching movies*; when they try this hard to tug at your emotions, they barely register in my mind. Streep and DiCaprio have done much better than this, as have Diane Keaton, Robert DeNiro, Hume Cronyn and Gwen Verdon.*The only movie that made me cry - or almost cry - was Rabbit-Proof Fence. "},{"Title":"Over Produced Tear Jerker","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What a great cast , Meryl Streep , Robert DeNiro , Diane Keaton and Leonardo DiCaprio . This is a certain sure fire box office hit . So what`s it about ? A single mother whos sister is dying from Leukaemia !AAAAARRRRRRGGGGGHHHHH Let`s be honest , no one is going to watch a plot that is basically TVM material no matter how big the cast , so what`s the point of making it ? Couldn`t the producers have saved themselves a massive amount of big name actors fees by making MARVIN`S ROOM a television production ? And leonardo DiCaprio as a moody , sullen , troubled teenager ! Whatever his merits as an actor - And I`ll reserve my final judgement untill after I`ve seen GANGS OF NEW YORK - he`s most certainly not James Dean or Marlon Brando   "}{"Title":"What a piece of trash...","Date":"11 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" * out of **** This is movie is deadly awful. There are many reasons why many might say that. First of all, all the characters are horrible. The story is pretty horrible also. The performances are not bad, actually in some scenes they're actually great, but some of the interaction between them are totally pathetic.Marvin's Room is about a family whose members haven't spoken for a while. The movie already begins bad. Leonardo DiCaprio sets fire in the house for no apparent reason (well, he must be out of his mind, that's why later he goes to a mental institution) and for that, he gets arrested and goes to a hospital for future treatment. Meryl Streep, who plays his mother, Lee, a hair styler, almost in the entire movie doesn't feel bad for what happened, speaks with Hank, DiCaprio's character, like nothing really happened. In a normal situation that wouldn't happen! A mother who has a son who burned their own house should get so angry with her son, that she should even commit crazy acts! Streep doesn't act that way, DiCaprio still doesn't behave himself and Streep seems not to yell at him enough. I mean, her son burned the house, I think he should get a punishment so long that it would have had to last even when the ending credits are rolling up. Streep has also one more son, Charlie, played by Hal Scardino, who, in my opinion, is a horrible, awful and ugly young actor. Thank god he's only been in 3 movies. Maybe he quit because he knew he was bad. And finally there is the sister, Diana Keaton, who plays Bessie, aunt of Hank and Charlie. She lives with her father (Hume Cronyn) and Ruth (Gwen Verdon). Now this too are even more silly! Specially Ruth. She watches soap operas and then talks about them with Bessie, forgets to give the medications to Marvin, played by Cronyn, and simply starts crying from out of nowhere. Marvin is an old man who doesn't even have a role! Sure he's sick, but I think director Jerry Zaks should be less cruel with the cast of his movie.OK, these were the flaws from the characters. Now let's check the story. Hank gets out of the mental institution with his mother Lee and they go to Bessie's place after a long time, just because she's sick too, apparently to die of leukemia in the future. She needs a bone marrow donation from one of her nephews in order to cure herself. Once again, Lee seems not to be bothered about the fact that the house got burned and asks Hank how many songs are left for him to listen to inside of the car in order for him to get out of it. If she was really upset about what happened, she wouldn't want to know how many songs are left, she should simply say Get the **** out of the car, you piece of ****! You burned our house! You don't deserve even to look at my eyes, you monstrous ****! But, no. And then, now indoors, a very silly and pathetic scene, Hank gets a chip potato in the table and when he's about to eat it, Lee asks him to put it back because he's not been asked to pick it up. DiCaprio takes him tongue out of his mouth. Ridiculous. What a ridiculous and pointless scene. I hated it with all my guts! Next, we see Scardino eat the chip. And in a room next where they are, there goes Ruth crying about a damn soap opera! Actually there were only two scenes that I was really shocked. When Keaton takes her wig out of her head while talking about wigs with her sister and when she's at the Disneyworld park, bleeding from inside her mouth. There are other good scenes, but all in all, there are silly ones too. All of that makes Marvin's Room a very boring drama movie. I can't figure it out just how Robert De Niro wanted to play a role in this piece of crap. And guess how the movie ends? Not only Bessie doesn't get the bone marrow donation that she should get in order to save herself from her disease, there is again our dear Ruth talking about her soap operas. Please.... "}]