[{"Title":"Not your ordinary road trip","Date":"26 March 2005","Score":"18 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Truly one of the funniest, most original films of the mid 90's. The casting is truly inspired-Anne Meara gives a knockout performance as an overbearing, but well-meaning suburban mother; Hope Davis is marvelous (as usual) as an optimistic, sort of numb wife on a mission to see if her husband is indeed cheating on her; Liev Schreiber is wonderful as the superb Parker Posey's aspiring writer boyfriend; Campbell Scott steals the movie as a lusty writer Eddie; and of course Stanley Tucci turns in another great performance as the catalyst character in the film. His screen time is brief, but he shines brightly. Marcia Gay Harden's cameo as a neurotic party guest had me practically on the floor laughing. The story unfolds naturally, taking the viewer on the same emotional journey as the characters. There's never a dull moment, and the film is an indie classic filled with thought-provoking dialogue and terrific character sketches. "},{"Title":"A small film that is easy to miss but should be seen","Date":"9 November 2003","Score":"18 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  While I've been meaning to see this film for years, (I think the trailer was on the Reservoir Dogs VHS that I wore out before I bought it on DVD) it was one of probably hundreds of films that I put on my back burner.  So when I recently saw it was on a pay channel I jumped on it, and am very glad that I did finally see this gem.The Daytrippers involves a woman (Davis) whose resolve that she is happily married is tested when she finds an excerpt from a love poem that fell from her husband's (Tucci) clothes.  She elects to go to her mother (Meara) for advice and ends up going on a day trip to NYC to ask her husband about it.  Along for the ride is her father, (McNamara) her sister, (Posey) and her sister's boyfriend (Schrieber).  Of course, if they were able to simply confront her husband it would be easy; unfortunately he is no where to be found, so they willingly engage in amateur sleuthing to put together the story while they drive around the city looking for him.The plot is a fairly simple one, but the character development is the true star of the film.  While Parker Posey is known best for playing `quirky yet intelligent' characters, her role seems more of a natural addition in this film rather than a run-of-the-mill portrayal for her.  Meara is nearly maddening as a meddling mother, and McNamara, a well established character actor is heartbreakingly sweet as the weary father.  Davis and Tucci are both fantastic as usual, and while Tucci's role is a small one, he exhibits his usual passion that makes him an exciting actor.  Davis gives her character a palpable fragility that just barely makes room for the modicum of strength that is holding her together.  In my opinion, the true breakout star of the film is Schrieber as Carl Petrovic, `the boyfriend'.  His character has so many facets to his personality and becomes such a complex study that is so rare in a supporting character.  And Schrieber's portrayal is brilliant and both comedic and heart-breaking in it's subtle profundity.  Schreiber has been on my radar since I saw him in RKO 281 brilliantly portraying one of my personal heroes, Orson Welles, and after viewing this performance I plan to seek out more of his work.  The Daytrippers has been an independent film darling for years now and I can see why.  It is an intelligent, emotional and well-written and acted film that will hold an appeal for most who take the time to view it. --Shelly  "},{"Title":"highly satisfying","Date":"4 November 1998","Score":"13 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A Long Island woman finds a love letter in her house and suspects her husband of cheating.  Her over-protective (and very pro-active) family convinces her to confront her husband at his workplace in Manhattan.  They all (wife, mom, dad, sister and sister's boyfriend) pile into the station wagon to hunt down the scoundrel.  In their efforts to find him they meet a bunch of interesting characters and learn a little bit more about their own feelings for one another.This movie is so sweet in its examination of family loyalty and so honest in its examination of long-failed relationships in denial that I feel it is easily one of the most satisfying video rentals I've ever experienced. There's enough comedy throughout to provide laughs (especially any and all jokes at the expense of Liev Schreiber's pretentious novelist) and the realistic sisterly affection shared by Parker Posey and Hope Davis is genuinely touching.Also provides a subtle examination of the Long Islander's relationship to Manhattan - the latter acting as an unfamiliar, answerless maze through which the family has to pass in order to find the truth.  "},{"Title":"Tucci, Scott are infinitely reliable","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Simple plot, witty dialogue, and tremendous actors make this movie a pleasure. Campbell Scott is the most underrated actor of our generation.  His bit part in Daytrippers makes the movie worth seeing.  Schreiber is great, as well. The Malone sisters are tolerable, but the humor begins and ends with their incessantly controlling mother.   "},{"Title":"One of the best films of the year","Date":"1 December 1998","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Underrated and underseen.  Daytrippers is like a younger Woody Allen, mixing comedy with angst.  Fresh and funny, real and absurd, empathetic.  Terrific first movie as writer/ director. "},{"Title":"Entertaining Film!","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As an avid Parker Posey fan, I rented this little number to see one of her indie accomplishments--what I got was very interesting.Eliza (Hope Davis) packs up her family to question her husband (Stanley Tucci) about a mysterious love note found in their bedroom. Including her wild sister (Parker Posey), her enlightened boyfriend (Liev Schreiber) and her annoying overbearing mother (Anne Meara), Eliza encounters doubts about her husband and her family also realizes the importances of their own relationships.  Lots of surprises!  Great performances!  Great low budget film.  Parker Rocks!  "},{"Title":"One day in the city shows the dynamics of a dysfunctional family","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Daytrippers is a progressive drama about a family that takes an adventure into New York City after Eliza (Hope Davis) discovers a love letter that may uncover an affair between her husband and somebody named Sandy. Anne Meara does a good job as the typical East Coast, controlling mother. The indie-film queen Parker Posey plays Eliza's little sister whose boyfriend Carl, played by Liev Schreiber, is an exaggeration of the young, snobbish, know-it-all author. The family is hardly functional which makes this film particularly honest.The key to Daytrippers is not the plot, which never fails to keep you watching, but the dialogue and the situations. Pay close attention to the characters that the family meets in the city. They all embody some kind of contradictions that make you think a little bit. Look for the scene where Marc Grapey begins describing his sexual exploits by condemning such practices.If you are looking for a drama that provokes you, this is one of them. There are no happy endings and none of the issues raised are resolved. Fans of Parker Posey will especially enjoy her performance in this one.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful film!!!","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Wonderful film about love and betrayal. Amazing cast that provides laughs in all of the right places. Anne Meara was incredible as the mother and Parker Posey was hilarious as usual. I was intrigued from the beginning to the end and highly recommend The Daytrippers.  "},{"Title":"Sweet, VERY personal movie, a little too close to life ...","Date":"30 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" ... a believably bickering family, portrayed by skilled actors, w/some wonderful ham stuff by Anne Meara and Parker Posey, and more subtle stuff from Hope Davis and Liev Schreiber. The story had a distinctly voyeuristic feel, as if the screenwriter was exorcising some history and making it more entertaining, often hilarious (and interesting?) than a painful history he may have lived through. A cinema verite re-creation by world class skilled actors. As the family's lives unravel, driving around in a freezing cold NYC winter evening, there is a quiet lingering shot of the World Trade Center that is unintentionally haunting, and gives the film (made in 1996) an unintended resonance. "},{"Title":"This Movie is FANTASTIC","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a hilarious film... beautifully-written, hysterically-acted, excellently directed.  Rent it.  See it.  Liev Schrieber is great, and so is Parker Posey.  Greg Mottola will be, one day, a great director.  He's also a very funny writer, and was able to make a story that's both moving and funny. "}{"Title":"The cast makes this an enjoyable film.","Date":"15 September 1998","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I am a big Parker Posey fan (Waiting for Guffman, Party Girl, House of Yes and other indie films), and the addition of Hope Davis (Next Stop Wonderland) and other cast members made this film very watchable.  The storyline itself is rather forgettable. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly interesting","Date":"14 September 1998","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I went to see this movie with no pre-conceptions, not having heard of it before I purchased my ticket. I went merely in the hope that it might be a bit better than the tripe that passed for blockbusters this summer.It didn't look too hopeful, yet another slice of Indie-movie life, but the quality of the writing began to overwhelm my negative feelings. A very nice ensemble piece and for once a good plot, with characters engaging enough not to have you trying to second-guess what was going to happen next.The direction was a little dull, but this is a film about words and if you are wiling to accept that then this is an excellent way to spend a couple of hours in some decent company. There are plenty of laughs in there as well.  "},{"Title":"Woody Allen for the Common People","Date":"26 November 1998","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Daytrippers succeeds in exploring family dynamics during an unexpected family crisis during Thanksgiving.  Finding a love note left behind by her husband before leaving for work, the young Long Island housewife takes it to her parents where her younger college-age sister and boyfriend are staying. Mom, Dad, Sis and boyfriend head into the city to confront the husband. This simple trip turns into a voyage of personal discovery as they meet and interact with a variety of interesting people.It's a talk vice visual movie, but none-the-less was a hit with three of four members of the family including our 19 year old college-age daughter. The 16-year old lad bailed out early.Our only complaint (but it is significant to us) is that the parents, especially the mother, are painted thinly, and their characters stereotyped and static.  Everyone else has discoveries and changes, but not them.  We still gave it a solid 8 and would recommend it for holiday time (adult) viewing. "},{"Title":"Great film, bad DVD...","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In spite of, or maybe because of, what most critics said about this movie, I consider this a great work. It may be difficult to identify with any one character in the movie, but that's because each one was down-to-earth real, and we ourselves can have a hard time accepting our true personalities with all the flaws included. The worst part about what I saw was the DVD, which was presented in pan-and-scan full screen format, in spite of its 1.851 original aspect ratio.  "},{"Title":"A trip to take","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Greg Mottola makes a very auspicious debut with The Daytrippers. He directs a terrific cast in what is something of a rarity; a true ensemble piece. Rather than a road movie, this is a street movie with various stations in lower Manhattan. As the journey progresses so too does the family begin to unravel in a manner which is both funny as well as genuinely moving.All give dead on target performances, with highlights from Ann Meara and Lieve Shrieber (whose unravelling is particularly poignant). Hope Davis is as wistfully wonderful as always with Parker Posey, Stanley Tucci, Pat McNaramra and Campbell Scott rounding out the ensemble.A trip you may want to make. "},{"Title":"A pleasant surprise.","Date":"23 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I just caught this on a Sunday afternoon and it ended up being a good movie experience for me.  This is as close to real life as I can remember a movie getting.  All of the characters are real and have real feelings.  I can't remember a shred of violence in the movie even though it had plenty of screaming.  I enjoyed the relationship between Parker Posey and Liev Schreiber.  Even though many life changing events occur over the course of the day that the movie takes place, everyone seems to be having a good time just getting out together.  The film has some slow spots, I guess where they were trying to get to their 90 minute running time.  6/10 which I don't give out easily.  I find the film to be good, and in an original way.   "},{"Title":"mini-road trip flick, clever and with a sneaky heart!!!!!!","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Kind of a mini-road trip film, only with Anne Meara nagging you all the way along, and you drop into strangers NYC lives at every turn.......it's a fun, verbal movie. I've fallen in love with Parker Posey as a result. Also, there's her boyfriend who expatiates and expounds on his novel who is a perfect representation of me (or let's face it you....whoever you are...if you're an artist or wannabe artist/writer/etc). Clever and with a sneaky heart!!!!!! "},{"Title":"An engaging detour from writer/director Greg Mottola","Date":"8 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" An engaging indie reminiscent of both Neil Simon and Woody Allen, The Daytrippers utilizes a strong cast as a family travel down literal avenues to unravel a mystery over fidelity.Eliza (Hope Davis) is happily married to publisher Louis (Stanley Tucci), until she discovers a love letter that may or may not have been sent to him. Determined to find out the truth, she travels into the city to confront him, aided by her domineering mother (Anne Meara), subdued father (Pat McNamara), sister Jo (Parker Posey) and her novelist boyfriend Carl (Liev Schreiber).The Daytrippers works best during moments with the Malone family together, from Eliza and Jo's sisterly bonding to mom Rita's fawning over Carl. The various derailments and subplots along the way are a mixed bag, the best allowing for some neat interludes from Marc Grapey as a sleazy womanizer, Marcia Gay Harden as a drunken party girl and Stephanie Venditto as a over-excited receptionist.In terms of acting, Anne Meara steals the show as the fiery matriarch of the Malone family, while a lot of fun is created from Carl's episodic reciting of his novel, a pretentious story about a man with a dog's head. Parker Posey, as always, is also hilarious with her sarcastic gags and deadpan delivery.Not particularly memorable but a movie that at least entertains throughout its short running time, The Daytrippers is an enjoyable melodrama strengthened by the realistic familial chemistry between the film's leads.Rating C+ "},{"Title":"The Daytrippers","Date":"16 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Before the shockingly good teen comedy Superbad and the wistful, sentimental post-collegiate angst of Adventureland, even before his now famous TV work, director Greg Mottola made this 1996 gem The Daytrippers. The film, like Mottola's other films, works a familiar and unpromising premise into a genuine, heartfelt, wonderful observation on human behavior. The film, while rougher around the edges technically and as a script than either Superbad (written by Seth Rogen and Evan Goldberg) and Adventureland (written by Mottola himself, as The Daytrippers is), is yet another distinctive and memorable Mottola film. The plot is pretty much covered by the film's tagline One station wagon. Two generations. Three couples. Four relationships, but much like Mottola's other films (Superbad Two best friends and a nerdy semi-friend attempt to get laid before graduation. Adventureland college grad works at amusement park and falls in love) the plot doesn't really give any indication of how good the film is. Great script overall by Mottola with terrific characterization and dialogue which rings true, not to mention mature handling of the relationships as well as a good dose of humor. An excellent cast (at their best too, Mottola's great work with actors on display yet again) including Stanley Tucci, Hope Davis, Liev Schrieber, and Parker Posey bring the script to life well, and Mottola's storytelling skills and comic timing as director are, even this early in his career, excellent. Not as good as his later work, but Mottola shows great promise with this early film. Cannot wait for Paul, which promises to be absolutely brilliant if his career follows the path it's on (getting better with every film). "},{"Title":"This is a better movie than Little Miss Sunshine...","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Daytrippers and Little Miss Sunshine have very similar themes of family road trips but 'Daytrippers' was far more sophisticated and understated. I'm pretty disappointed this flick isn't available on the DVD in the U.S. Me and my girlfriend watched this one twice in the theaters during the waining heyday of the indie-film era.Our favorite line When Parker Posey says, You know dad, that was basically the worst car chase in history...HAHAHAHAHAHA! HAHAHAHAHAHA! HAHAHAHAHAHA! "}{"Title":"The narrative arch isn't that great but it moves forward with good dialogue and performances","Date":"4 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Eliza D'Amico is in love with her husband Louis and assumes that he feels the same way. However when she finds a note of love poetry in his pocket from someone called Sandy, she worries that he is having an affair. Confiding in her mother, father, sister and her sister's boyfriend, the decision is made for her to take a trip into the city to investigate. After a drive, the group pry into Louis' office and uncover something going on with a colleague called Cassandra. They dig deeper and their trip turns into a full day and night in the city.I can understand those who have problems with the narrative arch of this film because it is a bit unlikely and contrived but it is likely that many viewers will find enjoyment in the dialogue and mood of the film. Never hilarious, the film has a consistently nice comic touch and the dialogue help produce the characters over and above the situations that the plot puts them in. In this way it works reasonably well because it develops the story well enough while using the specific situations to allow for comic dialogue. I wasn't ever laughing and I wasn't ever totally engrossed in the story but it did enough to keep my interest and amuse and interest. Mottola aims for an independent feel and hits it spot on. It has its flaws but it works even if the film stock has dated and looks a bit grainy.The cast work well with the material and Mottola's casting agents have done really well to get such an ensemble together. There is no one clear lead and everyone works well together. Davis is given the least of the characters as she has to carry the plot but she does it well regardless. Posey is more interesting because her character is &#150; plus I always find her easy to enjoy for some reason. Schreiber judges his character well and allows us to spot his annoying characteristics gradually in the same way that Jo would be spotting them with time; often I find him annoying, here it was intentional and his performance is good in that way. Tucci has a minor role and his presence is more about his name that his ability, but he is welcome. Meara and McNarama both work well together and produce the most energy as the parents. All of them work well with the dialogue and the scenarios and do their best with the narrative.Overall this is a light indie film that des have weakness in the narrative but generally makes up for it with good dialogue and a nice air to it. The starry (if you move in that way) cast react well to it and turn in good performances and characters that help the film be better that the narrative arch would suggest it is. "},{"Title":"Why this wasn't a box smash I'll never know","Date":"8 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie has a tone to it that is just perfect. The movie hums like a great song. The movie is never boring. The cast is near perfect. The story yes a little simple but the screenplay has parent/adult children relationships down. This is a story that takes place the day after Thanksgiving. You know that day. Everybody is tired and worn out from the day before. Well on this day a woman finds a note in her husbands pocket, She then shows her parents and sister the note. Before you know it we're on a day road trip with the family to track down Stanley Tuci. To give away more of the story would be a crime. Everybody with a family can relate to this! Don't miss out. Also has a cameo Marcia Gay Harden. "},{"Title":"Threw me for a loop.","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The early to mid 1990s produced countless films in relation to the romantic spectrum, and I was expecting The Daytrippers to be another one of them. Whereas I found the comedy portion of the movie to be misleading, I still found it to be a worthwhile and decent film.  Not all movies need to be entirely deep or philisophical, and this one was a nice change to a lot of what I've seen lately.Eliza Eliza D'Amico (Hope Davis) is walking through her bedroom one morning when she stumbles on a curious love note scribed to her husband.  Wanting to get to the bottom of it, she brings the note to the attention of her parents, sister, and the sister's boyfriend Carl.Collectively, they travel to New York for the day to investigate.Along the way,  Carl (Liev Schreiber) tells the family all about his Dr. Seuss for adults novel he's writing, and the mother (Anne Meara) eats her heart out as his intellectual merryment.  Eventually, of course, all havoc breaks loose, as everyone's nerves are wrought by each other, and the trip turns into an explosive dramatic result.The Daytrippers is an actually interesting movie in that it isn't 100% predictable, and leaves a little bit to the audience's guessing with the hanger ending.  The weakest faults of the movie are that some of the scenes are entirely pointless, and the film is so short that it seems they tried to fill it with a bit of crap to lengthen it.  Otherwise, the film has a lot of interesting little plotlines which could easily produce better spin-offs. "},{"Title":"I thoroughly enjoyed this movie; Meara & Posey = great.","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie cracked me up.  I thought Parker Posey was great, Anne Meara, Liev Shreiber, Stanley Tucci, etc.  A wild 24 hours of suburbia in a station wagon meets Manhattan, some very funny moments and situations with a big surprise at the end.  I always recommend this film to my friends that like indies. "},{"Title":"Subtle. Intelligent. Hilarious.","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a movie I enjoy watching just to see how the different characters react to one another. This is some of the most enjoyable dialogue that I've seen in a comedy that doesn't involve cheap gags or punchlines. Very well written.  "},{"Title":"It's THE Bomb--Slamdance award winner","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I cannot agree with the previous review.  This movie is a GEM!  A quiet, quirky, witty slice of life.  This film won the Slamdance award for best picture in 1996 (Slamdance is the festival of Sundance rejects that runs simultaneously with Sundance Film Festival in Park City, UT).  If you don't appreciate intelligent dialogue, accompanied by stellar acting, then don't rent this.  I don't see how Sundance could have passed on this one.  "},{"Title":"One Daytrip Worth Taking","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Daytripers is an excellent indie drama/comedy with plenty of powerful dramatic moments,sharp satirical humor and excellent performances all round.This film is a great experience let down only by rather bland direction.One of the better films of 1996. 4/5  "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you have a completely normal family with no idiosyncrasies - such as, say, trying to run your life - or you yourself have no idiosyncrasies, the humor in this movie may be lost. But my sister and I are not that lucky, and laughed out loud during many scenes. Best scene-stealer is Anne Meara - she even has a spell. Parker's ok. The story is a little sad, too, and makes you think about your life and who really directs your decisions. I found it entertaining as well as thought-provoking. "},{"Title":"Hysterical!","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was great.  As a native New Yorker, I praised Anne Meara's depiction of a typical Long Island mother.  She was fantastic, and I found myself pausing the movie so I can laugh and not miss a second.  Parker Posey was good, and Liev Schreiber was great as usual.  I would recommend this rental if you are looking for a good laugh. "},{"Title":"Good Flick","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Well, after renting Next Stop Wonderland, I've sought out anything starring Hope Davis.  She is part of an ensemble cast this time, all of whom equal her acting abilities (but none of whom look as good!) Anyway, this is a great rental (though Wonderland is ten times better). As for the ending, it will shock you as much as the Sixth Sense did. Enjoy! "}{"Title":"Highly UNsatisfying","Date":"12 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Daytrippers is a script-driven open ended comedy about a semifunctional family (an ensemble cast including mom, dad, two adult daughters, and a boyfriend) who drive into Manhattan in search of a one of the daughters' wayward husband. With nonstop pseudointellectual pedantic blathering from beginning to end, this uneventful flick takes you along for the ride where you'll suffer from small talk, an explanation of the boyfriend's work-in-progress novel, a silly conversation about politics, an encounter involving the carrying of a t.v. set, and other such pedestrianisms resulting in a mediocre flick which fails in script. The Daytrippers might best be described as some really bad Woody Allen which is almost rescued by a solid cast. (C) "},{"Title":"NOT GOOD!","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  And not THAT bad, either--but left me wanting  more.  The squabbling Italian family was more realistic in True Love, Stanley Tucci was more manipulative in The Big Night, Parker Posey much more entertaining in Party Girl, and Hope Davis is, well, always Hope Davis.  If YOUR hopes aren't that high, take a look  but this is the very definition of over-rated. "},{"Title":"Mind-numbing trash","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Ever been stuck in a car with five people you want to smack? If listening to dull, self-absorbed, melodramatic whining is your idea of a perfect low-budget flick, then by all means ... Fast-paced dialogue was no doubt intended to be witty, wry commentary, but unfortunately misses on all marks, as does the shoddy direction of this utterly forgettable movie. "},{"Title":"IT'S A BOMB","Date":"17 August 1998","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is a bomb, move onto something else if you can!Why waste your time with a bunch of whiners, complainers and just down right stupid people. "},{"Title":"why was it made","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is passionless. There are really no redeeming qualities except for about three times during the entire movie where I laughed. I'm all for low budget dramas, but this looks like it was shot by a porn director. The acting is at a par with high school drama actors. The story is completely unengaging and listless. If you want to learn how to make a poor movie, watch this film. "}]