[{"Title":"Perfect","Date":"13 May 2007","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I absolutely adore this film. I bought it after getting my hands on the soundtrack, which is also awesome, and it really hit the spot. Like many people have said before, if you've ever been in a similar situation, this film will resonate deeply! It really is intriguing to read reviews from people who hated it. Obviously that makes just as much sense as people who loved it, not everyone can relate to the story or understand the journey, but i wouldn't want people to be put off from seeing it purely on the strength of the negative reviews. Great performances from the whole cast, perfectly balanced with a brilliant punk soundtrack. A real gem. "},{"Title":"A Great Examination Of The Anxiety of Blossoming Adults","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm a big fan of the examination of teens and young adults (being a teenager myself) and Glory Daze is a great story of a group of best friends on the eve of adulthood and how basically all of them are terrified of moving on from college and into the real world.During the movie we discover the various characteristics, interests, styles, dreams and aspirations of the various leading characters. Their stories intertwine, and involve each other in some way. All of the plots involved in Glory Daze are simple, but flow smoothly and steadily in the backdrop of campus parties and bonfires. The acting is superb and the cast is simply perfect(of course it's better to watch the movie now when most of the actors (Ben Affleck, Sam Rockwell, and French Stewart) all become more well known names. All of them are perfect in their roles as bewildered college students. I love the end of the movie (but I won't spoil anything). I recommend this movie to anyone, especially teenagers, who just want to watch a movie about the fun and anxiety of the last days of real youth. 9/10. I also recommend Dazed And Confused, a great teen movie. "},{"Title":"A gem for it's genre...damnit","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Honestly, much better than I was expecting. Without close examination of this movie's characters and their development, your average watcher would write this movie off as standard party movie genre with no heart or empathy. But, as a fan of this film, I've grown to see it for what it most likely was intended to be...a pleasant, relatable buddy flick whose characters could have only been based almost entirely on personal relationships. Questions we've all asked ourselves, and conversations we've all had exist in this film, in a non-figurative way. Growing up, and out of your comfort zone is all too common of a post adolescent's defining hour and that is exactly what this movie explores.The music and sense of humor in Glory Daze are proof of a personal reliance towards the materiel and not just some A-hole producer/director trying to cash in on the maturing sentiment. Some might not be able to relate to it because of its seemingly personal aim, have you a too serious metal dude or...well, a girl, but I think that for your average free thinker, its an easy to connect with.I'll keep it short. I'm gonna end with Kevin Smith on this one, I like Affleck, cause he's just a good dude, and so it seems are the rest of the cast and those involved in the creation of Glory Daze. Good dudes, who think, what more could you honestly ask from this movie? "},{"Title":"A better college movie than Animal House","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ah, what a wonderful little gem Glory Daze is.  Everyone extols the virtues of Animal House, calling it the greatest college comedy ever, but for my generation of college students, I bet Glory Daze would be seen as a far better film (if only people would SEE it).Ben Affleck is great in his portrayal of Jack, the ultimate purveyor of suburban angst.  His scene with the jokester passing out graduation gowns is priceless, as is the confrontation on the bus with Brendan Fraser and Leah Remini.  He gives a most memorable performance.The best thing about Glory Daze is its honesty; even the tough, angry Jack breaks down when it comes to love. even he still seeks his funny s**t. Give this one a chance; any college student should relate (especially those male ones who are free of the fraternity lifestyle). "},{"Title":"EXCELLENT MOVIE!","Date":"14 December 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Any one who a had a social life as a student at U.C. Santa Cruz, will love this movie. This movie was very poignant for me having spent my own college years doing the same exact stuff portrayed in the movie. It has just really helped me (nearly 10 years later) to find a bit of closure with what the heck happened back then during the greatest time of my life! I feel the acting was genuinely good. Ben really made the best out of this role. I can tell that the writer/director banged out enough background info. for the actors, so that they could know exactly how their characters should act. I love the scenes of Santa Cruz and especially liked the bus scene between Ben Affleck, Lhea Remini, and Brendan Frasier. Not only was Brendan dressed like I was back then, but I swear, I think, I had a convo. on the bus with a girlfriend while waiting for the damn train to pass, too. Yeah, every bus ride was an adventure! There is a strong moral in the movie, it's hard to find but it can be gleaned from any college graduate. Freedom from Fear leads to a Fear from Freedom. As for any banana slugs out there, save this movie when your thirty and you'll completely realize why you did what you did, and how Santa Cruz will always be on your mind. That's a good thing I believe, because we lived in a very special place that seems to create amazingly talented and successful people. John Garcia -Class of '95 U.C. Santa Cruz, Oakes CollegeCurrently a Certified History Teacher!(Oh yeah, and Alyssa Milano is always so Stunningly Gorgeous!) "},{"Title":"Watch this movie with an open mind. Its a good one !!!","Date":"1 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What a movie !!! Its so cool, funny and intelligent and I love Ben Affleck in this. The movie manages to entertain more that huge movies with millions of dollars in budget. Its very down to earth and has some great moments that leave you happy. The trials and tribulations of the characters are so real and engrossing. I simply love it love it love it. Not one scene is wasted brilliant lines brilliant performances. In its own world and in its own league. I think the trick is that its funny but also nostalgic with a lot of sadness in it. So its a perfect combination. Not to give anything away, watch it if you like to think about your past and reflect on all the good/bad times. Its a treasure of a film. Its sad that not many people know of it. It's one of my favourites. "},{"Title":"life or something like it","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  You could compare this movie to PCU or Animal House, but that really doesn't do any of those movies justice.  PCU and Animal house are very slapstick and obvious, while Glory Daze is more lifelike.  The combination of depression, sarcasm, and random Kevin Smith-esque references work well.  The rag-tag group of misfits that live at Rancho are all very different characters, but somehow, you can relate to every one of them.  9/10 "},{"Title":"Just one of those truly touching, deep films.","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Remember that one period in your life that you wanted to last forever?  Or perhaps that era of your life is now.  God, on the outside, Glory Daze is a crude, depressing movie. However, it is my all time favorite because it is more than just a mere movie.  It is what most movie makers dream of making something entertaining, yet so substantial that you can't help but say whoa as the impact of what happens hits you.  Life is ever-changing, it says to you, and we all try to stop it from changing at some point, but then we realize that we can't and find it better just to move on and continue to live. "},{"Title":"Awesome for what it is","Date":"26 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is my youth which makes it close to my heart. Most people that watch it will think that it might be worthy of B movie status. I totally understand but as a young punk in the 90's this movie is amazing. It does a great job of capturing the angst of the affluent white male which as our good friend Luther let's us know in the film no one gives a damn about. When I want to smile and reminisce about the good old says I put this film on(until recently on VHS!) and it makes me remember great times at Florida State. If you grew up in the 90s then this film is for you, otherwise I would stay away as you would probably not understand. "},{"Title":"Days before graduation college students have doubts about moving on to the next step in life, well, in-between beers they have doubts.","Date":"14 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What do Ben Affleck and Sam Rockwell, have in common? Well, yes, they are all in this movie, but no. They are both now famous, respected actors, and movies like 'Glory Daze' helped shape their careers. The movie, set in the 90′s, follows a group of college students that just might not be ready to let go of the party life. Angst filled, angry, generation xers souped up on pizza and beer that just do not know where to go in life. I mean we can all relate to that right? Admittedly, when these Hollywood superstars made this movie they certainly weren't at their acting peak, but they held their own. Ben Affleck conveys the perfect combination of anger and uncertainty in life, and when you throw in relationship issues he becomes a pretty evolved character. Rockwell, the one with the girlfriend in the movie, faces an issue of every graduating guy in his position, do I stick with her and get serious, or do I go get some strange? His struggle is uncomfortable to watch, in a good way, especially when Matthew McConaughey makes a cameo showing him what his life could be if it goes terribly wrong. To avoid forming a list here I will just say the others also did a great job playing their parts, especially Slosh (Vien Hong), the former computer geek, current party animal.Unlike some college movies that play off of pretty much every college stereotype, 'Glory Daze' seems more realistic and genuine. I actually found myself believing that these actors could be college students. They looked a bit old, but it was a far cry from the thirty year olds playing high schoolers on 90210.Writer Director Rich Wilkes (Airheads) does an admirable creating believable characters, but does have some trouble with the flow of the story. I did find that I started to lose focus and become bored at times. A movie like this should be almost like the perfect mix tape, you start of strong, drop it down a notch, then right back up. Instead we start of with Thunderstruck and get twenty minutes of Coldplay, and no one wants that Speaking of mix tapes, 'Glory Daze' has a soundtrack that is filled with that 90′s music that is sure to ignite that nostalgic feeling of oh yeah, I remember that  so sit back, enjoy the ride, and remember how much better things were the 90′s. "}{"Title":"Fun 1990s Slcker Film","Date":"27 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Two days before graduation, Jack (Ben Affleck) is having serious doubts about the future. The old gang is breaking up; Rob is moving to LA with his girlfriend; Dennis (French Stewart) is finishing his third degree and going to grad school in Michigan; Slosh has dropped out of school and stays drunk all the time; and Mickey (Vinnie DeRamus) seems tired of the scene and wishes he had the guts to tell his friend Chelsea (Alyssa Milano) how he feels about her. You have to love this incredible cast (including some who went on to much bigger and better things), with some nice cameos from Matt Damon as a hated ex-roommate and Matthew McConaughey as an alcoholic rental truck representative.This is one of the many mid-90s slacker films, alongside Stoned Age, Suburbia and others. While there is no explanation for Affleck's hairstyle and facial hair, it is nice to see him in this role circa Good Will Hunting. And those who were punks in the 1990s will appreciate the soundtrack NOFX, Bad Religion, Tilt, The Mr. T Experience, Ednaswap, and Bouncing Souls. Did SLC Punk have a soundtrack this good? "},{"Title":"Pick up a twelver and shred","Date":"31 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If you pounded beers in college than you'll relate to this film. Smart writing, and great performances make this flick above the usual beer blast caught on film. The always underrated Sam Rockwell keeps this story rooted in realism, and even Wooderson makes a special appearance! Any dude who lived with other dudes at school will recognize every nuance that writer/director Rich Wilkes puts on screen. Don't be fooled by the new cheesy cover art with Affleck and Milano on it, this film is raw and a good time. Any fan of Chasing Amy, will get to see Affleck master the angst filled male teary eyed speech here. Lots to recommend, check it out.PICK UP A TWELVER AND SHRED! "},{"Title":"Metaphor","Date":"5 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There is a shot or two depicting a clock in this film that totally make the movie for me.  There are tons of cliched messages that are portrayed well throughout, but the way they delt with that you can't stop life/ time)was magnificent.  Being a male in his early twenties I love this film.  It points out all our flaws, yet lets us embrace them. "},{"Title":"Good Memories","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie a few years ago. I loved it then. I remember watching it twice, back to back cause I liked it so much. Surprised me. It was a hidden gem for sure. Then today I woke up and remembered the movie. I couldn't remember the name. I just remembered French Stewart, Ben Affleck and Brendan Frasier were in it. I came to this site to find out what the name of the movie is and was appalled to find negative comments about Glory Daze. Everyone is entitled to their opinion, but wow! Were those of you who didn't enjoy this movie actually watching it? This is one of my all time top ten for sure. Give it a chance. Take a look. If you enjoy good scripts and earnest acting, look no further. Cheers. "},{"Title":"I explain why Glory Daze (Last Contact)is a great movie","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Hello, i just want to comment the admiration i feel for Glory Daze. This is a very good film. Plenty of details. If you see it once, you are loosing many things, and you could think what a simply movie, or just kids destroying a house. But if you are curious you can see all the details, its very well done. It has a lot of content. I think it represents many people, and i felt identified with it a lot. It presents some philosophy issues, social structure...In conclusion This is not a commercial film. Its a film based on some intelligent and very good people punk-rock guys. I'd like nowadays directors made people like this one! Less effects and more creative thinking! "},{"Title":"truly a beautiful slice of teenage life","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I suppose the low rating this movie is running is due to all the adult votes out there. Any teenager, especially any teenager who understands the references to Camus, should love this movie. Ben Affleck turns in a wonderful performance, as per usual. That boy's delivery is scary good, and the dialogue deserved such panache, if you will. If you happen to listen to punk music, well then, you should adore this movie's soundtrack as well. It is so fitting to every scene (with the exception of the live band.) The movie is worth watching for the cameos alone Matthew McConaughey, Brendan Fraser, Janeane Garofalo, Matt Damon; all wonderful, but tiny, parts. This is certainly one of the best movies I've seen in a long time. Any one who liked Dazed and Confused, to Empire Records, to (aiming a bit higher here,) The Breakfast Club, should love this movie. See it. Now.  "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Least I can say, this is a great movie.  Extremely funny and moving, as well as a great punk reference movie.  Op Ivy fans check the once in a lifetime reference to Operation Ivy.  Great dialogue.  Worth it just to see Ben Affleck's haircut. "},{"Title":"Simply a great movie!","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Rich Wilkes best screenplay yet! This is simply a great movie. If you're a fan of Kevin Smith, if you like Good Will Hunting then this movie is bound to be in your top ten list. If you're new to low-budget films, Glory Daze is excellent proof that good films don't require loads of money and dazzling special effects.The actors are top notch! There wasn't one scene where I was thinking that these guys were acting. When I first saw the characters I was expecting stereotypes galore, not so. Rich Wilkes did a great job of including different aspects of the social circle while avoiding the stereotype syndrome. I'm not positive but I think this was Wilkes first hand at directing, he did a wonderful job. Didn't feel like I was on the outside looking in at all!The bus scene is a riot! Great job done by Brandon Frasier, Leah Remini, and Jay Lacopo. Jay's portrayal of a bus driver will crack you up! Not that this is the only funny scene, you'll be laughing throughout the entire movie.Check out some of the quotes! http//us.imdb.com/Quotes?Glory+Daze+(1996)Do yourself a favor and SEE THIS MOVIE!Slosh is the man!  "},{"Title":"Great Movie but watch it only once","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Ben is superb in this angst-ridden comedy about the end of senior year in college at a west coast university. Ben is ONLY SUPERB when there are over 4 other cast members with a lot of speaking parts.Affleck is like The Eagles. They're only good as a band. Solo, they're really marginal. I don't have to list his flops.Glory Daze is pretty much a guy flick. I enjoyed the destruction of the frat house, the woven scenarios of the other cast members and the fact the writer/or director finally had an Asian actor in a role that had lines.Afflect re-visits his Chasing Amy depression and whining that was tolerable, but we've been there before. However for Ben fans who haven't seen Chasing its a whimpering treat.In summary, rent or just buy the DVD for the funny French Stewart lines, the destruction of the frat house, the Asian guy who actually has lines, that Milano chick, the music and the fact that there is no happy ending. I love comedies from Hollywood that don't have happy endings. Its sort of like Animal House, it has an ending, but not particularly happy---it just ends. "},{"Title":"I remember...","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dear lord, They had the cameras on me the whole time I was in college! Great movie.  This is definitely one of the best encapsulations of a guy's life as he flounders through the years in search of becoming edjamacated.  "}{"Title":"Awesome !","Date":"6 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  After graduating from college with a Master's Degree all I wanna do is just sit back and enjoy it for a while. I dont want to work quite yet and I don't want to do something with my Degree. The future can wait. This movie is about that. Sit back, relax and enjoy. You will never ever be 22-23 again ! Excellent casting...excellent setting...hilarious characters...great lines !  "},{"Title":"7 years since last comment","Date":"15 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I rented Glory Daze at a little film place in West Davis, CA. It spoke volumes to me because I was in a similar situation to that of Jack, the main character, the only difference being, my ex-chick was not seeing some other jackass. I left Davis, CA and started a new career, only to come back here for her...the wrong reason, but my life is better just the same. I'm lucky in a way, but it was inevitable, real, true, first love doesn't die EVER. I'm here, and I loved this movie, especially after I got to know Santa Cruz a little bit. I don't KNOW it, don't get me wrong, but it has a place in my heart, if only a little one. Alyssa Milano, is the princess of staying young, and gives this film an energy it may have sorely lacked without her. Ben is the perfect angst. Patrick is the perfect eccentric Vinnie, the clever artist/social commentator. It's a very local NorCal flick mixed in with some good faces, I loved it, and it really does speak to the graduating, broken hearted NorCal crew. Just watch it and reflect, buy it, and reflect for a lifetime, but don't let it keep you from moving forward, and living it up in the here and now. Peace. "},{"Title":"True representation of love, friendship, and moving on...","Date":"22 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Glory Daze, what a movie.  Not only is the acting superb (it's because of Ben Affleck's brilliant performance), the whole atmosphere of the movie is true to today's world.  Represented by modern issues, this movie allows room for thought and justification towards what the characters are really feeling.  The emotional dialect in this movie is absolutely amazing.  Hey, it's got a great soundtrack, too.  If you like movies about young adults realizing they're no longer young, this is the movie for you. "},{"Title":"Had the references correct, but failed miserably as a movie.","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was well informed as far as the music references go... nice soundtrack... Alternative Tentacles shirt... Brown Reason to Live sticker... lotsa NOFX, etc.. etc... but where's the movie?  It seemed like the most exciting thing about it was Spalding Grey. ...did I just say that?  SPALDING GREY is the most exciting character in the movie.  -wow "},{"Title":"Bad movie with some great scenes and rockin tunes","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  OK, Animal House it's not, but the film did have it's highlights.  Scrap most of the movie and FF to the bus scene for a hilarious one-on-one between Ben Affleck and Jay Lacopo.  Most of the music is in the foreground; it's done for a reason.  Just listen.  If all else fails, sit back and wait for the next close-up of the always eye-catching Alyssa Milano.  And if that doesn't do it for you, rent Animal House again. "},{"Title":"youth, life and the future (+great music!)","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  glory daze would definitely be on my top 10 movie list. the plot takes us along with a group of young adults getting close to graduation. one is a professional student trying to decide if he should continue at UCSC or off to business school. another is a young man facing indecisions about his future with his girlfriend. jack, the central character, is still infatuated with his ex-girlfriend as well as facing the disappointment of his parents for getting a degree in art. these three are joined by slosh a college dropout and mickey, a cartooninst who just can't seem to tell his love interest, played my alissa milano, how he feels. sound confusing? trust me it isn't. glory daze could have been a typical party and have sex at college film, but it surpasses mediocracy and delves into great character development and hilarious dialouge. all of us have felt uncertain about our future and all of us have fallen for someone who didn't share our feelings. glory daze explores these emotions, not from an adults perspective, but from the point of view of young adults about to face to world. add to this a great soundtrack with music by the vandals, NOFX, bad religion, the mr t. experience and the bouncing souls and you have a fun film that reminds you of growing up... "},{"Title":"Great location, terrible flick","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Yes, this movie is about wanting to do nothing and, as such, does just about nothing. The film has some laughs (French Stewart is great), but there's nothing here to make me care about the characters. I felt like I was watching cardboard cutouts skate boarding, drinking, sculpting, partying, and trying to get laid, all covered with a thin veneer of angst. The only thing that kept me awake was recognizing all the locations around Santa Cruz. Go Slugs!!! "},{"Title":"Not as good as the other posters would have you believe.","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Wow.  Glory Days... I saw the movie, I came here to warn others against it, and see all the wonderful praise heaped upon it.  DON'T BELIEVE THE HYPE. French Stewart, yes, Ben Affleck, yes, Spalding Gray, yes... all trying to make bread money out of this movie.  This must have been during their starving period.  I rented this thinking I'd be getting into the Pleasant Surprise category, ie The Mating Habits of the Earthbound Human, but found it much too serious for a comedy, and dealing with far too light a subject matter to be a drama... it was a disappointment. "},{"Title":"Starts off slow..","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I didn't have very high expectations for this movie and when I saw Mr. Affleck and his haircut, I was thinking to myself (or maybe I even said it out loud), oh no here we go again, another Gen-X look at us type flick. But I was wrong, however. Glory Daze deals with a lot of issues near and dear to our hearts (us in the 18-23 age range) and even gave me some hope. Be a deadbeat for a while and get your career started whenever you feel like it, yeah! Tres uplifiting! Oh, pretty good soundtrack too. Thumbs up for playing the New Bomb Turks! "},{"Title":"Surprised anyone could rate this movie 8/10 or higher","Date":"2 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I wish I would of came on here to see some of the ratings off this movie before actually watching it. Some people actually liked it which I am surprised but I guess everyone has their own opinions. I think this movie is very poor and do not recommend it to anyone. This movie I thought would be about teen life and the steps taken when you face the real world but all I saw was confusing story lines that went nowhere. This movie is not funny or entertaining at all. It is dull with boring dialogue and not worth seeing to the very least. If you wish to see a movie about stupid teens watch Dazed and Confused. Comparing this to Dazed and Confushed is a huge difference. Dazed and confused is a much better movie and I recommend to see that and never to see this. I rate this movie a 2/10. I give it a 2 instead of a 1 because I actually managed to watch the whole thing.  "}{"Title":"Before they were stars","Date":"4 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Before you get excited about a cast that includes the likes of Brendan Fraser, Matthew McConaughey, Matt Damon and Leah Remini, (The King of Queens), let it be stated for the record that the sum total of screen time for these four players is something in the region of three minutes. At the time they were marked as new talent to be watched; before they became stars.College comedies tend to be crude and downright stupid. While Glory Daze does have it's moments of such things it is redeemed by some good ensemble playing. Being the story of a bunch of guys renting a house it's crucial that the bond between the characters of this disparate group be palpable. In this, director Rich Wilkes has succeeded. While dealing with the serious issue of making decisions which will affect the rest of one's life, Glory Daze remains light, never losing sight of what it set out to be; a fun movie. While it's not a whole lot of fun, it is watchable. Ben Affleck is surprisingly good in this early role, but that in itself is a back handed compliment, since it also indicates how little he's developed with his elevation to big star status. Sam Rockwell's humor and reticent charm never fails to work, though he's not called upon to do much. French Stewart is less irritating that one may expect as too is Alyssa Milano.Interesting mainly for the cast, Glory Daze' has a nice feel to it, but not one to seek out. "},{"Title":"MTV Video Two Hours Long","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Slick like a MTV video, rap pulsating in the background, punky post-grunge set and clothing, Glory Daze amuses, but it's shallow, clichéd amusement. The senior year at college winds down and all the stereo-types jam a run down student's house. The beer flows, the girls hang around for what reason I don't know, and the furniture is smashed. Cool huh? OK, my senior year wasn't much different back in 69, just more drugs, but what did we learn? For most kids, we didn't learn a whole lot. That's why it's tough to make immature personalities come alive in film. It takes a real artist, but what the hell, last chance to make a fool of yourself without consequence, usually. "},{"Title":"ick","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  self-righteous boys run around and act stupid, stereotype women and generally annoy me.  wants to be a punk rock animal house with heart, but falls amazingly short.  brendan fraser and spaulding gray have memorable small appearances, but not even that can save this film.  "}]