[{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"16 December 2004","Score":"60 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I've enjoyed this movie ever since I first saw it in the theatre. Some movies have a cast of characters and a script that come together in perfect synergy, and this is one of them. The characters illustrate some truths about getting the best out of people, working together harmoniously, building a team and achieving goals, without ever preaching morality. The situations are crafted well and are consistent with the movie's opening premise. The tension builds nicely and the humor is clean and consistent throughout. The movie manages to pull me right in to root for the characters, and to laugh pretty well all the way through. This is a feel good movie as good as they come.What amazes me is that a movie which appears so simple can be so long term entertaining. The music is a perfect copy of music in the typical serious post war navy movies, which helps to create the humor and point out that greatness is in the eye of the beholder. The scenes in the credits are a great music video of In the Navy, which deserve their own full screen special feature. The scenes and cuts are crafted well, and the casting and acting is right on.This movie is a classic as great as any ever made, without any pretensions. In fact, the lack of pretension is what makes it so much fun to watch. I love these guys and gal.The other day I thought of the film, and wondered whether it was available on DVD. Good fortune has come to us, and the DVD came out in May 2004. I headed to the store, and snapped up a copy. Then my wife and I enjoyed another hilarious night in front of the big screen. I've rated this movie as a 10 because it comes together on all levels, far better than many high budget films and Oscar winners. This is entertainment.Listen up Fox home video you have a great movie in your vaults, and it's a shame to find a cheap shot DVD with badly degraded off tint colors only 8 years since release. So why not restore the colors and present the film as it was meant to be seen? I'd gladly pay a few bucks more to get the picture right. I'm grateful to have my own copy. Now give us the eye candy that the film deserves, and how about recreating the credit sequence as a full screen music video special feature. "},{"Title":"A very funny and relaxing movie","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"57 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Being an ex-submariner on both diesel and nuc boats, I wasn't looking for a true to life Navy movie. I have enjoyed Down Periscope over and over again. Sure, some if not most of the realism of life on a submarine is skimmed over, but this adds to the appeal by creating a simplistic story line that is easy and fun to follow. I swear I knew most of the crew of the Stingray. The excellent cast made for an even more enjoyable movie. I don't want to get into specifics about little things that may not have been correct because that would only serve to detract from what I feel is an excellent movie to enjoy for its entertainment. So sit back, relax and Let's kick this pig "},{"Title":"Better Than You'd Think","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"48 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of those movies the critics really missed the mark on. This movie is practically McHale's Navy for the 90s or Police Academy at sea. Grammer proves he can play roles other than Frasier as he outwits and outfoxes the Navy in order to get his own sub. Rob Schneider is as wormy as usual, the same in every role he plays, and Lauren Holly is the local sexpot albeit with a brain. Ken Hudson Campbell is as funny as usual with almost every line a catch phrase. The movie has a wonderful intelligent plot and a non-predictable script that still surprises me every time I watch it. Many of the Navy phrases and terms go over my head, though, but it's a small obstacle for the sheer accuracy and realism of the movie and its characters.  "},{"Title":"Much more cleverly funny than advertised...","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"36 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I first saw this movie when it came out on video within months of its theatrical release in 1996.  I remember how I laughed much more than I expected.  I haven't watched the film until it came out on cable TV recently.  Even though I knew the plot and many of the jokes, I still found myself laughing as hard as when I first saw it.  I was pleasantly surprised that the movie still had an appeal after all these years and many of the actors in the film did a great job without being overly done. Kelsey Grammer, in particular, played a very likeable commander and even though he had the goofiest men under his command, Grammer brought out the best in each of them.This movie is much more believeable to watch than any of the Police Academy movies.  Being a former Navy vet myself, the language made sense to me and after watching a super serious thriller like U-571 recently,  Down Periscope still kept within the framework of what is acceptable and believeable within the Navy.  If you haven't seen this film, I highly recommend it for pure entertainment and escapism. "},{"Title":"Proof that the sum of the parts is often greater","Date":"1 September 2006","Score":"32 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" There was a recent documentary on making movies, that featured a long list of actors and directors talking about what its like to make movies. One common theme was you can have a great script, great cast, the best director and lots of money and still create a bad movie.Down Periscope is proof of the corollary to that theory. Not an original or terribly well written screenplay. A few solid actors, but mostly unknowns, and this movie just makes you laugh out loud! It would be easy to just say that Kelsey Grammar carried this movie, but that isn't truly the case. Other character actors, like Rob Schneider, and the hilarious Harland Williams, added significantly to the enjoyability of the film.Cast dynamics, or that mysterious movie magic are really what happened here, creating a film that flows smoothly, has incredibly well executed transitions and line after line of well written and well performed dialog.A preposterous premise, lots and lots of technical inaccuracies and just plan silly things that could not happen in the real world, or the real navy, but you just don't care. As a merchant marine myself, I found that the overall feel of the movie, while not plausible, was also not too far off the mark as far as life at sea goes.This is a VERY funny movie, a good family film, and, particularly if your a fan, lots of Kelsey Grammar wit, sarcasm and just damn funniness. "},{"Title":"I loved this flick","Date":"7 February 2004","Score":"35 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm glad they finally released it on DVD. I bought the video tape years ago and watch it at least once or twice a year.Grammer has a wry wit about him that really makes this movie a success. Its formula is certainly not original, but it's very funny nonetheless. I am very surprised that it didn't receive higher in the ratings.It ranks as one of my all-time favorite comedies. It's just a fun little flick that makes you feel good. And sometimes, that's all a movie is meant to be.  "},{"Title":"Hillarious","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"26 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I never understood why so many people  hated this film. Maybe it's the whole  tongue in cheek attitude this film took  toward the military and the good ol'boy  system which seems to encompass  within the ranks. Or maybe the military  is too much of a sacred institution to make  fun of (yeah right!). Nonetheless, I felt the  film was funny in many parts, despite the  rather improbably ending and premise.  However, this film did have a great collection  of comics who have their own little quirky  following. Harland Williams, Rip Torn, Harry  Dean Stanton, Kelsey Grammar, Rob Schneider  and William H. Macy all gave solid performances,  reciting their lines with a great amount of wit.  And to note, Lauren Holly looked ravishing with  her natural blonde hair (which was a shock,  considering I had only seen her in red up to that point). "},{"Title":"Hysterically clever and upbeat comedy.","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Surprisingly good and quick-witted adventure that features Kelsey Grammer (supposedly in his first lead role in a feature) as an unconventional Navy sub commander who wants to run a nuclear sub of his own, however; he has earn it by competing against the U.S. Navy in a series of war-games with a crew of untested, questionable, and lovable men (and a woman, too).Director David S. Ward (Major League) and his writers have put together a hysterically clever and upbeat comedy that tries to make the film easy to understand, which they do quite well.  Second, besides the Grammer character, most of the crew provide some or plenty of the movie's humor, which is treated like a double-edged sword.  Three members of the supporting cast - Harland Williams, Toby Huss, and Rob Schneider provide the funniest scenes, which includes weird gestures, impersonations, and, well, their personalities.Down Periscope is more than a Navy version of Police Academy or The Dirty Dozen.  What the film does is get the job done the right way and I liked it.       "},{"Title":"Formulaic Comedy Still Has Its Moments","Date":"31 December 2006","Score":"20 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Sometimes juvenile, sometimes stupid and sometimes very predictable.....but yet this was a fun movie that is charming at times, too. It wasn't good enough to be a keeper, but I did enjoy watching this.The humor is a little sleazy at times but the language wasn't too bad. Kelsey Grammar plays a likable role in the Navy comedy. Most of his crew are somewhat stupid characters but I did like the sonar man with the great hearing. Lauren Holy was okay as the female interest but Rob Schneider was just plain annoying and tended to overact. He's either very funny or very stupid in his films. Bruce Dern, as always, was an effective bad guy.The story is a favorite of the film industry a bunch of rag-tag misfits and rebels somehow outwit and outmaneuver the larger Establishment experts with their high-tech machinery. No matter how improbable or ridiculous, Hollywood will not stop that formula Nonetheless, it's decent lightweight entertainment with a nice, sentimental ending.Odd, though what I remember most is the guys stuffing cotton swabs up their nose! If you've seen the film, you know what I'm talking about. "},{"Title":"Classic laughs are brought to us from a depth of 500 feet.","Date":"23 April 2005","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Starring Kelsey Grammar, Rob Schneider, Lauren Holly, Rip Torn This movie is a classic family favorite. At least for most members of my family that is. One of us rolls our eyes at the mention of this movie and thinks, What a stupid movie. I'm not that person though. I still find this movie highly amusing. I just watched it again last night with someone who had never seen it, and I laughed just as hard as the first time I watched it. It's still very funny to me.Naval Captain Tom Dodge (Grammar) is a bit of a black sheep in the navy. He's the kind of guy who will play golf while on a sub, cracking a ball onto a golf course while they sail past it. He's the kind of guy who will get drunk, pass out, and wake up with a hangover and a tattoo on his dongle. He's not the kind of guy that everybody wants to be commanding a sub.But Dodge is at the end of the line. He's put in applications to get command of his own sub several times, and if he doesn't get a sub this time, he's headed for a desk job, meaning that's it for naval life. The Admiralty decide to give him his own boat, but they don't give him a new nuclear sub. They give him a diesel sub, an ancient relic from World War II. His mission is to clean her up and take her out on the Atlantic for a war game.Dodge is obviously a little bit frustrated to have such a crappy boat given to him when he's worked so hard to get to the point that he's at, so he goes and talks to Admiral Winslow (Torn) about it. Winslow explains the purpose of the war game. Diesel subs are still being sold out there in the real world, to countries like Iran, Iraq, and Libya, to name a few. Winslow wants to know what would happen if some renegade captain in a diesel sub came to the States and tried to smuggle a nuclear warhead into one of the bases. Would they make it? Dodge and most of the Admiralty don't think so, but Winslow wants to know for sure, hence why he has devised this war game. Dodge's mission is to take the Stingray out to sea, then try to evade the U.S. nuclear navy and blow up the American naval bases. In simulated battle, of course.So, that's about as deep as the plot gets. This is not a plot driven movie. It's a stupid movie that is just a big gag. It makes fun of itself, and you are not expected to take it seriously. If you're looking for good dumb laughs on a Friday night, I'd urge you to check it out.Bottom Line 3 out of 4 (worth a look) "}{"Title":"Stunning, prophetic, and ahead of its time","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" LCDR Tom Dodge, despite having a reputation among submariners as a renegade and maverick (*note to reader Maverick does not mean Tom Cruise. Maverick means non-conformist.), is actually an intelligence operative for the Vice Admiral of his submarine fleet. The Vice-Admiral is concerned about our old friends the Russians hosting yard sales with their old diesel fleets. Countries like Lybia, North Korea or Iraq would love to get their hands on this baby and slip a nuclear warhead into Norfolk Harbour or Mayport, Florida. And this was 6-7 years before 9/11.The Admiral assigns Dodge to assume command of a moth-balled WWII diesel sub and mount an exercise against the surface fleet and the USS ORLANDO, a top of the line fast attack sub. Dodge takes command and in no time whips up the bad news bears.. err I mean his lovable group of oddball submariners into warriors. Despite having welcome aboard tattooed on his penis, he is a competent and fair commander, he does not choose favorites and he delegates authority in a responsible manner. The US NAVY could not have come up with a finer piece of recruitment propaganda than this handsomely made under-appreciated gem from the creator of Police Academy. "},{"Title":"Superbly scripted comedy!!","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The scripting of the subtle comedy is unmatched by any movie in recent years.  The characters are interesting, even if a bit predictable.  The comedic timing written into the script is more than enough to make up for a well-worn underdog plot.  When you're sure you know the ending....SURPRISE! Highly recommended for all ages, although the younger set will probably not appreciate some of the more subtle references, they will certainly appreciate one galley scene in particular!  Great movie! "},{"Title":"Great movie IMO","Date":"22 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I love military comedies (Sgt. Bilko, Stripes, In The Army Now, Major Payne) and Down Periscope is hilarious, but it has a heart as well.The Stingray SS-161 (The USS Pampanito) was gorgeous. Absolutely beautiful, a piece of art come alive. So it was a diesel engine sub, so what? I learned that the Aircraft Carrier USS Ranger (which stood in for The Enterprise in Star Trek IV), a huge ship, was 'conventionally powered', which might mean that Ranger was a diesel too.My favorite scene Pascal Jesus, Buckman, this can's been on the stingray since Korea! This can expired in 1966! Buckman (Takes finger full and tastes it) What's the matter, sir? It still tastes like creamed corn.Pascal (Yelling) Except, it's DEVILED HAM!! Buckman That would be a problem.It's story, perhaps a wee strained, seemed plausible. Winslow respected Dodge, and seemed to care about him, so he wanted to give Dodge a chance. He gave him a battered but still seaworthy Balao-class sub, and assigns him the task of using the diesel sub to evade the nuclear Navy and 'attack' Charlston Harbor, and Norfolk. 2-star Admiral Graham (with his eye on his third star, and a grudge against Dodge) assigned him the ragtag crew, hoping that they would screw up so Dodge would lose. Can Tom Dodge get the crew up to speed and working as a team, and can he take an old, out of date sub, and beat the Navy's best? "},{"Title":"A movie I've watched at least 20 times","Date":"24 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I saw the movie in the theater at its release, then watched the VHS tape over the years, and while strolling through Target saw this DVD bundled with Pushing Tin for the exorbitant sum of $5.50.There is something about this comedy that has really clicked with me - how Kelsey Grammar, with a tattoo on his thing, is an unorthodox commander who inherits a rusty diesel sub and a crew of screwballs and misfits. He's up against the Navy's best - a Los Angeles Class nuclear attack sub - and his old captain (Wm Macy).Bruce Dern plays the bad guy, Rip Torn the admiral running the exercise - If you don't laugh hysterically during the run silent segment with the cook, well, you have a different kind of humor from me.Towards the end the machinist says D.B.F. with no explanation - it is apparently some inside knowledge gotten from an old submariner consultant - thanks to Google I learned that with the advent of the nuclear subs the old salts would wear DBF pins - Diesel Boats Forever. A Navy friend said that many of the technical aspects aren't correct but who cares - it is one of the funniest movies I've seen.I don't think it takes a clairvoyant to know who will win in this exercise! "},{"Title":"Hilarious with great characters.  Side splitting at times and light action too!","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Look, we rated this a 10 on entertainment value. It's a comedy sure, not an epic like Lord of the Rings, or Gone with the Wind. Still for comedy, particularly these days, it's a 10.Not a long movie, moves quickly and easily. Kelsey Grammar right at home is this role as a loose but brilliant captain of a diesel sub, pitted against the US Nuclear Navy in a war game, designed to see if Terrorists could get a nuclear bomb through our defenses. (kinda ironic this plot...pre 911) Don't take this topic seriously cause it's mostly laughs from start to finish.Rob Schneider is 2nd in command (like Frank Burns) and pulls many laughs. All the others are perfect for their parts as well. Rip Torn and Bruce Dern.Look plain and simple, you got 90 minutes and need a laugh or pick me up and you're not a prude (their is some language and innuendo) then rent it, or buy it (we did) and enjoy! I wish they would make a part 2! "},{"Title":"Comedy and action in a well mixed combination","Date":"1 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I've seen this movie at least 8 times, and I still laugh every time. The movie is about how an intelligent and motivated man, against all odds, can cheat the entire over-self-confident system.This movie is for all people, who like a funny movie.The action and comedy is well mixed into a brilliant film, that I hope to see on DVD soon. "},{"Title":"Big laughs and a good script.","Date":"26 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The high admiral of the fleet of the United States meets to decide if the captain Dodge (Kelsey Grammar), give it its own nuclear submarine. As not agree, decide to give one that comes from the Second World War, with the worst and wildest crew, and put on trial before a practice of war.Lighthearted film whose main attraction is being the playfulness of the whole script that, despite everything, is not as crazy as it may sound, unlike many other comedies of the absurd. Reminds me a bit to that great comedy Operation Petticoat Blake Edwards 1959.Actually, the story is left to tell and the picture is as good as any other submarine movie. View Kelsey Grammar (Dr. Frasier Winslow Crane), navy dress or playing golf in shirt is priceless, and meet with William H. Macy is an unexpected surprise from the chaotic distribution. Watching the two actors in roles that are so small is a really fun exercise, but it is definitely more fun to see how Rob Schneider repulsive disappears from the screen (literally and figuratively This film may instill values or thought-provoking or anything, however, you are assured a half hour of fun and laughter, which is often all you need.The cinema needs these absurd comedies and lighthearted as this Down Periscope or Airplane! 1980 or even more recent films like Ali G Indahouse 2002 Austin Powers International Man of Mystery 1997 or Step Brothers 2008, are inconsequential films, but you do drop huge laughs. "},{"Title":"much better than McHale's navy","Date":"2 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" i bought both this movie and McHale's Navy cheap at the same time.i thought McHale's navy was pretty much a disaster.it's supposed to be funny,but i didn't think so.Down Periscope is in a similar vein,but is actually fairly funny at times.it's not great,but i did laugh on occasion.Kelsey Grammar is the main star.Lauren Holly,Bruce Dern,William H.Macy,Harland Williams,and Rip Torn also star,among others.even Rob Schneider has a role,but he is actually funny here.of course,he isn't the main character so that helps.along with some laughs,there's also a bit of action and excitement.in the end the movie turns out pretty decent.my vote for Down Periscope is a 6/10 "},{"Title":"A bit good, but I mainly like it because of Kelsey Grammar.","Date":"28 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Yes, if he were not in this movie I would have probably knocked it down to a five or so. As it is he does a rather good job as the leader of his own submarine fool of misfits that it adds a bit to this flick. Granted it does seem almost like a television movie in terms of its quality, it is a comedy though so a cheap look does not detract from it as much as say a action movie. The story has Grammar as a naval officer who wishes to be in charge of his own sub. However, he has done things in the past that prevent this. He is given one chance though to change this as he must lead a rag tag crew on board a very old submarine against a very new and modern sub in a war game type scenario. Basic plot for the most part, a few other stars besides Grammar including Rip Torn, Bruce Dern, and William H. Macy. Rob Schnieder is also in it, but he is a bit annoying...happily he makes a nice exit midway through the film. Most of the crew is made up of actors that you have seen before, but mainly in smaller roles or as background type people. The comedy is okay for the most part, the plot somewhat predictable, still it is a somewhat good comedy worth a chuckle or two. "},{"Title":"One that didn't get away","Date":"10 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Down Periscope has been in our library since it first arrived in VHS. Since then, we have acquired the DVD and a digital from Cinema Now.It is a quirky flick that does not go militarily overboard as either pro or con. It is first and foremost a comedy and as a vehicle for the main characters, I am quite surprised that a sequel has never been offered.The movie has gained a following that borders on a cult obsession, even among the very young. I became aware of this while visiting the USS Drum in Mobile, Alabama in 2002. A group of Cub Scouts, my grandson among them, had all taken up the roles from the movie and planned to relive it during their overnighter on board.It is a fun romp that makes you proud both of our Navy and Hollywood... which is rare company.Thanks to Kelsey Grammar, Lauren Holly and Rob Schneider for making what could have been an otherwise unremarkable movie, such great entertainment! "}{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"15 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a VERY underrated movie to say the least. As has been pointed out in previous posts, this movie has a somewhat loose and highly implausible script but you find yourself saying Who cares? while shooting milk (or insert beverage of your choice here) through your nose. It was indeed due to a rare mix of actors in sync. While Kelsey Grammar is obviously a gifted actor (reference 'Frasier', this movie) the supporting actors/actress play their roles quite well. I found in interesting how they threw in the part about Duane Martin blowing the shot in the 'big game' for Navy's basketball team; if any of you is a basketball fan you'll remember Martin from 'White Men Can't Jump' and 'Above the Rim' and you'll know that Martin had a short stint in the NBA with the Knicks. Nice how they threw in believable character attributes such as this. Rob Schneider's anal-retentive character was the perfect offset to Grammar's calm demeanor. Lauren Holly played the gutsy-sexpot-with-a-brain well enough to make you want her to succeed. This is a movie that will make you laugh even if you've seen it many times before...the comic bits in this movie definitely last. I still find myself laughing 12 years later.Is that one of my chickens? Uhhh...no. This a parrot....from the Caribbean. Well don't let it fly away...that's supper. Arrrrr.....arr. "},{"Title":"Delightful Film","Date":"1 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I just discovered this film and love it. Just the right mix of fast moving story, entertaining characters, hilarious moments (but not overloaded with stupid jokes), and fun performances by Kelsey Grammar, Harry Dean Stanton, Ron Schneider, Rip Torn and more. Buckman is especially good, and I really enjoyed watching the guy who played Stapanick.I also find it interesting that they used a real submarine, the Pampanito, for the running on top scenes and emulated it almost exactly for their sets. The set decoration is really impressive if you do a digital tour of the Pampanito online and then compare it to scenes in the movie. They did an excellent job on this film.What a light entertaining and truly enjoyable movie! "},{"Title":"DVD complaint","Date":"1 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a very funny movie. But why do we not have the widescreen version of this, instead of Pan & Scan? Yes, I know it says here 1.851 just like the DVD. But it is not true. The movie is 2.351, just look at the trailer. What they have done is Pan & Scanned the movie for standard TV 1.331, then to make it fake widescreen, they took the 1.331 P&S picture, chopped off the top and bottom and made it 1.851. So, you see actually even less than the standard TV size.They did the same thing with Top Gun. This is inexcusable.I wold love to see this movie correctly. The movie is clever, well-written and fun. The lines sick with you.I do not understand why it did not do well in the theaters. Whenever I mention this movie among friends they all know it and either own it or have seen it. "},{"Title":"Some really funny stuff and I really enjoyed it.","Date":"14 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I can't explain it, but I find this movie not only funny, but so enjoyable I feel compelled to watch it over and over, or at least I did when I had cable TV. I always felt it was a really poorly made movie, but perhaps that is because I watched it on cable. I plan to get a DVD of this movie to really take an honest look at at, but more importantly to just have a good time watching it. I liked the plot and the idea of the movie and I especially liked the cast. I always wonder if the cast enjoyed making the movies they are in and this is no exception. This film deserved a better fate than it received and Kelsey Grammar deserved at least one love scene with Ms. Holly. Who wouldn't? The characters in this movie were the kind of guys I could identify with when I was in the military and the zaniness was exact. Nice going troops. "},{"Title":"Rusty diesel sub with a misfit crew and a renegade Captain wins all","Date":"30 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It starts a little slow but give it a chance. In the spirit of the Wackiest Ship in the Arm and the Pink Sub this movie is about a not so orthodox group engaged in not so orthodox methods to outwit everyone. Rob Schneider is priceless as a LT that takes himself way too seriously which results in a failed mutiny attempt and pirate crew makes him walk the plank. In contrast Kelsey Grammar(similar to Cary Grant)does not take anything to serious except the job. This movie is more about lines than plot. From the beered up fisherman in Charleston harbor to the whale decoy, their antics took me by surprise and I laughed out loud. "},{"Title":"comedy without sharp edges","Date":"16 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Down Periscope is not a Great Movie. But then again very few flicks are. So if your looking for entertainment instead of great wisdom this is a great movie, without the capitals. No sharp sexism or graphic violence spoil this light comedy about a bunch of misfits who are assigned to a antique submarine. They are set to fail their tasks so that a general can get his extra star. They must take on the entire US-navy with it's nuclear submarines. But they are underdogs and this is a comedy so you can guess the outcome. But you root for those underdogs and this makes it a very entertaining movie. Watch and enjoy ******** (eight stars that is) "},{"Title":"Give it 10 minutes and  you're hooked!","Date":"28 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The first few minutes of this movie don't do it justice!For me, its not funny until they board the sub and those hilarious characters begin to gel. I was born and raised in Norfolk Virginia and met my share of different sailors- I even married one! Most of my favorite movies are just funny, not topical, not dependent on sex or violence and funny every time I see them. Groundhog Day, Bruce Almighty and Down Periscope are still funny even after I know the dialog by heart. Kelsey Grammar with his God I LOVE this job!was sincere, genuine and lovable. Rob Schneider is hysterical as the crew gets back at him for being annoying. I am still amazed at the size of that fishing boat next to a sub! I can see why folks who live this life would notice the uh-oh's but its not a documentary after all its a comedy and I just love it! "},{"Title":"Fun movie","Date":"23 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie. I have probably watched it 2 dozen times or more and still enjoy it. Being an old Navy guy, Im still stirred by the rousing rendition of Anchors Away! I also love the McHales Navy pirate atmosphere. I could have done without the female dive officer but Im just old fashioned I guess. She was still good to look at, lol, espesially after the crew got done with her laundry. The cook, sonarman, and electrician made the movie. Loved the salty old engineer and his first class PO too. And Grammer actually did a very commendable job of being a misfit Officer. I loved the driving scene as they passed the golf course on the way into port, lol. Pure Navy! And I swear I had an XO that was just like that little weasel...  Im am so glad this is out on DVD, about bloody time. 0) "},{"Title":"Mindless humor","Date":"3 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is about a bunch of misfits who are supposed to be assigned to a task that is expected to fail miserably.  The misfits pull together to successfully complete their mission.Hilarity ensues.Like the Police Academy films, the humor comes from the kooky characters on the boat.  I thought it was an engaging film and I will stop to watch it anytime it is on TV.  No, it won't cause you to ponder your relative role in the cosmos or inspire you to do great things for the service of mankind, but it is fun enough entertainment for 90-some-odd minutes.  Plus, Lauren Holly looks hot in a naval uniform. "},{"Title":"Guilty Pleasure","Date":"17 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  You know sometimes you just gotta have it? That's how this movie is with me. I am almost embarrassed to admit that I like it, it is so goofy in some parts, but I find myself reaching for it when I'm down and just need a good laugh...and trust me, I am just not a goofy movie kinda guy.You can read the synopsis so I don't have to bore you with that, just rest assured, if you like Kelsey Grammer you will probably like this movie.One more thing, be SURE to watch the end credits. You don't need to read them, just watch them and catch the performance of In the Navy by the Village People...and friends. "}{"Title":"Simple, but great entertainment!  Why no DVD release???","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I found this movie to be a simple yet wonderful comedy. This movie is purely entertaining. I can watch it time and time again and still enjoy the dialog and chemistry between the characters.  I truly hope for a DVD release! "},{"Title":"Worthy of DVD release...","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  especially when looking at the amount of crap that has made it to DVD.  I found this movie very funny.  Rip Torn is classic with his barbs; Rob Schneider if hilariously annoying as the over-compensating Ensign; Bruce Dern makes a great villain.  The entire cast seems to be having a blast, and it's not at the expense of the audience.  If you like just plain fun comedy, and aren't looking too deeply into meaning, you just might fall in love with this one. "},{"Title":"Amiable, upbeat Navy comedy","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A welcome throwback to Navy comedies of the sixties, Down Periscope tips its hat to such sleepers as Jack Lemmon's The Wackiest Ship In The Army. Director David S. Ward moves the pace along briskly and ensures the movie has its tongue firmly in its cheek. It's difficult not to like a movie where the cast seems to be having such a good time. Down Periscope features fine performances all around, most notably Kelsey Grammer stepping out of character as Tom Dodge, the sub's skipper, and veteran character actors Rip Torn, Bruce Dern and Harry Dean Stanton-- having been around since the earth was cooling--make welcome appearances. Bradford Tatum as Seaman Stepanak is especially fun to watch, and the director even slips a little character development in when you aren't looking. I wish they made more movies like this one, that so obviously isn't taking itself seriously! Down Periscope is a fine way to spend a couple of hours. "},{"Title":"enjoyable despite critics critiques","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie (in fact I purchased it - a bargain for $6.99 at walmart).  True, it required suspending logic, but that is what the movies are for, and the rooting for the underdog plot is satisfying.Interestingly, there was a real USS Stingray (although it was not the submarine used in the movie - which is a working WW II sub made to look old).   "},{"Title":"One of the best comedies in years!","Date":"22 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is one of my favorite movies. The combination of the off-beat Captain of the U. S. S. Rustbucket, Marty Pascal, XO and moron, and the evil Admiral whose after then, and the misfit crew all work to give laugh after laugh. My only objections is that as a 22 year veteran Commander and the Navy Nurse Corps I have one comment to make Lt Lake, the dive beauty, is never in the right uniform with the right haircut. Probably small potatoes but the the end of the movie--where do they get those shoes? And her dress uniform is without a shirt. Throughout the movie her hair is always hanging lower than regulation. Of course, only a Navy type would notice this. Lauren Holley does a good just of being the only girl on a all-boy sub and putting up with the pranks without complaint. I love when they make Marty walk the plank!! He does say the best line in the movie I feel I need a tetanus shot just looking at it as he views the sub. "},{"Title":"An Excellent B movie","Date":"25 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" There are some films everyone should have in their DVD collection because they are fun to watch more than once. Down Periscope is in that mix along with such as Operation Mad Ball (Lemmon/Kovacs) or The Wackiest Ship in the Army (Lemmon/Nelson) or Operation Petticoat (Grant/Curtis). These are B pictures but are fun and provide chuckles along the way. Kelsey Grammar is fine. Lauren Holly before her NCIS days, Bruce Dern, William H. Macy, Rip Torn, and Harry Dean Stanton join in no doubt for the money but they all probably had a good time. Sometimes on a rainy or snowy afternoon there is nothing better than a good B picture. "},{"Title":"Top 5 favorite movies of all time.","Date":"29 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is a true classic. Simply the greatest comedy film ever made. Laugh out Loud humor through out, but with a solid story and lovable (or hate-able) characters driving it. Kelsey Grammar is at his comedy best in this film, which is a parody of such films as Hunt for Red October. This movie is a true can't miss. My personal favorite character is Nitro. A man with little to no sense of self preservation, or of pain for that mater. And no, Nitro ISN'T his nick name, but he IS working on a nickname though. This man has absorbed a LOT of voltage in his life and can even function as a human radio speaker in a pinch. Also, never eat beans on a submarine. "},{"Title":"Down Kelsey.","Date":"15 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Down Periscope (1996) Dir David Ward / Cast Kelsey Grammar, Lauren Holly, Rip Torn, Rob Schneider, Harland Williams Washout comedy that gives new meaning to low budget. Kelsey Grammar has a dream that unfortunately doesn't involve pulling the plug on this project. He wishes to command his own submarine and crew, which he eventually does but the sub is a rust bucket. Among the crew is Lauren Holly who wishes to become the first female submarine commander for the Navy. The crew play mean spirited pranks on her such as stealing her bra. Title indicates unsuccessful misfits but we already know that they will be rewarded for putting up with each other. David Ward, who previously made The Program, directs this film like a really bad sitcom with a budget of all of five dollars. Grammar is basically reciting his Fraser role. We know that he will gain respect in the conclusion but nobody really cares. We also know that Holly will prove herself and become higher rank and nobody cares about that either. Rip Torn and Rob Schneider are wasting time when they could be looking for better film projects. Harland Williams appears to be under a worst joke than drinking urine in Dumb and Dumber. It regards underdogs or underachievers, which pretty much sums up the screenwriter's ambition when penning this dreadful sinker. This film should be sunk&#x85;down a toilet. Score 1 / 10 "},{"Title":"Fun","Date":"24 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Lt. Cmdr. Tom Dodge (Kelsey Grammar) is assigned as Captain to the USS Stingray, an old diesel driven submarine that has seen better days. With a crew that consists only of outcasts, he is headed against the atomic powered USS Orlando, with the mission to destroy a dummy battleship.Oh, my goodness, this incredible cast Bruce Dern, William H. Macy, Patton Oswalt, Rob Schneider, Harry Dean Stanton, Rip Torn and others. Even if the film is not that great (and many would say it is not), the sheer breadth of characters aboard the ship is sure to please.The inclusion of Lauren Holly in unfortunate. Not because she is a bad actress, but because hr character merely exists to be a sexual object. Sure, the film is now almost twenty years old (this is 2014), but were we not already past such things in the 90s? "},{"Title":"Like Being with my Father Again","Date":"8 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Just ran into this on NetFlix--wish I'd seen it years ago. The whole movie reminded me of Daniel V. Gallery's (R.Adm. retired) hilarious series of books surrounding unlikely Naval characters like Fatso Gianninni, chief of the incinerator on an aircraft carrier in the mid-60s. My father shared these books and others with me at a very impressionable age, and I love them still. If they are available, and you like this film, you Must read them. The movie is a hilariously impossible yarn of a bunch of misfits triumphing. It is incredibly realistic to what I saw (of course I was a kid) spending 3 months of March at/around Key West Naval Basin, while my father was testing ASW equipment during the Atlantic Fleet's annual exercise, 1966-'68. When I heard the movie announce that airplanes were dropping 'sonobouys' (their real name), I hooted with joy. That was my father's project! He used to use one as an ashtray on his desk. Down Periscope is a brilliantly human piece of work! "}{"Title":"Confused but loving it","Date":"10 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I love this comedy every time I see it. But I am confused about the timing of the infamous tattoo. Admiral Graham (Bruce) said that Dodge (Kelsey) got so drunk as an ensign that he had Climb Aboard tattooed you-know-where, and then he added that only three years ago Dodge brushed up against a Soviet sub. But Dodge told Lake that he got over the brushing incident by getting drunk and a tattoo, (which he didn't recommend), and he began explaining the tattoo at the end of the movie by saying that it happened after the Murmansk incident. But that would mean that he was many years past being a mere ensign (no disrespect). Still, an excellent movie, and Holly Lauren, later the Director at NCIS, looked great as a busty blonde, didn't she? "},{"Title":"Something a little different","Date":"11 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Military movies are hammed-up cringe-fests. Feel-good movies are so sickening, they induce projectile vomiting.This movie is a feel-good military (submarine) movie that actually works. Whilst it does have a sprinkling of cheese and some quite puerile moments it is largely inoffensive and quite funny.I couldn't fault the actors, the script, the characters or the general premise.Even better, I wouldn't hesitate to let my kids see it and wouldn't hesitate to watch it again.This movie might not win any prizes or - god forbid - earn cult status; but what it DOES do is entertain and it does that very well. "},{"Title":"Almost sounded like... an explosion.","Date":"21 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Down Periscope is actually quite good, sort of a naval take on the Police Academy if you will. Although labeled as a comedy, it is not the type of movie that will have you laughing out loud constantly, but the comedy in the movie is entertaining and well-used.The story is about Lt. Cmdr. Tom Dodge (played by Kelsey Grammar) who is given an old diesel-run submarine to participate in a wargame exercise against modern sea vessels. But as if an ancient submarine is not enough, he is also given a motley band of seamen.Actually the storyline was good and nicely executed, and there were actually moments of suspense in the movie, where you sit and root for the crew aboard the old submarine. The characters in the movie were colorful and fun, although most of them were somewhat unfit for naval duty, I think, but that just added to the comedy aspect.One of my favorite scenes is during a silent run, the cook rips a massive fart that smells horribly. I can't help but laugh so much during that scene, especially when you see the people's responses to the smell. Hilarious!Down Periscope actually brandish quite an astounding list of people on the cast list; Kelsey Grammar, Lauren Holly, Rob Schneider, Harry Dean Stanton, Bruce Dern, William H. Macy, Toby Huss, Rip Torn, Patton Oswalt, to mention the most familiar of faces.If you enjoy comedies like Police Academy, then chances are that you will enjoy Down Periscope as well. "},{"Title":"A Fair Comedy!","Date":"6 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" 'Down Periscope' is A Fair Comedy, that delivers some genuine laughs. 'Down Periscope' tells the story of a captain of a rust-bucket Navy submarine, the USS Stingray, who is fighting for his career as he is saddled with a group of misfit seamen.Watch 'Down Periscope' with limited expectations & I'm sure you won't be disappointed. Its a fair comedy, that doesn't fail to deliver. Hugh Wilson, Andrew Kurtzman & Eliot Wald's Screenplay is relaxing & funny. David S. Ward's Direction is perfect. Cinematography, Editing & Art Design, are fabulous.Performance-Wise Kelsey Grammar is a terrific actor & he's in full from in here as well. Rob Schneider is extremely funny & likable. Lauren Holly is splendid. William H. Macy, as always, is perfect. Rip Torn & Bruce Dern are decent. Ken Hudson Campbell stands out. On the whole, 'Down Periscope' works. "},{"Title":"Very underrated","Date":"11 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I really do not understand how this has an IMDb rating of 5.5. It was really relaxing and cheerful and had plenty of chuckles along. Each character got its own development and screen time. Kelsey Grammar's character is very likable and the characters are interesting enough for a movie of this type. Even the numerous jokes about his infamous tattoo are strangely funny, even though in another film they might put one off.A really fun movie that I would definitely recommend it for some laughs. Cheers. "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"6 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This Is A Film That Takes A Whack At All Submarine Movies, This Is Also The Only Submarine Movie I Will Watch With The Exception Of Das Boot(Don't Think That They Are Related Movies In Any Way, Shape Or Form).The Best Performance Is From Either Rob Schnider Or Kelsey Grammar, Both Were Absolutely Hysterical, Schnider Garuanteed Is A Good Performance In This Whether Your A Fan Of Him Or Not.The Tattoo On Kelsey Grammar's Penis In This Film Is By Far One Of The Best Ongoing Jokes In Cinematic History (In My Opinion) Its Funny At The End When Lauren Holly Asks Whats This Tattoo Business I've Been Hearing About? And He Replies Well Its A LONG Story... That Always Cracks Me Up.Overall I Highly Recommend This Film To A Fan Of Dumb Humour. "},{"Title":"Much more enjoyable Navy comedy than it has a right to be.","Date":"14 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Kelsey Grammar is Navy Lt. Cmdr. 'Tom' Dodge. He has been an officer for 20 years and time is running out for him to get his own ship. He expects to get a modern nuclear submarine. But two high level officers have a difference of opinion, and compromise. They will give Dodge an old, WW2 era diesel sub to command, with a makeshift crew of misfits, and let him be the aggressor in Virginia war games. If he succeeds in getting past the best defense the Navy has to offer, he will get a modern sub.With the deck strongly stacked against him, Dodge has to use his considerable ingenuity to accomplish the tasks. Cute Lauren Holly in her prime is Lt. Emily Lake, Diving Officer, who only has experience in simulators and and to learn to function in the real world of underwater. Rob Schneider is the ultra gung-ho Executive Officer Martin T. 'Marty' Pascal. Harry Dean Stanton is CPO Howard, Chief Engineer. Bruce Dern is RAdm. Yancy Graham who is against Dodge getting a command. William H. Macy is Cmdr. Carl Knox (Orlando) who is in the nuclear sub trying to thwart Dodge in the war game exercise. And Rip Torn is Vice Adm. Dean Winslow, who is on Dadge's side.The movie is not high art by any means, but Grammar is in good form, as are the other actors, and it is entertaining to see how the good guys work to come out on top. "},{"Title":"NOT McCales Navy!!!","Date":"2 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a really good submarine movie, in the tradition of +DestinationTokyo +Run Silent, Run Deep +Gray lady downAltho the crew is a bunch of characters -- just like many war movies -- they are not really a bunch of screw-ups. Kelsey Grammar plays it straight, and he seems to be the kind of skipper we would all like to have. For me, the movie delivered 110% -- I don't have much patience for nonsense anymore, but this one was GREAT!! Settle down and watch it like it deserves.Rick Jolley Tombstone, AZ "},{"Title":"Funny light comedy","Date":"24 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" With talents like Kelsey Grammar and Rip Torn and a some funny lines, this is a great comedy for when you don't want to think.Premise is a bit dumb. As Russia is selling Diesel boats to other nations, an admiral wants to know how well one would fare against modern subs.Thankfully, with comedies of this sort, the plot is second nature to the dialog and comic acting. In this movies case, there's some pretty funny dialog, and some funny characters.I especially like Grammar's understated comedic acting. He delivers funny lines pretty straight. His character assumes sort of a kind fatherly relationship with his command.The bad guy is pretty well played. Nothing special, but solid.The supporting cast is decent. I liked the radio guy who made connection using his own body. He was pretty funny. The fat cook was too clich. The chick was pretty. And her role was OK, a bit more depth might have been welcome.If you like your basic clich comedy with some good lines now and again, and like Gammer and Torn, you will probably like this.I like it so much I have seen it three times. Why? I find myself in need of a movie where I will laugh a few times, and never have to think. This is that movies. "},{"Title":"Come on - it's just fun!","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Granted this movie isn't realistic, logical or worthy of classic status, but come on - it's a movie.  It was great to see Bruce Dern doing comedy again, and as always I loved Rip Torn's wonderful facial expressions.  The movie is great fun, has wonderfully silly characters and even the juvenile humor can make a stuffed shirt (like myself) laugh.  Kelsy Grammer was able to break away from the over pretentious Dr. Crane and bring us another side of his acting.  I think it is worthy a DVD release!!  In fact - I'm going to watch it when I get home. "}{"Title":"Sheer Comical Brilliance","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is without a doubt one of the most entertaining I have enjoyed for a long time. And to 20th Century Fox I ask you....CAN WE HAVE IT RELEASED AS A DVD? I love Kelsey Grammer and would also like to see his tv series Frasier as a boxed set available on DVD......that's it!!!! "},{"Title":"A Barrel of Laughs","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  My wife and I find this movie to be a wonderful pick-me-up when we need to have a good laugh - the conflict between some characters and the repore between others make this a sure fire comedy relief.  I am so looking forward to this movie coming on DVD so I can replace my well watched VHS. "},{"Title":"A very funny film","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you like the excitement of a good submarine drama and the fun of a good comedy, then this film comes highly recommended. Kelsey Grammer gives an excellent performance here.The film also gives you something to think about the next time a serious sub movie asks for 'silent running'.... "},{"Title":"Perpared for the worst and very pleasantly surprised","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When this movie was released it didn't get the kindest reviews.  I caught it on TV and expected it to be terrible.  To the contrary it was good solid entertainment, well paced, well-acted (for it's type of movie), and just fun to watch.  Kelsey Grammer did not do a Dr. Crane take but simply played the character for what it was, a competent, if somewhat irreverant at times, Sub Commander.  The rest of the cast filled out their characters by taking them near to over the top without doing so, except for Rob Snieder - which was OK.  His over the top character fit into the movie just fine.  It didn't win any accademy's but I don't think anyone involved ever expected it would. If you want a movie that is enjoyable and light and could hold the interests of anyone of almost any age above 8, this should do it. "},{"Title":"No-brainer light fun, and good at it","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  OK, it's a no-thought-required farce, with some fairly cheap laughs such as the running joke about Dodge's tattoo, but it's great when you just want a good laugh that doesn't require a great deal of mental effort. Maybe someone should have told Pascal about decaf? -) "},{"Title":"Torpedoed by poor publicity","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  DOWN PERISCOPE was one I'd avoided because the film's publicity made it look like a juvenile POLICE ACADEMY-style romp rather than the cross between   STRIPES and THE HUNT FOR RED OCTOBER that it more resembles.Yes it's a pratfalling, farting, misfits-become-team-players kind of a flick, however it also generates some genuine drama and tension during its war  game sequences where our heroes in their rustbucket sub must out-manoeuvre   a faster, better-armed enemy.So if you want to be entertained and don't mind switching your IQ into low gear, then give this film a go. "},{"Title":"Sit back and smile!","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I found this to be a light-hearted comedy that was fun to watch, and didn't strain the brain too much.  Good supporting cast helped it along it's way. Recommended for those seeking a casual diversion for 90 minutes or so...   "},{"Title":"This is a very funny movie!","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I've lost count of the times I have seen this movie, but I love it and find it very funny each time I see it.  The facial expressions, slapstick humor and the timing on the jokes makes it great.  The characters, especially Nitro, Sonar and Stepanik are hilarious.  I thought Kelsey Grammar, Rip Torn and Bruce Dern did a great job. In fact, I think this movie was perfectly cast. I think it does need to be released in DVD before I wear my VHS version out.   "},{"Title":"Kind of funny actually","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When i heard about this movie i did think it would be funny but i was wrong. The plot is not great or realistic but that does not bother the movie.A good movie if u dont mind watching it with a sense of humor and an open mind for making the navy look stupid 7/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent bundle of laughs!  XD","Date":"11 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I know I can always depend on this movie to liven some spirits every time I watch it.  I recommend it to anyone who hasn't seen it yet!  Every character has got its own flavor and it's the mixing of all those flavors that made this movie what it is.  Down Periscope really should have a much higher rating!  One thing I wish I could convince everyone on this planet to do is to not depend on the critics' opinions when you are deciding to see a movie! NEVER!!!!!!!!  If you love comedies, then make sure you see this one! You'll be glad you allowed yourself to form your own opinion about it, cause it'll be a high one!!!!!!  ) "}{"Title":"Entertaining but not worth a purchase","Date":"6 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I saw this movie at a small group night and really approached it with a cynical outlook. In my opinion most American comedies tend not to be all that funny (probably because I do not get their sense of humour). It takes a special comedy to appeal to me. I hate slapstick and the movie spoofs like Spy Hard have simply become so dull that they are no longer funny. Sometimes though there is an American film that actually has some life in it, and Down Periscope is one of them.This movie is a bumbling idiot comedy. Basically, like Police Academy, it is about a group of bumbling idiots who are given an impossible assignment and through some twist of fate they succeed. An irresponsible officer is given an opportunity to prove himself and is given an antiquated submarine and a crew of hopeless idiots and he is commanded to destroy two major naval ports, one in Charlston and the other at Norfolk. This is basically an impossible task for this is ancient submarine that still runs on diesel.I sort of like bumbling idiot movies, as long as they are done well. Down Periscope kept me interested and kept the laughs through to the end. It was not a hilarious movie at the beginning only to die at the end. It actually keeps the laughs going through. Yes, Down Periscope is worth it. "},{"Title":"Yo ho, me maties! 8 of 10! Aargh!","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I do not understand the criticisms. This movie was not much of a stretch of reality. The characters were mostly believable; a few a bit over the top. Tom Dodge was not; Kelsey Grammar was well cast and believable. Rip Torn, Bruce Dern, and William Macy played very believable characters; I've known people like them. The scenario was reasonable. The anomalies had a good rational presented to explain them. The movie managed to be a reasonable action film and a decent comedy at the same time. That's no small feat.There is a little bit of crude humor, mostly the running gag about Tom Dodge's tattoo on his dick and cat call stuff aimed at Lauren Holly's character. Neither of these are unrealistic for the character situation portrayed, and are not out of place; the crude humor does not seem as forced and childish as it often is in movies.The In the Navy video in the closing credits isn't bad, either.Yo ho, me maties! 8 of 10! Aargh! MadKaugh "},{"Title":"awesome","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie was a blast to watch and I have been looking for it to add to my collection.It's funny,full of small quips and one liners that cant be caught in one sitting.A definite family movie for dad and the boys.With the captain of the u.s.s. rust bucket and the shocking electrician you cant help but enjoy the antics and tom foolery.The whole crew is a bunch of misfits that seem to work together but not in a regular service.I hope they plan on making a second on the new sub the crew get.well done and the actors can be proud of this one.3 thumbs up ) this ones should be on discovery channel's sub week .Or at least rented on a regular basis. fun for all. "},{"Title":"I'm surprised it's rated so low on here","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of my 3 favorite movies. I've been out on the water since I was 13, so I got a lot of the humor as well as recognizing a lot of the near-land scenery (the movie, although taking place in and around Virginia, was filmed around the San Francisco Bay), most notably the mothball fleet just east of the Benicia Bridge where Kelsey Grammar's character was first introduced to the USS Stingray, and the piers of San Francisco at the very end of the movie (including a boat that I've worked on). As other people have said, the actors appeared to have fun making this movie as well as making it entertaining. The line We're approaching the bottom, sir! I can hear a couple of lobsters duking it out is, at least to me, priceless.I am one of numerous people who is anxiously awaiting a letterboxed DVD of Down Periscope to be introduced. "},{"Title":"Great idea, silly movie","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The plot behind Down Periscope is worthy of a great movie. Sadly, they made some hollywood crap fest out of it. Kelsey Grammar, could have done a lot for his career has this movie not tried to be Animal House on a sub.That being said, I have watched it more than once, and have enjoyed it for the originality of the plot. I just leave the room to get a beer when they start to sing, you know the song.I recommend it if you like stories about submarine warfare, AND can block out the formula elements present in movies like Animal House. "},{"Title":"An amusing, surprisingly well-informed, farce.","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Perhaps you need a naval historian, which I'm, to get some of the jokes, but the basic premise--that an old diesel sub might get through our defenses--is one that DOES occupy the uneasy dreams of our admirals.  Kelsey Grammer and his crew of misfits are quirky, eccentric, and somehow delightfully believable, as are the depictions of infighting between the crew and the officers conducting the exercise that makes up the plot.One unsung star of the film is U.S.S. Pampanito, currently in San Francisco harbor, and a fine old relic of World War II that can still be visited. STAY TUNED FOR THE CREDITS! "},{"Title":"Actually quite clever","Date":"15 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was a movie that actually took me by surprise. I am into the kind of zany comedy found in Hot Shots and The Naked Gun, but I don't think that they are good movies. They are just entertainment. This movie on the other hand is an example of the fact that there can be a modicum of intelligence in a crazy comedy.  "},{"Title":"Very simple comedy. Occasionally amusing, always predictable","Date":"5 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" My wife and I had some fun predicting when the clichs where going to appear. We were almost never wrong. This movie has a pretty good cast and at first we figured it had to be an early 80's production. We were flabbergasted at discovering it is a mid 90's movie. Anyway, since both my wife and I were too tired to go for the remote control, we watched it on HBO and we could both feel our collective IQ being lowered as the minutes ticked. We finally decided to watch the whole thing mostly because we are both fans of K. Grammar and especially William H. Macy so we hoped that at some point there would be some sort of redeeming moment. No such luck. From a military standpoint, I believe they managed to ignore any military credibility the movie might have had. From the standpoint of ship at sea I sure hope our navy does not operate like that. "},{"Title":"How about painting the submarine yellow?","Date":"9 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Down Periscope is one of those stupid-and-funny-at-the-same-time movies that they crank out every once in a while (others include A Night at the Roxbury and Dude, Where's My Car?). Kelsey Grammar stars as a man assigned to take an old submarine out to sea to stop illegal weapons sales. From there, everything is just a series of silly gags. Any scene involving the cook really just passes as low humor, although I do get the giggles when I think about how he irks Rob Schneider's character.So, if you watch this movie, remember that it's basically really ridiculous, but you might laugh some. Also starring Lauren Holly, Bruce Dern, Harry Dean Stanton and William H. Macy. "},{"Title":"Daft but amusing if you're in an undemanding silly mood","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Partly due to an unbecoming tattoo `down there' Lt Cmdr Tom Dodge has been regularly passed over for command of his own submarine.  When he is given one, against the advice of Rear Admiral Graham, it is an old diesel sub.  In an attempt to prove that the US is vulnerable to a terrorist strike from the old diesel-type subs being sold on the black market, Admiral Winslow sets up a war game with Graham &#150; that a diesel sub can evade capture long enough to enter a port and launch an attack on US soil.  To hinder him further Graham gives Dodge a crew of useless sailors and sets him on his way.  However, as the first few skirmishes show, Dodge is perhaps resourceful enough to pull it off.I watched this on a lazy Bank Holiday afternoon &#150; and I think that that is the best way to watch it.  If you made a special trip to the cinema to see this I think you'd be upset but to find it on TV is just about right.  The plot is daft but allows for an inventive (if silly) film that has a little bit of excitement to it (just don't expect Crimson Tide here).  The laughs are rarely out loud but the atmosphere is more one of amusement than laughter.  Like I said &#150; it works if you don't expect much.Considering the material, the film did well to get a reasonable cast on board (sorry).  Grammer is OK and seems to enjoy being out of his Fraiser mode &#150; but he isn't that convincing carrying a film instead of a show.  The support cast throws up plenty of well known faces.  Lauren Holly has little to do but looks good doing it!  Seeing her in an uniform 2 sizes too small is perhaps the high point for many viewers!  Schneider always makes me think of a poor man's comedy side kick and he doesn't do that well here, but to be fair he tries hard with his character.  Getting names like Macy, Dern Stanton and Rip Torn in the film was a shrewd move as they are always watchable, but they really have little to do.Overall this is not that funny and not that clever.  However if you know what you're watching (a daft amusing movie) then you'll be pleased if not overjoyed by it.  I was doing laundry on a day off work and it did me just fine to distract without having to focus on it. "}{"Title":"If you like jokes that fall flat on their face, you'll love this film","Date":"28 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I gave this film a two because the plot made perfect sense and arrived with the proper pace. I docked it eight stars for being one of the most agonizing films I've ever sat through in a theater. That's right, I saw this more than ten years ago when it came out, and remember it to this day because it was so bad.Close to none of the jokes caused a change in the silence of the audience. At one point somebody even booed a joke it was so crappy. I remember actually counting the seconds of awkwardness after some jokes where the movie almost seemed to pause, hoping for the laughter that would never come.This movie would have done much better as a drama that had extremely mild comic relief, if only the premise weren't corny already. I'm surprised Kelsey Grammar got any work after this, because absent his deep baritone he obviously can't carry a movie on his own. "},{"Title":"I like Kelsey Grammar--but this movie was numbingly boring","Date":"4 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I like Kelsey Grammar very much and I was looking forward to seeing this movie when it first came out in theaters, so I was shocked by how bad it was--boring and juvenile with really bad jokes. I nearly fell asleep during it. If it wasn't for the fact that I was with someone else, I would have left before it was over, which I've only been inclined to do during two other theater movies. Given Kelsey's long career of higher-brow humor I was surprised by the low-brow humor.One of my least favorite movies. Might be OK for a 12-year-old boy who is easily entertained. If you are interested in this sort of thing, I recommend the old McHale's Navy TV program instead. "},{"Title":"Fun with war games.","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Sort of a rah-rah film.  A navy captain with a reputation of irresponsibility is given the unenviable assignment of commanding an old WWII diesel sub.  He and his misfit crew are tasked with infiltrating Norfolk Harbor in a war game.  Can they do it?  What to you think? "},{"Title":"Why Kelsey, why?","Date":"12 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The most disappointing movie I've ever seen. I am a Kelsey Grammar fan and was looking forward to enjoying his form of witty humor when it premiered in theaters. Instead, I was bored to death by stupid, juvenile slapstick and bathroom humor - the opposite of what Grammar excels at.Not one person in the audience uttered a single laugh during this agonizingly boring film. The inclusion of Rob Schneider, who is the embodiment of puerile humor, makes perfect sense, but Grammar should have avoided this one like the plague. This film was so unexpectedly bad that its memory inspired me to register here to warn other Grammar fans. I can only imagine that he must not have read the script before he accepted the part or he was desperate to accept his first leading movie role. "},{"Title":"Competent, but forgettable","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  While it wasn't the disaster that I was expecting, Down Periscope is still nothing much.  It was likable enough, but the laughs were few and far between, and the plot was as predictable as it gets.  With a few more good jokes, I might have been able to recommend this picture, but instead I can only call it a decent time-killer at best.  Ultimately, I think that most people will find it to be just another forgettable film. "},{"Title":"Well, here's something new...","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ...a comedy without any laughs! A couple of misfits (a la police academy) in an old submarine, under leadership of miscasted Grammer (who apparently has a tattoo on his you know what, the source of more than half of the 'jokes' in this movie) play war games against cocky general with new submarine. Sound familiar? Boring and totally not funny. 2/10 "}]