[{"Title":"Action galore!!!","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"20 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film is certainly not an Academy Award Winner, but it most definitely is just a plain old good action film with tons of senseless fighting.  The fighting is incredible in this film and the stunts are quite impressive, the choreography and the stunts are what make this film good, don't expect a great story or any great acting.The story isn't nearly as bad as I expected it to be, it's actually quite interesting and takes a little bit of step aside from Jackie Chan's typical cop character.  This time he's simply a TV chef that gets mixed up in things against his will.  It sounds pretty stupid, but it's not all that bad.The acting and even more so, the dialogue are two things that I'm not even going to begin to defend.  The acting is pretty bad at times and the dialogue is god-awful!  Sadly, a lot of the bad dialogue could easily have been avoided, I don't know what the writers/director was thinking.Virtually all of the cast members were new faces to me, with of course, the exception of Jackie Chan.  Jackie does a good job with his role, exactly what you would expect from one of his films.  I feel I have to mention Gabrielle Fitzpatrick, what a beautiful actress!!!  And she's actually a pretty good actress, I'll definitely be keeping an eye open for her future work.If you are a fan of Martial Art films, or just like Jackie Chan, then watch this movie.  Just watch this film thinking you are going to have a fun time watching Jackie kick some bad-guy butt!  I hope you enjoy the film, thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"Rumble in the Melbourne CBD?","Date":"3 August 2005","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" In my review of 'Who Am I?', I mentioned that 'Rumble in the Bronx', 'First Strike', 'Mr Nice Guy', and 'Who Am I?' all followed a similar formula as Jackie tried to capture western audiences. After watching 'Mr Nice Guy' again, I was actually kind of surprised to realize that it was almost a carbon copy of 'Rumble in the Bronx' - a Rumble in Melbourne's Central Business District, anyway.Giancarlo (Richard Norton), Melbourne's top drug lord is angry because Diana (Gabrielle Fitzpatrick) has a tape that incriminates him. Jackie (Jackie Chan), a TV chef and arse-kicker extraordinaire comes into possession of the tape, making Giancarlo angry enough to kidnap Jackie's girlfriend Miki (Miki Lee). This makes Jackie angry. The end.Wow. It seems like I've written out the whole plot and embellished upon it rather than summarized it. I'm just kidding - or am I? 'Mr Nice Guy' might be a contender for the thinnest plot in the universe prize, and the so called supporting actors don't even seem to be trying to act. Almost everything that happens in 'Rumble in the Bronx' is recycled for this. Unfortunately, the hovercraft was replaced by heavy machinery. Nothing can be an adequate substitute for Rumble's hovercraft.Jackie kicking arse is the only reason for anyone to watch 'Mr Nice Guy'. It doesn't feature anything new or innovative, but any keen fan of Jackie should notice various 'Protector', 'Police Story' or 'Rumble in the Bronx' moments. It is a fun and exciting action film though, and that's what Jackie is all about.And now for something completely different Yet again, 'Mr Nice Guy' features Jackie playing a character called Jackie. I'm convinced that Jackie quit acting for several years, and took up a life as a cop, spy, chef, etc. All the while he had a film crew filming his adventures in order to create easy action movies. It's the only logical explanation - the writers can't be that lazy, right?'Mr Nice Guy' reeks of being direct to video, but that doesn't stop it from being a fun action movie. Fans of Jackie Chan or Sammo Hung should give this a look - 7/10 "},{"Title":"Amusing  and funny Jackie film , this time in Melbourne against nasty drug smugglers","Date":"20 May 2012","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Melbourne, Australia, TV Journalist Diana (Gabrielle Fitzpatrick) tapes evidence against drug lord Giancarlo (Richard Norton), but on her way away , she is spotted and has to escape . Chinese Jackie (Jackie Chan) is a well known television chef who accidentally gets involved with the news reporter who filmed a drug bust that went awry and is now being chased by gangs who are trying to get the video tape . But when Jackie's visiting sweetheart Miki (Miki Lee) gets abducted for the tape as ransom.Jackie Chan's vehicle with plenty of over-the-top action , thrills , explosions , ingenious stunts , tongue-in-cheek and amusing music . This exciting movie is packed with adventure , intrigue , unstopped action , overwhelming stunt-work and lots of fights but with humor . Jackie Chan is top-notch as one army man fighting a group of heinous nasties led by Richard Norton and as always he makes his own stunts like is well showed . Awesome , incredible stunts and brief comic touches , as usual . The lighting-paced storyline slows down at times , but frantic action sequences make up for it . Spotlights movie include spectacular brawls in a mall , Jackie in a crane , jumping down a building , on a roof , in a globe , impressive and interminable fights with Chan dangling and downing , a funny door games , a breathtaking final full of destruction with a giant truck and other extraordinary action sequences in overwhelming style . This is a diverting action movie distinguished by nice cinematography of the spectacular sequences , and contains agreeable sense of humor such as previous entry . In the film appears known Outback secondary actors as Rachel Blakely , Barry Otto and Gabrielle Fitzpatrick as an intrepid reporter . Jackie Chan usually forms couple to notorious actors as Sammo Hung here as an unfortunate cyclist and also filmmaker and actresses as Maggie Cheung and Michelle Yeoh . In this outing Jackie contends a notorious Kung-Fu actor , Richard Norton , a fine action star in their own right and with a relatively successful career , that stands out as a masked ninja, in ¨Octagon¨ (1980), and their grueling final combat endures as a classic cinematic fight scene , director Robert Clouse chose Norton to be one of the ensemble heroes in ¨Force Five¨ (1981), an international hit, and the young martial artist's career in movies took off , his reputation for stellar performances emerged largely from high-energy Hong Kong films directed by Sammo Hung Kam-Bo and starring Jackie Chan in the mid-'80s. Muscular charisma made Norton the perfect Anglo bad boy for ¨Winners and sinners¨ (1985) and ¨Millionaires Express¨ . His collaborations with Cynthia Rothrock catapulted him to a high level of fame . Sammo Hung encouraged Norton to play in ¨Superchef¨ the Guy nemesis, a well-heeled gangster, with eccentric edginess, Norton embraced the assignment and delivered one of the best , though some excessive, co-starring performances in all of Chan's films. ¨Superchef¨ is a passable action movie distinguished by ferocious sequences , and packs silly sense of humor as well as Jackie's former and subsequent entries . Furthermore , moving and thrilling original musical score fitting to action . Good cinematography by Raymond Lam filmed in Chinatown Mall, Fortitude Valley, Queensland, Hunter Valley, New South Wales, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia . The picture achieved success in China and around the world . However , Jackie Chan's failed at Box-office in his American debut ,¨Battle creek brawl¨ . Chan usually pays overt homage to two of his greatest influences as Charles Chaplin and Harold Lloyd . Chan is a hard-working actor and director throughout his long and varied career . He went on playing ¨Cannoball¨ , ¨The protector¨ and Rumble in the Bronx, until getting all American success with ¨Shangai Knights¨ , ¨The tuxedo¨ , ¨Around the world in 80 days¨ and ¨Rush hour¨ trilogy , and the recent ¨Karate kid¨. Of course , his biggest hits were ¨The Police story¨ series that won the Golden Horse Award, a Chinese version of the Oscar , the first was titled ¨Police story(1985)¨ directed by the same Chan , it was a perfect action film for enthusiastic of the genre ; the following was ¨Police story 2(1988)¨also pretty violent and with abundant humor touches. It's followed by ¨Supercop¨ or ¨Police story 3¨ and finally, ¨Police story IV  Crime story . ¨Superchef¨ rating  Acceptable and fun film that has its sensational moments here and there , but also with abundant humor touches mostly provided by its agile star , the super Jackie . It's a satisfying action film for enthusiast of the genre and specially for Jackie fans . "},{"Title":"Nonstop action - and what action!","Date":"13 February 2004","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The thinnest plot imaginable (1 Bad guys think Jackie has an incriminating tape, 2 Bad guys go after him), but it doesn't matter; the movie serves up one virtuoso action sequence after another, and some priceless comic dialogue as well (Oh my God, you want the tape too? If you find it PLEASE take it). Jackie was 43 when this was filmed, but he sure hadn't lost a bit of his physical dexterity. This film is much better in every way than his American breakthrough hit, Rumble In The Bronx, and Richard Norton makes an enjoyable villain.     (***) "},{"Title":"Thin on plot but fat with exciting stunts.","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Thin on plot and fat with exciting stunts, Jackie Chan's Mr. Nice Guy is more like a speedy carnival ride than a movie. Chan plays a television chef who gets mixed up with a female reporter with an incriminating videotape that drug lords are after. Along the way Jackie Chan has his prerequisite close calls and death defying stunts mixed with his affable humor. All the stunts are good ones and there's a set-piece that requires Chan to escape his enemy in an unfinished building where all the blue doors are already installed that is my favorite. It's quite a farce having people opening and closing doors in pursuit and escape and never knowing who or what's behind the next door. One extended scene is a guilty pleasure for me and involves Chan commandeering a large earth moving vehicle and wreaking havoc with it. When I say large, I mean LARGE. The tires alone must be 12 feet tall in and of themselves. It's pretty cool to see the devastation this vehicle incurs. A fun film. Had the plot itself been a bit more thickened my rating would've been higher. "},{"Title":"worth seeing","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is a strange combination quite possibly the thinnest plot and worst acting of any Jackie Chan movie... and some of the best and funniest fight scenes, as well.Fortunately the movie moves along briskly and there's never much time between humor and fight scenes for you to dwell on just how bad the acting was in the preceeding scene. "},{"Title":"Fun","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  You have to have kind of a high threshold for silliness (and bad acting) to enjoy this one.  The plot's almost nonexistent, but it's got some good (little) fight scenes and stunts....A little disappointing, though, that Jackie doesn't get to fight lead villain Richard Norton, quite a good fighter (see City Hunter.)  The ending's pretty funny though.  Probably the most Turn off your brain, and enjoy Jackie film since Rumble in the Bronx, it delivers fun, plain and simple. "},{"Title":"The Perfect Combination of Action and Humor","Date":"20 November 2015","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" In Melbourne, the Chinese Chef Jackie (Jackie Chan) has a successful show on television. The drug lord Giancarlo (Richard Norton) and his gang are dealing cocaine with The Demons gang, but they fight against each other. During the shooting, the snoopy reporter Diana (Gabrielle Fitzpatrick) and her partner are accidentally exposed and they flee with a VHS tape with the footage of the negotiation. On the street, she stumbles with Jackie and he helps her fighting against the gangsters. When they are escaping in his car, her tape accidentally mixes with other videotapes that Jackie has in a box on the backseat of his car. Jackie goes to his apartment and meets his girlfriend Miki (Miki Lee) while his nephews borrow the tape to watch. Meanwhile Giancarlo's gangsters are looking for the tape and abduct Miki. Jackie's friend Romeo (Vince Poletto), who is a police detective, chases the gangsters with other policemen while Jackie teams up with Diana and his friend Lakisha (Karen McLymont) to release Miki from Giancarlo. Yat goh ho yan, a.k.a. Mr. Nice Guy, is a highly entertaining film with Jackie Chan in the lead role. The screenplay is the perfect combination of action and humor, with magnificent choreography. The final sequence with the huge mining vehicle is hilarious. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Mr. Nice Guy - Bom de Briga (Mr. Nice Guy &#x96; Good in Fight) "},{"Title":"Great and funny action!","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If you want to see great action scenes, stunts and fights... watch this! And this film is funny too... How the hell did he do that??? )If you want to see good acting... Avoid this ) "},{"Title":"Jackie Chan still defines the action guy image.","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  C'mon, all of you! Throw some more votes into the pot if you've seen enough out of everything! Jackie Chan's recent movies including MR. NICE GUY show their prescnce in the Hollywood mainstream thanks to a special ingredient originality. Take your pick at RUMBLE IN THE BRONX and thereafter! Impressive and fast stunt choreography from TV chef Chan is astounding and well done, something that highly trained professionals have died for. Voices aren't dubbed this time around, but Chan's accent takes some learning. The touch of comedy is another welcome feature, making this one specially entertaining. Fat bicyclist steals the show for fighting back, and the end outtakes are a nice bonus. There are a couple of gripes, though. MR. NICE GUY tends to run the same route as R.I.T.B. from start to finish (like the giant truck finale), and it could have been less on stupidity, but as I said before, the comedy was welcome. More movies like this would (almost) put James Bond 007 in the retirement home!  Another must-see for action buffs! Another must-have for the fan of Chan! "}{"Title":"Great action, shocking action, Usual Jackie Chan","Date":"12 June 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film has some of the worst acting, and very nearly the worst plot of any movie out there. But I loved it. The action sequences (and to a lesser extent the comedy) are really impressive in this film. Its what we've come to expect from Jacki Chan movies. The finale is really quite impressive.The acting in itself is quite humorous. Aussie actors doing really bad american accents, or just totally overacting. And some of them are actually quite good in other roles.There also is a question to be raised over the editing. Why was the take where I was standing in the background not used? Doh, I could've been a movie star! "},{"Title":"sillier, awesomer, funner","Date":"23 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I should probably point out one thing from the start 'Mr. Nice Guy' is a very silly film indeed. While it is well known that every good Jackie Chan film is a little bit silly, this one is definitely the silliest I've seen so far. So, if you are the type of person who has a little Graham Chapman in you who, when things take a silly turn, will start strutting about saying Stop this! It's too silly!, then you might be better off giving this film a miss. On the other hand, if you are the sort of person who, when watching a film that turns silly, find themselves quietly hoping that Graham Chapman will march in, preferably accompanied by the knights of Ni and a man banging two empty halves of coconuts together, then you might just enjoy 'Mr. Nice Guy'.And having said that, I probably should specify that 'Mr. Nice Guy' is more slapstick silly than Monty Python's inspired lunacy.So, on to the film. In 'Mr. Nice Guy' Jackie Chan plays Jackie, a Melbourne-based celebrity chef with an inexplicable ability to punch and kick an inordinate amount of arse. He gets on the wrong side of some local gangs and as a result ends up having to kick the aforementioned inordinate amount of arse in order to save himself and his girlfriend (who they kidnap). There are a few more details I could add, but this really is about the sum of it.So if you dislike it when a waiter offers you a movie plot, insisting you take it and saying But Sir, it is wafer thin!, then once again you should probably avoid this film.However, for those of us who are aware that less time spent on plot means more for Jackie to spend punching and kicking and being generally awesome, it's worth mentioning that he punches and kicks very well here. He technically isn't as fast here as he was in the 1980's, but his comic timing is perfect, and on top of that he spends a scene pressed in some way against the wheel of a moving haul truck so there's a lot to be seen here.You might be wondering under what circumstances would it ever be in any way reasonable to be touching the wheel of a moving haul truck, and the answer is none. None at all. It makes no sense, and the notion that anyone might ever actually have to pull off the insane and impressive stunts that Jackie Chan does here is almost as silly as the notion of applying logic to this film. Because that's what I love most. Whole scenes will descend in to incoherent chaos for the sake of supporting a single whimsical stunt or gag. In one case Jackie spends a scene throwing samples of his cooking to audience members who would catch it in their mouths, which like dancing with a haul truck is something that you would never, ever do in the real world under any circumstances, and it only gets better when it becomes apparent that this only ever happened to make way for the main heavy to barge in and catch some food in his mouth (food that was intended for an actual audience member), and nom it angrily.I was speechless. I wouldn't mind it just being one person, but for the film to get made you have to have a whole team of people thinking that scenes like this are a good idea. It's... amazing, really.Suffice to say that I've not enjoyed a film this much in months. Which is why I give 'Mr. Nice Guy' 10/10. "},{"Title":"One's masterpiece of Jackie Chan","Date":"21 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Many guys would praise Mr.Nice Guy (Yat goh hiu yan) as one of the best Hong Kong's action flick during Jackie Chan's era. In my opinion, this was one of his masterpiece in his actor's life. What would happened if the normal chef with his unexpected martial arts skill involved with the deadly situation concerning the significant video containing the busted drug selling? Unstoppable, breath taking and over the limit action is a thing that Mr.Nice Guy give us. Jackie Chan showed his stellar performance which can made me firmly believed that he is the best action hero. He extremely concentrated all of his action scenes even it was very risk. I also surprised that Chan starred this film when he was 43! He could do many risk scenes at this age! The film also proof many critics' comment about Richard Norton's outstanding villain role. He portrayed himself as the heinous, nasty and remorseless Giancarlo who can made the audience curse him to the deep hell. This wicked guy was the mixture of the aggressive criminal, the merciless mob boss, and the abusive man. I believed that if Mr.Nice Guy is the Hollywood's motion picture, Richard Norton could won the Oscar.About directing, Sammo Hung numerously surprised me when I knew his position as the film's director since he is the iconic actor with the great action skill. (However, Mr.Nice Guy was really his 36th works from his 37 movies he directed.) Hung gave us the quality action film which treated audiences with all of emotion. Funny, comedy, anger and satisfying. Movie's climax scene is the part that I suggested all of you utterly don't miss because you will be poped-up and shouted Oh Hell Yeah!However, I didn't like some point in this movie. The intense and oftentimes women's beating is the scene that I mostly hated. Even it was necessary to show how bad that a villain was, but Sammo Hung used it too frequent. Maybe it was the Chinese's action film culture, so every director had to do?To sum up, this movie is very good for action movies' fan. However, it's not suitable for children to watch it. "},{"Title":"Fairly entertaining if you don't go in expecting too much","Date":"26 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Chan stars as a TV chef who gets caught up in the middle of a gang war when he accidentally switches videotapes with a reporter.I think you have to take this film with a grain of salt. It was Chan's first English-language film in over ten years and, according to rumors, it was more of a test for New Line to see if Chan could handle speaking in English for an entire film. As such, not much attention was paid to the story (it's more of a rehash of Rumble in the Bronx than anything else), and most of the action pieces in the film are recycled from previous Chan movies (the mall fight from Police Story, the construction brawl from Police Story 2, etc.).All that being said, the film is fairly entertaining if you don't go in expecting too much. The action (as could be expected under Hung's direction) is done well and some of the jokes are actually pretty funny (Hung is hilarious in a cameo as a beat-up bike messenger). There are a few sticky points, though. Once again (as in Operation Condor) Chan has three ditzy female sidekicks dragging on him (and the story) for much of the film, and Richard Norton (a good fighter you might know from the China O'Brien films or another Chan movie City Hunter) is absolutely wasted in his role as the villain; we don't even get to see a decent fight between him and Chan (apparently, Chan hurt himself and could not film a big fight sequence).Mr. Nice Guy, like many Chan films, also suffers from what I like to call a Warner Bros. ending, named after those Bugs Bunny cartoons where the creators don't know how to finish the cartoon, so they just have Bugs break into a song-and-dance, crack a lame joke or other such nonsense. The ending here seems to be really tacked on and weak. The story is literally wrapped up in about two minutes. I won't ruin it for you, but I think once you see it, you'll be scratching your head, thinking That's it? Yup. That's all folks. "},{"Title":"Fun Enough Jackie Chan Film, That's Nothing Special, But It's Quite Enjoyable And Well Worth The Watch!","Date":"25 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is a fun enough Jackie Chan film, that's nothing special, but it's quite enjoyable and well worth the watch!. All the characters were great, and some of the stunts were incredible, plus Jackie Chan is simply amazing in this!. Jackie has done a lot better, however this is still quite fun to watch, as it's got plenty of action to keep one entertained, and Jackie and Gabrielle Fitzpatrick had good chemistry together, plus The finale was very cool!. Sammo Hung has a very funny cameo, and the fight scenes were great, plus Richard Norton is awesome as the main villain!. All the characters are very likable, and as usual Jackie brings some great comic relief, plus Richard Norton really seemed to be enjoying himself here. The opening was very cool, and Jackie did his usual amazing stunts, plus it was entertaining throughout!. This is a fun enough Jackie Chan film, that's nothing special, but it's quite enjoyable, and well worth the watch!. The Direction is good. Sammo Hung does a good job here, with great camera work, great angles, and keeping the film at a fast pace!. Th Acting is great!. Jackie Chan is AMAZING as always, and is amazing here, he is extremely likable, was hilarious, was actually very intense in scenes, kicked that ass, had great chemistry with Gabrielle Fitzpatrick and just did an amazing job!. (Jackie Rules!!). Richard Norton is great as the main villain, he was perfectly over the top and was a lot of fun to watch, i loved him!.Gabrielle Fitzpatrick is stunningly gorgeous!, and is fantastic here, she seemed to be enjoying herself, had great chemistry with Jacie, and was very sexy!. Miki Lee does okay here, but it somewhat bland, and only had so so chemistry with Jackie. Karen McLymont does fine with what she had to do, and had a lot of spunk, i liked her lots. Rest of the cast do okay. Overall well worth the watch!. *** out of 5 "},{"Title":"A movie ain't good when the only good bits are the action and stunt scenes","Date":"23 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  (CONTAINS SPOILERS EXCEPT LAST PARAGRAPH)I love Jackie Chan, I really do, but you can't just make a movie with great fight scenes, stunts and explosions and everything else about the movie is poor!What was the point of him being a TV chef? What was the point of Jackie's fellow chef talking about Jackie's background in the dinner scene? That Redhead that got Jackie into this whole thing, did she have a point in the rest of the film? Did she need to be in her underwear in that scene? What was the point......OK you get my point.It's just that it needed to be smarter and not brainless. That bad guy wasn't tough enough. Needed a better ending (Jackie doesn't even kiss his girlfriend and it just cut straight to the outtakes!)I would only recommend this to Jackie Chan fans. But for everyone else, you really shouldn't bother. "},{"Title":"Review from a Jackie Chan fanatic","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Most fans, new and old will enjoy the action scenes and comedy of this film. While the majority of Jackie's movies are weak in plot, (no big surprise), this one falls a bit below average.***WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILERS FOLLOW ***The main plot of the film is Jackie and company being hunted down by a gang called Demons for a video that accidentally falls into Jackie's possession, and then into the hands of his friend's child.The video was of a drug-deal gone bad, taped by the cameraman of Diana (the redhead).  After being smacked to the ground in about the 12th chapter (out of 20), this main character of the film is never seen or heard from again! Let me repeat, SHE TOTALLY VANISHES FROM THE MOVIE!  What is that???Jackie goes on to totally demolish the mansion of Giancarlo (rival of the Demons) who seemed less of Jackie's enemy than the Demons until the end of the film ...and that's IT!I realize that a good 20 minutes was chopped out of the US version, but really, what little plot the film has just falls out of the bottom in the end ...as if the average viewer wouldn't notice!Great action scenes and Jackie as a famous chef was memorable.  But if you are a serious collector and only want Jackie's best films, this one may be strictly rental-only.  "},{"Title":"unique employment of flight/fight impulses","Date":"15 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Hooray for Jackie Chan, the only martial star to mix flight with fight. An unusual realism for comedy. Broadway choreographers should have seen the comedic potential for gangsters' suits and ties before him but they didn't. "},{"Title":"Jackie Chan being his usual self.","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Jackie Chan plays a TV cook ending up being at the wrong place at the wrong time. How Jackie handles everything is what's best about this movie and some of the stunts are done with great humor. It drags down A LOT towards the end, but it's still kept up thanks to Jackie's clever moves and a certain old friend of his that shows up. The movie's great, no bones about it and a worthwhile rent if you're into fun action. Movies like these make you wonder Why does Jackie always do things the hard way? While you're watching them, you enjoy it too much to even care. "},{"Title":"Really good movie","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  One of Jackie Chan's best, The move has action from the beginning to end, Sammo Hung is a really good directer. it's non stop action "}{"Title":"This film changed my life.","Date":"25 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" As a young kid with no hopes all dream i was lost is the big wide world. However one day, mother bought a VHS of a film.. The film, Mr Nice Guy. Now I'm not over exaggerating when i say this film changed my life. I went from Hey can i ask Sophie on a date To So when you gonna be on me bed? This inner confidence has brought me so much joy to so much success. From the fantastic character development to the eye watering heartfelt scenes. All this wrapped together with action that will leave you horny and confused. So Thank you Jackie, For ever.Love Kaya "},{"Title":"Great action with a sketchy storyline! 5/10","Date":"10 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Review This is a more serious Jackie Chan movie which sees him playing a TV Chef, who gets caught up with a bunch of thugs and drug dealers, when he tries to save a journalist who has recorded a drug deal. When they escape from the thugs, the journalist realises that she hasn't got the tape and that she has a recording of one of Jackies shows but the thugs are adamant about getting the tape back which will expose there operation. An innocent Jackie, helps to save the journalist to fight of the baddies whilst struggling to stay alive because of this tape, which he really doesn't know were it is. When his girlfriend comes to stay with him, she is kidnapped by the baddies so Jackie will give them the tape, so with the help of the police, he tries to get his girlfriend back by using his Kung Fu skills against both parties of the drug deal. When the police finally get information about the tapes whereabouts, Jackie manages to save his girlfriend and he takes down the drug dealers for good. Like many Chan movies, the action scenes were brilliant and the stunts were very well choreographed but the whole tape concept wasn't that great. I was impressed with Chans cooking skills and the epic bulldozer scene at the end was quite good but the film seemed pretty average. The acting from the Australian cast was a bit sketchy and the huge baddies in the box suits were useless but it's a watchable movie which, gladly, didn't have any of those silly comedic action scenes. Average!Round-Up Sammo Hung, 63, who made an appearance in the movie as a cyclist, also directed this action packed movie and I must admit, he did do quite a good job. Most of his previous films, like Wheels on Meals and Dragons Forever, have a comedic feel to them but he gave this movie a serious side which made the film watchable. Its not in the same league as the more authentic movies from Chan but the action was great, along with Chans professionalism on screen.Budget N/A Worldwide Gross $13millionI recommend this movie to people who are into their crime/action/martial arts/comedies starring Jackie Chan, Sammo Hung and Richard Norton. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Jackie Chan vs Richard Norton","Date":"14 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Jackie Chan plays quintessential fall guy for a woman in distress. He nevertheless, braves his way to save his girl, and saves two others risking his life.Jackie (Jackie Chan) is a cooking show host. One day he runs into Diana, a woman who's running from gangs to deliver VHS tape containing incriminating evidence. He saves her for the time being, but the thugs are still after her. They show up at her apartment, but the tape has been swapped in Jackie's car. Now everyone is after Jackie to recover the tape. The thugs show up at Jackie's charity food show. It's now a chase in the mall, and in the streets of Melbourne between Jackie, and the thugs. Diane sneaks into Jackie's apartment looking for the tape. But the thugs show up too, and now they have to balance across the roof to make the getaway. The thugs bombs Jackie's apartment, and now he has to stay with his friend Lakisha. Thugs who came looking for the tape at Lakisha's place takes Miki and tells Jackie to get the tape ready for exchange. There're lot of holes in this plot. Like how did the thugs find out where Lakisha lives, or even if you get the tape back, how do you know that a copy hasn't been made ? So this has to be taken as Jackie Chan entertainment, and not get too serious about the plot. This one though somehow didn't look like Jackie Chan movie. Maybe because there aren't enough twists and turn in the story. Maybe because there're only three Asians in the entire movie including Sammo. This and Who am I ? that was made around the same time has this feel to it. Maybe it was the right timing for him to to do Rush Hour and break into Hollywood again. He seems to be running out of space to do new things in this movie. "},{"Title":"classic movie, one of the first jackie chan movies i watched","Date":"27 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" let's get one thing straight mr nice guy's plot is not worth going into, neither is the acting, but trust me when it comes down to the action it's one of chan's best, and also one of his funniest with a great cameo by sammo hung, mr nice guy is a jackie chan movie simple as that and it remains one of my favourite, the tone and comedy is similer to rumble in the bronx my all time fave jackie chan movie. the story has jackie chan as a TV chef, who accidentally becomes involved in some gangland drama when he has a video tape of them killing someone, its light hearted fair throughout and pure fun, jackie chan is on top form here delivering some breathtaking stunts here and some top notch fight scenes, a must see "},{"Title":"Formulaic but Fun Martial Arts Flick","Date":"30 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Jackie Chan plays a famous TV chef (Jackie). One day on his way to dinner at his assistant's (Karen McLymont) house, Jackie runs into a female TV reporter (Gabrielle Fitzpatrick) who is running away from two ruthless gangs who want to take from her a video tape of a murder they have committed. Jackie defends her and becomes a target. Once one of the gangs kidnaps Jackie's girlfriend (Miki Lee), the standard Chan formula kicks in and ... no more Mr. Nice Guy.Chan fans know what to expect out of Samo Hung-directed Jackie Chan films - simple but sympathetic heroes, very unpleasant antagonists, a standard martial arts plot with some new twists and a great deal of amazing action sequences featuring Chan's incredible physical talent. Mr. Nice Guy delivers nicely on this formula and Hung even throws in a very amusing directoral cameo. Filmed in Los Angeles and Australia (in order to allow Chan to do his own stunts), Mr Nice Guy makes great use of setting - Chan's best stunts and some of the wildest action sequences take place on construction sets in Melbourne. Some of the acting is a little below par, but Chan, Lee, Fitzpatrick and Norton contribute quite a lot to the film.Recommended for Chan fans, Martial Arts fans - also a good introduction to Jackie Chan for those who are not familiar. "},{"Title":"Funny Kung Fu Action","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Jackie Chan is Mr. Nice Guy, a TV Chef who helps a beautiful young woman when she is chased by a gang of thugs. What he quickly learns is that she is a Journalist who has just uncovered a drug ring, and she has a video tape that could bring it down; and this tape accidentally gets switched with one of his own.This is the first Jackie Chan movie to be shot entirely in English, and its a fast paced all action, Kung-Fu fighting, comedy roller-coaster that simply great fun to watch. Chan is typically awesome at his art of fighting and in his usual style he takes on the bad guys and kicks butt throughout the movie.7/10 Great fun and packed with great martial arts, done the Jackie Chan way. "},{"Title":"Even with cake frosting on his face, Jackie Chan is a force to be reckoned with","Date":"5 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I hope IMDb doesn't mind if I disagree with their Amazon review of Mr. Nice Guy and the critic's factual errors. Considering all of the gangsters are Australian, and only one is of Italian heritage, we're not dealing with a gang of stereotypical Italians. Nor do I think the actors mugging and clowning around here qualify as a cast...in a coma. As for the reviewer's nervous insistence that the plot is stupid, stupid, stupid, heaven help her when she gets to Who Am I? and Operation Condor. I thought the main switcheroo plot device was fine, and the gang war storyline was inoffensive. If anything is stupid (and to a degree that doesn't require repeating the word) it's the usual juvenile, cartoonlike acting, drama, humor, and pacing found in all of the foreign Chan films I've seen. Nothing to get upset about, just some silliness to laugh at.Some of the humor is welcome, too, particularly the goofy, cheery ice cream man (who meets a hilarious fate) and Sammo Hung himself as a poor, abused cyclist who finally gets in his licks. When this film came to theaters in 1998, a local film critic also suggested that the casting of Richard Norton as the wealthy, black-clad villain was a jab at Chan's acquaintance, Hollywood star (and Norton look-alike) Steven Seagal.And just as the drawing points of most Hollywood musicals are the songs and dance instead of their weak plots, here the well-choreographed fights and other action scenes are the attraction and more than almost compensate for any cheese. Creatively designed and impressively performed after much practice, the fights are also easier to watch since they avoid showing graphic violence, unlike typical Hollywood gorefests.The choice of settings for the action scenes shows some real verve as well. One of my favorites was the mass biker wedding, where Chan hangs from a giant balloon decoration and bounces up and down across the lawn to escape the baddies, who are soon mobbed by the upstanding bikers! And who'd have thought you could get so much material out of staging a fight on a horse-drawn carriage rushing through a city? Even the Pepsi product placement at least gives us the great spectacle of a soda truck spilling all its cans onto the street, where the characters brawl until cola is spraying here and there.The only things that hinder the action scenes are the occasional use of jerky slow-motion and a finale made dull by being long and repetitive.Finally, I have a certain enjoyable memory related to this movie, one that may sum up where the film will stand with you depending on your tastes. As a teenager, I saw Mr. Nice Guy in a theater with a rather pretentious man whose preferred film-going involves movie titles preceded by the adjective Oscar-winning, which to him matters most. I had a fun time at the show, but afterwards the man stayed silent until he met his wife, when I overheard him grumble to her, That was a *terrible* movie! This memory always amuses me. "},{"Title":"No More Mr. Nice Guy","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Mr. Nice Guy (aka No More Mr. Nice Guy) was the third film Jackie did in Hong Kong after the success from Rumble in the Bronx and the first film that was directed by fellow brother Sammo Hung since 1987's Dragons Forever. Jackie was happy about this reunion since they were not on good terms for several years.Jackie stars as a chef, with prestigious martial art ability, who is part of a chef troupe in Melbourne Australia with Baggio (Barny Otto) and Lakeisha (Karen McLymont). He accidentally intervenes between a fleeing reporter named Diana (Gabrielle Fitzpatrick who had a reoccurring role in NYPD Blue) who has an incriminating tape and two rival criminal organizations who are on that video. She then accidentally switches tapes with one of his cooking shows in Jackie's car when they were fleeing the mob. Some well-documented goofs with the tape are the tape is the ubiquitous VHS standard (which a camera person would not use) and when the tape is shown it displays the same omnipresent footage that the film had (including the multi-angle cuts and close-ups.) The two criminal organizations include a bad acting, Rumble in the Bronx rip-of, gang of thugs who do not resemble criminals named the Demons and an Australian mob led by the cigar munching, overacting, coke-dealing, neat freak, tie slapping Giancarlo (Richard Norton) who happens to be a proficient martial artist too. There is animosity between the two groups because the Demons stole cocaine from the mob. The campyness of the criminals worked for me in Rumble in the Bronx but they annoyed me in this film, probably because of the overabundance of drama. Though I do enjoy when they (though mostly Jackie Chan's stunt team) get beat up by Jackie. For fun I try to spot Jackie's stunt team during the fight scenes. It is harder to find them in this film (good editing) than in Armour of God's Amazon women fighting scene.Jackie's fiancé Miki (Miki Lee a Taiwanese singer) arrives to stay with Jackie for awhile. She is a bit jealous of his friendship with Lakeisha and she is eventually held hostage by both the Demons. They want the tape and he wants her. They broker a deal to meet at the Golden Garden construction site for the exchange after the first attempted barter went wrong because of stupid cops. However, the mob will be there too. This leads up to the awesome penultimate fight scene.There is more plot to this film but it only gets in the way of the film's good points the stunts and fight scenes. While, I feel Sammo Hung's directing skills have regressed a bit such as the overuse of slow motion &#150; for everything, Sammo still directs Jackie quite well in this reunion. The action sequences are set up marvelously especially the Golden Garden sequence. There is a maze of doors where Jackie almost falls out hanging by a door knob (another influence by the silent greats such as Lloyd and Keaton that Jackie loves) and another finely choreographed scene where he fights with everything from a wooden grate, pipe, water hose, and wheel barrow. Fight scenes such as this and the ending stunt sequence (involving a large construction vehicle) are must watches for any action fan.Much of the acting was bad, there were unnecessary dramatic devices, Norton's fighting skills were not as used effectively as when he worked with Jackie in City Hunter, and it had many similarities with Rumble in the Bronx. However, there is enough comedy and action scenes to make this a fun film to watch (though it does seem to lose a bit of luster after multiple watches and I have not seen the longer running Hong Kong version of this film which has about 7 to 8 minutes of additional footage.) There is also a good cameo appearance with the colorful Sammo Hung as a bicyclist too and the painful outtakes at the end of the film. Now is that enough to enjoy a film &#150; of course. Note this was the first of Chan's films to be shot almost entirely in English and during the making of it Jackie got to put his prints at Mann's Chinese Theater on Hollywood Boulevard. "},{"Title":"Lightning paced comedy actioner,a good intro to the wonder of Jackie Chan just ignore the terrible acting!","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Mr Nice Guy is a great introduction to the world of Jackie Chan. Of course,most fans will agree that his masterpieces are older Hong Kong films like Police Story and Drunken Master 2. However,for a western viewer,Mr Nice Guy is a good film to start with. It's closer to the Hong Kong style well,it IS a Hong Kong produced film despite being shot in English and set in Australia than more recent fare like Rush Hour and Shanghai Noon,and is basically an hour and a half of non stop action.And what action? There's fighting everywhere-at a wedding,in the back of a van, on top of a runaway carriage this is the stand out set piece,it really has to be seen to be believed,in a construction site,and even one where Jackie is tied up and STILL bests the baddie. The fights are quite short but they are constant. Add what seems like almost constant chasing around and a spectacular demolition at the end,and if nothing else you will never be bored. Some of the action references bits in his older movies i.e.saw from The Protector,sign jumping from Police Story 2,and as with the best of his great Hong Kong work ,he usually manages to mingle in bits of slapstick into the action.The plot-something about various people after a tape-is very slender and some of the acting is awful. Was there actually a casting director on this film? There are a rather excessive amount of scenes with women being hit,although some of this was cut from the American version. But the film is so fast moving,it's watching a 2 hour action film with all the slow bits cut out,and that's just fine in a movie like this. Ignore the shoddy acting and plot and watch Jackie show off like only he can. For once,the slightly shorter US version is as good as the Hong Kong original,so you're not missing much by seeing it. "},{"Title":"The script and directing absolutley teared the movie apart.","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Being filmed in my home city, I guess I have a soft spot for this movie, but you simply can't ignore such poor script and directing. I say, well done to the actors for trying to make best of the script, but whoever directed this and whoever did the script really need to go over their work. It has to be one of the worst i've seen in a movie. Other than that, a good action movie and Jacke Chan was great again.1/10 for directing and script, but a 7/10 for everything else in this film. "}{"Title":"7 out of 10","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Jackie is back with more action and humor than ever! although the actress that plays Lakeisha is aweful, and there are too many slow mo shots, this movie is very enjoyable. it also marks the return of sammo hung in jackies movies (or Jackie in Sammos movie, which ever you like better), so that makes it worth checkin out all by it self! "},{"Title":"Jackie Chan rocks in Austrailia!","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"     Mr. Nice Guy is one of my favorite Jackie Chan movies.  In this one, he plays a chef with his own cooking show and he always gets into mishaps with thugs.  Then he becomes entangled with a news reporter and another girl, an incriminating tape the thugs made, and save to save his kidnapped girlfriend.   Jackie Chan is quite a talented and animated actor.  Instead of using stunt doubles, he does all his own stunts, even when he's injured from doing them, he does them anyway!  His stunts are very awe-inspiring, and that's probably why Jackie is so popular to begin with.  Who wouldn't like Jackie Chan?  It's also cool how he provides humor in his movies.   The only thing I didn't like about this movie was how the redheaded female lead's role was cut short.  What happened to her?  Did she die, get kidnapped, or get knocked into a coma?  Then afterward, she's totally forgotten.  Other than that, Mr. Nice Guy is an awesome movie and one of Jackie Chan's best!  Oh, and don't forget, Sammo Hung has a cameo appearence in this as an irritated cyclist!  Sammo Hung and Jackie Chan make a great team when it comes to entertainment! "},{"Title":"Jackie is back in Action!!!","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Jackie is back with this latest movie. Jackie has lots of fight scenes and lots of very very cool stunts. This film shows that Jackie knows what comedy is. The scene were Jackie fight's Richard Norton was good but a little slow and it was really quick not like in City Hunter were Jackie has to go one on one with Richard Norton again. Also this film had Bradley James Allan for a small part but nothing much. If you really want to see Bradley James Allan fight with Jackie go rent Gorgeous he fights 2 times with Jackie in that film. Sammo Hung Kam-Bo has directed this film and it shows. He also had a small role as a cyclist not much action through. Also this film is written by Edward Tang who made Rumble in the Bronx which is a classic. So go rent this movie for action, comedy, stunts, and Jackie.  "},{"Title":"A great movie with Jackie Chan in it.","Date":"19 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  My second favorite movie ever. Jackie Chan plays a great role as a nice guy who kicks ass. He tries to save a woman from chaos which he has nothing to do with.If you don't love this film, you suck. (note these are the opinions of my little brother and not me) "},{"Title":"Jackie Chan is still the best.","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  And Chan is the only thing this film has going for it. Pretty much everything that the other reviews have said are true, but Jackie Chan really keeps this film moving. I haven't seen the original version, but I can guess it probably makes better sense. Hey, just about any kung-fu film is better than Fantasy Mission Force, right? At least that's another thing this film has going for it. "},{"Title":"Who taught this guy how to direct?","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I love Jackie Chan movies.  Indeed I love nearly all Hong Kong action movies - they fully emerse you into their world and the direction is almost always masterful.So where the hell did this film go wrong?  I saw about 25 minutes of the film and all the way through it there was a lack of direction. Don't get me wrong the stunts, the action, the martial arts were BRILLIANTLY executed - it had the fast-paced comedy and action that Jackie is renowed for.  But the direction (or lack of it) made it hard to see anything going on.  Sometimes the fight sequences were too closely panned in, other times too far away to even make it worthwhile.The plot stinks like hell, but you don't see a Jackie Chan movie for its comedy and action.  I mean during the 80s and early 90s when I believe Jackie Chan was at his best - it made him who he was.  You expected silly but not stupid plots.You didn't care much about the plot about mixing up videos or the woman reporter Jackie saves.  In fact you don't care about anyone or anything - you wait, anticipating the next mindboggling fight or set piece action sequence.Sammo Hung (of Martial Law fame) must take the rap for this lack of direction.  If you want to watch this film catch it on Satelitte or Digital TV - don't rent it, save your money.Just watch this film for three things (1) Jackie Chan and his stunts  (2) Richard Norton and (3) the comedy.Rent some of Jackie's older and better films - they will make you laugh at the jokes, rather than at the film. "},{"Title":"Stupid action packed fun","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Mr. Nice Guy is yet another Jackie Chan film with the usual spectacular stunts and stupid bad guys. Jackie Chan is a cook, and one day he runs into a woman with a tape that shows some drug dealers.  The woman rides with Jackie in his car, but when she leaves, she takes Jackie`s cooking-video instead of her own.Later the bad guys want the tape back, which results in tons of great fighting-scenes.  Leave your brain at home and let Jackie Chan take you for an action packed ride! 8,5/10  "},{"Title":"Very disappointing due to poor acting and directing.","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Director Sammo Hung must take the rap for this embarrassingly bad movie. I AM a Jackie Chan fan, and even like some of his Chinese films.  Jackie was great in this film, as he always is. However, the terrible script and a poor attempt at slapstick humour, along with incredibly bad acting (by everyone besides Jackie) made me wince.  Sammo probably took a gamble that the corny over-acting would come across as funny, but it fell flat for me.Jackie deserves better than this. "},{"Title":"Stunts keep this film alive....","Date":"9 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is well made. The stunts keep it rolling and it has just enough comedy to surprise you every now and then. Jackie Chan seems incapable of making a bad movie. This is a good film for fans and newbies alike! "},{"Title":"Lots of stunts, but no plot","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  As usual with Jackie Chan's recent films, the story and acting is terrible, but the action and stunts are incredible. A totally inept plotline about a missing videotape leads to the usual Chan action set pieces. You can never get bored watching his action choreography. The monster truck demolition climax is a standout. "}{"Title":"where did she go","Date":"16 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  What happened. For 3/4 of the movie, Jackie is helping this redhead reporter. then after Jackie is captured and the girls follow him into the warehouse, they separate to get help, she raises her camera, sees one of Giancarlos henchmen through the viewfinder and that's the last time anyone sees or hears of her up to that time I thought she was supposed to be the lead lady ---also houses dont explode when you knock them down--phoney "},{"Title":"Bad movie","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  As a fan of Jackie Chan, it is very difficult for me to trash this movie, but I must. Jackie Chan tried his best to save this movie, but he is only one man. The story stunk, the plot sucked, and the acting (with the exception of Jackie Chan) was disgusting. Some of the actors and actresses acted very childish and unrealistic. In all, the movie was just plain stupid and never should have been put in theaters. When I saw the previews, I thought this movie was going to be fantastic. But when I saw it for myself, I was shocked. After the first 45 minutes of this movie, I was getting bord and my urge to continue watching was fading quickly.This movie gets a 7 out of 10 from me. I would have graded it lower if Jackie Chan didn't put so much hard work into his performance.  "},{"Title":"Can't wait for the next one","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie started out a little boring because it was the same old story only this one had Jackie.   As the movie progressed so did the action and the ending was one of the most elaborate I have ever seen.   Then when it was over, it was refreshing as always to see the out-takes.    It is getting so I cannot tell whether these are foreign movies or American movies, since it looks like an American movie, but it is filmed abroad and has American actors.    Diane, the redheaded lady looked familiar then I realized she used to be on NYPD Blue.   She did a good job as the leading lady.  "},{"Title":"his best late 90s film","Date":"12 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  this movie is 3 stars but its better than any of his other late 90s movie example first strike ,rush hour, the story is poor buts the action and comedy is exellent if u r a true jc fan u wouldn't wanna miss this 4 just his comedy "},{"Title":"More super stunts!","Date":"21 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This was a movie that was created solely to feature more of Jackie Chan's incredible stunts and martial arts.Very nice Melbourne scenery and as usual,a great effort from Chan.The martial arts was definitely toned down and the target audience of this movie was the U.S. which like more of the comedy fighting/stunts from Chan as of now as they are slowly adjusting to admiring an Asian and one who is not a U.S. citizen at that.Chan understands how to compromise and that to be big in the west,he must not take himself too seriously so as not to intimidate the very racially sensitive U.S. market.He plans to win the U.S. over by displaying his charming/clowning side of himself first,then later on,feature more seriousness in his characters and in his fighting sequences.This movie was a compromise between the Hong Kong style screenplay/directing techniques and the watered down U.S. version of Chan that seemed to connect with the U.S. audience very well.This was definitely an experimental movie to find out if a low budget movie,with Hong Kong direction/screenplay,western style scenery(closer,cheaper Australia),low budget western type actors(Australians),very simple plot and story,combined with spectacular Chan stunts and the watered down version of Chan's Kung-Fu will sell very well.If it does,they would probably make more movies with this formula.The results later on they would find out is that they could not get away with too little as they had hoped.It would be bad for Chan's credibility in the long run,relegating him into a cheap B movie action star.Chan has money and he is right now chasing his dream of being an Asian iconic legend in the ranks of Wayne,Stallone.Eastwood,Scwarzenegger and Lee.He knows credibility comes with movies with more substance than this movie.Thus the better production movies that followed this one later on.Still,this movie is worth the watch due to the truly spectacular feats Chan does time and again showing no signs of middle age at all......   "},{"Title":"Not bad, but try to avoid the re-edited US version","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" MR. NICE GUY (Yi Ge Hao Ren)Aspect ratio 2.391 (Anamorphic)Sound format Dolby DigitalThis reviewer hasn't seen New Line's re-edited 88 minute version of Sammo Hung's good-natured action movie, so I can't comment on its merits (or lack thereof), though reports suggest it's the usual cut 'n' paste abomination. Which is surprising, really, because the original film - a feebly plotted thriller with comic asides, in which a high-kicking TV chef (Jackie Chan) is hounded by a villainous drug baron (Richard Houghton) who's searching for an incriminating videotape - couldn't be simpler. Plot and characterisations are purely incidental to the main business of hurling Chan head first into a series of explosive situations that require lavish displays of physical skill and dexterity. The film's technical construction is simply beyond reproach Despite his over-reliance on irritating slow-motion inserts, Hung weaves a dynamic visual tapestry, due mainly to the breathtaking skills of cinematographer Raymond Lam and editor Peter Cheung, and he invests the threadbare narrative with an energy that will leave most viewers wide-eyed with disbelief. Stunts and fights develop organically, utilising a variety of props and settings, the highlight being a battle royale on top of a runaway horse and carriage hurtling through the streets of Melbourne, taking full advantage of the wide anamorphic frame (if you can't see this one in widescreen, don't bother). It's nice, too, to see some good western actors in a HK film (Gabrielle Fitzpatrick distinguishes herself as a gutsy journalist whose dodgy videotape provides an excuse for all the ensuing mayhem), though this probably has more to do with Golden Harvest's contractual obligations to the American distributors than anything else. And yet, despite the film's sheer cinematic gusto, MR. NICE GUY is a disappointment. It could be argued that many fans are only interested in the death-defying set-pieces, but Chan no longer seems able to reconcile his penchant for incredible stuntwork with the narrative complexities that typified so many of his earlier productions. Nevertheless, if you can forgive the casual, unfunny brutality which mars the otherwise upbeat tone - women are knocked about and abused with alarming regularity throughout the film - there's still much to enjoy in this glossy effort, even if it fails to engage the audience on anything more than a purely superficial level.(Cantonese, Mandarin and English dialogue) "},{"Title":"Martial arts with humor.","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  There are two things I want in a Jackie Chan flick and this movie, aka Mr. Nice Guy, delivers them both. First I look for new physical feats and stunts, and second I want to laugh. This film provides great fights and good humor. Like Operation Condor it is among the best of his movies. "},{"Title":"Jackie Chan Does it again.","Date":"13 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  What's truly great about Jackie Chan is that even in a movie that has no  other redeeming qualities he can make you want to see the movie again and  again.  The movie itself is not that great, the acting is bad and the plot  is extremely pathetic, but Jackie shows off how likable he is again.   Between great stunt sequences and great humourous scenes, Jackie keeps you  interested.  Here's to more Jackie Chan Movies! "},{"Title":"JACKIE CHAN SAVES THE AUSTRALIAN FILM INDUSTRY!","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Jackie Chan is an absolute legend who has saved this film from being absolutely pathetic. Made in Melbourne, MR NICE GUY or Yatgo ho yan had some poor acting and a little bit of a silly plot. But this was typical Australian acting and the plot was simple for everybody to understand. Jackie Chan plays as JACKIE, a cooking genius who lives in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia that is super at Martial Arts. There are side splitting stunts, great action and JACKIE is hilarious on more than one occasion. Dare I say it, AUSTRALIA...YOU HAVE A WINNER! (THANKS JACKIE CHAN!) **/*** - VERY GOOD (* - OK & *** - EXCELLENT) "},{"Title":"Definitely worth the watch. It's not perfect, but it's endearing and fun enough to warrant your undivided attention","Date":"22 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I love Jackie Chan movies. Rush Hour, Shanghai Knights, even the cartoon, Jackie Chan Adventures. I have loved his style of action and comedy since I was like five. The fact that he does all of his stunts still impresses me to this day. Today (at time of original review), I watched his film, Mister Nice Guy for the first time, and it was an absolute blast.The plot is cliché, thin, and predictable. However, the fun comes from the awesome action and plenty of funny moments. Tons of slapstick comedy, flips, and daring escapes that show off what Jackie Chan the best at what he does action-comedies. The acting isn't amazing and the musical score is just decent for most of the movie. Some characters feel as if they have no purpose except to be kidnapped.The main problem is that it uses too much slow-motion, and the quality of this slow-mo is very below par, making me a little motion sick at times. The fact that it uses slow-motion for such trivial things as thugs swaying their heads from side-to-side makes it even worse.With plenty of flips, kicks, and punches, Mister Nice Guy is sure to excite, even if a little silly. If you're a fan of Chan and haven't watched this gem yet, please do. I'm going to give it an 8.5/10. Fun and endearing, Mister Nice Guy reminds me of why I love Jackie Chan's films and why I'm mildly depressed that he hasn't been putting out many good films anymore.﻿ "}{"Title":"I Like it because it was filmed in Melbourne","Date":"15 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This cool Jackie Chan movie was filmed in Melbourne and is practically everything that you want in a Jackie Chan movie it has heaps of fights and is very funny. The acting is pretty poor, but we don't watch these movies for the acting, we watch them to see Jackie Chan do his stuff, and in this movie he does. In fact this movie is probably the typical Jackie Chan movie as the plot seems to vanish during the movie leaving it open for a grand finale.The funny thing about this movie is that I knew exactly where it was filmed - Melbourne. It is so funny watching Jackie run around the Melbourne Central shopping centre, and knowing that one does not start of the ground floor of the Old Shot Tower, run down six elevators, and land up on the first floor of the old Shot Tower. It really does not work. And then there is the fight scene down Swanson Street, where he seems to be running down Swanson Street in one direction, and it turns out that he is going in the opposite direction (I sort of worked it out by looking at the shops along the side). In the end, we are not looking for continuity in this film, we are just looking for the action.When it comes to action though, this film does deliver. In fact, what we end up with is a movie that is constantly on the go. It goes so fast that we are almost left breathless halfway through, waiting for the movie to slow down for a little while so that we can catch our breath before being plunged into it again. In fact, I think that this is the flaw in this movie (other than the bad acting) that it simply goes so fast that we are almost left behind. Still, it is a great movie, filmed in Australia, and I really hope Jackie comes back here to continue his career. "},{"Title":"Crime Drama goes Bad","Date":"10 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Jackie Chan has a talent in physical and emotional comedy, but he sometimes seems rather lost in some of his non-Hong Kong productions. While this film is hardly as awful as 'Tuxido', it does not float well either.The movie essentially has good things going for it. It is funny in many places and wonderfully goofy. Sammo Hung's bit role as the miss-fortunate cyclist is a particular blast. Unfortunately the comedic approach just seems right out inappropriate particularly given this is a crime drama and the fact that for the villains the movie opens rather grotesquely.From a production point of view there's basically nothing wrong with the film, but its plot runs thin very quickly and it does not provide a very rewarding climax. "},{"Title":"Not Jackie's Best","Date":"29 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie literally came with my pizza. THAT's how low the production value is. The plot is more of the usual. Chan plays the nice guy who is thrown into violent circumstances alongside three female co-stars. The bad guys are the usual hodgepodge of street punks and organized criminals. All in all, it's best to remember this is a comedy.Mr. Nice Guy brings bad acting to a whole new level. You know those horrible voices you hear in dubbed Chinese movies? Well, apparently Chan's crew is so comfortable working with those voice actors that they are now casting them as live actors too. So you hear the usual awful voices, but then you notice that the lips are actually in synch.There is only one fight sequence that is innovative and entertaining. As is frequently the case with Chan's movies, there is also a lengthy action scene involving huge vehicles and explosions. I'm not sure what the infatuation is with heavy, moving machinery, but those scenes always seem boring and mundane compared to the fist-flying, high-kicking martial arts.I worry about the future of Chan, Sammo Hung, and rest of their production crew. They take great pride in their stunts and choreography, but their methods may soon become outdated. Chan performs very difficult, dangerous stunts, but all too often, the outcome doesn't appear very dazzling, or its impact is lessened by poor camera angles and overuse of slow-motion. While CGI effects used to be far inferior to live action, the distinction is gradually fading. If Chan wants to stay ahead, he's going to have to constantly innovate and provide much more original material than Mr. Nice Guy.Finally, I docked this movie one extra point because the DVD started with a preview of Son of the Mask, and it was one of those previews that you cannot skip. "},{"Title":"Reasonable Chan film but not much more than that","Date":"13 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Jackie is a television chef who is minding his own business when he gets involved in a fight.  Journalist Diana has filmed a meeting between two rival gangs that will incriminate them both in murder and drugs.  When Jackie helps her escape he accidentally ends up with the videotape - thus bringing the gangs after him.A year or so after making this film, Jackie Chan discovered a Hollywood formula of acting in a partnership with comedy stars and using that to improve plot, characters and comedy while Chan deals with the most of the action.  However here he still goes for the `load of average actors, rubbish plot and cheeky action' formula that made up the lion's share of his early American films.  The plot here doesn't really matter as it is only the thinnest of frames to hold a series of action set pieces and a dash of comedy.  The action is good without being spectacular - fans of Chan will enjoy his physical work but some of the stunts are overblown rather than exciting.  As director Sammo just points and shoots - which pretty much suits the film's style and requirements.The cast are the usual mix of extras and thugs who can take a fall but struggle to say their lines and pretty girls who can't really act.  Chan is enjoyable as he always is.  Here he benefits from not being dubbed but letting his accent stand; his physical stuff is impressive still. Fitzpatrick is actually quite good but the film exploits her slightly (sticking her in her undies for no reason!).  The semi-famous singer Miki Lee looks nice but she can't really act.  Likewise McLymont is quite pretty but delivers her lines with big exaggerated facial expressions like she's presenting a kids' tv show.Overall this is an average film from Chan but one that fans will enjoy. It has a poor plot, poor dialogue and some very dodgy acting but it is fairly typical for Chan's films when he was first trying to break into American films. "},{"Title":"Incomprehensible insanity - 48%","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" After a long difficult weekend at work, what film would you most like to relax to? Some boring old drama perhaps or maybe a comedy? Instead, I get Jackie Chan doing what Jackie Chan does best - turning everyday scenes into martial arts arenas in Mr Nice Guy, the English title for Yatgo Ho Yan. It wasn't my fault but honestly, questions have to be asked about Channel 4's scheduling if this is all they can provide me with.Jackie plays Jackie, which isn't a ploy to avoid confusing the actor but the name of a TV chef who gets accidentally mixed up in a drug lord's plans. Throw in some comical violence of the Home Alone school of knocks, a variety of women all of whom seem to fall for Jackie and perhaps the most clichéd baddie in movie history and that's pretty much all you need to know. The simple truth is that nobody but a moron (or a movie critic) will watch this for the story. Nor will they watch it for the acting. I know that English is Chan's second language but even so, the man cannot act. As a stuntman, he is second to none but a call from the Royal Shakespeare Company is about as likely as me bedding Gillian Anderson. This wouldn't be so bad but everyone else seems to be playing badly to improve your perception of Chan's role. Note to director this tactic doesn't work. Never has, never will.Instead, you watch a film like this for Chan's athletic ability which is brought to the absolute fore here. He climbs walls, he fights several men at the same time and uses almost every available opportunity to stun the viewer into submission with his wiley antics. Genuine laughs are to be had as Chan, master high-kicker extraordinaire, leaps across the screen like a whirling dervish. His sense of comic timing is what lifts Chan above so many of his contemporaries and places him at the top of a very large pile indeed. One only needs to think of Jean-Claude Van Damme, Steven Seagal or (shudders) Mark Dacascos to realise that Chan, despite his obvious absence of any acting talent, is still the man to beat.Sadly, Chan is the sole high point of this film as almost everything else about this movie sucks. From the toe-curling dialogue to Chan's egocentric deployment of female characters, the pointless slow motion shots to the Benny-Hill-style speeding up of the action. Mr Nice Guy (as cryptic a title as you could wish for, since Chan doesn't seem particularly nice to anyone but the good guys) will satisfy martial arts fans and will amaze those unfamiliar with Chan's antics. But behind the star, there is nothing to see here. "},{"Title":"The movie isn't good,but Jackie always impress in the fight scenes.","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  As almost all Jackie Chan movies,the story and acting is bad,but that is not why you watch a Jackie Chan movie,it is because of the fight scenes. The fight scenes is as always very original and this movie also show a lot of humor. Unfortunantly we can see that Jackie starts to get old,and he is nothing like he used to be back in the early 80s. Only worth watching for the fight scenes,nothing else. "},{"Title":"Way too long","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  OK, that kind of movie is funny for maybe 45 minutes, but then I grew so bored, I could hardly stay awake. This was my first Jackie Chan movie and I guess it was my last, too. "},{"Title":"Just Action. So, is it good or bad thing ?!","Date":"18 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is a chain of highly dangerous action sequences, done excellently without wires, CGI, or stuntmen. The thing is there is nothing else it ! The plot has been done for at least million times; they watched the bad guy while doing bad thing, then catch them BADLY !! which always and forever means  a long chase of a movie, with all the hot action and the attempts to killing. There is no comedy, unless we're talking about slight nanoseconds during the fights, mostly with Jackie's reactions. There is no developing romance. There is no drama. And there is no good line either. So it's only Jackie Chan's Circus Presents, a dry circus for that matter !As you see, even a real, creative, sometimes too dazzling action can't make a perfect movie. So, for a Jackie fan; this could be satisfying, however for the American viewer, who this movie was aimed at, it's not the same at all. It couldn't score big in the American box office. Hence it quickly joined the list of the English-talking movies that Jackie used to do for about 15 years to get into America, with constantly no great success. Actually Jackie, at that phase, was still searching for the code-breaker of the American viewer. He would find it one year ahead with (Rush Hour), namely the buddy action comedy formula, where he hits and Chris Tucker talks !So this is the best of Jackie Chan a la Honk Kong, not Hollywood. That's why the movie couldn't be a hit in America, despite the woman with the black bikini, the other with the white underwear, and that fabulous climactic scene ! Seriously, the sex tone, for a Jackie movie, is a bit loud this time. That sequence of the redheaded woman, running in the street in only a bra and panty was strange, but incredibly bold and luscious. I deem it one unforgettable piece of cinema; for its idea and its heroine's body (her backside in specific !). But to tell you the truth, nothing can top the climax. When Jackie rides that monster of an earthmover, wipes the villa off the ground, it's The unforgettable piece of cinema, being a fit grand finale for his circus's show; entitled Bringing down the house !Nevertheless, in that show some points bugged me. There are too many fighting women, all fight as hot as Jackie himself !! Let alone that he, as a fighting machine, is presented as just a cook ?!! The videotape that the reporter taped for the gang looks shot with many cameras, in different angles, with sharp cutting as well (Do I hear LAAAAAAAAME ?!). And most of all that bizarre visual effect which was overused in every action scene ???? I couldn't understand was that for slowing the image or quickening it ? Did they want a silent movie's flavor ?! Whatever the answer might be, I HATED IT SO MUCH, IT'S TOTALLY ANNOYING !It didn't prove itself as a hit in America. However it's genuine Jackie Chan fun. Though, when the 2 married  the American hit & Jackie fun, we &#x96; as the fans of the old and magical Jackie &#x96; lost many special merits, with for instance abundance of wires, CGI, and stuntmen. Hmmm, it might sound tacky and timeworn, but it is its right place to be said  Nothing is perfect ! "},{"Title":"Chan is great, but Hung needs to have someone else direct the non-action scenes","Date":"20 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Jackie Chan is the best actor in Mr. Nice Guy, which should give you an idea of how shoddy the acting is here. Worse, Jackie Chan is far and away the best actor here by a wide margin, and Jackie never really acts, he just is affable and charming on camera. Everyone else here is community theater level or worse, which has to be at least partly the fault of director Sammo Hung. Chan films tend to need a lot of highly skilled stunt-men, and the two skill sets (double back flips through a pane glass window vs believable readings of a prosaic line of dialog) are not often found in one actor. But the non-action oriented supporting cast is just as bad. So either Hung didn't know how to get better takes from his actors and stunt-men, or he didn't realize (looking at the rushes) that what he had was bad (at least for Occidental expectations), or he just wasn't interested in the dialog and character interaction, except as an excuse to get to the next action sequence. (I'm inclined to believe it's a combination of the 2nd and 3rd explanations). However, the action sequences are, as usual extremely impressive and engaging, and well worth your time and money to see. What can you say, it's Jackie Chan with a real budget and room to play. However, even here Mr. Nice Guy isn't quite up to the level of pieces like Super Cop, First Strike or Who Am I? because the action falters a bit at the end. Instead of taking down the chief bad guy and his henchmen in a flurry of furious martial arts action, ***plot spoiler follows*** Chan's character commandeers an earth mover and drives it through the head villain's house. It's quite an amusing spectacle, I'll admit, and I give the movie credit for trying something different. But it just seems like an easy out, and not in the same league as the climaxes to films like Drunken Master II or Project A or Armor Of God.***Plot spoiler ends*****Obviously, I am a fan of the man, going back to his Protector and Police Force days before The Big Brawl was first released in the West. So I would say that if you are a fan like me, you'll want to see Mr. Nice Guy on general principle, and you'll find lots to enjoy about it. But I think most Chan enthusiasts won't have it in their Top 5 list of favorite Jackie Chan movies, or even the Top 10. "},{"Title":"Honest Review of Horrible Flick","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is the worst movie I have ever seen in my entire life. Directed by Samo Hung (who would later leap to the ENORMOUS manstream success starring opposite Aresnio Hall in the ground-breaking TV show Martial Law), this film weaves an incoherent storyline with an equally incoherent Jackie Chan.The result is a series of amazing, death-defying stunts, that leaves the audience wishing that Jackie Chan WOULD get caught by the spinning saw blade or even a stray bullet. By the time an un-explained monster truck barrels through the drug-lord's glass house at the end, however, I was hoping a stray bullet would hit ME to end my misery.  "}{"Title":"A Real Stinker!","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I am a big fan of martial arts movies. Even the really bad ones, that critics criticize, I usually like.Although, this movie started off well, in it's opening fight sequence. I really could not keep myself awake shortly after!Check out, First Strike; now that's a good and entertaining Hong Kong produced Jackie Chan movie!Other than that, I have to say his American movies are the best!  "},{"Title":"Wow","Date":"17 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I know films like this should be taken with a pinch of salt, people will always say things like it's just a bit off fun or it's not to be taken seriously. Normally, I would go along with these opinions but I'm afraid I'm just not able to with 'Mr. Nice Guy'. The acting in this film is so bad, it is almost funny. The problem is that the acting is so awkward, it makes watching it so awkward. There are moment where you would like to rise from your seat, enter the TV and do it for them. The action and FX are almost annoying everything seems to be in slow motion, which is silly because it allows the viewer more time to see windows breaking before they are touched, or fireworks being set off for explosions. I'm sorry, I'm not usually such a cynic but having watched many bad films in my time- I think it is safe to say this is the worst. If you like Chan, then keep to the Rush Hours. "},{"Title":"Big disappointment","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Big disappointment from the Chan man. Although the real fault here lies with director Sammo Hung. This film brought Hung and Chan back together after years of a rumored quarrel between them; they collaborated again on the much superior Medallion.A couple reviewers here remarked that there was too much plot in the movie, which weakened the pace. I suggest they re-watch the film, just for clarification - the reason why there seems to be too much plot is because a very simple plot has been needlessly obscured and muddled - if the film were properly paced, we would have time for a much stronger - and accessible - plot than we find here, which would make the better surviving chases - since some chases would need to go - more realistic and hence more meaningful.In fact the film is really only one chase scene after another - on feet, in cars, across rooftops, etc., etc. There's never any time spent developing these characters enough to make us interested in them. And chase scenes are not fight scenes true, they do offer plenty of raw material for some undeniably exciting stunts; but the sense of conflict that should be providing the suspense for the film is almost wholly lacking, since the protagonist - Chan - never resolves to confront the gangsters before they find him first.Hard to understand how Chan (at the peak of his popularity) and Hung (about to go to America for the Martial Law TV show) could generate such a mess as this. It seems they both became so obsessed with stunt-chasing, they forgot what it was the characters need to chase about - the story. "},{"Title":"The rise and fall of Jackie Chan","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" For many years Jackie Chan had been a hero to me. Then came Rumble in the Bronx and he was a hero to everyone. Rumble in the Bronx was a great film I thought. Not Jackies best but great at what it was. It turned out that was to be his last really great film.A few movies later this came out. Jackies first all English speaking film. As long as you don't count The Protector and Big Brawl.I have to say I wasn't looking forward too seeing this anyway. The story didn't sound too impressive from the start. And it isn't. Its very convoluted. A TV chef who seems to have super hero capabilities? The acting is really bad (look out for some famous Astralian soap stars though). But its the action that really fails. Anytime some good action is about to take place the image turns into this blurry slow motion technique that makes it hard to see whats going on.Okay some great moments along the way. And a brilliant cameo from Sammo Hung. But is it really worth it? "},{"Title":"Not So Nice.","Date":"4 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Mr. Nice Guy (1997) Dir Samu Hung / Cast Jackie Chan, Richard Norton, Karen McLymont, Miki Lee, Gabrielle Fitzpatrick Standard Jackie Chan flick about behaviour when met with conflict. The plot regards a video tape that reveals drug lords in action and how it falls into the wrong hands and eventually Chan's apartment. Chan spends the remainder of the film beating up bad guys and rescuing three women who cannot act. Basically ninety minutes of stunts and action with interesting locations. Directing by Samu Hung is fine but Chan isn't doing anything new. He is amusing in his personality but from a story standpoint he basically kicks the crap out of a lot of less than talented people. The dreadful supporting cast includes Richard Norton, Miki Lee, Gabrielle Fitzpatrick, and Karen McLymont and none of them will likely find work in this field any time soon after being part of this hideous mess. Chan films are pretty much structured the same way and exist for the same reason. We are given an ongoing parade of slapstick violence where any evidence of a plot becomes pointless. He is in great shape and performs impressive stunts but a film needs more than stunts and this one is lacking a key element called plot. The message is suppose to regard anger but the stunts are its true purpose. Viewers should take their anger out on this film and toss it in the nearest dumpster. Score 3 / 10 "},{"Title":"Mr. Nice Guy","Date":"1 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" When you see bits of this you expect it to be quite fun, and then when you read the review by critics you can agree with what their saying. Based in Melbourne, Australia, this story sees Jackie Chan as Jackie (LOL), a popular TV cook with great food talents, and knowledge of martial arts. His life is turned upside down when TV Journalist Diana (Gabrielle Fitzpatrick) has taped evidence of a drug lord, Giancarlo 'The Saint' Lucchetti (Richard Norton) doing his business, and on her way out is spotted, and has to run. She runs into Jackie in the street and they getaway after a little struggle, but it gets worse they accidentally mix up her tape or the crime, and his tape of his cookery show. The bad guys are now after Jackie, who they think has the tape, but what he and they don't realise is that one of Jackie's nephews nicked it. There is also a point where Jackie's girlfriend Miki (Miki Lee, LOL again) is kidnapped and threatened for ransom, so this is when we know, No More Mr. Nice Guy. Also starring Karen McLymont as Lakeisha, Vince Poletto as Romeo, Barry Otto as Baggio and the director Sammo Hung Kam-Bo as Cyclist. The action, stunt and chase sequences as with most of Chan's films are very fun and quite exciting, including a stunt involving a power saw, but I agree with critics two star (out of five) opinion, because the acting is rubbish, and the story could have used a bit of work too, but it is certainly a film for Chan and stunt fans. Jackie Chan was number 41 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars. Okay! "},{"Title":"Good fighting - bad acting - bad script","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film had some good action scenes. Jackie was Jackie (naturally great!) but everyone else forgot to take acting lessons. The bad script just made things worse. It was all downhill... you'll see what I mean in the first 5 minutes - I honestly thought that it was a send up or a television show within the movie at the beginning. My heart fell when I saw it was actually the real movie itself. And to think I spent $6 to see it. Can I get my money back please? "},{"Title":"An awful story, an obvious plot, bad acting and even worse dialogs. Don't watch it unless you're a huge fan","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Normally I don't watch martial arts movies, but that doesn't mean that I can't make an exception. This movie was announced as one of the best and funniest movies Jackie Chan had ever made. I truly hope for him that this isn't true, because this movie really was a big disappointment.I never felt like laughing while watching this movie. The only time that I had a smile on my face was with the bloopers at the end of the movie. So I don't think the title 'Comedy' is well chosen. This isn't more than an action / martial arts movie with a lot of fight scenes (too many if you ask me), an awful story, an obvious plot, bad acting and even worse dialogs. Even the style of filming wasn't to my taste... I don't like the semi-flashy, pop video-way of filming which was used from time to time to make this movie seem so much more spectacular than it really is.So far for the bad critics, what I do like about this movie is the fact that Jackie Chan did his stunts himself. All my respect for that. There aren't many actors who dare to do so, but he doesn't seem to mind a little bit of pain. The only other good thing that I can say about it is about the actresses... good choice. They don't contribute to the story, but at least they look great.I guess this is a movie that will be loved by children and all the fans of Bruce Lee and other martial arts masters. Personally I didn't like it all that much. 4/10 because of his own stunts and the pretty girls. "},{"Title":"Truly, truly awful... one of the worst movies you'll EVER see.","Date":"10 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I cannot begin to describe the disaster that this movie was. EVERYTHING about it was bad - the plot, the script, the characters, the costumes, the acting, the direction, the sound... all dreadful. I couldn't understand a word anyone said and why did they all sound dubbed - when the speak English anyway!? This movie says it was made in 1997, when it actually looks like it was made in the early '80s. It's not even a decent B movie, more like a Z movie. There is nothing positive to say about this film whatsoever and the only reason I watched the whole thing was so I could come on here and warn people how awful it is. NEVER see this film unless you are curious to see how bad it is.0/10. I only gave it 1 because I had to and I wanted to bring the rating down. "},{"Title":"The worst movie ever made","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I had the misfortune of catching this on HBO. I had not seen the Chan flicks before, so I decided to take a look. I didn't expect more than a B class movie I've heard before my friends telling of the horrendous quality of Chan's movies but I would not believe it; surely they couldn't be worse than some films I've seen, including the infamous Ed Wood and his classics. Boy, was I wrong... This must be *the worst movie ever made*, period. B class? Let me put it that way there are A class movies, B class ones, there is the C class and even a D class, and then there is the Z class, reserved for Troma (which I actually liked) and Eddie Wood. And THEN, way down below the Z class, there is the Jackie Chan class. To make sure, I watched two other Chan movies later - I don't and don't want to remember their titles - and those were just as bad. Chan cannot act, cannot even *appear* to act, cannot speak (he never *speaks*, he *always* shouts!), cannot choose actors (or maybe he deliberately wants all of them to act even more wooden than he does, even though it might seem an impossible task!) and obviously cannot spend more than five seconds thinking of the plot of his movies. Wait, did I call them movies? I take it back - that would be an insult to all REAL movies. Ed Wood made Oscar-deserving movies compared to Mr Chan's creations. Those aren't even flicks. They are just an incoherent mess with no script, no directing and no acting - only some idiotic stunts that Mr Chan reportedly does himself (as if I cared), such as an incredible task of jumping four stairs down, with a team of paramedics on guard. Are stunts all that his audience asks for? It would seem so. As for me, I'll remain with the old-fashioned idea of a movie script first, directing second, acting third. Effects and stunts - last.  "}{"Title":"Jackie Fans Only","Date":"22 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  In MR NICE GUY as it`s called in Britain Jackie Chan plays a TV chef who finds himself caught up in intrigue involving gangsters and a missing video cassette . I say  intrigue  but that`s maybe misleading because we are talking Jackie Chan here and as you would expect we are treated ( Another misleading word ) to Jackie`s unique martial arts mixed in with comedy in a thread bare plot , a bit like Jean Claude Van Damme on laughing gas . The acting is fairly awful especially from the bad guys whose delivery led me to think English isn`t their native tongue and acting wasn`t their chosen profession .Sorry guys but I can only recommend MR NICE GUY to Chan fans  "}]