[{"Title":"Stop ruining good ideas!!","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"35 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Our society is so dependent on electricity so that when there is a blackout we despair. We find it hard to understand how people survived without the light switch, the TV, the refrigerator. The Trigger Effect is about such an occurence, but whereas our electricity usually comes back in a matter of hours, this movie's characters have to survive in the black for days. It is an interesting premise but it's horribly handled.The characters we are shown are boring and two dimensional. An uneventful love triangle begins between the three leads which leads to nowhere. There are some interesting parts to the movie but it's let down by it's small budget. This movie demanded some cutting edge movie making, it fails to deliver. This could and should have been a much more (dare I say) violent picture. It's theme was that of man's devolution back into nature after it loses its use of technology. So we expect some nasty events to occur. It never happens. A movie like this should have left the moviegoer with questions. How would you react in such a situation? Instead it only leaves us with a gaping mouth and a statement to the filmmakers. Stop ruining good ideas!! "},{"Title":"adding insult to injury","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"36 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One of those movies that could have been good, if Alfred Hitchcock was still alive. Everybody was in a bad mood anyway if the opening scenes were anything to go by. The opening scenes were good, by the way, which was one reason I kept watching, but to no avail. I agree, it gets worse as it goes along, as if the writer had one good idea then didn't know where to go with it, so it didn't go anywhere. If you're about to rent this movie anyway, think about why you've never heard of it.  "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I've seen...","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"60 out of 97 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  There are few things I hate more than being beaten over the head with the message a movie is trying to get across. The creators obviously became so wrapped up in conveying an interesting theme that they forgot about the importance of the other aspects of a good movie (character development, action, a PLOT)...This had potential- good actors, rising tension (in the beginning) and an interesting situation to be delt with. However, it soon became a downward spiral of events that were unbelievable and unoriginal. It became downright silly. The ending was so contrived it made me laugh. Even the acting didn't save this- I didn't care about these characters or what happened to them. This one will be *remembered?* as a movie that had potential but was unable to deliver.   "},{"Title":"Great idea, very VERY poorly executed","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"35 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was one of the people who ended up hating this movie and wishing it weren't so. As others have said, it's an important concept - how would YOU behave in this oh-too-probably situation, but it was so poorly executed. All of the characters in this movie were sooooooo unpleasant, so unlikeable. Are all middle-class Americans really like this? Somehow I doubt it. With a good director and better actors - and let's face it, has Elisabeth Shue ever done any movie where she gets to keep her clothes on - this could have been much better than the 'C' grade crap that it ultimately became. "},{"Title":"One Word-boring","Date":"5 March 1999","Score":"38 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The first time I saw it I couldn't make it awake till the end. It's so slow paced for its theme. The whole movie could've lasted 40 minutes if it moved at a regular pace.   That aside the story was not bad but very badly developed. I'm so sorry I watched twice to see it complete, it actually gets worse at the end. If you don't have anything better to do, see another movie, read a book or take a nap, but don't see this movie. "},{"Title":" Reading about Manos reminded me of...","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"45 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This morning, as I perused the IMDB bottom 100, I realized that my own personal worst movie ever wasn't there...The Trigger Effect. Now, in retrospect, this was a harsh assessment to make as a teenager, but I still haven't seen anything else -- and this is after YEARS of MST3K -- that has compared to this. A Rod Serling premise delivered with Ed Wood execution -- this was an absolutely pitiful waste of celluloid and a couple of generally decent actors.    The Trigger Effect is boring and lame, feeble and implausible, derivative and lousy. It doesn't even qualify in the so good, it's bad genre... it's just bad, which is why I rank it below about a hundred other old sci-fi or spy films that at least aspired to a lower standard. The Trigger Effect aims to be a thought-provoking thriller and isn't anything close. Has anyone else noticed that David Koepp (who wrote and directed this, in addition to penning bad scripts for The Lost World and Snake Eyes, to name just two) is the worst well-paid screenwriter in Hollywood? "},{"Title":"A movie so bad my wife threatened divorce","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"48 out of 82 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I love Elizabeth Shue. Once I saw her on the cover of the video box, I had to get this film. But my wife said that if I ever rent such a senseless, pointless, useless waste of two hours again, I'll have to find a new wife to watch it with. "},{"Title":"A Great Start that Slowly Goes Nowhere","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"19 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The opening sequence of how other people effect the flow of our natural day opens up the idea to the audience that like the Trigger Effect, other people during the course of our normal days can end up making us go crazy and even doing some drastic stuff.  The Trigger Effect opens up Touch of Evil style with a wonderful sequence of no name actors who end up playing a huge role on the story line of what the Trigger Effect is. Almost by mistake, we are brought into the lives of the main characters, and from there the story begins. The movie holds some amazing moments and some excellent scenes with the 3 leads. Still, the movie falls short with an ending, nobody wanted to see. A thriller that builds and builds and builds and goes nowhere. The struggle between the characters grow and then end up going off on a detour and nothing else. Sad, the movie could have been a timeless story how the slightest things in our day could end up killing ourselves if not killing others. The story was terrific and could have been an excellent movie. But overall, the movie is worth watching just for the moments it has. "},{"Title":"Like Everyone Else Has Said","Date":"27 September 2005","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A power blackout sweeps across America leading to fear which slowly manifests itself into suspicion  Who will you be able to trust if the lights don't come back on ? That's the idea behind THE TRIGGER EFFECT , a film that on the surface resembles the plot of a novel by John Wyndham or John Christopher but as so very , very many people on this page have screamed from the roof tops this isn't a movie that makes the best of a great idea The film starts with a sequence that can best be described as  Robert Altman directing the opening shot of SUPERMAN 3  which is meant as a compliment to Robert Koepp . as the story continues we're quickly introduced to the characters of Matthew and Annie Kay who have a baby . They're visited by their friend Joe and then disaster strikes when the electricity runs out and shows no signs of returning . Get ready for danger On second thoughts don't get ready for danger . There's something about this scenario that I can't quite pout my finger on . Maybe it's to do with the scenario which is credible but the actions of the characters aren't . Would a long lasting power cut lead to the collapse of civilization as we know it ? Possibly since everyone went on a looting rampage during the New York blackout of the late 1970s and let us not forget the mass panic caused by reports of rapes , murders and other assorted evil after Hurricane Katrina but even so I was not convinced that a power cut would lead to a post apocalypse scenario , it's not like the population has been rendered blind by a meteorite shower ( DAY OF THE TRIFFIDS ) or a worldwide famine is in progress ( THE DEATH OF GRASS ) or a nuclear war has happened ( Insert your most depressing Nuclear holocaust movie here ) . Perhaps I should point out that THE TRIGGER EFFECT probably isn't a post apocalypse type movie so if you're expecting 28 DAYS LATER you're in for a rude awakening , this is more of a slow burning drama where characters seem to be making mountains out of mole hills . By trying to be realistic it ends up being unrealistic . I'm sure most people would nonchantley sit on their behinds in this type of situation rather glad that their quarterly electricity bill would lower than usual . Hell the police are still driving around arresting people during a blackout , do you understand what I'm saying about a lack of credibility ? I have criticised the characters but to be honest I think the problem lies with Koepp's casting more than his writing . I found Kyle Maclachlan rather wimpy as Matthew . I guess the point was that adversity can lead to wimps turning into violent anti-heroes but I was never convinced by his performance while the rest of the cast failed to make any type of impression on me at all All in all this is a very disappointing contribution to speculative fiction . Let me just repeat that I doubt if it's intended to be an out and out grim depressing story of man fighting to survive , it's more of a drama about how reliant we are on both electricity and each other but the story never reaches its full potential which is a great shame "},{"Title":"David Koepp needs writing lessons","Date":"12 September 2011","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Trigger Effect is kinda like the little engine that could...but didn't. It simply falls flat, and it is all due to a script that is chock full of gaping errors and head scratching moments.I have to give away some spoilers to prove my point, so stop here if you wish to be surprised.Here are some of the examples about inconsistencies, and other head scratching problems.At one point, the three leads decide to venture outside to witness the insanity caused by the blackout. But they leave the baby at home, alone, unattended, while it's sick with a fever, and there is no electricity.I can understand long lines at places like a gas station or a grocery store or hardware store, but Kyle goes to a pharmacy and a gun shop where there are lines practically out the door. OK, maybe the gun shop I'll accept, but a pharmacy? All of a sudden people need to go to the pharmacy? Why now? And then Kyle gets into these totally unnecessary heated arguments with the pharmacist and the gun shop owner. Why?? If he would just talk to them in a calm, rational manner, he would have been able to get what he needed like the medicine from the pharmacist. It just made no sense. It's like, Kyle, calm down, dude! After Rupert is shot, and they end up losing their car and having to use Michael Rooker's car instead, they try desperately waving cars down on the road to help them, but to no avail. Why didn't they just place Rooker's car in the middle of the road to block traffic? This would cause all oncoming drivers to stop, then that way Kyle could have asked them for a ride to a hospital. But nooooo, what does Kyle do instead? He runs all the way to that lone farmhouse that he ends up breaking into---and this brings up even more questions Why did Kyle run all the way to the farmhouse for help? He passes a NUCLEAR FACILITY. Don't you think that the NUCLEAR FACILITY would have MANY people working inside? People who could have helped him get to a hospital? But, noooooo, he runs to the farmhouse.When he gets to the farmhouse, he gets into yet another heated argument with the owner for no reason whatsoever. Had he just remained calm, I am sure the owner would help him. But, nooooo, they fight which causes Kyle to return later with the rifle that he gave to his wife to keep with her for protection. So, let's think about this. It means that Kyle ran from Rooker's car passing the NUCLEAR FACILITY to get to the farmhouse where he gets into a verbal fight with the owner, then ran back from the farmhouse passing the NUCLEAR FACILITY again to get to the car to get the rifle, then he runs from the car passing the NUCLEAR FACILITY yet again in order to get to the farmhouse where he gets into a gun fight with the owner after he unnecessarily breaks into it. Are you confused, too? So am I! At the beginning of the movie, there is a sequence where a woman obliviously cuts into a line at a concession stand to get popcorn. Except for one person, no one else in this looooong line complains that this woman just cut right into them. Not even the concessionaire tells her to get to the back of the line. Wow. Such a kind, forgiving group of people.At a time where cash is of the utmost importance, our leads happen to come across an ice cream truck (!!!???!!!) on the side of the road, and decide to blow some of their ever-so important cash---on ICE CREAM??? And why is this truck there to begin with, and how is the vendor keeping the treats frozen when there is no electricity? A man breaks into Kyle and Elisabeth's house. After they chase the criminal into the street, their neighbor ends up shooting and killing the guy. For the rest of the film, Kyle resents the fact that his neighbor did this. Why? The criminal was even waving a switchblade in the middle of the street when he was shot, but for some reason I guess Kyle felt that his neighbor's action was too extreme. If this were me, I'd be kissing and bowing down to my neighbor thanking him for killing the guy!!! I mean, he just broke into my house carrying a weapon which I'm sure he would have used on me, my wife and my child. Yet Kyle, I guess, ends up resenting his neighbor for doing this good deed. Whatever.I know it's 1996, but doesn't one single person in this entire HUGE city own a cell phone?!?!? I could go on, but I'm sure you will find the same problems with this script that I did. The more I think about it, I realize that people in this movie just don't act rationally. I know that during a blackout people will do the strangest of things, but it's just that there are so many inconsistencies and scenes that make no sense whatsoever. Unfortunately, Koepp is a master of the Head-Scratching screenplays. His films are certainly entertaining, but there are many times when you just sit there and say, Whuh? That makes no sense! And this movie has a lot of those scenes. Too bad because it really is a fun idea. "}{"Title":"Idiocy!!!","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"18 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What a stupid movie!!!  The main character, played by Kyle MacLachlan, is such an idiot that everyone in the theater was rooting for him to get killed by the end of the film!  Do not waste your time watching this film.  Don't do it!  There isn't even anything remotely enjoyable about the experience. "},{"Title":"Stupid, stupid movie","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"22 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  wow. I have never been so bored with a movie. A movie like The Trigger Effect starts off with an interesting premise. Normally, you would expect it to build suspense. This does not occur. In fact, nothing about this movie is suspenseful. Really lame, contrived, and full of scenes that do nothing to enhance the plot, characters, or add anything to the movie.2/10 "},{"Title":"Lame, dumb, too much of my life that I won't get back.","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"30 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The movie starts out good, with a decent premise and interesting idea. Then spirals into stupidity.  All the main characters in the movie resort to very un-realistic behavior, where they over-react to a situation that is not as bad as they seem to think it is. "},{"Title":"At least its got an interesting concept (and a very fine female lead)...","Date":"3 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" which is a lot more than you can say for most movies...I caught this flick one night on television. One of my favourite things is when I stumble across some little movie on TV that I haven't seen before. This happened to me one night when I was just skipping channels, as you do. What stopped me dead in my tracks was the sight of Elizabeth Shue. Now I freely admit that this woman just hypnotizes me. She's extremely appealing on several levels so I will often watch a movie that's an obvious turkey (The Saint, The Hollow Man) just because she is in it.Elizabeth aside, the movie itself proved to have quite a diverting premise the meltdown of society when some of the trappings are suddenly removed. There is a lot that could have been done with this, but the production was obviously not that well-financed, so the director smartly focused on the characters instead.It really isn't as bad as many of the people here make it out to be. The three leads are interesting enough, there is a sub-plot in the form of a love triangle to keep things interesting and the concept is certainly relevant enough in today's times to hold one's attention.Yes, OK, its not a classic but its not a complete disaster either. And I for one detest neat little endings tied up in a bow. Ultimately, as with many films, its down to the circumstances in which it is viewed. If you're looking to be entertained for a couple of hours on a slow week night, you could do a lot worse. "},{"Title":"Don't bother...","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"16 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What a waste of time and cast.  This movie was truly pointless -- it wasn't entertaining, suspenseful, fun, informative, nada.  The only memorable moment (one hardly worth renting the film) was Elizabeth Shue getting all hot 'n bothered.  Would have liked to have seen her dump her drippy husband for Dermot -- talk about the wrong guy taking the bullet.Philadelphia Weekly had described this as the most overlooked film of 1996. Guess what?  It deserved to be! "},{"Title":"A good flick if you've just had a lenghty power outage","Date":"6 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The reason why I purchased this movie was because last year we had a power outage that lasted 2+ days for us. Some people in our area didn't have power for almost a week. I heard about the movie from a friend of mine that suggested it due to the event that we experienced. Due to us getting the movie shortly after the experience, I found it to be very entertaining and very close to what could happen to civil people if they were hit with such a situation for an extended period of time. It hit close to home for me and made me think about how dependent we our of good ole fashion electricity. If you want to see a movie that will give you a slice of what could happen when the power goes out then you will definitely want to see this film. Just think if your city goes without power. You then have no TV, you can't use your debit card, you have no heat or air conditioning depending on the season, no computer, no light at night, and that's just the beginning. When we had our outage we could at least get in the car and go to the mall and have lunch or whatever but if the WHOLE city goes down for a significant amount of time, then there's definitely going to be trouble on the way. And that's what this movie is basically about. Good, entertaining, and recommended for all... "},{"Title":"The Blackout Stay at home or hit the road?","Date":"24 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Why I couldn't recall practically anything from this film, is really beyond me. I saw it once during the late 90's, and the only thing I still remembered was that I thought it was pretty good. With this second time viewing, I can only conclude the same thing It's beyond me, as this really is a fine film and pretty memorable while at it too. A blackout causes fear and distress in a small city. In the suburbs, the inhabitants of one street try to make the best of it. When a burglar breaks into Matthew & Annie's house, someone dies. And things go from bad to worse. And from a small town thriller with various characters, into a sudden road-movie with three protagonists taking the lead and an unpleasant (but worthwhile) Michael Rooker popping up by surprise. A cool little thriller that keeps you on your toes, towards an ending that's not all that horrible as you might expect it to be. Especially Kyle MacLachlan & Elisabeth Shue (as Matthew & Annie) give fine performances, though sadly Shue's character (splendidly portrayed in the first half) becomes a bit under-used in the second part of the movie. Still, check out this film if you have the chance. Reading some of the harsher comments on here, I wonder what people were expecting from this film... A profound piece of emotional drama? A Tarantino-like blabber-fest with many über-cool characters? Whatever. I didn't know what to expect - even this second time - and The Trigger Effect had me once again entertained. The characters were okay, the leads were fine, well-photographed and it turned out to be a sort of 'two-in-one' kind of deal. At least you get to choose which half of the film you liked better. "},{"Title":"The effect it may have on audiences who may in fact like it","Date":"27 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Trigger Effect is a movie I'm not proud to like, but I'd be lying if I said I didn't. It wasn't a fantastic thriller, but it shouldn't get the beating it's getting on IMDb, Netflix, and every other review site. The acting isn't phenomenal, the plot isn't much, but the events in the film keep you at least interesting and hoping for the best. In the long run, The Trigger Effect is not the worst thing to come out of movies ever.Sometimes, I believe, when a movie is panned by critics and moviegoers, a film gets bad reviews by everyone whether they like it or not. I looked on the IMDb Bottom 100 before writing this review, and thought, there's got to be one person out there that likes some of these films. I scanned about twenty, and the twenty I picked had no review above two out of ten. My point; not everyone can hate a movie. It can't be so bad no one likes it. This is kind of how I feel with this film and the 1996 comedy Bio-Dome which I found to be an entertaining film. The only difference with The Trigger Effect is I could find someone who liked Bio-Dome. I have yet to find someone that (honestly) admits they like The Trigger Effect.The film has no real plot. It takes place in Southern California where our two protagonists reside. Matt (Kyle MacLachlan) and Annie (Elizabeth Shue) return home from the movies to find their infant screaming with an ear ache. Matt calls a doctor who promises to have a prescription filled by morning. In the middle of the night, the neighbors wake to find a the town has blacked out. Matt arrives at the pharmacy to find out the doctor didn't call in the prescription, so he resorts to stealing the medicine for the baby.Matt's brother Joe (Dermot Mulroney) arrives at the house to convince the couple to buy a gun for security since the blackout is causing very strange behavior amongst the town. When purchasing the gun, the four come to the consensus that they must take a trip to wife's parent's house. Soon enough, all hell breaks loose.The film is no masterpiece, but it shouldn't get the beating it is taking on the web now. It's a very least intriguing. You want to know what happens to these innocent people. You want to follow them through this journey through hell. As most of these events occur, they trigger another thing to happen (obviously why the film's title is what it is). Clearly the person behind this idea wanted no light at the end of the tunnel. Just like the film Where the Heart Is or The Quiet, they wanted no light at the end of the tunnel.Upon it's release, it grossed a mere $1,887,791, and ranked 12th at the Box Office. It came up very short compared to it's $8,000,000 budget. It went on to gross around $3,000,000 in it's entirety, and lead on to never being spoken about again. While I think in no means it should be praised, it should at least be recognized for doing the job it did. It didn't want to be bad, but then again no movie does. It just showed it's limitations on screen, and nothing more. It doesn't want to be anything more than it's budget allows. It's a good thing and a bad thing simultaneously.Starring Kyle MacLachlan, Elisabeth Shue, and Dermot Mulroney. Directed by David Koepp. "},{"Title":"Dim bulbs.","Date":"17 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Take away human conveniences, plunge us into our natural state and we revert to savages. That's a stunningly obvious devolution even without recent evidence borne from large-scale disasters... It's psychology at a completely amateur level; made worse by the fact that obviously no one involved in the production team for this movie had a subtle or humble bone in their body... Wolves scavenging at the beginning - could the symbolism BE any more simplistic? I think not. Give me a break and start treating me like a creature of intuition, for once.This particular treatment of an idea that's been floating around since the industrial age is insultingly patronising, and what's worse is you have certain people commenting on the film who pander to the film-makers egos in later years by labelling the product with a wholly undeserved significance... This is slop churned out on autopilot from what could have actually been an interesting setup in more competent hands. "},{"Title":"So Disappointing","Date":"21 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" How tenuous is man's hold on civilization when survival becomes an issue? When the lights go out and stay out for several days, suburbanites Matthew and Annie learn the hard way that man is by nature a predatory creature.Before Stir of Echoes, David Koepp made The Trigger Effect. Apparently critics liked it, but the film bombed, and is not sitting very high on IMDb. Respectfully, I disagree with the critics. The film was just so blunt. People are rude to each other. I get that. There was such potential in this film but it seems to have just gone the easiest route.Most disappointing is the use of the cast. Kyle MacLachlan is amazing, and he is wasted in this film. I wasn't aware he could play a jerk, but now I know. Michael Rooker is also one of my favorites. And yet, neither one seems to be able to save this mess. I thought great actors could save just about anything, but I would be wrong. "}{"Title":"Pushing all the buttons","Date":"19 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The lights go out in the city in the middle of the night. Matthew (Kyle MacLachlan) and Annie Kay (Elisabeth Shue) are a suburban couple with a sick baby. Matthew is somewhat of a door mat. He struggles to get medicine for his sick baby. Their irreverent friend Joe (Dermot Mulroney) arrives. The guys buy a rifle to protect against looting. Annie throws it into the pool. That night, they chase a prowler out into the street where a neighbor shoots him. They decide to leave their cul-de-sac and drive to Annie's parents. On the road, they face their own darkness.From the moment it starts with the loud-mouthed black people in the movie theater, this movie keeps pushing buttons. It's annoyance at its height. It has the gun issue when anti-gun still has a constituent. Society falls apart so quickly for no reason that the movie feels completely fake. The paranoia and selfishness is dialed all the way to 11 right from the start. They leave their home for a relatively flimsy reason. The movie does find a good place to end but it's a long bumpy unrealistic road. "},{"Title":"Interesting what-if situation","Date":"9 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A year ago, the downtown core of the city I live in experienced a power outage, and even though it just lasted several hours, people in my neighborhood were already walking around outside somewhat bewildered, not used to having no electricity. So I found most of the events of The Trigger Effect pretty believable. I could believe the bad actions of many of the characters, and what I appreciated about the portrayal of *all* the character who do bad things is that the movie gives each of these characters *some* humanity - they are not totally evil people. I was kept interested in seeing where the characters would all end up at the end of the movie. A couple of quibbles, however I thought the relationship of the man who joins with the couple early on was not explained enough (what WAS his relationship with the characters?) and not concluded with a satisfying conclusion. And the final scene, that (obviously) jumps significantly ahead of time, leaves the viewer hungry for some kind of explanations. Not a great movie, but will keep you fairly captivated throughout. "},{"Title":"The royal treatment","Date":"4 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Mayhem and bloodshed hang in the air as darkness is cast upon suburban Sacramento. The Trigger Effect could go in many commonplace directions from the initial blackout. Violence, destruction, an urban inferno of sorts. But none of that. The script avoids all the obvious traps and takes us straight to the heart of a far-from-perfect marriage, by way of the dusty California road. As the late Princess of Wales once put it There were three of us in this marriage, so it was a bit crowded. All the lead characters feel like real people, not like the usual variables in a screenwriters equation Matthew (Kyle MacLachlan, of Blue Velvet fame), Annie (Elizabeth Shue), Dermot Mulroney's Joe as the third one in the marriage, and Richard T. Jones as the mysterious stranger. This is a grown-up movie for grown-up people. Much like in life itself, there is no easy way out. "},{"Title":"nice, but just gets creepy after a while","Date":"1 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" As many people have said, The Trigger Effect is one of those movies that has a good concept, but isn't executed very well. The truth is, it actually gets kind of creepy. I know, if there was a massive power outage, maybe this could happen, but that doesn't make the movie any more interesting. If we're just going to obsess on the idea that everyone wants to kill each other, we're not doing very much for our society (remember what Michael Moore showed in Bowling for Columbine). I mean really.So, there are much better movies than this (including the Twilight Zone episode that this movie ripped off). Kyle MacLachlan, Elisabeth Shue, Dermot Mulroney and Michael Rooker should be at least mildly ashamed of themselves. "},{"Title":"Good initial premise but poor delivery","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Matthew and Annie-Kay are a typically white, middle-class family living in the suburbs in a marriage where the passion has died and been replaced with a child and responsibility. Life is safe, life is familiar and life is secure. However a power failure starts changes and tensions within the city and their community as looting spreads and the police cannot cope. As the fear reaches them their friend Joe encourages them to take action to either prepare for the worst or try and escape the city before the whole thing collapses.Opening with a couple of wolves tearing at the corpse of another wolf, this film had the potential to be an interesting and engaging character piece that would force its own audience to ask questions about itself and about its idea of society and morality within that idea of society. It starts reasonably well by setting up a couple of stock figures that we can sort of identify with (the white couple, the black people, the rough men etc) and initially does something with them before letting the average plot overtake the characters. The narrative sees them facing obstacles and dealing with them 9or not) in a way that follows a fairly ordinary thriller sort of path. This is so-so but nothing special since it never gets exciting in its own right and still suggests that we should be looking at the characters for our interest instead. However the inability to really draw out a tapestry of people and reactions (not to mention a convincing picture of suburbia under pressure) is where the film falls down.The actors are partly to blame even if the material wasn't there for them. MacLachlan starts out well with a typically start no trouble white professional but soon forgets being true to his character and just does what the script tells him. Shue is poor from start to finish and I doubt that she would have done much more even with the material. Mulroney is OK with a basic character but perhaps that was just the fact that he is the hothead in the mix that made him more interesting to me when I was just looking for something to happen. Jones doesn't do much and a cameo from Rooker only made me wish that the film had been following his character instead.Overall this is an average film that takes an interesting premise but does nothing at all with it. The basic plot seems to forget the character piece that it suggested it would be at the start and the more it does, the less interesting it becomes. The cast features some familiar faces but none of them can raise the material or make it about their characters and eventually they just get on with driving the plot. So-so but should have been much more interesting than it was. "},{"Title":"Quite alright but very problematic","Date":"28 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" What would you do if there was no kind of power, electricity in your city and you needed to do stuff, solve problems away? How people, society in general would react in such chaotic situation where nothing works? The Trigger Effect unique power is in touching such thoughtful matter that should be deeply thought in several possibilities. Too bad director/writer David Koepp (Jurassic Park, Secret Window) only dwindles in a soft Twilight Zone scheme pretending to be serious enough to make us fully interested. It works on a minor level of entertainment, due to the lack of brainy ideas. For the most part, it's a little depressing, somewhat ridiculous and strangely annoying.It begins in a dull presentation of characters where three main characters, a couple (Kyle MacLachlan and Elisabeth Shue) and a guy (Richard T. Jones) are introduced in all sorts of confusion while gathered in a movie theater. Only in the 1990's we can think of small misunderstandings happening with people accidentally stumbling on other people causing such disturbance and heated little arguments that seems to lead towards aggression. We in the 21st Century are somewhat more aware of people, that we never know who they might be and we avoid conflict in the best possible way unless if inevitable. One small push and those characters need to curse, start a fight over pointless matters. But, they were together when the power went down in the room, then returned and by the end of the day, it will fail again, this time for a long stressful time, no answers given.The couple's problem is finding medicine for their baby who's having some health issues. Breaking point for the father is to steal the medicine of a drugstore amidst the chaos and after fighting with the pharmacist simply because the guy didn't like him after (again!) small discussions. Their only assistance comes from a friend (Dermot Mulroney) who makes sure they're safe due to the violence threats, riots and robbery happening in the small town after the energy disaster. No news, no information, nothing is said about the incident and the situation gets worse by the hour. Another breaking point comes when a robber gets killed after trying to steal things from the couple's house, starting some deep ethical questions in our heads.The movie's major weakness is in having a weak character as the figure we're supposed to root for. It's not a case of bad acting since Kyle is quite good in it; the problem is that it was too annoying, and far exaggerated all the time he had to take some different action than he used to take. Doesn't convince. Also, all the trouble presented by Koepp that society would rise into pandemonium simply because they're stuck without power was far too one-sided, simplistic. He only touched the surface of the problem and that's it. And when he creates the problem it isn't all that interesting to see, in fact it's too damn unbelievable. The whole road situation and how they deal with Michael Rooker character were ridiculous, almost killed the movie. And his character should've been presented earlier in the movie and we should have the right to know his motivations for doing all what he does, menacing people. But no, he's just there to surprise us with what can be surprising since he always plays the same role of menacing tough guy.If we don't get stuck with the negative aspects of The Trigger Effect we can enjoy it because of the proposition given and the actors working on it. Those who hated the movie for its acting or lack of a good story are a little wrong about it. Fine, it's not the best work of many of the stars present in here but it's not that bad. Hands down as best acting to Bill Smitrovich playing MacLachlan's friendly and helpful neighbor. He's a great character actor you recognize for countless films, never knows the name but here he makes his presence quite notable, specially after the robbery incident. Best character of the movie, it's because of him the film gets more gripping and more questionable when it comes to judge people's actions amidst such strange turmoil of events.Not the best or the worst, it's right in the middle. A little mediocre but positively watchable specially on a night time. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Why are so many reviewers down on this film? It was very entertaining.","Date":"20 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I thought this was a tightly-made survival piece and was surprised by the number of downbeat reviews. Good grief, people, this was hardly a bad film!It might be a case of herd-negativity; one person reads a bad review, gets a bias, and so on. That is, unless they saw an edited version on TV that was too trimmed-down. A TV viewing should always be noted by reviewers, since it often ruins movies by cutting crucial scenes.This movie starts with a strong sequence about random people getting on each other's nerves, with a sense of general foreboding that something bad is looming, although you knew that going in.Then, it progresses quite seamlessly toward a societal breakdown scenario, without giving away too much information on the cause. That keeps the mystery going, which many films fail to do by letting the cat fully out of the bag. It's also presented from the viewpoint of a handful of people, not some national command center with the usual political bickering.The tension between the married couple goes along well with the growing sense of general insecurity. I didn't find it contrived at all. At no point in the film was I able to guess how it was going to turn out, which is the way it would be in a survival situation. The ending could have gone either way.Yes, there were some logical holes, but nothing truly glaring. It was entertaining enough to not inspire second-guessing.I'd already seen the James Burke Connections episode of the same title which inspired this film. They gave it a visual nod early on, and that made it all the more entertaining.I think The Trigger Effect is well worth your time unless some negative reviewer turned you against it, which is ironically how people behave in mobs when order breaks down! "},{"Title":"Could have been much more","Date":"20 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie had potential, with themes of paranoia, lust, and panic intertwined...but the characters are plain stupid plus, there is no development of any of them. Elizabeth Shue's character tells Kyle Mc'Laughin that she has a checkered past and you knew about my past when you married me, the viewer has no idea what she is talking about. Maybe she's the same character in the movie she was in before Leaving Las Vegas (no way). Plus, who's the friend who just shows up at the door while Kyle and Elizabeth are about to have sex? A family friend? A cousin? The plot has way too many holes and by the end, I could care less about any of the characters in the movie.Poorly done. "},{"Title":"I don't get the bad reviews.","Date":"7 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is my first review for IMDb even though I've been a lurker for years but felt compelled to write one for this movie because it has gotten a bad rap on this site. I've been looking for a good movie on netflix that I haven't watched and stumbled onto this one. I love Elizabeth Shue and the lead guy from Sex and the City. The opening scene was a bit weird but makes sense once the movie gets going. I love that the film was tense from the beginning and showed how because of societal norms and niceties, we tend not to confront others when they offend us. However the niceties quickly go out the window once the power goes out. I don't think this is much of a stretch because I've seen people go crazy in the grocery store when it's hurricane season. The movie forces you to confront stereotypes and prejudices. The characters judge each other on face value because of the situation they are in. Overall the acting was good and so was the movie's pacing. I even enjoyed the ending even though some said it seemed slapped on. I just wish we could have gone deeper into the lead characters' marital woes. Overall, Good Friday night flick. "},{"Title":"Am I the only one who likes this movie?","Date":"22 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The reviews are bad. Once again, it looks like I have to defend the underdog The Trigger Effect is a great film. The main problem with this movie in my humble opinion is the fact that people expect a thriller, but the movie plays out more as a drama. The main focus of the film is the what if factor. What if your power went out, and didn't come back on? What if you were at home with a sick baby, and you couldn't get the medicine for your child? What if your basic needs suddenly became a wedge between a chain of unexpected events? That's The Trigger Effect, and the characters are designed so that you don't feel as if you're watching actors and actresses, but more like people like us. They're emotions come alive, and they respond more in ways that we would respond. Each situation in the film has an outcome, which questions how we would handle it differently, or if we would have handled it the same way. Desperate times, desperate measures. Give this film a fair shake, you may be surprised. "}{"Title":"Tense And Uneasy...Until The End","Date":"9 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A nervous film of a descent into the decay of self-preservation. The opening scene at the Mall and in the movie theater is appropriately apprehensive. From then on nobody on screen displays any helpful signs that this is going to be a comfortable, let's pull back into our safe seats and see what happens movie, because it is tense and uneasy...until the end.An abrupt about face in the latter third keeps this from succeeding at all levels. At best it is a watchable thriller that never really rises above average, and at worst it is a disappointing dive into the psychological that is so clichéd that some may call this a calamity of cinema commonness. So there is enough here to be a curious peek into a very real modern situation, but just don't expect anything really new or impressive to give insight into the next catastrophe. Because as sure as God made little green apples and the power-grid, we will be forced to face it and to endure. "},{"Title":"Hoo boy !!","Date":"2 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I know this is not a new movie, but, I saw this for the first time last night. It seemed to start out with a little interest to the plot. A young couple with an infant child in suburbia. Nice house and a Volvo if I am not mistaken. Seems the husband has an ego problem and keeps stepping in front of black people in lines. Has a friend in construction ( Mulroney ) who may have been Liz Shue's squeeze at one time. In a drinking around the fireplace session Shue and Mulroney head to the kitchen. After some verbal exchange and long looks they kiss. Hubby walks in late and just misses the action between his bud and his old lady ( awww ). Not people of substance, I would gather.In this film there is a blackout, looting, the pro's and con's of firearm ownership, disrespect/respect amongst the races, a shootout and a burglary. I'm sure ( Shue ? ) I've omitted a few things but this thing is all over the place. If there is one solid message to it from the director it would be to NOT waste 2 hours of your life watching this piece.I do feel quite generous in giving this story a 2 on the voting scale. "},{"Title":"Not really good but the Concept requires credit since i saw the movie post the great blackout","Date":"4 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I really expected this movie to be quite boring with a few tense moments making it worth it. Like so many movies i saw this one because i got to borrow it from a friend.I must say the movie really has only one tense moment, BUT what actually gets it a rating of 5 is that it consists of one brilliant idea/ thought / concept after the other including some smart film making right from the beginning about the trigger effects of rudeness to the way they never mention the city/ town where the people stay.This movie really does not much to offer in terms of sheer entertainment but it requires some thinking to discover some on the ideas/ thoughts / concepts shown in it.I wouldn't normally see this movie but now that i did its not bad. please see it as last choice movie though even though its not that bad, the thinking required is mostly not desirable. "},{"Title":"Interesting and thought-provoking plot, but this two-dimensional screenplay was not expected from Koepp.","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The basic idea behind 'the trigger effect' was seriously interesting. but it should have inspired screenwriter and director David Koepp much more to write some really strong material. It's not that the story was badly written, it's just the dialogues which were predictable and cheesy, making the characters seem quite two-dimensional.Among the actors, the lead man Kyle McLachlan has done the worst job. Elisabeth Shue was not that bad (but I guess I shouldn't pass judgement on really hot actresses). Perhaps their characters were so badly written the actors didn't have much to do.One interesting thing all the other IMDb user reviews of the film really bash the film, but that doesn't show in its ratings. "},{"Title":"- Could - have been good.","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"   I don't have quite the venom of some of the reviewers here ( Worst movie of the 90s? Anyone else see the likes of You've Got Mail and Highlander 2?) but I am sort of disappointed.  You can get the plot from the other reviews. I just want to add the comment that it's ultimately disappointing, but worth watching for potential before it gets overwhelmed by the Melrose Place plot overtones.  There are a few gems here, tho; the first five minutes, the desperate friendliness of Michael Rooker, the cop's sardonic out where? when Kyle asks him how bad it is, etc.   This is one of those movies which -needs- a remake, unlike Psycho (shot-by-shot, eh, Gus? Wow, that's just great.) or Wild Wild West. I would like to see someone like Todd Solondz or David Fincher give this a spin, give it some real societal sea-change overtones instead of Where Were You When the Lights Went Out romanti-drama. "},{"Title":"Technology - Minor Spoilers","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  To a prior comment about how this was a movie about the fragility of society, and not the technical aspects. Well, you cannot have a good movie about the fragility of society where it relies upon the collapse of something that isn't really all that fragile. Sure, it is just a plot device, but because of its inability to explain itself, or even use a realistic device, it subtracts from the premise.Secondly, I've been in multi-day power outages before, and I have never seen society go to rot so quickly! This movie acts as if the moment we cannot withdrawal money out of an ATM machine, we start to froth at the mouth and become homicidal maniacs -- dispensing with all other forms of morality along the way.This contains all manner of implications, the best of which are just plain silly. In my neighborhood at least, the effect was pretty much the opposite. People didn't have anything to do so there was a lot more time spent just hanging out together -- a truly rare event in modern suburbia.So not only is the plot device absurd, no matter how abstract you try to make it, the result from the device is just as contrived. "},{"Title":"Prototypical Hollywood in the 90's -","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Prototypical Hollywood in the 90's - great concept with an interesting beginning, but an unsatisfying, quick ending (see Copland as another example).  The tensions that are developed earlier on are forgotten as the producers tried to end the movie quickly.  What could have been an engaging conflict between the various cast members in the blackout setting deteriorates into an unbelievabable, sentimental one-on-one in the waning moments.  Everything else is dropped and we are left wishing for more.  "},{"Title":"Shue is great again","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Nothing too special in this movie it was a very good topic that seems to go to waste as the movie really falls apart in the last 30min. The one highlight I found was a good performance by elisabeth shue who seemed to follow her normal path as the underated co-star. Fans of Shue will like this movie if not it's just a no big deal movie. "},{"Title":"quite underrated!","Date":"29 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" David Koepp takes a nod towards the Twilight Zone.One of the masterminds behind some of the best screenplays such as the Lost World Jurassic Park and Panic Room to name just a few.Crafted with scenarios that bring out the worst in man-kind, David manages to bring out more tension than some of the best written horror films. The scene with the intruder for example.The start of the film shows two coyotes fighting over a dead animal is just the surface of what David covers here in the film.The movie is pact with several people who come and go in the passing who are mindless characters, who don't appear as much, but do bring the film's message out very clearly.Elizabeth Shue did an excellent job with this piece as well as Kyle as they are placed under pressure to keep their sanity and stay alive. I enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"aptly placed in the thriller section (minor spoilers)","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I decided to rent this movie in light of recent events and history with the U.S. power grid.  This movie holds no promise of showing how civilization anywhere would actually react to these trying circumstances.  That being said.  I think it is still a good picture as long as you relax and enjoy the thrill.The characters exist in an intermingled web of society and circumstance that takes us beyond their surface existence and into the dark side when the lights go out.  We begin to see dark relationships and divisions that exist in a supposedly mundane life.  Bad repair jobs turn into robbers, neighbors into murders and love into.. ..well you'll just have to watch and see.Not a picture of high art, but not suffering from the lack of any true technical consideration in the plot.  It probably will make you very frustrated if you are a HAM radio operator, so don't watch it if you fall into that criteria.  Everyone else should enjoy this movie; very tense edge-of-your-seat stuff.P.S.  You DO get to see Lizzy's breasts, as usual. "}{"Title":"A HELLUVA START","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The first 30 minutes or so of this movie are very interesting. Very interesting indeed. The sexual tension between knockabout brother Dermot Mulroney and bored sister-in-law Elizabeth Shue is palpable, with dull husband Kyle McLaughlin the odd man out. Too bad the film cannot sustain that level of tension throughout. With the lights out, people begin reverting to their true primitive nature. Too bad the film doesn't hold up. It quickly becomes a TV movie of the week. Great title, though! And Shue, normally barely able to act, is hot! "},{"Title":"effective","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In this effective, quasi-realistic film, it is basically shown how a town is turned to chaos during a blackout. It could happen. It does drag on a bit, but I still liked it. You might, too.** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Good depiction of how technology has replaced humanity in the US.","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Overall a very good movie. It shows that on the one hand, technology has become so important that when the power goes off in a place, nothing can be done. The gas stations are out, the streets are dark, you cannot even gat a medicine for your child unless you steal it. On the other hand, human values have  become so pathetic that one doesn't trust anyone. People love electricity but fear each other so much that on the slightest suspicion are ready to shoot each other. The film is a slap in the face for the modern world and wakes one up to the cost of technological progress.  "},{"Title":"Nice, but a very unsatisfying ending...","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The movie starts, with a grande concept the electricity goes down in one big city. What happens then?? The movie then shows us some nice things that you'd be confronted with if electricity would go down for a few weeks. For instance, the use of bancontact becomes impossible, no computers work anymore, because of this, all the money you have is your CASH money. That's all. Of course, there's a lot of panic, and some bad guys use the opportunity to break into people's houses and steal stuff. We get to see Elizabeth Shue, who is, as always fairly entertaining to see. Shue and her husband want to get away from the big city, and go to her parent's house. From then things go wrong. It's impossible to tell you more without spoiling things. Anyway, so far so good. This is one of the few movies, at which you say at the end 'oh, this may have took another 20 minutes'.Fun and entertaining to watch, but you'll feel cheated and unsatisfied at the end. "},{"Title":"People go crazy easy","Date":"26 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" People do things that are considered crazy all the time in normal functioning society, with all the comforts that come with it and make life more bearable. Someone pisses you off? Ah, to hell with it, you go and have a nice cold one, turn on the TV, and watch seinfeld deliver sugarcoated antisocial commentary resonating perfectly with your state of mind. But what if you couldn't have a cold one, couldn't see your TV friend agree with you, and would have to face the events of the day much earlier as the nightly electrical distractions become unavailable? Then you have the trigger effect. Many people find it far fetched, conceived, self-indulgent, frivolous. They do so out of their air-conditioned apartment, eating ready-made microwave popcorn, downloading music for free and waiting for the pizza guy to arrive. "},{"Title":"Intriguing, haunting, thought provoking movie","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I watched this movie on the cable many years ago. Later I tried finding it again many times but had forgotten the title - it took me many attempts at Googling before I finally managed to find the title again.This movie has that effect on you - it brings out all that is bad in humankind. The plot hits your sensibilities real hard - specially if you have a belief in the judgment day kind of scenario.The story is set in a typical all American town. An unexplained power outage brings out the character of the townspeople - the dark side is much in evidence. Some scenes are almost unforgettable - like the one in the pharmacy with the lead character having to steal medicine for his child. "},{"Title":"Too prophetic maybe ???","Date":"4 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" No, this movie was not based upon the Twilight Zone story The Monster Are Due on Maple Street, although of course the themes are similar. In fact, as mentioned by another post, this film and its title are inspired by the initial episode of James Burke's brilliant award-winning BBC series Connections The poster was incorrect, however, in that the series IS available on DVD. I highly recommend either purchasing or renting the entire series. That first episode, named The Trigger Effect, begins with a highly detailed and re-enacted recount of the 1965 New York blackout. Burke then postulates what would happen if a more cataclysmic power failure occurred now.Back in 1978 when Burke's series first aired, audiences were unnerved by considering such a disaster. 27 years later, apparently most people are too sophisticated to seriously consider what they would do in such a situation.Too sophisticated? Or too jaded? Whether you want to acknowledge this or not, you are probably represented by one of the characters in this film. Perhaps this is why so many people seem to reject it. They either identified with a character and refused to accept that fact, or preferred to run away from the myriad of themes and topics raised by this story. If you are one of the former, you are definitely going to be uncomfortable, because screenwriter Koepp does not give you any comic book stereotypes with whom to identify. They're eerily real. But of course, you would act differently. Well, perhaps. I propose that the characters in the film probably would have thought just as you do if they were screening this film.If you haven't seen this film, and if you are mature enough to handle its matter-of-fact approach, please view it in its entirety without prejudice or distractions (sage advice for viewing any thinking film). if you have seen it and didn't like it, I challenge you to face your own anxieties and see if you can sympathize with the characters' plight "},{"Title":"Good Stuff","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Wow!  I am really surprised how many people hated this movie.  True that the ending could have been a little better, but i was really entertained by the premise and the build up of this film.  I have heard from some viewers, that something like this would never happen.  But if one takes time to really see the occurrences that lead up to the later problems, it does make sense.  The tension builds among the characters. It doesnt happen all at once.I definitely think this film is worth seeing, although not every person will enjoy it.8/10 "},{"Title":"If only...","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I rented this film, from my local video store, after browsing some of the older tapes on their shelves. What I found was an intriguing movie, that gives a great concept, only to balls-it-up totally, with a quickie ending.The idea of What would you do, if it came down to saving yourself and your loved ones, in a crisis? is certainly a timely question, especially in this day and age. And, with a strong character actor cast, including Richard T Jones, (from TV cop-series Brooklyn South); Michael Rooker (from Henry Portrait Of A Serial Killer and JFK), and Bill Smitrovich (from most of Michael Mann's films), it certainly makes for an entertaining, and diverting, 90 minutes.Alas, David Koepp leaves us with this rushed ending of happily-ever-after, that ruins all that has come before. A shame, because this movie has so much that makes you think and question what you might do yourself, if placed in this situation. Some of the scenes are eerily tense and unnerving, especially when Kyle MacLachlan's character suddenly snaps halfway through, and realises that he is no less an animal than the rest of us.Whether Koepp's ending was forced upon him from external forces, I can't say, though it wouldn't surprise me if it were, because it's only the final few moments that are capped-on artificially. The previous 85 minutes all unreel at a nice pace, that just keeps you guessing as to what is going to happen.Despite my negative review, I'd still recommend this film, and would love to view the BBC series Connections from the 1980's that this film is allegedly based upon. Sadly, even the BBC in London, don't have any record of this series existing. Maybe this is Koepp's way of sticking two fingers up at the (alleged) studio-imposed ending? "},{"Title":"Shows promise until the end","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When writers become directors, generally, it's to protect their scripts, so you wouldn't think they'd be oriented towards the visual part of a movie.  David Koepp, on the other hand, has written movies for, among others, Brian DePalma and Steven Spielberg, two masters of visual, and from the evidence of THE TRIGGER EFFECT, it seems he's learned well.  Although this takes place in sunny Southern California, Koepp keeps it dark even before the power goes out, to give you a sense of foreboding.  And he presents the power failure scenes starkly, without going overboard with so-called stylish shots.  While his actors aren't particularly distinct, they're good.  It's the writing, surprisingly, which fails Koepp.  The film starts with a great opener, showing how when little things go wrong among people, they can gradually escalate to major tension.  And of course the blackout which follows exaggerates that tension.  But without giving anything away, Koepp does want to say there's hope, and that's fine, but he doesn't earn the hope he's trying to strive for.  Instead, we get a sentimental ending.  It's too bad, because for the most part, this was a good film. "}{"Title":"A modest but very effective, low key character based thriller.","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  'The Trigger Effect' is a modest but very effective, low key character based thriller that deals with the consequences of the electricity going off. And staying off. Oh, and the TV, radio and ATMs too. Inspired by an old Twilight Zone episode, it was written and directed by David Koepp who has some lame stuff on his resume, but also the seriously underrated 'A Stir Of Echoes'. Anyway, I liked this movie a lot, it was plausible and well cast. Kyle MacLachlan plays a wimpy family man, Elizabeth Shue ('Leaving Las Vegas') is his wife, and Dermot Mulroney ('Living In Oblivion') their mutual friend.  Michael Rooker ('Henry Portrait Of A Serial Killer') also has a great bit as a guy with car trouble. Many people have a problem with the abrupt ending, but I didn't mind too much. 'The Trigger Effect' is an interesting movie with some tense moments. Give it a shot.  "},{"Title":"A good movie, well-acted","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Although this movie has an average rating of 5 point something, based on feedback from over 1000 voters, I'd like to put in a good word for it, if only to offset the very negative comment that is posted here.It dramatizes an interesting situation (what happens when there's a power failure and the resources we've come to rely on suddenly aren't there), and I think the leads, Kyle McLachlan, Elizabeth Shue, and Dermot Mulroney do an excellent job, as well as the supporting cast. This is a movie I'd buy and watch again. Do yourself a favor and judge for yourself. "},{"Title":"FASCINATING","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Few movies can convey such stirring emotions. This one explores how easily our society can collapse in a split second. Plus, the troubled trio of main characters add to the tension of the experience. The first scene of the film is truly awesome. A group of wolves in the woods ripping the body of an animal. It shows us what the movie is all about once our rules and laws don't seem to apply no more, we are back in the jungle. I also like very much the way the characters are constructed. These are real persons, believable (a marriage on the edge, accentuated further by the visit of the couple's friend) put under extraordinary circumstances. I have developed a strong affection for this movie over the years. I specially like to watch it alone at night. I never get tired of it. Great directorial debut for David Koepp. Kudos also for James Newton Howard's eerie score. One of my favorites and a gem to discover and to think about!  "},{"Title":"I have to be the voice of reason.","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Since this movie is so universally hated I am sure that no one will give any credit to my review but The Trigger Effect was one of the best movies of the 90's.  The reviews here say that the technical question of losing power was interesting but was not seen through to the end.  The reason that is was not fulfilled was because the move is not about Technology but about how fragile the web of society is that if can break down at any moment.Briefly The Script. Excellent, The effect of walking into a theater and seeing main characters walk into a theater pulls you in as the anger bounces from person to person, amplifying.  The scene in the diner where the man keeps looking at the bathroom door shows the audience that their own prejudices are just as real as the ones they see on the screen.  I can think of few movies that engage the audience more then this movie.I honestly think that even though people complain about movies with no substance, when a movie tries to make a statement about the society that we it is shunned and called boring.  What did you want?  A final chase scene, where they find the monster that took all the power and kill it?  But I recognize that I am the only person that liked this movie so I am probably wrong.  "},{"Title":"The Trigger Effect is more about racism than a blackout- and more clever than anyone seems to get","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I am surprised that no one picked up on the crux of the film racism. This is an obvious and complete flip-flop of our (American) pre-conceived notions about how African Americans and Caucasians behave, and how they are usually portrayed in film. As caucasians, we are sympathetic to this man's problems, we differentiate within our own race, we have compassion about the extenuating circumstances that lead to corrupt behavior, or how our neighbor's corrupt behavior might pull us down with him. Even the blackout (clever choice of words for the hardship) is merely device to throw this family in need. Yes, it's contrived, ALL plots are contrived. The question is, does it work? Is it hackneyed? It sets the stage well- remember blackouts that have had cities in riots? This movie was made in 1996, just four years after the pandemonium of the 1992 riots in LA.(I know -not about a blackout, but- you get the layers of meaning here)  And as recently as this year (2003) in New York the blackout turned the city upside down- people could not get into the Plaza hotel because the rooms open with key cards- electrically, and it was a heat wave...Life can be farcical. And throughout the film, this guy is making mistake after mistake and you're like NO,...but, that's what people do, foolish things for the wrong reasons- In my opinion, it doesn't take much to push someone over the edge...but all that was beside the point...that was subplot. I didn't get it until he had to ask the  African American for help, and they were afraid of each other.It is definitely a film worth seeing for the mere fact that, at least from a caucasian's point of view, it turns your world upside down by exposing your own prejudices. In political correctness, we know exactly what not to say to prove to everyone and ourselves that we are not prejudiced. Then who is? We all are, no matter what race you are, to one degree or another.The only way to unlearn it is to battle our own thinking, by honestly talking about it and challenge our preconceptions...which is what this film does without you really knowing it, until you are sucked into thinking it's about a blackout. That is slight of hand, the oldest trick in the book. Works great, don't it?It's a great film to start a discussion about race and society and a brave attempt in my opinion, to do what art is meant to do to get us to look at ourselves and to get us to think or, better yet, to get us to explore a new way of thinking. In general, audiences are more accepting of  films that confirm our preconceptions about society. Anything that challenges those notions is disconcerting and is apt to disturb.  "},{"Title":"Mayhem In Civilization","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It was OK. A decent cast and production. Just shows how easy it is to lose everything we've done in 2000 years of history. Which is basically our civilized behavior, and then drag us down to the most basics of the animal instincts surviving. "},{"Title":"One of those litle big movies.","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Our ethics rely on electricity? A simple story well realized. Economy in all senses. One of those big movies. Maybe Soylent Green is his sequence... "},{"Title":"great movie, bad ending","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  this movie started great, and built up well, the acting was good, it had an intelligent and creepy script, but i felt it was let down by the ending, which didnt explain how the power came back on, or if joe survived, but overall was a great movie, up there with '28 days later' as one of the all time great apocalyptic themed movies. "},{"Title":"Okay if you're drunk","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Trigger Effect tells of a suburban couple who have to get along without electricity during a Los Angeles power outage. At issue Can one couple make it through a few days without electrical power? Duh. Such is the bleak premise of this meager dramatic offering with a linear make-it-up-as-you-go story which dabbles in anarchy, tries to be a thriller, but is too hard to take seriously as it stumbles over itself all the way to the end. Fraught with Shue's poor acting, Koepp's poor directing, and a story which pounds square pegs into round holes...such as when Mulroney embarrasses himself by peeking in the window and then explains that the door bell didn't work because of the outage - as if he never heard of knocking. Hello! Double duh. An okay-to-zone-to TV watch and little more. (C) "}]