[{"Title":"An action-packed joyride.","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"27 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Rating *** out of ****A word of warning before the review I highly recommend Retroactive and suggest you go out of your way to see it in widescreen because the numerous action scenes and breathtaking desert cinematography are cramped and a pain to watch in pan-and-scan.Relegated to a straight-to-video release, Retroactive is a smart and entertaining thriller that deserves a wider audience. The film features a relatively simple but clever premise Superhottie Kylie Travis stars as Karen Warren, a police negotiator who's on vacation in Texas. She gets into a car accident and has to hitchhike with a somewhat odd, but seemingly friendly couple, Frank and Rayanne (James Belushi and Shannon Whirry). But everything goes horribly wrong when Frank discovers Rayanne has been cheating on him and he murders her right in front of Karen's eyes, who proceeds to run to the nearest building, a government-owned complex run by a single occupant, a scientist named Brian (Frank Whaley). There, he accidentally activates the time travel device he was working on, sending Karen back twenty minutes, just as she's been picked up by Frank. She then becomes determined to stop the horrible crime for occurring, but unfortunately, the body count grows even larger and she must go back again to prevent an even larger massacre.Retroactive's appeal holds mainly to sci-fi action fans. The plot has a lot of twists and turns, which keeps the film unpredictable and suspenseful. But the real treat is for action fans, who should strap in for an adrenaline-pumping thrill ride. From the moment Travis is sent back in time, the film deliver non-stop excitement. There are tense shootouts and fast-paced car chases, the latter of which boasts some of the most exhilarating stunts since The Road Warrior. From a visceral point-of-view, Retroactive surpasses most of Hollywood's recent summer blockbusters. The film still has its flaws, none of them surprisingly having to do with a sense of repetition, considering each action setpiece has the same basic setting and situation (car chase on a lonely desert highway, shootout at a gas station). Credit director Louis Morneau for keeping each sequence fresh and taut with suspense. The set-up may be the same, but the results and resolutions considerably differ. Rather, what I do have a problem with is some technical error during the shootouts. Belushi is shown firing a six-bullet revolver at one point, but clearly fires more than ten rounds. Another similar blatant miscalculation occurs again near the end. Plot holes and leaps of logic are expected in this kind of film, but the number of shots fired from a gun shouldn't be that hard to keep track of.As the film's tough heroine, the absolutely gorgeous Kylie Travis is refreshingly intelligent and strong-willed. She occasionally has trouble holding back that British accent of hers, but still comes across quite well (looks great in that black tank-top, too). James Belushi is a lot of fun as the psychotic villain, clearly relishing the over-the-top role, even though his character does lose menace through some ridiculous one-liners. Frank Whaley is quite good as the young scientist, hampered only by a single scene that requires him to forget the logic of his own device which Travis corrects him on.With blistering, fast-paced action and a fun story, Retroactive proves to be a highly enjoyable way to spend ninety minutes. Most of the running time features a tight tank-top and pants wearing Kylie Travis kicking ass, so that alone is enough to recommend the film. "},{"Title":"Very good movie","Date":"5 September 2004","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Interesting premise. If you could relive a moment that went wrong, how could you fix it? It's not as simple as it may seem, and that is the point. Karen relives the moment that went wrong numerous times and every time she tries to fix it, it gets even worse! Very enjoyable. It is the imperfect ways that she tries to fix things that ring true. James Belushi is convincing as a red-neck creep who has neither class nor morals. The fundamental premise (turning back time) is a real stretch. However, that is not a real drawback, since you only have time to ponder it in retrospect. Also, anyone who watches this will have their own ideas of how they would have fixed the problem. However even though it's not a perfect movie, it's still one that interestingly and entertainingly explores it's premise.  "},{"Title":"You Won't Leave Your Seat!","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I didn't!  This movie is truly non-stop action, with the possible exception of during Frank's belt buckle joke.  I can watch this movie everytime it's on.  I remember it coming on once while I was visiting some peoples house and someone was passing through the living room just as it started, they stopped there, staring and didn't move from that spot until the credits rolled.  This movie just keeps pulling you in, deeper and deeper, making you wonder where it's going to go next with all the twists and turns.  Even with these plot twists and inside out/upside down turns, it's easy to stay up with what's going on.  "},{"Title":"a better than average film","Date":"29 May 2005","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I had picked up the DVD at a store not knowing much about the film, and was surprised that the film was as good as it was. I like Belushi. I think he played this part very well. I had never heard of Kylie Travis before, but I thought she was very good in this film. I thought she played the tough woman part well. I like the movies where there's a tough heroine. Like the Alien movies.Of course, it didn't hurt that Kylie's good looking too. The plot was interesting. I won't divulge the rest of the movie, but suffice it to say, if someone likes adventure and science fiction together, this movie might fill the bill. If you find it at your local video store, I would suggest buying it and adding it to your collection.My summary is that it's a better than average film. I recommend it. "},{"Title":"Pleasant surprise - bad title","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"18 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Whoever came up with the title to this film should be taken to one side and taught a thing or two about movies. There is no getting away from the fact that the title is BAD!  The title suggests that you are about to watch every bad sci-fi movie you have ever seen, but what lies behind the title is an entertaining time travel film which is actually quite good.James Belushi is quite good as the bad guy and Kylie Travis plays the feisty female cop well.There is great pleasure in watching the main characters failing miserably at changing their situation as they travel back again and again to fix things, when it seems all manage to do is make a bad situation worse. The ending is surprisingly downbeat and refreshingly rewarding, which makes a change for Hollywood these days.All in all not the best of films ever made, but if you just leave you critical faculties and high expectations at home you will be pleasantly surprised. "},{"Title":"Wow!  An excellent action film with a female lead.","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is great from the first moment.  I love James Belushi as a baddie. There are so many time travel films out there and this one is a stand out. Cinematography is beautiful.  This film deserved to be shown on the big screen.  If you are looking for a good film at the video story, Retroactive is an excellent rental title.  No one will be disappointed. "},{"Title":"An exciting, outstanding, and extremely imaginative sci-fi/action time travel treat","Date":"28 July 2006","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In the wake of an unfortunate incident which lead to six people losing their lives, smart, gutsy, but severely guilt-ridden hostage negotiator Karen Warren (strongly played by Kylie Travis) quits her job and goes driving cross country to get her head together. Problems arise when Karen wrecks her car in the middle of a swelteringly hot and empty stretch of barren Texas backroads. Karen's given a lift by foul, boorish, obnoxiously hostile, and hot-tempered redneck psycho criminal Frank Booth (a fabulously forceful and flamboyant portrayal by James Belushi) and his timid, browbeaten wife Rayanne (a topflight turn by erstwhile 90's direct-to-video erotic thriller starlet Shannon Whirry). Frank kills Rayanne in a fit of rage when he finds out she's cheating on him. Karen narrowly avoids being bagged by Frank, seeking shelter in a secret government compound where token nerdy scientist Brian (a charmingly boyish Frank Whaley) is experimenting with time travel. Karen goes back twenty minutes in time and attempts to stop Frank from killing Rayanne with even more disastrous results. Bound and determined to get things right, Karen goes back in time again. And then again when things go even more awry ...Director Louis Morneau, working from a highly sharp-witted and imaginative script by Michael Hamilton-Wright, Robert Strauss and Philip Badger, ingeniously blends elements of a gritty crime thriller, a grungy road movie, and your basic ripping'n'rousing actionfest with a nifty central science fiction premise into an excitingly dynamic, absorbing, and oftentimes literally explosive handy dandy multi-genre combo synthesis. The extremely exhilarating action sequences are staged with heart-stopping brio and ability, the suspense is dexterously stoked to the nerve-frying ninth degree, the admittedly funky special effects are used with laudable judiciousness, and the furiously forward-ho headlong pace never once flags or falters during the film's fiercely zesty 91 minute running time. George Mooradian's bright, sun-bleached cinematography adds considerably to the sweaty tension. Ditto Tim Truman's lively, rattling, pulse-pounding score.Kudos as well to the uniformly first-class acting from a swell cast. The always welcome and invigorating M. Emmet Walsh contributes a cogent cameo as a weaselly gas station proprietor. James Belushi's deliciously rip-roaring hog-wild histrionics as the dangerously volatile Frank are a riot to watch, injecting a hilariously crude'n'rude sense of black-as-coal humor to the generally serious proceedings. Most impressive of all is Kylie Travis' fiery performance as Karen, whose deep-seated need for redemption and exceptional bravery make her a very moving and sympathetic tragic heroine. A multiple award winning feature at numerous foreign fantasy film festivals, this bang-up terrific indie sleeper favorite deserves all the acclaim and accolades it has garnered abroad. It's a sheer delight that's eminently worthy of cult status. "},{"Title":"Great concept, fun thriller","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie has a fascinating premise- what if you could go back in time, and change what you've done? Would it make things better, or worse?Some of Jim Belushi's best acting is in this film- his stream of consciousness comments are a riot, and also horrifying, given their context. I've heard that he had just gotten out of a tough divorce, and the director let him ad lib at length, to really show the anger and madness in the character of Frank.Of course, the lingering camera shots of Kylie Travis flying through the air in her black tank top and tight pants do nothing to detract from the overall watchability of this action/psychodrama thriller.I'd give this one 8/10. "},{"Title":"Satisfying low-budget blend of action and sci-fi","Date":"5 January 2008","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a 'small' film that's easy to dismiss based on its obvious faults. But those faults are entirely superficial, and if you can overlook them (not difficult), it has a great deal to offer.The clever thing here is the marriage of tight little Twilight Zone gimmick with a typical Die Hard action scenario. The heroine, a police negotiator fresh from a failed hostage crisis, finds herself endlessly re-living a calamitous twenty minutes out on a desert highway... trying desperately for a better outcome, yet somehow only making things worse and worse. The eventual conclusion is beautifully restrained, passing up all the usual Hollywood clichés and thereby making a surprisingly thoughtful statement about how sometimes you just can't make everything work out perfectly.The only real problem with the film is some slightly heavy-handed direction. Yes, yes, I know the heroine absolutely should have picked up the gun instead of running. Several times. My guess is that the script specified that she had to run, and the director simply wasn't careful enough in placing the dropped weapon so as to make clear she couldn't possibly grab it instead. It happens in much bigger-budget movies than this. There's also the issue of Belushi's seeming indestructibility, but this I assume is deliberate. The situation is nightmarishly predestined, so it makes perfect sense that only those die who must die.Aside from these few moments, though, the direction is pretty sharp. The pace is unhurried yet relentless; armed confrontations are genuinely tense; and the various explosions are very gratifying. (Do cars *really* blow up like that? Who cares! Every genre has its conventions...) The story twists and turns delightfully; like the heroine, we often get just what we want, but rarely quite what we expect.Performances, by a cast of unknowns and second-stringers, are uniformly fine. But Jim Belushi, rarely thought of as Oscar material, is truly memorable as the bombastic Texas psychopath, both funny and frightening. This is easily the best work I've ever seen from him; it's hard to imagine anyone doing a better job in this role.No, Retroactive isn't perfect. But its strengths far outweigh its minor weaknesses. Perhaps with a bigger name attached to it, or more CGI effects, it would have been a blockbuster. As it is, the limited scale only increases its charm. This is that rarity, a thoughtful action film exciting, amazing, amusing... and satisfying on every level. "},{"Title":"Reassuring everyone that hell is in mid-Texas.","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Retroactive was an unusual movie title for this sci-fi flick, but made up for it. With only one real mainstream, recognizable name in the film it proved that the small guys can make a good movie too.Although a few points of this movie were poor, it was a good median-type film with that downplayed ending that was another aspect that set it apart from the usual Hollywood commando ending.Overall, I enjoy the idea of time machines and this was a practical way of approaching the idea.  Kylie Travis takes the female lead with a feminine heroism; Shannon Whirry the abused, soft-spoken wife.  Frank Whaley as the neurotic scientist plays the part just as well as the polar end of James Belushi as the loud-mouthed hired courier.If you want to see a few new faces and go on a ride back in time, rent Retroactive. "}{"Title":"Nice premise, but over the top","Date":"6 June 1999","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A Chicago cop has car trouble on a remote Texas highway, but is picked up by a murderous man (James Belushi) and his tormented wife.  Before she can do anything to stop it, Belushi has murdered several people, including his wife.  The cop (Kylie Travis) escapes to the inside of the Superconducting Supercollider, and manages to go back in time to try to rectify the situation.  Unfortunately, her first trips back in time cause more murders, not less.James Belushi shamelessly chews up the scenery in this one (or should I say shoots up), but Kylie Travis is wonderful in her role as the troubled policewoman.  The film has an interesting time-travel premise which is similar to GROUNDHOG DAY and a certain STAR TREK NEXT GENERATION episode. Unfortunately, this means that we get to see Belushi murder the same people in slow motion multiple times.  Still, if you overlook some of the silliness in the execution of the plot, the premise of the policewoman's dilemma is a compelling one.By the way, the SuperCollider is not out in the desert in West Texas, but underneath farmland in east Texas, and the area is not that deserted. Also, the US Government shut down the project several years ago because it was too expensive. "},{"Title":"Great time manipulation experience","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  My 14 year-old son and I really enjoyed this movie.  Belushi did a great job as Frank,  the good-old southern boy that has a bad-d-d-d-d temper.  We classify this one as a sleeper,  because most people have never heard of it. Good time travel movies are hard to find,  but as most of us learned back in the original Star Trek days,  time travel is VERY dangerous.   In this movie,  we learn that right away,  but it goes even farther to show how even when we redo the trip back in time,  even good intentions by supposedly intelligent people,  can make things even worse the 2nd (or 3rd) time around.  I guess the best part of movies like this is that they make you think 'What if I could go back and do something over again?'  Word to the wise,  if you do.... be very careful.  "},{"Title":"Does anybody really know what time is??","Date":"18 April 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Thoroughly entertaining film that should bring to mind concepts that have been explored in such films as Groundhog Day (1993) and Lola Rennt (1998) (This movie came out (US release) about a year before Lola Rennt, so it's not fair to claim that this movie stole any ideas from that German film...)Great action photography (glad the Sci-Fi channel showed it in wide screen, letter-box format), multiple car explosions, maximum gunplay&#133; perhaps an alternate title for this film could be All Blowed Up or some such.This is truly a fun film, though I couldn't help but snicker at a few things &#150; like, for example, the part where the heroine jumps the chain link fence and gets over to the Texas Accelerator Laboratory, and wouldn't you know it, this multi-gazillion dollar research facility is staffed by a total of ONE person (played excellently by Frank Whaley). It's not like, say, a James Bond movie, where a similar facility would have been staffed by a teeming army of hundreds of technicians and workers, all of whom would have added to the tension of the story. (Wow, just think of the money they saved by not having to hire a cast of extras!!)I also liked looking at the heroine, played by Kylie Travis. She looks great. But I couldn't help but wonder why the scientist guy, played by Frank Whaley, didn't do more with her. I mean, he has this super-gizmo apparatus that can send her back in time&#133; couldn't he at least have found a way to make the machine remove her clothes and put her in a black bikini??No matter. It is a fun movie that both sci-fi as well as action fans will enjoy. You'll get to see lots of stuff get all blowed up. And it has several endings, only one of which is a happy one.  "},{"Title":"Extremely entertaining, well-done, provocative movie!","Date":"9 August 2009","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" RETROACTIVE is one of those hidden gem films! A straight-to-video release, it is much better than a high percentage of what Hollywood churns out in theaters! I first saw it on cable years ago when it first came out and was immediately enamored by it. It drew me in from the start. I just love its premise! Really, one of the best time-travel movies you'll ever see. Well plotted, paced, and executed! RETROACTIVE stars uber-hot Australian model Kylie Travis (who does a great job carrying what is essentially an action film) as a Chicago psychiatrist Karen who at the film's start has left her job because 6 of her patients were heinously gunned down in a hostage crisis. Her helplessness has forced her leave for less grisly surroundings. On her way across country, her car breaks down on the desert highway and she is picked up by a bickering couple Frank (James Belushi in the best role he's ever had!) and Rayanne (played with heartbreaking solemnity by Shannon Whirry). It's obvious to Karen that Frank is an abusive boyfriend to Rayanne and in her efforts to save her from him, Frank kills Rayanne and then goes after Karen, who ends up in a super-secret government facility and next thing she knows, it's 20 minutes earlier and she is in the car with Frank and a very much alive Rayanne again!Genius! The plot is so incredibly simple, yet so immediately manipulative! You can't help but want to know what happens next! Turns out the facility is overseen by a brilliant scientist named Brian (solidly played by Frank Whaley), who has discovered time travel. So Karen tries to change the situation so that Rayanne survives and Frank is taken down. Each time she tries and goes back, the situation worsens. RETROACTIVE is one of the best examples of a movie where I have seen the snowball effect happen. Each worsening scenario is brilliantly thought out and constructed and unique from the previous one. Just one little change from the previous timeline makes a small difference in terms of immediacy, but a huge difference in terms of the final outcome! The ending is actually satisfying and powerful! RETROACTIVE is a lost gem in the sci-fi/action/time-travel genre...Highly recommended viewing! "},{"Title":"You Don't Have a Choice Ain't Nothing You Can Do","Date":"12 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I DO NOT KNOW HOW TO DISCUSS THIS FILM WITHOUT DISCLOSING THE STORY.Groundhog Day on speed and as nightmare, Retroactive, a well made, and beautifully photographed, expertly edited, well-acted, and creatively directed thriller, is terrific entertainment. I suppose, in some way, it is a philosophical study within the terrorist genera. Production design by Phillip Duffin might be a key to this film (that is a guess on my part because I am not certain what production design is).Cinematographer George Mooradian and editor Glenn Gardner narrate a somehow almost believable script by Michael Hamilton-Wright, Robert Strauss, and Phillip Badger. Tim Truman's musical score is understated and effective. The stunts are terrific. Casting by Michelle Lang feels perfect. Almost every detail of the film seems to have a place.Watching the movie took something out of me. I am not a great fan of movies that cause anxiety the way this film initially does. I usually do not enjoy watching Detroit Ballet and cars and buildings bursting into flame. I do not usually enjoy movies that manipulate time travel, but here time travel is merely a device to recount a narrative as theme and variation.Modulations in the narrative make the development interesting beyond the action as when we learn that Frank knows the nerdy scientist Brian and Frank returns to the past to undo it. Jim Belushi is terrific here as are most of the other players. Still, this is Kylie Travis's movie.I am not certain that it all comes to much, but I admire how the film seems coherent, at least until near the end. Too many fireworks near the end when I grew tired of the special effects. I enjoyed the ending, however, where all seems a simple twist of fate. My rating comes from a gut feeling about the movie rather than careful analysis.I want to see it in wide screen. "},{"Title":"uses the groundhog day theme","Date":"2 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie reminded me of the movie 1201 which I reviewed before. It was basically Groundhog Day with a science fiction theme. A hostage negotiator with a glitch in her past is in the middle of nowhere (actually, a lost Texas road) when her car crashes and James Belushi and his wife pick her up. Belushi then murders the wife in front of her, and she makes her way to Frank Whaley, who plays a scientist who is conducting an experiment sending lab rats twenty minutes or so back in time. She then convinces him to use her as a lab rat to change the results, each time turning out differently. Belushi makes a nasty bad guy;don't expect to see him in his According to Jim role. Far from it. This was a tense movie with excellent performances and a combination of an expected and a surprise ending. I liked it, and you will too.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Fast paced action and thought provoking concept","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the best films I have ever seen.  The heroine (Kylie Travis) gets involved in an argument in which a husband kills his wife.  She runs away and is transported back in time, giving her the chance to prevent the murder.She makes successive attempts to solve the situation which is gradually revealed as more and more complex with each trip back.This provides a fascinating insight into the question of how you would live your life again given the chance but it is first and foremost an action movie.It is very well acted and directed with terrific pace.  It surely didn't deserve an '18' rating.  There is lots of violence but of the shooting and explosions type - you see as much on TV any night of the week.  I would strongly recommend this film to almost anyone. "},{"Title":"An attention grabbing and fulfilling action film.","Date":"16 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A very credible cast makes Retroactive soar above the typical, predictable, and unbelievable action films that have flooded theaters in the 1990s. Although the film does involve time travel, it is well done from start to finish.  Belushi nearly steals the show, but Travis is just as good as the Chicago Police Officer rebuilding her life.  The nonstop action and pace of the film make it a must see.  "},{"Title":"Much better than you'd expect","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Kylie Travis is a cute brainy action doll. This is far better than most made for Telly.  Jim B has a ball with his wry performance.   Even if not a Groundhog Day fan (me not), this improves that worm out genre with some needed man juice.   Good look and direction.  Gotta love a film with guys namedFrank and Jesse.   Faster Pussy Cat Kill Kill......  "},{"Title":"Great Plot.  Bad Scenes","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is a prime example of how a good movie could have been great. The plot is brilliant.  The shooting by the psychiatrist is ridiculous. She used at least fifteen rounds in one scene and he was right in front of her.  Aside from the bad shooting time and time again, the casting was perfect. When it first started, I thought I would tire of James Belushi's southern drawl, but he wound up being a real cut-up as Frank and quite entertaining.  "}{"Title":"This film won't satisfy any Sci-Fi fans.","Date":"25 May 2004","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was very disappointed with this film. The plot is awful, in fact it's almost non-existent. The action is unbelievable. The acting is average at best. The film feels too long and I was glad when it finished.There is very little Sci-Fi content to this film. Don't bother to watch it if you are looking for a Sci-Fi film. It's more of an action film, and a poor one at that, the action is repetitive and unimaginative. The characters have no depth to them, which leaves no sense of tension in the film, because you don't care what happens to them.Do yourself a favour, don't watch this film.  "},{"Title":"What a Gem!!!!!","Date":"10 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Kind of wondering how I missed this movie in 1997 yet I found and viewed the same off the wall style movie called U-Turn. It's all in the promo I guess, if there is not enough then hopefully you just get lucky and find the hidden gems such as this.One thing I would like to mention is stick with it in the beginning, do not turn it off thinking it is a boring go nowhere movie. Probably the only thing I disliked about the film was the first 10 minutes. In that period of time there was the set up for us to get the plot idea. However, it dragged out waaaaaay toooooo lonnnnnng. I actually felt as if I had been hypnotized as I could not remember for the life of me what I was watching....until it kicked back in. So....do not be discouraged with the beginning. Stick to it. Probably the only complaint I have. Besides the regular 'she had the opportunity to do this' or 'he could have done that' BUT does that not occur in everything we watch? I believe it does.I can tell you this movie has an offbeat style as mentioned previously. Not many around like it. Jim Belushi fits the part perfectly! He scared me ) I didn't know he had it in his acting skill set to be such a psycho bully. The women were great. All round well done; edge of the seat; OMG this is crazy; what's next kinda flick.If you like something a bit different from mainstream this is for you. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"OK groundhog day idea","Date":"20 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Brian (Frank Whaley) is a lone scientist working on short term time travel back 20 minutes in a government super collider in Texas. Frank (James Belushi) is a petty criminal looking to sell stolen advanced computer chips. He's a loudmouth angry husband to Rayanne (Shannon Whirry). They pick up hitchhiker Karen (Kylie Travis). Frank kills Rayanne thinking she cheated on him. Karen escapes to the lab where she is accidentally sent back in time. Only things go much worst and she has to do it again.The story is way too convenient. It's action galore but it feels very manufactured. Part of that is the crazy cartoon character that Belushi is playing. If he could dial back the crazy, his character could actually be more intense. The idea is interesting but the execution is too wild. "},{"Title":"Sci-fi = short 4  Science Fiction... not Science Fidelity","Date":"28 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Why are a lot of people comparing sci-fi movies to the known boundaries of science? There is fiction and there is non-fiction.. but there is also science-fiction, which is also non fiction. There is always a counterintuitive element in these movies and when you are nitpicking it its like unweaving a rainbow for no apparent reason, comparing apples and oranges etc. Just because a movie lacks a waterproof logical basis does not mean it can't be a great (B) movie. The sheer fact that time traveling on macro human-level can't be done according to what we know today would also dismiss great movies like Back to the Future, Terminator series, etc. If you want reality do not watch movies, for they are at best based upon it. That off my chest, I can safely say I enjoyed this movie quite a bit through empirical proof. To me it is not even about the time traveling situation, its merely the cinematography of the desert, the americana of it all. "},{"Title":"Riveting little film does grab your attention.","Date":"16 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Beautiful Kylie Travis ('Models Inc.') plays Karen, a hostage negotiator with tragedy in her recent past. Having quit the force, she's traveling through rural Texas when she has car trouble and is then picked up by jovial sleaze bag Frank (James Belushi). When Frank realizes that his wife Rayanne (erotic film star Shannon Whirry) has been unfaithful, he murders her in cold blood. While Karen runs from Frank, she comes across an isolated government complex where lonely young scientist Brian (Frank Whaley) has been conducting time travel experiments. Karen then realizes that here is a situation where she can go back in time and do things over...so she does. The only problem is, she actually makes things WORSE. So she ends up back at the complex, and goes back in time again. And so it goes while she stubbornly tries, each time, to make better decisions.Yeah...this does indeed sound like a serious sci-fi version of Groundhog Day, much like an an earlier TV movie titled '1201', starring Jonathan Silverman. But the premise is amusing, and director Louis Morneau actually does a very creditable job at keeping things very taut and compelling. The movie has a breakneck pace to it, a respectable intensity level, and characters about whom we can actually give a damn. Travis is quite good in the central role, while Belushi relishes the opportunity to go over the top in his portrayal of a hair-trigger tempered piece of scum. Whaley is very likable as the scientist, and Whirry earns our sympathies as the timid wife. It's also nice, as it always is, to see M. Emmet Walsh, as he plays cheerful gas station proprietor Sam. Jesse Borrego (Con Air), Sherman Howard (Day of the Dead '85), and Guy Boyd (Body Double) co-star.Retroactive is slickly photographed in Clairmont-Scope by George Mooradian, and has an appropriate sun baked look to it in all outdoor scenes. Special effects are decent and not overdone. I don't know if the script (credited to Michael Hamilton-Wright, Robert Strauss, and Phillip Badger) will bear any close scrutiny, but at least while this thrill ride is still going on, the viewer may not mind too much. It does give in to some clichés (such as characters missing their targets all too often when they shoot, or guns that take forever to run out of ammo), but the action is first-rate, and our protagonist and antagonist do set off some big sparks.Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"Retroactive is the best Jame B movie ever.","Date":"25 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It's a movie with these actors at the prime in their prime. The plot is quite simple, but expands on the back-in-time concept with vastly different dynamic changes in the timeline. James carries the 'good-ole-boy' to the extremes that puts reality to shame. So much so, that I gag at a lot of his performances post Retroactive. Hell, he makes it so real and so bad, one loves him to death. All the actors portray their roles with performances that exceed reality that QT would be crying. It's a perfect mix of Sci-Fi and characters over the top that make this movie such a success. Another sad, critical success financial failure performance. "},{"Title":"Who Knew That Time Travel Could Be So Intelligent and Kick-Ass At The Same Time","Date":"29 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Time travel has always been a popular idea within the sci-fi world due to all the different directions that one can take in a story, such as going forward in time to see how the future might look or going backwards in time in an attempt to change the past. It is that last scenario that may very well be why time travel is as appealing to us as it is. What if we could go back and change the errors of our ways or save the lives of those lost in some tragedy, be it war, an accident, or murder. Many movies have featured this but not as many manage to do it with as much action, suspense, and good writing as 1997's Retroactive.This nice, little film was released as a direct to video piece but don't let that fool you; as you soon discover while watching this, not all direct to video movies belong on the direct to video docket. In the beginning, we are introduced to Brian (played by the great character actor Frank Whaley) who is desperately trying to save a top secret time traveling project from being cut by the pentagon. He succeeds in sending a dead mouse who was just killed by a trap in a maze back in time as well as bringing it back to life. However, he only realizes this after watching a video he made of himself while performing the experiment. You see, only the person or animal who goes through the machine will remember what happened before hand while everyone else has no memory at all. Enters Chicago police negotiator Karen (played by the beautiful and talented Kylie Travis who would only go on acting for a few more years before marrying a New York real estate magnate in 2001. Lucky for her but a shame for us movie goers) who's running away from her own past when she crashes her car into a road side sign while traveling the lonely desert roads of Texas. While stranded, she's picked up by a seemly jovial man named Frank (played by the always delightful James Belushi) and his wife Rayanne (played by Shannon Whirry in a very convincing performance). Everything's goes well until they stop at at a gas station and Frank learns from the shop owner (M. Emmet Walsh, another great character actor) that his wife's been having an affair. From there, we soon discover that underneath Frank's jovial persona lurks a psychotic killer and he responds to the facts by killing his wife and chasing Karen to a concrete building which just happens to be the secret lab of Brian. One thing leads to another and before she knows what's happening, Karen finds herself back in the car with Frank twenty minutes in the past. She decides to try to change the events but only ends up making things worse. She then goes back in time again but makes things even more terrible than she did during the first attempt of changing the past.And that's what makes the movie as suspenseful and entertaining as it is can Karen change the past for the better or is she doomed to an eternity of time traveling folly? The film accomplishes this by weaving together a story that manages to be intelligent while at the same time keeping you on the edge of your seat. The effects that are used for the time traveling scenes are very good while at the same time the filmmakers are careful in not allowing them to be the drive of the picture like you see in some films. I must also emphasize that James Belushi is pure entertainment in the role of bigger than life Texas psychopath Frank. Its because of little films like this that made 90's cinema so great, that combination of having a cool story and a great production to make it. Whatever you do, don't let this one slip by you because unlike in this movie, you can't rewrite your past errors. "},{"Title":"A entertaining B-Movie","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is an entertaining B-Movie.It's about a cruel maniac (played by James Belushi) who tries to kill his wife and a woman who is trapped in his car. And after the maniac kills his wife, the woman tries to flee and arrives at last at a time-machine, and everything starts from the beginning. And they travels so long to the past until she is able to prevent this disaster. (The film is very similar to the film The Grounghog Day with Bill Murray).It is an independent movie Just 11 actors play in this film. The program of the time-machine looks like (and actually is) Visual Basic code. I didn't knew that you could use Visual Basic to build a time-machine.But apart from that, it is an entertaining, exciting and interesting movie and therefore i give a rating of 7 from 10. "},{"Title":"great running woman","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  DEFINITELY A VALUABLE + IMPORTANT TOUGH WOMAN MOVIE- one of the few movies with a woman successfully running. most movies are so stupid, that the running lady seems incapable to control her feet. Most movies do not let her get further, let her stumble, fall, look disabled etc. BUT NOT THIS ONE !! *** I would not call anything a SPOILER here,  but maybe you disagree ?! *** - she CAN run. but to give the bad guy a chance in return, she always is so stupid to leave him with his weapons. in this movie everyone has a gun (once they explain we are in Texas!) and the bad guy is always able to grab some of them. then the heroine kicks him in the balls, against the head etc. - then you expect her to finish him, for example by taking his gun and blowing his head off, or at least making him do the old hands up - but instead she runs away (she is a good runner, indeed!), or only kicks the gun away, where he will grab it soon etc. THIS IS THE MOVIE WITH THE MOST OPPORTUNITIES TO FINISH MR BAD GUY THAT MS GOOD GIRL DOES NOT SEIZE (instead she even causes more trouble) - all teenie slasher sequels are no competition for RETROACTIVE! - the time machine sequences are too long. you wait for the next action scene IN TIME, but how the persons get into time does not matter. my advice use the FAST FORWARD BUTTON whenever the heroine is entering those cellars! "},{"Title":"Classic Time Travel Flick","Date":"12 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Director Louis Morneau who also directed another classic flick, Road Kill 2 Dead Ahead 2008 has created another gem in Retroactive.Starring James Belushi who has also been other classic flick , Salvador 1986 and Made Men 1999.Also starring Kylie Travis.Also starring Shannon Whirry who has also been in other classic flicks, Animal Instincts II 1994, Animal Instincts 1992, Mirror Images II 1993 and Out for Justce 1991.Also starring M.Emmet Walsh who has also been in other classic flicks, Romeo + Juliet 1996, Narrow Margin 1990, Blood Simple 1984 and Blade Runner 1982.I enjoyed the shootouts and car chases.If you enjoyed this as much as I did then check out other classic time travel flicks, The Butterfly Effect 2004, Navigator A Mediaeval Odyssey 1988, Planet of the Apes 1968, Primer 2004, Returner 2002, Slaughterhouse-Five 1972, Timecop 1994, The Caller 2011, Triangle 2009, Edge of Tomorrow 2014 and Timecrimes 2007. "}{"Title":"An Opportunity Blown","Date":"12 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This sci fi movie apparently incorporated an attempt to examine in more in-depth way the convoluted paradox of time travel and unintended consequences along with a minor twist likely never seen in any time travel movie before involving a small boy. Nevertheless, the end product itself is severely weakened by over the top acting that comes across more like a soap opera, made for television movie with the script fraying from an overt over intellectualization. The main protagonist is rarely convincing as a law enforcement negotiator/psychologist and seems only more to confirm what is briefly informed at the beginning of the movie of her own inability to really execute her job well and it seems to follow her through most of the movie. The action scenes seem pedestrian and nothing particularly special. The end also seems unnecessarily dark and simple containing a problem with abrupt editing with the ending could have been more carefully executed. Overall, this movie had the potential to introduce a genuinely fascinating look at a new element in sci fi time travel and proceeded to unfold in actuality with a fairly decent attempt at various time travel scenarios, consistent interactions with each episode, and relatively easy to follow, nonetheless, the movie disappoints in what it could have been. Seven years later, THE BUTTERFLY EFFECT (2004) would provide a strong and serious attempt at the paradox and time causal-effect implications of time travel. "},{"Title":"	Ordinary thriller  with a out of ordinary adrenalin rhythm.	","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  	What's happen if you can go back to the time for try to correct your wrong?	This is the question where  this movie based his plot, that started for give the answer but then slide to the pure action generated to a thriller idea. A  psychiatric found the way to back in the past for avoid a massacre caused by a brutal Texan guy provoked by his wife, and remedy her mistake.  Reading the plot's movie can't see a original story, because the time's travel is already used for many flick , but never in this way till to the story involve in car chase, gun fire and pursuit. Ok, many movie are based on this formula and the developed is easy and standard, but the director Louis Morneau  show a  certain mastery with the cine-camera, and the adrenalin that his  action scenes generated is very good and high respect most action movies,  his jumped  way  to use the camera high the tension till to the amazing. The lead character of the maniac Frank Lloyd is played to ever good James Belushi, that twisting his likely and coarse character of his beginner for show the worse late where  the funny become aggressiveness and his beating is the mirror of his arrogance and ignorance till to prevail the madness. Belushi is very natural in  	this role and he give a wonderful performance, while the good character is player by Kylie Travis as the psychiatrist cop Karen Warren enough credible the role but her excess use to the movement for express his feeling penalize the player that can be a good player. Anyway for the people that wait a reflective and engaged work, this movie doesn't for you all of this is based to the action, but for anyone would spend 87 minutes with funny and exciting feeling, without too thinks. My rate is 6. "},{"Title":"Time After Crime","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just watched this movie on cable. Surprisingly good. Non-stop action, strong female lead, interesting plot twists. Paunchy James Belushi with a Texan twang does a great acting job as Frank, an abusive husband and all-around one mean bastard. Kylie Travis is excellent as Karen, a psychologist slash federal officer. She's no wimp and her take-no-crap attitude matches Belushi's bad-to-the-bone villain perfectly. Good movie in need of a better title. What were they thinking?? "},{"Title":"Worth renting and buying","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I watched this movie on USA and was happy with the multiple time-line concept.  I love GROUNDHOGS DAY.  With computer games being 4th dimensional in aspect (you are able to apply knowledge learned earlier in the game to overcome a difficult area from a previous save) the popularity of these movies can only increase.I also just watched RUN LOLA RUN last night at a friend's house and was quite happy with the direction, story, and acting.If you liked either GROUNDHOGS DAY or RUN LOLA RUN; rent this movie. "},{"Title":"Groundhog Day meets Thelma & Louise","Date":"28 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Actually, it's more like Groundhog Day meets Thelma & Louise, hooks up with The Final Countdown and takes Back to the Future along for the ride. A young woman experiences car trouble on a remote Texas highway, and gets picked up by a sleazy thug and his girlfriend. People die, things blow up. Luckily our heroine is a Chicago cop, so she manages to escape...to a secret government testing site where a scientist has been developing a time machine. Far fetched? Sure, but it IS a time travel movie after all. The machine enables the cop to go back ten minutes into the past, so she can try to rectify the situation. Kylie Travis makes quite an impression as the resourceful cop. Actually, I missed the opening credits. I thought I was watching Brenda Bakke, from TV's American Gothic. The ressemblance is striking. If you like Brenda, you'll love Kylie. Anyway, James Belushi is fairly effective as the low-life killer who enjoys tormenting his girlfriend (a surprisingly unglamorous Shannon Whirrey, star of all those racy erotic thrillers on Cinemax). Retroactive lacks the inventiveness of Back to the Future and, at under 90 minutes, it's a little short. The Groundhog Day-style re-enactments could have used more dialog and less screeching tires, and Frank Whaley is a touch bland as the scientist. I'm surprised he took such a minor role in the first place. Having said all that, if you enjoy time travel movies, Retroactive is certainly worth a look.  "},{"Title":"a definite entertainment !","Date":"28 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" James Belushi as a villain?? I used to watch this movie a few tears ago in hospital (having some kinda disease). This is really a good sci-fi movie, where James Belushi is always a master actor in every piece of his movie. The only reason i find retroactive entertaining is because of him..nothing else!! He has turned this movie somehow...somewhat...a pure sensational action movie! I'll give this a 10/10..Unfortunately,people nowadays could not create good movies like this anymore.For all of u guyz out there, give this movie a chance, and u'll find that this would be far much2 more satisfying than watching other stupid sci-fi movies (blade runner, transformer, the matrix...) Watch Retroactive!!! 10*stars(excellent) "},{"Title":"Fun little B-movie","Date":"8 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" 'Retroactive.' What's it all about? Who's it aimed at? Um, hard to say really. At a push I'd have to guess 'men.' And probably men who don't mind daft, vaguely sci-fi B-movies. Any film that includes a situation where a day/event repeats itself over and over again will always be likened to 'Groundhog Day.' Retroactive isn't really like that at all, but it does borrow the idea of an event happening again and again.A woman, on her way through the deserts of Texas, breaks down. And, if that isn't bad enough, the only person willing to pick her up is James Belushi. And he's a complete psychopath. Naturally, it doesn't take long for things to go bad and gunplay and shootouts ensue. However, it's not so simple as our heroine simply having to survive the chase. She only goes and stumbles on one of those shady government labs that seem to exist in 'film-world.' There, she discovers that the lone scientist (don't high level scientific experiments normally require huge teams of people to run them? Oh well, never mind...) can transport her twenty minutes back in time.The good news is that she's no longer pursued by James Belushi. The bad news &#x96; it doesn't take long before it all starts to go wrong again. Rinse and repeat. So, time and time again, she has to figure out the best way to stop his violent rampage while getting as few people shot by him as possible.Kylie Travis plays our heroine. And she does it competently enough. She's feisty and does the job. You'll certainly root for her throughout what she has to go through. However, it's James Belushi who stands out. He's larger than life in the most bonkers way possible. He's clearly loving being completely off his head and delights in playing the nut-job &#x96; he does tend to steal most scenes, but, ultimately, it's Kylie we'll care about when all's said and done.Basically, it's a 'one on one' chase sort of film. And, like with many similar films, it can be a little bit hard to maintain the premise. The shift of power continually shifts between 'hunter' and 'prey' and there are more than a few times where one could blatantly execute the other there and then. Naturally, they don't. If they did, the film would only be about twenty-five minutes long.So, if you can suspend your disbelief long enough to get over than minor gripe, you'll actually find a solid enough little action movie. It's nothing new and it would probably never make your top ten films of all time, but it'll certainly fill just under an hour and a half of your time if you're looking for some sci-fi action fun in the desert. "},{"Title":"thank god for Belushi","Date":"10 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" well made movie... I enjoyed it much but thank god there is Belushi in this movie the story is quite good even we have seen it before and more often SPOILER going back in time. but it is the Belushi who makes this film worth watching who gives actually everything to this movie of course together with the director I also love the desert scene and middle of nowhere big things but I mostly enjoyed like everyone else who liked this movie I think is psychopathic skills of Belushi and every time the time goes back it becomes more and more psychopathic and you can clearly see this going each time deeper and deeper into the madness just AWESOME "},{"Title":"Interesting setup and concept, cool title, poor execution","Date":"9 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I loved the whole idea of the stranded motorist being picked up by a crazy guy, and the dynamic among the characters as the story rolls out. There are themes of unresolvable domestic disputes between Frank and Rayanne, the instinct to start off this story with this basic idea is a good one, we can identify with the characters. The viewer is grounded in the ugly reality of an increasingly tenuous situation, and we can see it coming. I love how Frank keeps needling Karen about what it's like to be a woman, I love how they show the villain trying to get inside her head. One of the most interesting effects is how Karen is forced to become increasingly violent with each iteration, as repeated time travel slowly turns her into a gun-toting thug.I love Karen's attempts to fix things as she keeps going back, and she discovers news things every time she does, and more and more people die in more spectacular ways, it's almost comical because you know she'll just go back and try again. There are some deep existential themes hinted at in the plot, for example one person can go back and it resets everyone else's life, but when two people go back, does it reset just their lives or everyone else's? Would have been nice to see these themes explored in more detail, for example it is the ultimate conceit to think that one person can change the entire world, but that's exactly what's happening here.The film falls apart with basic believablity issues James Belushi is terribly miscast, he's not scary, he's just John's brother who happens to have become an actor over the years. He is a serviceable doofus in the film, but rises above his mediocrity in a memorable scene where he realizes the significance of the machine, and in a bit of psychopathic inspiration, says to Karen and Brian that he is going to repeatedly go back in time every ten minutes and kill them over and over again.The gigantic research center is staffed by just one guy? I know the film has a budget, but they could have explained this away somehow, for example maybe he was working on the weekend or something. The see-saw between the person holding the gun, the other person knocks it out of their hand and picks it up and now they're in control, goes on back and forth so many times that it's laughable. There are lots of explosions to keep men watching the film, but there's no way a Cadillac has that much gasoline in it. There was no reason to destroy the machine, even though Karen insisted on it. Brian had a 20-minute limit on the machine, but at the end he miraculously pushes it to 60 minutes...how? This is never explained. And it bothers me that she would leave her car in the middle of the road for someone to crash into, this from a woman who was conscientious enough to go back and fix everyone's lives.All in all, an interesting film and it kept me watching to the very end. "},{"Title":"I think I am one of the biggest fans of this movie","Date":"21 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I've shown this movie to several of my friends, and none of them really enjoyed it. It perplexes them why I like it, and I think some of them probably think I'm crazy. Little do they know that they're right, but that's beside the point! This is an awesome movie, and I'm determined to find someone else who agrees with me. Strangely enough, I see a few 8s, 9s, and 10s here on the IMDb, which is heartening, but I've still yet to find a real-life person who can recognize the brilliance of casting James Belushi as a time-traveling, chauvinist psychopath. How could this not be awesome? This is epic movie-making on a scale that transcends the meager ability of most movie-goers to understand.Much like Triangle, Timecrimes, Primer, and The Butterfly Effect, this movie is about the unintended consequences of repeated attempts to create an idealistic timeline. Whereas Triangle is a scifi giallo (like the classic 1970s Dario Argento movies), Timecrimes is more about fate and destiny, Primer is more about obsessive-compulsive perfectionism and addiction, and The Butterfly Effect is more about a dumbass screwing up his own life worse and worse, this is a more about unintended consequences and how they affect others (rather than just your own life). With lots of explosions. I liked how cynical this movie was and how the protagonist's well-meaning idealism causes no end of problems, though, to be honest, it was never really her fault -- James Belushi's psychopath is an over-the-top, chilling villain that I really enjoyed. Belushi has a *lot* of fun with this role, and I have a feeling that his kind of hammy overacting might be what alienated some of my friends. Interestingly, they usually love Anthony Hopkins' hammy overacting in Silence of the Lambs, however.If you're fond of explosive thrillers, I can't recommend this movie highly enough. If you're more into talky, indie dramas, there's always Primer, which was also a good movie. Personally, I think there's room for different takes on the paradox of time travel, and this is a much less intellectual, more action-oriented tack. If you liked Butterfly Effect, you'll probably like this. Fans of Primer might be disappointed with what they perceive as a shallow, Hollywood vehicle for violence and explosions. "}{"Title":"Ridiculous but it could be worse","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  `Retroactive starts out as a road movie and abruptly segues into science fiction. The plot appears to have been cobbled out of bits of half a dozen other movies in a ten-second plot development meeting, although the script shows some evidence of actual writing. Karen, a Chicago police psychologist who just happens to pack a pistol as well as she spouts psychobabble, has car trouble on the usual remote Texas highway. She is picked up by Frank and his wife Rayanne. Frank is a Typical Movie Texan such as one might meet in any trailer park Paunchy, ugly, brutish and violent, with an instantly obnoxious drawl and the obligatory Cadillac. Things turn ugly when Frank discovers that the timid, mousey Rayanne has nevertheless been audacious enough to have committed adultery with a local Hispanic kid. A lot of gunplay ensues and people die. Karen escapes and eventually winds up fleeing from Frank on foot and wouldn't you know it, she happens upon a conveniently located secret facility that turns out to be a time-travel machine. The facility obviously took a small army of skilled builders and technicians months to build, but of course there is no security except an electronic door, and only one person inside Brian, the inventor, who clearly deserves the Philo T. Farnsworth Award for Extreme Cleverness, whereas the scriptwriter deserves the Chutzpah Award for asking us to accept that Brian could build and secure the whole complex, not to mention operate it from one itty-bitty computer keyboard. So far, the device can send a test subject back in time only 20 minutes. Karen accidentally gets sent back; realizing what has happened, she tries to avert the disaster she knows will shortly transpire, but manages only to make things worse. She winds up going back again and again, trying to change things for the better, but each time a new variation of the same appalling slaughter occurs, usually with more suffering than the last time. Finally, matters are pushed to an extreme, and the climax brings resolution.This movie is clearly ridiculous, but no more so than a lot of movies with fanciful plots these days. Kylie Travis (Karen) looks a little bit like Jennifer Lopez and has a convincing physicality. Her physical prowess is somewhat far-fetched unless you assume that the Chicago PD puts their psychologists through the same physical training as their regular officers. Jim Belushi does a very creditable job as the slimy Frank, right down to the drawl. There is about twice as much gunfire and incendiary nonsense (cars blowing up, etc.) as is really necessary to advance the plot. Frank's indestructibility through scene after scene of mayhem and bloodshed eventually becomes amusing. No matter how many times he is shot at, stabbed, run over, beaten, or trapped in burning cars or buildings, he always comes through with only scratches---until the very end. Finally, to give it credit, the script is at its most creative in coming up with new and different ways for the same temporal scenario to go wrong over and over. "},{"Title":"another stolen idea","Date":"1 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A female shrink travels back in time for a few times to save a woman killed by her husband. That's the plot. The movie is pretty good, a kinda different road movie, with a lot of action and interesting scenes. James Belushi plays great the role of the bad guy, a mean-looking texan, thief and murderer. The action scenes are well done, and, surprisingly, the end of the movie is very good, unlike the many nonsense predictable endings nowadays. BUT. There's a huge minus to this actually decent good well done action film. Just like in many movies i've seen lately the lack of originality.Having the chance of re-living a period of time, to be able to change something, is not at all something new. I first saw this theme in Groundhog Day. It was the first film to debate this theme and it was a total success. Then there was an episode in the X Files with the same plot. Now it's Retroactive. The screenplayer needed something to create the possibility to use this theme. He couldn't do the same thing as in Groundhog Day, so he invented a time machine that could allow you to travel back in time. (pretty pathetic and unlikely, but actually this discovery is just an element needed for the well-growing of the plot, it's totally not important in the movie). And also the idea of the huge changes that keep happening depending on the most unimportant thing that you do was also seen before in the best german movie ever, Lola Rennt. Well i'd give this movie a 6 out of 10. I can't go with more, because of everything i said before. But it's worth to watch it, you'll have an entertaining time. "},{"Title":"a.k.a. PLOT TWIST  The Movie.","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film was obviously written by a 12 year old boy, then rewritten overnight by his mom (Junior still has trouble with verbs).  Take my advise get a few friends together, pop some corn and grab your favorite beverage and this one promises to be more fun than your average Mystery Science Theater 3000 episode!Highlight  Jim Belushi is wonderfully hammy!  Has all the best lines too Brian.  I hav' ta admit...thats a wonderful machine ya got there!  You gonna look good strapped to the hood of my car!  "},{"Title":"A thinking action fan's dream.","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  With its elaborate situations, intricately choreographed, prolonged and absolutely thrilling action scenes, and a thought-provoking script full of twists, Retroactive is a movie that creates a true sense of vertigo - in a good way. It just sucks you in deeper and deeper. Kylie Travis is a model action heroine and James Belushi is surprisingly good as the heavy (both literally and figuratively). Basically this is an almost-great little movie that too few people have seen.    (***) "},{"Title":"Retroactive nonsense......","Date":"3 February 2008","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Ever find yourself watching a really bad movie with no script or character development, that deteriorates to nothing more than shootings, car chases and explosions? That is Retroactive only much worse, because the viewer is forced to endure the same shootings, car chases, and explosions, over and over. If you enjoy sci-fi, avoid this for sure. If you enjoy interesting characters and a clever plot, avoid this for sure. If you don't like wasting an hour and a half of your time, avoid this for sure. If on the other hand you like endless shootings, car chases, and explosions, then Retroactive is your movie. All others should avoid Retroactive like you would a rabid dog. - MERK "},{"Title":"A hitch in time can stop major crime?","Date":"17 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When Karen (Kylie Travis) has some car trouble in the middle of the desert she takes a lift from Frank (James Belushi) and Rayanne (Shannon Whirry). It's not long until she realises that Frank is pretty crazy, however, and when he stops off to buy some beers and chat to a friend he is shown photographs that send him into a rage. Death follows and Karen ends up running for her life away from Frank and into some big research facility in the middle of the desert. The only person there is Brian (Frank Whaley), who has been trying to perfect his time-travel experiments before the whole place is closed down for good. He's had some success and Karen knows that if he sends her back then she can pre-empt crazy Frank and sort everything out. Those familiar with almost any other time-travel movie will know that things are sometimes made worse when meddling occurs.There are 101 ways to put describe this movie in shorthand, the person who recommended it to me said it was like The Hitcher crossed with Groundhog Day (or 1201 or some other tricky time flick like Timecrimes, Triangle, The Butterfly Effect, etc). And it is. While it also isn't.You see, this IS a time-travel movie but it's a lean action thriller first and foremost. The jumps backwards only occur about four times so the focus is on seeing just how things can be changed to stop a psycho before he goes really psycho.The acting is all pretty good. Kylie Travis is okay in the leading female role but it's James Belushi who provides the most fun (boisterous, unapologetic baddies so often do) with his good ol' boy who's bad to the bone. Shannon Whirry is good, Frank Whaley is okay and it is always good to see M. Emmet Walsh even if it is a small, small role.The script, by Michael Hamilton-Wright, Robert Strauss and Phillip Badger, is solid. Characterisations are a little thin and background exposition on Karen is crammed in there in quite a clumsy fashion but it's good when providing us with enough pointers to look out for every time we move along the repeated timeline.Louis Morneau handles the material well. It falls short of being something excellent thanks to the limited activity of the main plot device, and also thanks to the constant, annoying ineptitude of the heroine. But if you can put these failings to one side, as well as the numerous plot holes, then you can enjoy something that just aims to provide 90 minutes of decent entertainment. "},{"Title":"Watchable","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sci-fi fans will be disappointed but action fans should appreciate this one. Jim Belushi gives a so-so and cliched performance but  otherwise is a good flick for anyone over the age of 15. Nice plot that flows well with some expected and unexpected twists. "},{"Title":"Pop morality meets low-fi","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Based on R1 DVD 91 minA potential interesting time travel idea that's subverted to provide cheap repeats of near identical scenes. It's mildly entertaining to see how the scriptwriters decide who should live and who should not. It is left as an exercise for the viewer to decide if the machine survives the movie.6/10 of interest to undiscriminating sci-fi fans or people who like to think they are being exposed to novel ideas! "},{"Title":"This is a joke, right?","Date":"7 October 2004","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Let's see...Jim Belushi with the worst Texas accent imaginable. A time machine that only lets ya go back about 20 minutes at a whack. A trip across the dustlands of rural Texas, and a Shrink who shoots up about a hundred magazines and never hits a bloody thing she is aiming it.When you have 90 minutes of blank film, and about 7 minutes of plot, this is what you get. How many times can one watch minor permutations on the exact scene before slumber ensues, and the brain glazes over.This could have been so much more, but a promising cast, and a promising premise have been totally wasted in a sea of car stunts and shoot-em-up. Even as a two dollar rental this puppy is a bust!  "},{"Title":"Looks like a cartoon.","Date":"31 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A cross between time machine(at a small range) the groundhog day and a road movie,Retroactive  is not to be taken seriously(!).Belushi's acting verges on a cartoon villainhe looks like Tweety Pie's Sylvester.There's some black humor,mainly in the first part;it tends to become repetitive after a while. Anyway the place where Brian works is two-bit sci-fi and the scientist's dumb-founded looks are priceless.So is Belushi's big bad wolf swagger.But the prize goes to M.Emmet Walsh's Samdon't do it here ,please,take'em to the desert! Retroactive has a couldn't-care- less side which is quite entertaining.But if one seeks meaning and brain stuff,one must move on. "}{"Title":"I've Had Better Nightmares !","Date":"16 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It was hard to define my feelings while watching this. But sure they were all negative! Sometimes, it's the most pointless and boring sci-fi movie. Sometimes it's idiot, so outrageously crazy, action thriller. But mostly, it's one of the smartest, most unique, comedies ever made !Whatever what was that exactly; it's wired, yet stupidly wired. Nothing works in a good way. The sci-fi factor is thinly exploited for making pure violent cartoon. The characters are just used fragments not humans. The heroine has nothing to be attached to. (James Belushi) played a sarcastic low-life lunatic undying devil (!!). Yes, his lovable charisma made it kind of bearable but his rampantly loud performance ruled; due to rampantly loud script in the first place!.The blank circles are highly comic; for instance I can't hold myself at the line of we have to go back !. And truly with all the random killing every time, being in bigger shape every time too; I have never laughed like this since It's a Mad Mad Mad World. Let alone matters like having a gun with a 70 bullets, a governmental institution for time travel's experiments THAT HAS ONE HUMAN BEING TO WORK IN IT !, etc. The action was hyped in totally the wrong place; that made the movie like a piñata full of explosives or psychopath clown who plays with afire dynamite ! I'm pretty certain that there are plot holes, though I have enough headache to count them for you (sorry, I have just finished the movie !). Strikes me how its makers convinced any sane producer to finance it, or all its cast to do it (a hell of mystery indeed). And it's the top of silliness already when the end expresses something like being a feminist movie !Overall, it might be about don't mess with the time, however the movie itself did mess with the time travel's theme BIG TIME. If it succeeds in anything then it's making you nervous. Save the beauty of (Shannon Whirry), who played (Rayanne), some catchy yet absurd action, and some good yet wasted direction from (Louis Morneau), this is frantic B movie from pedant hell. In another word  Mindless wasn't literally, or monstrously, portrayed like this before. To admire this you have to be whether a 12- year-old, a stoned, an alien (the 3 together !), or a searcher of seen-to-be-believed bad movies; where it'll be a cult favorite indeed. Most importantly I think (Retroactive) is a very notable reason for why (Orion) bankrupted one year later (in 1998), according to this movie, they deserved what happened. THEY DAMN DESERVED IT ! Although this is worst than any nightmare I have ever seen, but did you see how the kid near the end traveled in time too ? Original moment in the history of comedy ! "},{"Title":"Without a doubt worthy of less than a zero","Date":"10 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I just can't get over how awful this movie is. Something that makes a good movie is good acting and good acting requires a good script and good writing and this movie has NONE OF ANY OF IT.This thing is so full of plot holes you could turn a diesel truck around in them. They take every HORRIBLE cliché you can imagine and make them worse. One of my favorite ones? She knocks Frank (Belushi) down and instead of picking up her gun and killing him (He's just murdered several people), she runs and she's A POLICE OFFICER? This is writing at it's absolute WORST!Just plain bad.I'd love to go into a lot of detail, but this movie is so god awful it really isn't worth to much effort. It reminds me of the A-Team. One million bullets spent but the bad guy never gets hit. The woman knows it's going to happen yet REFUSES to shoot Frank when she can. EVERY SINGLE TIME.Belushi's bad guy is so over the top horribly acted that it makes you want to pull a Stewie and go track him down just so you can knock him on his butt. AND besides, how is it that EVERY SINGLE TIME FRANK hits what he aims at, but NO ONE ELSE DOES?It reminds me of how awful The Butterfly Effect was with the same sort of time travel idea but everything that can go wrong does so and stupidly so.And at what point in time are we going to stop showing cars blowing up like this? They DON'T!Besides, don't buy into any of the professional writers on here talking this movie up. They've sold their souls for a few bucks to push up a product that is by any standards garbage. "},{"Title":"Here are some scenes in the movie I found quite funny","Date":"12 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  SPOILER This film is absolutely hilarious thanks mostly to James Belushi. Every time the woman warps back in time to try to save his abused wife she mucks it up somehow and has to keep on trying it over and over again. A really funny part is where Belushi finds out that his wife has been cheating on him and pulls a gun on her while they are in the car driving around. After they pull over she pleads with him not to hurt her as he looks all doubtful and crazy at her while holding the gun near her face. Suddenly and without prior notice as to what's happening he pulls the trigger and you get to see the back of her head spew out a tuft of hair as a bullet flies through the back of her face! The most comical part of the whole movie is when James Belushi, his abused wife, and the time warping blonde woman get pulled over by a cop and all hell breaks loose when the woman announces that Belushi's character is carrying a gun. He ends up shooting the cop and turns around to see his wife frantically speeding away in the car they were just in. He shouts something along the lines of  NO, RAYANNE, STOP, WAIT, I LOVE YOU! and immediately starts shooting wildly at the car for fear that he'll lose her and ends up hitting the gas tank on the car and sends it up in a giant ball of flames. He sees what happens and cries...MY BABY...! and then turns to the blonde woman and says YOU KILLED HER, YOU BI***! and starts to rough her up! James Belushi deserves a definate award for that role. I think it is so funny because of the way Belushi's face looks during these intense moments of the movie. He is a good comedian in this one and this movie should be classified with the comedy category. "},{"Title":"Worst Movie I`d seen for a long time","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is bad, real bad. In the middle of the movie I thought by myself my god, girl, shoot down the bad guy and everything is fine! But she won`t hit him until the movie has reached nearly two hours duration. Oh no, don't waste your time!  "},{"Title":"film?","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Honestly, I have seen better film growing on my teeth. You might find this movie entertaining if you are under the age of 12 or one of the two people on the planet that think that Jim Belushi is the best actors ever. The fine people who made this movie probably had a few hundred dollars, a borrowed camera and a weekend to kill in the desert after they showed up a week late to Burning Man. I personally am a fan of sci-fi and shoot-em-up action John Woo style movies, but this took the plot to Waterworld, the action of TankGirl, and the dialogue of New York Minuite. Its sad to say that Belushi doing Joe Somebody was a step UP.Overall... BOO! "}]