[{"Title":"Is he wearing slacks?","Date":"5 May 2004","Score":"40 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Funny funny movie, although this is my favorite tv show, so I'm biased. It's always nice to see Trace (Crow/Dr. Forrester), who left the show soon after this movie was released. It's nice to see the guys at all, since Sci Fi took the show off the air.But I digress. The movie is almost exactly like the show, except shot on better film and with better effects. Jokes abound, and the victim is fairly awful. I thought they would have picked a worse movie to mock, though, as This Island Earth was a relatively harmless piece of 50's sci fi fluff. They have dealt with much more dangerous and evil pieces of celluloid than this one. But a good introduction for the novice Mystie. They can always find out about the horror that is Mandos later. The humor has recently been called juvenile and aimed at teenage boys, but I must disagree, as I am a 25 year old woman with a Master's degree in English and still find the show hilarious. The movie is only a taste of the overall genius that is (or was) MST, and if you at all liked the film, immediately go out and get what DVDs of the show are available. It's worth it.  "},{"Title":"Movie Sign!","Date":"5 May 2009","Score":"24 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Mystery Science Theater 3000, anyone who is a fan of this show is a friend of mine, it's a great show for any movie buff. The reason why the show is so loved is because it does what we always want to do or say during a really bad movie. So naturally the successful show that was created on Comedy Central wanted to do a movie about our favorite sarcastic robots. Was the movie a success? Not so much, but doesn't mean that this movie is bad at all, in fact, it's a great one to watch. My only disappointment? I think was just the fact that this was just like any other episode, there was nothing really too special about it to make it stand out as a movie. Secondly, I've seen funnier episodes than this movie. I'm not dissing the movie, because this is still completely worth the watch.Mike, Tom and Gypsy are startled to find Crow deep in the lower sections of the Satellite of Love, pounding at the hull with various digging instruments. He has convinced himself that he can tunnel back to Earth, he tells them. Checking his digging calculations, Crow discovers that he already knew this was inevitable Look at that, Breach Hull, All Die. Even had it underlined! They return to the Bridge, as Dr. Forrester announces that he is about to make them watch the 1955 classic sci-fi thriller This Island Earth in an attempt to break their wills. In Mystery Science Theater 3000 tradition, we are in for a good ride as they mock this silly clichéd 50's sci fi film with no mercy.I do love the film that they picked This Island Earth, while in some sense it is a fun little sci fi classic, probably the first movie that I saw before I ever saw it on Mystery Science Theater 3000, it still is really cheesy and fun to make fun of. I just love at the end where the alien is trying to protect our two main characters away from the monster and for some odd reason he just lightly blocks the two people away from the monster as Mike points out ACTING!, lol! Obviously fans of the show are going to see this movie, it's a little girt to the fans I think in some sense, I wish they had a few more cameos and could've gone a little bigger, but it's all good. For those who don't know the premise of the show, this is a funny movie, the people that I've introduced the show too have mixed reviews, a few loved it a few didn't really like it, so it's one of those movies you'll have to decide for yourself.9/10 "},{"Title":"It may be simple...  Even trite...  But I've never laughed so hard.","Date":"4 October 2004","Score":"26 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  My opinion The TV series was usually pretty funny, but had its ups and downs. The movie is just hilarious. They must have been saving this movie for a special occasion and they've honed their timing and jokes to perfection. The first time I saw this with some friends, we had no idea what it was. (It had been recommended by another friend.) From the opening credits to the end we were in stitches. I've never laughed so hard in my life. At a few points we almost had to pause the movie to catch our breath.I should note that for the first ten minutes, we were watching the movie in a state of disbelief. We were all thinking What the devil is this? This is stupid! For us, this quickly passed and we had a great time.This movie's not for everyone If you're the type who likes to get weird, funny movies and hang out until 400 am acting goofy your friends, you'll enjoy this movie. If you're looking for a standard comedy, look elsewhere. If you won't take it seriously and just want to have some laughs, you'll enjoy it. If you have ever been referred to as a movie snob, please avoid this movie at all costs.  "},{"Title":"See how a pathetic film can be raised to new heights","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"25 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Do you find a really bad movie more amusing than annoying? Have you ever watched a lousy flick with friends and improvised dialogue for the actors or make remarks in jest about how stupid the film is? Have you ever wondered what happens to the other sock? If you answered yes, you will enjoy Mystery Science Theater 3000 The Movie.The premise is that the evil Dr. Forrester is subjecting Mike Nelson and his robot companions Tom Servo and Crow to some of the worst films of all time, as part of a plot to beat the world into submission. Yeah, this premise is pretty weak in itself, but the commentary from these three is what you'll be hooked by.What this intrepid trio does best is make fun of stinky celluloid for the audience's amusement. They do the unimaginable; they make an utter piece of trash not only watchable, but hilarious. It's open season on ridiculous movies, and the film is merely a showcase of their regular television program of the same name. The film has been my first exposure to the show, which has selected episodes available on tape. Sadly, the show is not broadcast in my area, and sadder still is the news that the series will conclude this year. The unfortunate aspect of this is that I do have a sense of what I'm missing. It's a great concept, and has proven to be popular with many viewers.The film for the mocking is This Island Earth. A particularly cheesy selection that can actually be found on DVD in its original format without the hilarious commentary. Some people regard it as a sci-fi classic, but it's essentially been brought to better light with the help of the MST3K team. No one is safe. They even mock their own credits. Watch this one with friends if you can; it's really well done.  "},{"Title":"One of the hundreds of movies released in 1996!","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Mike and the bots finally get their own movie, and it's a scream! They tackle 'This Island Earth', wreck the Hubble, and use an interociter to talk with some guy in the shower! Some people were upset that they used what is considered a 'classic' sci-fi movie, but fans of the film should give it a try. Fans of the show need no encouragement, and will recognise several elements from the show thrown into the movie (like the Torgo theme in one scene). "},{"Title":"Excellent Example of How Studio Interference Severely Tarnishes a Brilliant Idea","Date":"29 May 2004","Score":"21 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Let's get things straight right off the bat I LOVE Mystery Science Theater 3000! It was, is, and forever will be my favorite television show of all time, in all its incarnations.  And the movie is very funny and good and you should see it.That said...Mystery Science Theater 3000 The Movie (hereafter called MST3KTM for time-saving purposes) could of been a LOT better than it was, and it's NOT the fault of the folks at Best Brains, Inc. (The production company that made the TV show, hereafter called BBI).  I place the blame entirely on the fine (HA!) folks at Universal, who forced several changes to the movie and it's wonderful riffing, forcing the folks at BBI to dumb down their product, mess with their tried-and-true break format, and shoot an entirely different (and stupid, compared to the original) ending, as well as trimming it down to 74 minutes (because at 88, it was TOO LONG! As Servo would say ...the HELL?) When you come right down to it, BBI makes MST3K one way, and the studio told them to do it a different way. And ANY other way is the WRONG way! I really wish that BBI had held out for an offer with more creative control, but if ifs and buts were candy and nuts, etc. I don't blame BBI for taking the offer, but the selfish part of me would of rather the film never got made than compromised so radically. Then the realist in me tells me to be grateful that it DID get made, and succeeds (somewhat) in spite of (and believe me, not BECAUSE of) the restrictions placed on it. 4 stars to the fine folks at BBI, -1,000 stars to Universal, 2 1/2 stars to the movie itself. It hurts me to say that about the movie, but it's true.  "},{"Title":"A blast of an episode from the Best Brains!!","Date":"19 September 1998","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It was a blast!  If you, the viewer, are not familiar with Mystery Science Theater 3000, better known as MST3K, I recommend that you rent/buy/borrow, beg, or steal tapes to become a tad familiar with the concept.The concept is  riffing a B-or-worse-scifi-movie; the victim, er-- subject, in this case, is This Island Earth, a classic from the 50's.  There's this guy (Mike) who's been shot up to an orbiting space station (the Satellite of Love, or SOL) by a Mad Scientist (Dr. Clayton Forrester).  Mike is a replacement test subject (Joel, who made the robots for companionship, escaped), and he and Joel's 'bots (short for ro-bots) ease the stress of being test subjects by making wise@$$ remarks while the movie is running. Then there are little interval segments that attempt to tell a coherent narrative.The catch is that the bots are actually only puppets made from a gumball machine head, salad bowl, Tupperware interlocking set of flower vases, and armatures from folding adjustable desk lamps.  The original actor who voices Crow T. Robot is Trace Beaulieu, who also plays Dr. Forrester (ah, the magic of motion pictures!).  The guy who voices Tom Servo is Kevin Murphy-- well, if you really want to see him, you'll have to find the episodes on tape and go looking for his appearances as other characters.This movie is much better than the episodes that have appeared either on Comedy Central or the Sci-Fi Channel, primarily because Best Brains, the production company, had more money to make better sets, props, and better staging of gags.  The Hubble was great, as was the amusing and embarrassing segment where Dr. Forrester ends up in the Metalunan guy's shower. aaagghhh!!!The only two things I miss are Joel Hodgson, who was the original host, and Frank Conniff, who played Dr. Forrester's assistant, TV's Frank.  Joel was a much different test subject than Mike-- Joel was more introspective, did many more musical bits on the show, was more creative Invention Exchange was Joel's idea; as a comic/magician, he made most of the bizarre and funny inventions on the show.  I feel that Joel's presence, as writer and actor, would have given a tighter, more coherent slant to the experiment (but then, again, I could be biased!).Frank Conniff, as TV's Frank, was the best inept sidekick an inept Mad Scientist could have, and Frank was the perfect foil for Forrester.  Their gags tended to be more physical, slapstick comedy.But MST3K The Movie is, I hope, the first in a long line of franchise movies (like Star Trek The Motion Picture!).  I hope that Best Brains, Inc. does another MST3K movie--it's like no-calorie chocolate!!! "},{"Title":"Hilarious even When You Watch for the Second Time","Date":"25 April 2010","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The evil scientist Dr. Clayton Forrester (Trace Beaulieu) locks Mike Nelson (Michael J. Nelson) and two robots in a spacecraft to watch terrible low-budget movies as part of his scheme to conquer the world. He projects 1954 This Island Earth (Title (Brazil) Guerra Entre Planetas) with the intention of driving them crazy. However, the trio laughs and makes funny comments in every scene and dialogs, having good-time instead, and Dr. Forrester's ambitious plan does not work. The first time I saw Mystery Science Theater 3000 The Movie on 01 February 2000 I loved it a lot and I gave a nine. I had watched the cheese This Island Earth a few months ago and the comments of Mike Nelson and the two robots made me laugh a lot. Today I have just watched this film again and it is still hilarious, but my rating is lower this time. Mystery Science Theater 3000 The Movie was released in Brazil on VHS by CIC-Universal Distributor. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) O Filme Mais Idiota do Mundo (The Most Idiot Movie of the World) "},{"Title":"i laughed so hard my throat hurt the next day!","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It was a really boring night and me and my sisters came across this movie. At first I didn't notice the silhouettes at the bottom of the screen. WE had missed the first half unfortunately.Anyway, it was the best laugh i've had for ages. I just can't describe how blooming funny this film is but we were giggling just about the whole way through!It's such a clever idea and so well done. I have bought a box set and hope it will be as good.We had never even heard of the tv series and are not sci-fi fans, but still enjoyed the film very much.I give it 9 1/2 out of 10, because nothing is perfect! "},{"Title":"Pretty funny.","Date":"11 March 2003","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Mystery Science Theater 3000(MST3K)is an American program which features Mike Nelson and two funny robots(Tom Servo and Crow T.Robot)seen in silhouette,making fun of some trashy movie playing on the screen before them.This time Mike and the robots settle in to watch truly awful science-fiction film This Island Earth(1955,Joseph M.Newman).The wisecracks are clever and really amusing-I laughed a lot during the film.Some of my favourite lines are Crow T.Robot The secret government Eggo Project!,Eat my photons,punyheads! etc. My rating8 out of 10.Highly recommended. "}{"Title":"Funniest! movie! ever!","Date":"2 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is definitely THE funniest damn movie ever made!Bar-none!period! They say a great movie is any movie you could not live without seeing again and again, well this is the one! This is the one movie I could not leave on the shelf. I've taken it out over and over again and I always seem to find something new and funny. Each time I play it for someone new they're likewhat the hell is this?MST3K? Oh my gawd!!This is awesome!.It also has some of the greatest one liners you'll ever hear!!! Its currently selling on ebay for hundreds of dollars!!! What does that tell ya?please oh please oh please bring back MST3K to the networks!!!! "},{"Title":"Not as funny as the TV Show itself....","Date":"11 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Now, I will probably get a lot of hate for this but remember, this is really my opinion.What is it that could get me flamed? Simple, I don't like The Mystery Science Theater 3000 Movie but let me explain before you start to make flaming comments.The thing is, the main problem I have with this movie is that, it's a toned down family friendly version of the series and this is coming from someone who is a fan of the Mystery Science Theater 3000 television series. I mean, there's barely any profanity, drug references, and such. But the film being toned down was never the intention in the first place. You see, the company Gramercy Pictures simply forced those intentions onto Best Brains, the company that produces the show and the movie itself. In fact, here's some interesting trivia making the film was not a happy experience for the filmmakers, due to frequent studio interference. Years later, at a cast reunion appearance in New York City, Trace Beaulieu was asked what the worst movie featured on MST3K was. His reply was, you guessed it, Mystery Science Theater 3000 The Movie.But I'll get back to that later. Anyway, the film is about well as usual that Mike and the Robots are doomed to watch bad movies but something a little different happens. You see, Mike, Tom and Gypsy are startled to find Crow deep in the lower sections of the Satellite of Love (The spaceship) pounding at the hull with various digging instruments. He has convinced himself that he can tunnel back to Earth, he tells them. A hull breach soon follows (Checking his digging calculations, a confused Crow discovers that he already knew this was inevitable Look at that, Breach Hull, All Die. Even had it underlined!), which Tom Servo remedies in an unexpected way.But as soon as they get back to the bridge, Dr. Clayton Forrester has them watching a film called This Island Earth. So, they end up riffing the film as they always do with other films.Now I like to point out the good things about the film, it does show for the first time ever other parts of the show (I personally laughed at the Mike on the mouse wheel scene, funny stuff), the characters mocking the film, those are always the best parts and of course, an explanation as to what happened to Dr. Clayton Forrester before Pearl took over as the villain for the rest of the series and the infamous end credits riffing. But despite those aspects, I still didn't like it. I mean, it wasn't as funny as the TV show as it was toned down to a family friendly level which I despise a lot. I mean, why tone down something that wasn't made to be family friendly in the first place? I'm sorry everyone but the film did not impress me, if anyone is reading this, save your money and buy the TV show on DVD instead of the movie.Overall Rating 4/10. "},{"Title":"My introduction to the TV series...","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was my introduction to the TV series and soon I was hooked.Looking back its no were near as funny as the TV series but still, in Britain, it may be the only way you get too see MST3K. Especially since the SCI-FI Channel refuse to repeat it.This Island Earth was a strange choice for MST3K. It is counted as a classic amongst certain circles. But still it manages to be funny. So join Mike, Crow and Tom Servo on the Satellite of Love. They will make you laugh. And cry (from laughing).And after you have watched it hunt out the TV shows on American DVD's.Look there legs are sticking out... "},{"Title":"Movies THIS funny should be illegal!!!! Hehe.","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Wow!! This is the FUNNIEST movie that I've ever had the honor of watching!!! You'd have to be INSANE to not like this film!!! The writing is Spectacular!!!! In my opinion, it would be very difficult to make a full length feature film from a 90 minute television show, but these guys nailed it. It's a shame the show isn't on TV anymore. Too bad. ( Maybe they'll make another movie in the future. We'll have to wait and see. A lot of the comedy gold is a result of fine acting by the puppets. Most people couldn't sit through a movie that relied on puppets (aside from all the excellent Jim Henson films), but this movie has a number of factors to consider. They manage to take horrible old science fiction movies and make them enjoyable to watch. It's amazing what a little humor can do, eh? A Complete 10 out of 10!!! "},{"Title":"I know it's just a movie and I should really just relax... BUT I CAN'T!","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"16 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I would be hard pressed to name any movie that disappointed me as much as `MST3K The Movie'. After being a rabid fan of the show for several years, a feature film version was a mind-blowing possibility that I couldn't wait for. Of course, it only played major cities for about two weeks, then quietly plopped onto video store shelves, where I finally got to pay to see it. I've got to admit, I wasn't that crazy about it. In fact, it seems that Best Brains was engulfed and dominated by a overly-elaborate, poorly-planned studio mentality that couldn't grasp the concept of the show. MST3K is about a good natured temp worker (Michael J. Nelson) who is stranded on a spaceship with witty robots and is forced to watch bizarre and awful movies by a demented scientist. The fact that the bulk of the show is showing movies, translating the concept to a theatrical presentation seems like it should be no problem. The film they chose to riff, `This Island Earth', was a perfect choice. It has great production values and would look great back on the big screen, with crisp imagery and competent special effects. Despite it's technical competence, though, it's saddled with some ridiculous dialog, rock-stupid heroes, dumb situations, unbelievable plot twists, and a really silly/cool rubber monster. What's not to love?But for some damn reason, the movie was edited for it's use in `MST3K The Movie'. Now `This Island Earth' seems rushed and worse than it really is. They delete a scene where Cal (the big, dumb scientist played by Rex Reason) breaks more equipment, making their later jokes about Cal's clumsiness sort of strange, as we only see him break one thing. These cuts also create a continuity gaffe, as Ruth's dress changes from one shot to another. After all the cuts, `MST3K The Movie' is actually shorter than the un-MSTied `This Island Earth', even shorter than an episode of the MST3K TV show- without commercials! What the Hell?So the movie segments are disappointing, but still really funny (despite the wisecracks being less esoteric and frequent then on the TV show). Then there's the host segments.  There's a good introduction by the great Dr. Forrester (Trace Beaulieu), but the rest of the host segments are overly simple and childish, lacking clever word play and gags. They were able to use different angles and cuts within scenes (unlike the TV show), but this seems to hinder the writer's imaginations rather than embellish it.  In these scenes, none of the characters get any good lines or comedic sequences, and Tom Servo (Kevin Murphy) and Crow (Beaulieu again) become interchangeable, colorless characters.  What the Hell?Perhaps I am being overly harsh on this movie because I love the television show so much. I didn't hate the movie, in fact, there is much to recommend. The movie segments are hilarious, and the show's colorful toy-store sets adapt well to the big screen (in theory, I mean, I never got to see it on the big screen).  It's just is distressing to think that many people's introduction to the world of MST3K was this watered down version.I pray that Universal gets around to releasing a special edition of this movie. There were a few cut host segments, including an alternate ending, that would be interesting to see. Plus, they could show the entire, uncut `This Island Earth', giving the strongest point of `MST3K The Movie', the movie-mocking, more screen time. But in the mean time- what the Hell?!?!? "},{"Title":"What's this 'and the rest' crap","Date":"8 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Growing up (and still watching the re-runs) of MST3k, I had to revisit the one I've only seen once &#150; 'MST3k The Movie' and I did see it in the theater. I remember then, (1996) thinking how great it was to see one of my favorites on the big screen, and then being disappointed to one of their weakest efforts. (Side note they continued the downward lack of effort on the DVD &#150; special features include closed captions and &#150; wow &#150; I can have it dubbed in French. That's it?) Sure, there were a few funny one-liners (Well believe me, Mike, I calculated the odds of this succeeding versus the odds I was doing something incredibly stupid... and I went ahead anyway and What's this 'and the rest' crap referring to Russell 'Gilligan Island's Professor' Johnson) but overall, people need to watch any of the episodes, namely 'Manos The Hands of Fate' and 'Eegah,' to really see the genius that was MST3k's approx 700 jokes per episode. This is a pretty good introduction to the man & robots vs B-movies series, but it gets a lot better on the smaller screen.(Never thought I would ever write that.) "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"17 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" the funniest movie i have ever seen, a true masterpiece. Some of the jokes will have you almost wetting yourself, even if you've seen it already different bits will make you laugh. Mystery science theater 3000 the movie is a truly great film. The one liners of the characters and the ability for the characters to be able to improvise equals hilarious consequences. I hope that there is another film like this as the plot can be used on any movie you have ever seen. I know that i am not the only person who has taken the mickey out of a movie when it is so bad or cheesy. This is a must see movie, what ever your type of humour there is something for everyone. Go and see it!!!! "},{"Title":"Classic Mocking Of Another Classic Film","Date":"12 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK iv got this movie on video and iv watched it countless times and every time its as funny as the first time this movie is basically 1 guy and 2 robots making fun of the old classic movie This Island Earth you've watched poor movies and done your own voice overs to make it more amusing well this is what this film is.This is one of those films that you just have to see for its sheer simplicty yet incredibly effective ideas.My vote is 10/10 iv seriously not seen a funnier movie even today i was quoting one of the many jokes from it and laughing great film a MUST see! "},{"Title":"If you're still wondering how he eats in breathes, it's still just a movie. Relax!","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I love MST3K. Luckily, I recently got a hold of the movie. This time, they take a supposed stinker called This Island Earth. Apparently, this is one of the better movies that have been MST3Ked (albeit still not too watchable without MST3K's protection).I laughed. This movie was so funny, the effects were so crappy, and the commentary by Servo/Crow/Mike really added on.If you are an MST3K fan, this movie is for you... obviously. If not, I suggest you get acquainted with the series first, might I suggest watching the episodes Pumaman, Space Mutiny, or Mr. B Natural. Mystery Science Theater 3000 The Movie is worthy of a cool 10/10. "},{"Title":"brilliance","Date":"31 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The show, to me, was the most original, unique TV shows to hit the air waves as long as I can remember.  The great thing about it is that you're guaranteed to laugh.  They were very good at making fun of movies, most likely better than you and your friends.  That of course (I'm sure) is helped a lot by their multiple viewings and written scripts.Anyway, I'm glad they stayed faithful to the show and kept the same routine with the movie.  They've done funnier, but it isn't saying much since this movie is hilarious.  One of my favorites of all time, I give this movie an 8 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Success","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*Mike and the bots are forced to watch This Island Earth.  Dr. Forester wants to drive them insane with his bad movies.  The movie plays and the MST guys make fun of it.One of the reasons the TV show would be hit or miss depended a lot on the movie itself.  Some of the movies were so unbelievably awful that it was hard to find any humor, (Manos was hard to watch but it had it's funny moments).  There were always slow spots, even in the best ones.  The MST movie works well because This Island Earth is not that bad a flick.  Sure it's goofy 50's sci-fi but pretty good for it's time period.There are a lot of funny lines in this movie.  The first 45 minutes had the best stuff.  When the Island Earth movie moves into outer space, the laughs dim a bit.  But overall it's pretty hilarious.  If you liked the show, you'll like the movie.  Success. "},{"Title":"Funny every time.","Date":"29 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is my favorite movie. It's hard to explain to people that this was a movie since every episode that used to play on their show was a movie, but this one has a slightly better graphics for all the scenes on the Satellite of Love. No matter how many times I watch it, I laugh as hard as I did the first time. I can always count on this one to lighten my mood no matter how crappy a day I had. The movie itself is a classic that my father said he used to enjoy back in the day. As with most MST3K movies, it's never really the actual movie itself that you watch it for. If that was the case, you'd miss out on some of the gems that they've put out. If you enjoy these movies, I recommend checking out Rifftrax. It's the same guys doing pretty much the same thing (minus the puppets) and some are in theaters for fans to watch these brilliant minds on the big screen as they do what they do better than anyone else. "},{"Title":"Seamless transition from small to silver screen.","Date":"2 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Getting down to brass tacks, Mystery Science Theater 3000 The Movie delivers exactly what you'd expect a terrible movie and funny jokes. The good news here is that the movie is really bad (This Island Earth), and the jokes are hilarious. This flick is a veritable one-liner factory, and it's refreshing how hard I still laugh after seeing this movie many times. I tend to use these lines in (occasional) everyday conversation. The peculiar thing about this is that it's shorter than your standard TV episode. And given the rocky working relationship between Best Brains and Universal, I wouldn't be surprised if there was substantial editing.But the bottom line is that it just simply works. This Island Earth seems like it was tailor-made for Mike and the bots to excoriate, and it made for some of their funniest material.Great big-screen effort. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Seamless transition from small to silver screen.","Date":"1 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Getting down to brass tacks, Mystery Science Theater 3000 The Movie delivers exactly what you'd expect a terrible movie and funny jokes. The good news here is that the movie is really bad (This Island Earth), and the jokes are hilarious. This flick is a veritable one-liner factory, and it's refreshing how hard I still laugh after seeing this movie many times. I tend to use these lines in (occasional) everyday conversation. The peculiar thing about this is that it's shorter than your standard TV episode. And given the rocky working relationship between Best Brains and Universal, I wouldn't be surprised if there was substantial editing.But the bottom line is that it just simply works. This Island Earth seems like it was tailor-made for Mike and the bots to excoriate, and it made for some of their funniest material.Great big-screen effort. 8/10 "},{"Title":"If you liked the TV show, you can't go wrong with this","Date":"24 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is just a two hour episode of the TV show, and that's why it works. It won't make you cry, but it will make you laugh. I enjoyed the TV show and found the movie had everything I enjoyed about it.The movie they watch is the much-maligned, iconic 50s sci-fi B-movie, This Island Earth. (Which, for what it's worth, is not a terrible movie. It's silly, but compared to many of it's contemporary films, is somewhat watchable.) If you've never seen it, then this is a good way to watch it.Not a whole lot else to say. This movie won't win an Oscar, but it's a fine pastime for a Friday night at home with a few beers. "},{"Title":"I never understood why they made this movie, but it was still rather good.","Date":"23 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film features the gang of the Satellite of Love like you have never seen them before! Being told what to do by movie producers, being passed over for ad revenue in favor of Barb Wire and riffing a film that is 94 minutes long and longer than this entire film. Still, the riffing was good and the film overall funny, just not as good as some of the stuff one saw in the regular show. In this film the Satellite of Love looks like it is in space, other than that it seems there was very little need to make this movie as the producers seemed to want to make this film short as all get out, it would of been better off simply being an episode of the show. The film being parodied is This Island Earth, a film I have not seen other than what is presented here. Usually I feel comfortable reviewing films the gang have done, but this one is so obviously cut short I will not review this one as this one is so chopped up a lot of the plot is too. I am not sure what is happening in places so until I see the full movie I will not review it. I can review this though and like I said, it is good, but I would rather they had stayed on television as this movie is shorter than anything they did on the show on Comedy Central or the Sci-Fi channel. The host segments were not as funny as the host segments on the regular show either as they seemed to want to scream at the audience, This is a movie! So overall, funny, just kind of pointless. Though it is one film I can watch the closing credits. "},{"Title":"Funny as if Richard Basehart ran naked through Washington yelling I'm Richard Basehart!","Date":"22 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" As always, the guys at MST3K make a bad movie watchable. I giggled and guffawed from the minute it started. The guys are forced to watch This Island Earth and riff on its stupidness. The bots are just as nutty as they are in the show and good old Mike Nelson is the glue that keeps the zaniness from getting too much. This is a great jumping on point for those who have not yet been blessed by the goodness that is Mystery Science Theater 3000. People who have complained about this movie riffing on a classic movie should repeat to themselves its just a movie and I should really just relax. It's great for the kids, family and the dog, but not for grandpa and grandma. Watch this flick and you'll wish for movie sign for the rest of your life. "},{"Title":"Extremely Funny!!!","Date":"12 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" After hearing Mike Nelson's hilarious commentaries on 'Night of the Living Dead' and 'Carnival of Souls' I wanted more. Mike, Crow, and Tom are stuck in space on a ship and forced by Dr. Clayton Forrester to watch bad movies from the 50's. This time, they must watch This Island Earth. They come up with witty and wacky comments as they spoof the movie. This Island Earth is about a doctor named Cal Meacham who is asked for help from an alien named Exeter. Exeter and his group are from the planet, Metaluna. Cal and his ex-girlfriend try to help defend their planet in a war against the evil Zagons. If you love making fun of old movies, you'll love MYSTERY SCIENCE THEATER 3000 THE MOVIE!!! "},{"Title":"No stinger, no bite, but eye candy. Not the best, but still good.","Date":"13 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The movie version of the popular TV show finally came to the big screen, but it's not a perfect adaptation. The guys are subjected to This Island Earth by the familiar Dr. Forrester. In between the condensed movie, there are 5 sketches. Dr. Forrester's mad-scientist soliloquy & Crow drilling a hole to the Earth can be considered the first part. When the film melts and breaks is part two. There are two interocitor sketches and the credits.Dr. Cal Meacham is a gifted and important atomic scientist. So important that Lockheed lets him commute to work in one of their vehicles. A commute to work is flying a jet from DC to somewhere across the country. As Cal arrives at work the plane malfunctions, but (thankfully) he is saved by a mysterious and pulsating green glow. At work, more strange things appear. This time an ordering mishap occurs, giving Cal a capacitor of incredible specifications. A delivery of a metal-page catalog arrives and continues the strangeness, which ultimately leads to an ordering spree and the creation of an interocitor.Next, a strange white-haired man, named Exeter, appears on the interocitor & reveals all. He admits that the catalog, the parts & their assembly were a test to verify his aptitude. Exeter is a recruiter for a scientific think-tank. Cal can't resist and ends up at a utopian-like mansion full of the world's best scientists. Some typical snooping later, the development of a love interest (Dr. Ruth, if only it were her) & the Professor's help, lead to the truth; Exeter is an alien and they are going to his home planet of Metaluna, with Cal & Ruth tagging along. BIG Surprise, right? No. Not at all actually. HELLO!. There are aliens on the movie posters even before you would have walked into the theater.I remember seeing this movie as a child on AMC on a Saturday afternoon. It was one of the first science fiction movies that had better than average production value and a plot line that was a bit more than an alien-western or alien-horror story. It's not perfect and it isn't Forbidden Planet (the overall best sci-fi movie of the 50's; story, special effects,etc.) either, but it is fast paced and enjoyable. Most sci-fi of the time is about an alien out to destroy us & our attempts to stop them. This Island Earth adds a small layer of actual science, some sympathetic extraterrestrials and colorful special effects to create something worth remembering. There are genuine attempts at science fiction here, restricted by the budget, studios and audience perception of the genre. Don't expect 2001 A Space Odyssey, but it's not Plan 9 from Outer Space either.This is by far the best production value of anything with Mystery Science Theater 3000 on it. The sets, models and robots look great. One of the funniest parodies of the series comes out of this the Normal View scene. I enjoyed it so much that I made it my ringer. There is a strange echo,however, that accompanies all the sketches, but that can be explained. This contributes to the the most pasteurized version of the show ever. It feels a little hollow. Frank and the opening credits, which were important to the series, are sadly missing here. The guys even do the credits for their own movie and in the end, it is still MST3k and it is still fun. You just have some regret of how much more amazing it could have been.-Celluloid Rehab "},{"Title":"Pure Genius!","Date":"24 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have been a fan of MST3K for quite some time, since I was 9. I didn't even know there was a movie, but as of a couple years ago, I discoverd this. I like this movie. Okay, it's not as great as the show, but still it's pure genius. Mike Nelson's pretty funny, as is the 'bots and Dr. Forrester. There are some pretty funny jokes as well. The movie being watched is the 1955 classic, This Island Earth, which isn't actually a bad movie. It's just that Mike and the 'Bots make it funnier & easier to watch. Now onto the DVD. Just like the previous 1998 Image DVD, there's no extras, but whether there are extras or not, it's still worth the buy. However, I must admit that the widescreen presentation is good too. So if you can find this DVD, get it. Also, as for bonus features, I could probably assume that a special edition will come out eventually, but who knows? 9/10. Highly recommended. "}{"Title":"Great!!!","Date":"2 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I just saw this today without having seen the TV series and I must say I am impressed. The first 10 minutes were stupid but it really picked up after that with only a few jokes not reaching its intended audience. The movie has Nelson and Robot Friends forced to watch This Island Earth a movie so bad it makes a low budget star wars remake look excellent. The movie inside the movie is laughable on its on right but the back commentary makes it even more memorable. Any one who is a fan of crappy sci fie movies will get a kick as the group of 3 makes fun of the movie with pride and an overall respect for what the movie does for 70 minutes. The film definitely kept me entertained the whole movie, the only character who annoyed me was the scientist as he was not funny but apart from that it was definitely worth a watch. Overall, good film, not genius but clever in its own way. I will now try to find the show desperately as I am heard it is even better. Dobbin 4+LacTheBod=Loving. "},{"Title":"* * * * out of 4","Date":"23 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is basically a deluxe version of the popular cult-TV favorite 'Mystery Science Theater 3000.' In the movie, as in the TV-series, Dr. Clayton Forrester forces Mike Nelson and his two robots to watch bad B-Movies. As these movies are screened for them (and us), we see the theater seats and them silhouetted against the bottom of the screen. Their running commentary riffs off of the film and each other and their sophomoric jabs at humor form a continuous patter not unlike what might be heard among the audience, if these films were to be shown at a frat party. This particular episode features 'This Island Earth' (1954).This movie, you won't find anywhere. Because the DVD had a small print run. So I decided to get the VHS of this. This was funny and exciting movie as of the show is fun.Rated PG-13 for Profanity. "},{"Title":"A Funny Adaption Of A Funny Show.","Date":"6 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Having a movie based off a television show is nothing new. Taking a television show and putting it up on the big screen in an almost unaltered format, that's a little more unique, but somehow it works for this cult classic.I grew up watching MST3K, as it inspired most of my humor and love of cheesy movies. The show takes the whole premise of Mike, Tom Servo and Crow and puts them up on the big screen to simply do their thing. They aren't given a contrived plot, an epic story, or even an origin... they just make fun of a film. The actual audience actually pays to watch an older sci-fi movie that is heckled by an on screen audience. It's ludicrous and brilliant all at once.The chosen film This Island Earth, isn't a bad film. It's dated, and some of the concepts are silly by today's standards, but not really a clunker of a film like Manos The Hands of Fate, Mitchell, or Overdrawn at the Memory Bank. But Mike and the bots riff away as they always did before, adding some classic lines, and pausing every few minutes in an attempt to escape the Satellite of Love, or annoy Dr. Forrester.The budget for the movie is a little better, but not by much. But expecting elaborate sets from a show like this is like expecting gas prices to drop anytime soon. And for the fanbase, it's what one would expect from the characters. Putting them in a contrived situation for a movie plot's sake might have had the guys riffing their own film somewhere down the line. The strength of the film remains in the show's writing and biting sarcasm of anything happening on screen.The downsides of the film are the fact that the cut down the overall run time of This Island Earth as they would in the show, which didn't make sense as movies in the theater don't have commercial breaks (well, not yet, anyway). And I would have enjoyed seeing a short before the actual film, as those were some of the best gems of the entire series.The film didn't have a huge release, and finding a copy of the out of print DVD is a hard task in itself, but the movie caters to the fans, and in that respect does not disappoint. Anyone else may or may not get it, but the endless barrage of one-liners still remain funny. "},{"Title":"Is Mystery Science Theater for you?","Date":"5 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" There is a joke early on in MST3K The Movie that I think serves as a perfect litmus test for whether you'll enjoy this movie. The opening credits of This Island Earth are starting, and a title card reads A Universal-International Picture. At this point Mike Nelson intones Doesn't the fact that it's universal make it international? The line epitomizes the irreverence and style one can expect from the hundreds of other one-liners that will be tossed out over the next hour and a half. Nothing in a movie is more taken for granted than a credit sequence, but then again nothing is beyond the notice of our test subjects. It is also a good example of their Midwestern style of humor, which is a mix of dry sarcasm, wry sophistication, and a sincere desire to not offend. The last of these is probably the key to appreciating what Mike and the Bots are doing. The idea is not to ridicule another person's life's work, as some have contended, the idea is to make the best of a bad situation (i.e., the movie). Once that spirit is accepted, the movie surrounding the movie can be appreciated in the gentle good humor that it's intended.Above all, the creators of MST3K are fans of movies and, just like southern comedians who constantly rip on the South, they see all the weaknesses just as well as the strengths. I've seen a great deal of the TV episodes, and this movie adaptation represents one of their best overall efforts.I just got out of the tube, man! "},{"Title":"Suddenly I have a refreshing mint flavor.","Date":"24 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I readily admit it &#150; I'm an unabashed MST3K fan. The concept may be simple, but it's given me hours of entertainment over the years. While I don't necessarily think some of the movies featured on MST3K deserved to be on the show, some episodes are laugh-out-loud funny (MST3K's treatment of Mitchell immediately comes to mind). So I was one of those excited about the prospects of a movie based on the television show. But, honestly, I find Mystery Science Theater 3000 The Movie disappointing. Sure, there are a few good laughs to be had, but overall, it cannot compare with the best of the MST3K episodes.What went wrong? As I indicated previously, I don't think some of the films used on MST3K deserved to be there. This Island Earth is one of those films. It's a solid 50s sci-fi film that I would rate a 7/10 on its own. I would have thought that for Mystery Science Theater 3000 The Movie, the producers would have selected something much worse than this. And why cut This Island Earth? Here again the producers picked the wrong movie. If they were going to turn a 90 minute television show (without commercials) into a 73 minute movie, why pick This Island Earth and its 87 minute runtime? There are plenty of really bad movie with a runtime of right at an hour. Finally, Mystery Science Theater 3000 The Movie lacks to flow found in the television show. I've read that the director slowed down the pace of the movie riffing so theater audiences wouldn't miss anything while laughing. It's this rapid-fire pacing of some of the better MST3K episodes that made it funny. "},{"Title":"A funny movie for the techies out there...","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a movie that understandably only liked by those who either enjoyed the original TV series, or generally enjoy one-liner silliness.The plot is inconsequential. The movie has one purpose, and that is to have fun watching others make fun of a very bad movie. This is a good premise! For this reason, I won't go into any description of the movie (there's no point).As a software developer by trade, I will note that every single one of my co-workers that I have ever worked with that have seen this film absolutely loved it. Perhaps it is indicative of our geekiness, but it's a safe bet that if you're a very good software developer, you will like this movie.And if your hands were made of metal, that would mean something. Classic lines. Great stuff. really. "},{"Title":"A Brilliant Concept","Date":"21 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Mystery Science Theater 3000 The Movie was my first introduction to the MST3K phenomenon, as my small-town cable provider wasn't aware that a Sci-Fi Channel existed.  The concept of making jokes during bad movies is so simple, yet it's almost brilliant.  We've all had great nights with friends cracking jokes during some real stinkers.  But thanks to MST3K, we see professionals and puppets comment on the worst movies around.  I guess everything is just better with puppets!There are many funny comments made while Mike & Company are watching `This Island Earth,' but my favorites include the crew singing `Normal View, Normal View!!!', their rendition of Brack's television show theme, and the Casablanca-type scene between hunky Cal and wormy Joe.  However, not all comments are comedic gold, but most are pretty good.  I think most viewers will enjoy looking at movies through the eyes of our fearless heroes.My IMDb Rating 9/10.  My Yahoo! Grade A (Outstanding) "},{"Title":"A good effort, but could have been better","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In adapting their superb series for the cinema, Mike and the Bots chose the obvious way of straightforwardly repeating their proven formula while slightly upping the quality of their sets and cannon fodder, for which they selected Universal's minor science fiction classic This Island Earth.While the result is indeed consistently funny, as well as frequently hilarious, one can certainly hypothesize how it could have been severely improved if they'd taken the time and effort to innovate. Alas, any kind of character development (yes, the original show DID develop their characters) is rendered impossible by the curiously short running time of 75 minutes, far less than an average episode.Said time restriction also caused them to essentially cut This Island Earth, of which little over 50 minutes remain, to shreds. Then again, the much-beloved classic was hardly the perfect choice for the MST3K treatment anyway; I'd have picked something like Irving Allen's The Swarm &#150; great to look at, simple to trim to a manageable length, and full of hilarious ridiculousness, both in dialogue, plot and effects. Along with some more host segments (perhaps even an actual plot?) it could have made a true MST3K epic.But there should be no crying over a lost opportunity, as the final result is indeed very entertaining and a fantastic introduction to the show. Definitely recommended. "},{"Title":"The Funniest Movie....ever made...","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the funniest movie i have ever seen and I have never laughed harder at a movie before. I've watched it 1000 times and still find new little jokes within it to joke around with my friends. Fantastic, highly highly recommended comedy.  "},{"Title":"Hysterical Witicism abound!!","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Witty, clever, and entertaining. Sure this wasn't as good as some of their TV episodes (notably Werewolf, Future Wars, and Space Mutany (sp?)) but it was still one hell of a fun installation in the long and hysterical history of MST3K - fans of the show should love this one, and new comers to the SOL, well... if you like this, then check out the TV show, if you don't like it, then go back and enjoy some loathesome Adam Sandler movie. I think Kevin Murphy summarized the show's best when he said our sense of humor is motivated by some good education which has subsequently been wasted on popular culture. But all in all - its a puppet show... thats the bottom line - just a very good one. Enjoy. "}{"Title":"Adorable!","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's wonderful to see the MST3k crew finally able to let go.  While they didn't have some of their funniest lines ever in the movie, it is definitely right up there with the best of the series--which is saying a lot.  The credit comments were well worth the whole movie  The Amazing Rando! "},{"Title":"Finally, a movie based on a TV series that's NOT a long episode of the show","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  as a matter of fact, it's even SHORTER! At a run time of 73 minutes (the show runs at 90), this is even shorter than the movie they riff this time (This Island Earth). Hell, it even welcomes MST3K newcomers.Instead of using a totally horrid movie this time, they simply use a mediocre movie that can mildly guarantee a snore. In order to appreciate this movie (and the TV series for that matter), you have to know what you're supposed to expect. Three guys (a man and two robots) doing their own little commentary in front of the movie, riffing it, and even adding a little dialogue. For the most part, it's hilarious (even though they overdid it with the oops, i farted joke). Also, you even get to see TOM SERVO'S ROOM! I'm not gonna spoil it for you, of course. Just let me say it has one of the coolest tools ever known to man (chainsaw or interociter, take your pick).The usual density of gags has been lowered, so you can hear more of their commentary while howling hysterically at the jokes, probably to fit a more mainstream audience. Hell, like the mainstream audience would really care!? It is nice to see something new aside from the skits Mike and the Bots do during their breaks from watching the movie.Oh yeah, and stay for the end credits, as they riff those, too.Review On a B-movie/cult scale, 5/5; Rated USA PG-13 UK PG Canada PG "},{"Title":"Good, but criminally short.","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Mystery Science Theater 3000 The Movie, while a very good film, just felt a bit rushed to be great. Basically, it's not unlike your average MST3K episode, Dr. Forrester sends a bad film up to the Satellite of Love for Mike, Tom Servo, and Crow to riff their way through, in this case the Universal classic from the 1950s, This Island Earth. Forrester hopes that the movie will be so nauseatingly bad that he can unleash it on the public and rule the world. However, Mike and the Bots contain the one attribute that every person should have, a good sense of humor to get through any crappy film subjected to them. This time is no exception. Basically, if you love the show, you'll love the movie. Criminally short at 73 minutes, however. Maybe if they stuck an educational short in at the beginning as a warmup, it could've gotten a 10 from me. As it is, an 8 is what I give it. "},{"Title":"Fun movie","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie. Of course I'm a huge MST3K fan so it's hard not to. Basically the movie is a normal episode. Except the jokes don't come on as thick and the movie a bit classier than the standard MST3K fare. I actually like This Island Earth. True, it's slow movie. But for a 50's sci-fi flick it's pretty cerebral. The production values and special effects are very well done for the time period. When ever people want to use the cliche of the bug eyed alien monster. The mutant bugs from the movie are usually the example used. (Face it they look really cool.)But it's still worthy of the bad film treatment.  Having less jokes they made up in quality than for quantity. Half the jokes on the average episode tank. But most of the smart aleck remarks are mega-funny. I highly recommend this movie to bad movie lovers and sci-fi nuts. Of course those folks are already into MST3K. Fun, fun, fun flick for a vintage science fiction night or for a good laugh. "},{"Title":"Take this with a grain of salt","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When viewing this, viewers should keep in mind that the movie that is on the screen, is there to be made fun of.  Meaning that this whole concept is a joke and should be judged with that kind of mentality.  Anyone who tries to watch this, and wants to be moved or driven into the type of emotion that a great film has the ability to do should not waste their time.  But- any person who wishes to avoid reality and laugh at a movie that only attempts to be funny- then this is a good one. "},{"Title":"Very disappointed with this one","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I guess this can just be considered as another episode in the series with a few extras and swear words put in.  First off, I didn't think This Island Earth was that bad to be ripped on.  It kind of defeats the purpose to rip on a movie that's passable or even decent.  I found myself actually enjoying the plot at times.  I also didn't go nuts for most of the inbetween skits as I thought they were kind of flat, the skit where Mike drives the SOL and hits the Hubble satellite being the exception.  The expanded visuals of the SOL and small points like Servo's bedroom just weren't enough for me to grade this as anything more than an average MST3K outing.  Quite simply, I've seen many episodes of the show that are funnier.  "},{"Title":"Hilarious absurdity.","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie has (as far as I know) never been released in Denmark, so I had a friend bring it from the states, and it was worth it!! This is not a great movie in any way, but it is one of the funniest ever. I always thought that I would never find anything that would have me laughing harder than Monty Pythons Life of Brian, but this movie succeded where so many others have failed. It is cheesy, obscure, the plot is bad and the acting is worse, but by god it is funny!! I have shown it to most of my fiends by now, and the only one who wasn't half-dead from laughing was a girl who couldn't really understand english well enough to get the jokes. If you haven't seen it, do everything to get a hold of it!! There are only two things that keep me from giving it a full 10 1 It is still just a comedy, it hasn't really got a captivating story to tell. (Not that a comedy can't have that, watch The Truman Show) 2 The health risk. You might just die laughing, or at least wet yourself! "},{"Title":"The funniest movie of all time.","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You may think that I am all wrong after reading my outlandish claims that this movie is the funniest of all time. You may think I lack enough thought process to really know what a good, funny movie is. Well, perhaps you're right, but in my opinion, Mystery Science Theater 3000 is the funniest movie of all time. As a long time fan of the television series, I find it as no surprise that I was wetting myself laughing during the movie. Almost every joke is a riot, and the replay value on this baby is huge since there are jokes you may miss or not understand until a later date. Mike, Tom, and Crow don't just say stupid, random jokes (well, usually) but they utilize smart and clever jokes as well. Having seen a plethora or hilarious movies, I can honestly say that Dumb and Dumber, Clerks, Dogma, Office Space (another personal favorite) and several other hilarious movies can;t compare with the king. Mystery Science Theater 3000! (R.I.P. 1988-1999) "},{"Title":"This movie is hilarious!","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I want more, I WANT MORE!All the things I thought and never said when I was at the movies. Someone needs to take the P*** out of Hollywood occasionally, and this movie is definitely it. Any plans for another edition? "},{"Title":"Mike dropped the Hubble! (MIGHT BE SPOILERS).","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you didn't enjoy this movie, check your pulse, your already dead.  Yes, being a die hard mystie I had to go to the 2nd convention, so I also did see the original first ending, and I agree it was alot better than the one they chose to use in the released version, but this movie is still WAY COOL!I have seen this movie 18 times, I have the screensaver, I have collectables from conventions, that is how much I love this movie.Though the movie is shorter than a normal episode without commercials, it is still jam packed, with the synical humor of Mike and the bots, and the part where Mike crashes into the Hubble is a riot. Go see this movie, it rules. "}{"Title":"Okay, let's see...Shatner, Shatner, nope.","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of the best comedies ever! I've already seen it about 10 times, and plan on watching it another 10 times to memorize every joke, then watch the original film and recite 'em all in front of my friends.Some people have complained that 'This Island Earth' is too good a movie, but I say it helps make this a movie rather than an episode of the show with a bigger budget. And besides, you can poke fun at a GOOD movie, too. I played this game on 'Hunt for Red October' and 'Terminator 2' after seeing this! See how many different ways you can tell Ed Furlong to cut his hair.Not a moment is spared making jokes in the film. There's about a dozen in the opening credits (Hey, it's Taurus the bull! And right underneath it, the constellation Feces!). I watched this on video with a friend, and once had to pause it to catch our breath because we were laughing so hard!The great thing about the show and the movie is that the writers know that the audience isn't stupid. In fact, that's the whole basis of the show they make fun of movies that assume the audience is stupid!I started watching the show right after I saw the movie, and I'm kinda bummed that the series recently ended. "},{"Title":"Rather good. Not in the league of Manos THoF","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Unfortunately, I have never had the chance to see this movie in the theater. I am as obsessed with this show as the other fans but I got into the whole deal rather late.  At the video store I thought that the tape of MST3Kthe movie was a good deal at only $9.  That started my descent into madness. Now I have bought all the tapes of the TV series released by Rhino and compulsively, regularly watch them. So you can see that I am rather a newbie to the series, especially since I can't see it on the SciFi channel cause I don't get cable.  However, I can tell that the TV series is far superior.  This does not knock the movie in any way.  It is just that This Island Earth in not THAT bizarre of a movie. It definitely is not in the hideous league of Robot Monster.  I even heard it was one of the best and most realistic alien movies of the 50s(!) and that This Island Earth fans hate MST3K for making fun of it.  Still, time has surely made a difference regarding This Island Earth (unlike the timeless classic, 2001 A Space Odyssey).  The hero was just to macho and deep-voiced to be believable.  The friendly alien is just too goofy.  No one even notices the aliens huge foreheads for quite a while.  Also, too much was cut from the original movie. If there are any MST3K guys that don't know this listen up!  You know that delivery man that gives Joe the packaged Interositer handbook. Guess who that guy is.  COLEMAN FRANCIS!!  Yes, the incredibly inept actor/director from Red Zone Cuba, an MST3K classic. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece.","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The all time funniest movie ever made. Forget all that other trash that is always running off the assembly lines, this one beats them all. It's basically the same thing as the show except it's a little shorter in running time. Big darn deal. It makes up for that in laughs. "},{"Title":"Very silly and I know I shouldn't have enjoyed it but it's hard not to laugh","Date":"27 July 2003","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In an experiment he hopes will eventually turn mild mannered Mike Nelson into a raging beast and allow him to take over the world, Dr Forrestor forces Nelson to sit through the sci-fi This Island Earth.  However Nelson and his robot friends appear to take it all in their stride and are more concerned about how they can pilot the ship they are trapped on back to earth.I have never heard of the TV series from which this came but was attracted to this by the unusual title.  When I started it I was put off by the corny acting and horrid cheap effects in the first 10 minutes or so and wondered `wtf have I taped?', but I stuck with it.  Once the viewing of `This Island Earth' starts, then the film really picks up.  It only drops when the viewers leave the cinema and pick up some sort of plot of trying to pilot their ship back to earth.For information I don't think This Island Earth is that good a film, but I certainly don't think it is the worst or cheesiest of the many sci-fi films made in the period, but it is certainly an easy target for the film.  To describe this movie, it can only be thought of as an evening in with friends, beer and wise cracks.  Basically the viewers sit and wise crack all the way through it.  If you are a fan of This Island Earth then it is probably akin to being in hell, but for everyone else it seems quite funny.I admit that the idea of people talking all the way through a film is unappealing to me but, once I got into the mood, I couldn't stop laughing. It is all very silly and I can see why this film never made it to UK cinemas (and took 7 years to reach UK tv) but it is funny.  And, because it is scripted, the wise cracks know what is coming and can be based on that! If you like silly smart-assed humour then this is for you, otherwise it is probably best avoided.  For me I loved it and will watch it again simply for the line where Exeter says `our people are looking for leading scientists' only to have one of the robots blurt out `you know any' - and other silly lines.While none of this sounds great, I was kept laughing simply because the jokes keep coming all the way through it - even though some miss the next one is never far off.  The effect of watching a film with a running commentary seems annoying but most of us will have done it on DVD.  So ignore the rubbish bits which go on outside of the film viewing and enjoy This Island Earth with an astronaut and a couple of smart mouthed robots! "},{"Title":"Mystery Science Theatre 3000 The Movie","Date":"11 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The theatrical film version of the popular cult show gained fame on Comedy Central and continued for some success on Syfy (when it was The Sci-Fi Channel) before eventually running its course, with the space station, Satellite of Love, orbiting Earth containing a lovable dope (Mike Nelson) and his two made-from-scrap puppet robot associates, Tom Servo and Crow (voiced by Kevin Murphy and Tracy Beaulieu), forced by the mad Dr. Clayton Forrester (portrayed by Beaulieu) to watch rotten films made in times past. Stuck on the station with no way home, and basically enduring bad films at the whims of Forrester, our trio tries to keep their sanity intact and hope for eventual escape at some point. With a theatre and the trio silhouetted in front of whatever film they must sit through, Mike, Servo, and Crow offer constant jokes and zingers about the content presented before them. Most of the films that showed up on the show were really, really lousy. Manos, the Hands of Fate and The Creeping Terror were two popular examples, but I just don't think This Island Earth deserved the distinction of being in their company. Still, I laughed a good bit (it really is hard to laugh out loud at something for any longer than seconds before the next zinger comes), and there were openings here and there for them (Casablanca, Gilligan's Island, Salvador Dali, Tangerine Dream, Dr. Seuss, and other pop culture items find their place in the comedy of the trio), but I'm certain plenty of rotten apples were out there far more fitting for lampoonery than This Island Earth. The segments about the aliens from Metaluna (their foreheads, bleach-blond hair, and communication device (that could also shoot laser beams)) were ripe for comedy, but the rest break sequences (mostly concerning Mike, Servo, and Crow trying to come up with a means to get off the station and home) are not quite as strong although everyone involved tries valiantly to do so. All in all, I think the show really didn't leap off the screen to me as something that required a theatrical movie. It seems right at home on cable (or preferably, cable access), and that seems to be where it belongs. It is a show that has a mixed reaction. Some can't stand the nerve of people to take films and hurl jokes at them to amuse themselves and possibly others who might share their sense of humor (often very cinephile and film nerd, while also quite drenched in pop culture of all kinds, including consumer goods and music), while another party of viewers will indeed bask in the delight that comes with taking the bad (dreck that lives on the public domain) and applying comedy to it. So, this movie (and the show that spawned it) will either repulse or entertain. I think this is the case of if you are a fan, this will be enjoyable to you (but, surprisingly, not quite as good as the show during its run at the time); the movie is a chance to be lax on language (curse words were included in the humor at times), with some more adult humor allowed to find its way into the jokes. If you never liked the show, I can't imagine you'll enjoy this movie. I think why this isn't as good as the show, ultimately, is because there's that bit of charm lost (maybe because it was under studio rule?) and that lo-tech spirit seems a bit subdued. But, for me, it was still a good deal of fun. "},{"Title":"Several Good Laughs","Date":"23 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Mystery Science Theatre 3000 The Movie (1996)*** (out of 4)The cult TV show made it to the big screen this one time and features Mike and his two robots being held by an evil scientist who forces them to watch THIS ISLAND EARTH. This is meant to torture the trio but the three turn the tables with their comments. I will admit right up front that I'm not one of the die hard fans who love this show more than anything else. I'm very hit and miss on it and I often find myself on message boards talking against the show because I'm one who can enjoy these bad movies without the added comments. However, every time I argue against the show it hits me that when I do watch one I find it funny and there's no question that there's talent behind the comments. Now, I will say that I found it strange that they selected THIS ISLAND EARTH for their first movie because, to be honest, it's really not a bad movie. I think had they selected a worse movie it might have led to more and better jokes but what's here is still pretty good. I thought the best moments happened whenever the trio went on with continued dialogue. One would pretend to be the voice of a character and then they would just go back and forth. I thought this is when the best jokes came out and especially the stuff dealing with the alien leader's ultra big head. Another funny jokes happens at the start when the plane is about to crash but the alien's help land it with a green flashing light. The jokes that are around this are very good. As with any comedy, there are jokes that don't work but I think for the most part the majority of them hit their target and deliver laughs. "},{"Title":"Keanu Reeves In My Own Private Airfield","Date":"17 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Possible Spoilers But I Can't See Any.This Is The First Time I Ever Saw A Mystery Science Theater...Well Anything. Its Where Dr. Forrester Subjects Their Last Movie On Them. THIS ISLAND EARTH & This Island Earth Is A Horrible Movie With Animation Techniques That'll Make A 5 Year Old Get Worried. THIS Movie On The Other Hand Is Stupid & Downright Hilarious. I Am Interested In The Series Because They Look Funny. All In All A Great Comedy Sci-Fi. The Plot To This Island Earth Is That Dr. Meacham is chosen along with others by the inhabitants of the planet Metaluna to do research that will help save their dying planet. However, an evil scheme is uncovered by the suspecting Dr. Meacham when he discovers the Metalunan's plan to take over Earth. Dr. Meacham then escapes an exploding Metalunan built Earth lab along with Dr. Adams only to be kidnapped while flying away in a small plane. A flying saucer whisks both the scientists off to Metaluna where they are held accountable for blowing up the Metalunan Earth lab during their escape. They later escape there with the help of Exeter the friendly Metalunan. Metaluna then self destructs and the Doctors make it safely back to Earth, which is saved from Metalunan invasion. Now Do You See Why I Call THIS ISLAND EARTH Horrible "},{"Title":"A Very Funny Film, Though Only Makes Me Miss the Show","Date":"28 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Mike Nelson and his robot buddies are still trapped on the Satellite of Love, forced to watch bad movies for some sort of bizarre experiment to drive Nelson mad. This time, the film is This Island Earth.This film is very funny, but there is really nothing I have to say about it. If you like the show, you will like the movie, because there is really no difference whatsoever. The budget is slightly greater, so the lobby jokes are nicer looking, but they are so minor that it hardly matters. The picture quality also seems slightly crisper. The bulk of the film has them in the theater, which would look the same no matter what.Sadly, the film does little more than make me miss the show. According to some unknown source, The TV show's usual density of gags was reduced for theatrical audiences, so that a larger number of people laughing wouldn't cause too much dialogue to be missed. That makes sense, except when you are watching it sixteen years later on DVD. You do not need that much silence -- it then becomes almost like really watching This Island Earth.Even more mysterious, the film comes in at a short 73 minutes, even shorter than the average episode of 90 minutes. So the movie is shorter than the TV show! And the disc has no special features (besides French language track), so the DVD is not that special -- you would be better off buying a DVD of them watching Manos or something, unless you really enjoyed this particular film.A good film, some funny gags, and a short run time for quick viewing... but really nothing worth making a movie about. "},{"Title":"An episode of the show spruced up.","Date":"30 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" For anyone that watches this movie thinking it's going to be much different than the television program...it's not. There are some nicer things in this film. It looks nicer, with better lighting and film. Instead of the theme song, we have on opening by Dr. Forrester telling us how evil the film is, and a 2001 A Space Odyssey spoof. The special effects are a little bit better, mainly the doors that transition to the theater scenes. Because this is a theatrical release more language that can't be heard on TV is used. And even though this is the movie, it is about 15 minutes shorter than the normal episode, but watching it you really can't tell. The movie in this experiment is This Island Earth. It's really not that bad of a movie for it's time, but Mike and the bots still got a lot of good material on it. One complaint I've heard many times on the movie is that the commentary on the film wasn't as frequent as it normally is on the show. Where that is true, it's still a very frequent commentary, which is just as funny as the shows. Though many episodes of the show are funnier, this was still a great, funny, enjoyable film.My rating *** out of ****. 75 mins. PG-13 for language and sexual humor. "},{"Title":"knowing what sorts of things they always say...","Date":"5 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Any MST3K fan knows what sorts of things Mike, Servo and Crow say to the crummy movies that Dr. Clayton Forrester shows them, so Mystery Science Theater 3000 The Movie should be pretty much the same. And it mostly is. In this case, he forces them to watch the grade-Z This Island Earth, in which two people get taken to a planet where the aliens have over-sized foreheads. They have some great lines.Now, some people may be disappointed that the movie does some things differently from the show. But that's beside the point. The point is to just sit back and listen to their comments about the movie's hokeyness. You know that you want it. "}{"Title":"Simple fun","Date":"24 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Okay, this is a funny movie if you like this kind of film and like to do the thing what is done in this film group with your friends, pop in a horrible movie and make funny comments about it. That is what is going on in this film.An astronaut and his fellow robotic comrades are sitting in their space craft watching a movie, shown them by eeevil Dr. Forrester, and they make fun of the film. Rude comments and funny remarks. And personally I must say it's just so damned hilarious.The movie made fun of is old sci-fi flick called This Island Earth and most of the movie is filmed showing the main characters silhouettes against the white screen, while the film is running and the characters throw in the comments.It's not art, but I like it. Watch it yourself to decide. "},{"Title":"A League of It's Own (in a good way)","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Being a fan of MST3K since i was a wee lad imagine my excitement, that's right i was a little scared but ya know mostly happy. Now i don't have one of those bootleg super-cool copies, i'm sporting the old school VHS, and aside from slight tracking problems, it was brilliant. I laughed so hard I cried and i still do. I however made the fatal mistake of reading the review though and I became enraged how could one dare call this mindless, i doubt any professional movie critic could write a decent movie. Ahh maybe one day someone will realize its untapped potential to feed the world laughter an un-cancel it, after all they did it with Family Guy. "},{"Title":"One of the Funniest Films of All Time","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" MST3k the Movie is in my Top Two of comedies, along with South Park the Movie, if that tells you anything.It's so freaking funny I bought a copy of the out-of-print DVD on eBay for about $100 US. WORTH EVERY PENNYYou needn't be a follower of the TV series, as there's no real story other than that of the cheesy 50s sci-fi film the characters are forced to watch that they mercilessly ridicule.The story of Mike and his home-made robots being held captive on a satellite by insane Dr. Forrester (presumably on Earth) is mainly just a silly side show, as in the MST3k TV series. Dr. Forrester's overacting gets a little old, but his bits are pretty short and the rest of the movie makes up for it with ease. "},{"Title":"Only problemToo short!","Date":"26 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Being an ardent fan of the series,I felt a little stung that I could only catch it on video(it didn't do too well in the theaters,if I recall). To make up for that,I must've ran it no fewer than five more times when I later went to work at a video store(actually,the video department of a supermarket).Anyone familiar with the show will know that the construct of MST3K(shorthand for the show's name,of course,in case any of yous out there weren't aware)is a show dedicated to riffing on egregiously bad movies,films so badly written,directed,edited,acted,lighted,etc. that they generally stink past the point of subjective. Where this is concerned,MST3K-THE MOVIE does not disappoint,ripping on This Island Earth.Mike Nelson(as himself)and robots Tom Servo,Crow T. Robot,Gypsy and Cambot all survive and conquer Dr.Clayton Forrester's latest attempt to demoralize and,ultimately,destroy them with said movie.My only real problem(her it comes...)is that this film clocks in at a whopping 88 minutes! The actual shows of MST lasted two hours,about 1 hour and 40 minutes without commercials. I realize that had the producers and directors,basically everybody at Best Brains INc.)didn't edit down This Island Earth,said movie would lose its MSTie-ability(made up a new word?)and become actually good.As is,it's still passable entertainment and should be reasonably pleasing to most fans(and maybe even some non-fans)of the Mystery Science Theatre show,may it Rest in Peace(Perhaps to rise again someday). "},{"Title":"Pure Gold.","Date":"9 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is stellar. I have seen a better part of the series, and thies is easily better than any episode. Its really like the Beavis and Butthead movie in that it is just a long episode, but unlike the b and b movie, it rocks. Better jokes, a better movie, less of the crap that slows the show down. TO any fans of the show, they also have the better of the two humans, Joe. THe movie really packs a lot of great lines and some of the more astute observations will make you break out the remote and watch that scene again. If you like the movie, try the show MST3K first, but if you have trouble with the paceing as a lot of people do, watch MXC on spike TV. The same guys that do Tom Servo and Crow pull of some great jokes at the expense of the people of Japan. But back to the point, watch this movie. "},{"Title":"Best Movie Ever!","Date":"16 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this movie at the movie store I thought, Hey that looks good. So I got it and I loved it from the first time I watched it. I didn't know that it was a TV show! It kinda sucks because I can't watch the TV show because it was on cable and I don't think it's on anymore. The TV show is as old as I am. But about the movie. It's the best movie I have ever seen! I don't know why they kept being mean to Joe, AKA weenie man. During school when I'm totally board I just think of Joe saying, He's the only man who can fly by jet and still be late, then , Servo, I think, saying Duh I made a funny. So even if you have never even heard of the TV show the movie is awesome! "},{"Title":"Great!  (But not their best.)","Date":"28 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well, I'd like to second the woman who says that this is definitely not a series for adolescent boys! What in the world? I'm a woman and have been a fan since I was 10 in 1990, and now that I'm about to graduate from university it's still one of my favorite shows! That said, MST3K The Movie is not the best that the series has to offer. It's definitely hilarious, but many of the individual episodes are better. If I wanted to introduce a newbie, I'd probably pick something like Manos or Eegah...but even so, The Movie is a nice piece of work. I was also grateful to see that they didn't make any incredible changes for the purposes of making the show more accessible to the general public. The fact that it's attempting to appeal to a wider audience (that composed of both MSTies and total newbies) is obvious, but not too distracting. All in all, a good job and a lot of fun.  "},{"Title":"Sort this, deliver that, I'll make 'em all pay!!","Date":"5 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Here you'll find some of the most scathing satire and sarcasm in cinematic history, and it's wonderfully funny!!  The jabs are relentless, and NO one's immune!  Star trek, Gilligan's Island, William Shatner.  All victims of icy cynicism and NO mercy.  You'll love the play between Mike, the robots, and their responses to the original dialogue of 'This Island Earth', described by Dr. Forrester as a Stinky Cinematic Suppository.  This is an understatement, but it's perfect for the wicked barbs of Mike and his robots.   Though the Brack has visible panty lines shot is great, the jab at the mailman is the best!! "},{"Title":"This Island Earth","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Large scale adaptation of the hilarious cult TV series has Mike and the robots going up against the 1950s classic This Island Earth. When not making quips to get through the film, Mike, Tom and Crow travel the Satellite of Love, crash the aforementioned SOL into the Hubble telescope, almost get sucked out into space and even make contact with the aliens of their film before Dr. Forrester tries to zap them!Just like the cult TV series that inspired it, this is one hilarious piece of comedy here. Of course, if you don't dig the show you may not entirely dig the movie.I'm a naughty boy! Naughty, naughty, naughty! - Dr. Forrester. "},{"Title":"Pee-your-pants Funny","Date":"3 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is the ultimate great movie! Created originally as a TV Show, you can watch it with a group, watch it with a single person, watch it by yourself - it'll be a hoot either way. Poor Mike J. Nelson gets shot into space by his evil employer, Dr. Clayton Forrester, who plans to make Mike watch horrible movies as a means of world domination. Mike, however, is to clever for this, and builds himself some robot companions, Tom Servo (who looks like a gum ball machine) and Crow (who looks like some type of demented bird) to help him survive these awful experiments. Hilarity ensues, of course, for Mike and the 'bots just can't help but heckle the film with a barrage of funny one-liners (this movie is suitable, as are the episodes of the TV show, for massive amounts of quotation). An incident with the Hubble, an alien that wears slacks, and a crazy planet called Metaluna (I never Metaluna I didn't like.) only add to the fun. Even the credits are funny! (Watch for the comments about the The Amazing Rando!) Guaranteed fun for everyone!Some one-liners to watch for Hey, his legs are sticking out! I'm gonna curl up in his sock drawer, and sleep for days. Wienie man away! I regret nothing! Where's my gun? "}{"Title":"The Funniest Movie Ever Made","Date":"28 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  MST3K The Movie is by far and away one of the funniest (if not, THE funniest) movies ever made. Michael J. Nelson and his robot pals were first watched by viewers on Comedy Central (Mike replaced former host and show founder, Joel Hodgeson), and the show grew a massive cult following. In 1995, the team at Best Brains Inc. decided to make a movie, and although this film is a few minutes shorter than the running time of the show (two hours), it is amazing and absolutely hilarious.Don't get me wrong some people may hate this movie. Some people may not fully understand it, and others will just not like it at all. But hey, some people don't have a sense of humor. If you want to have a good time, sit back, relax, and prepare to laugh hysterically at the comedic genius of this hilarious and brilliantly funny movie! "},{"Title":"I couldn't stop laughing.","Date":"8 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I had heard about this TV series/film, but had not seen it until my son (age 13) and I rented the video.  Truly, I haven't laughed so hard in years.  I remember in the '60's in college my friends and I would read selections from *Bored of the Rings* by the Harvard Lampoon guys Beard & Kenney and laughed till we couldn't breathe.  But we were young and in college.  When the same thing happened with this movie, it was shocking, unexpected.  It was no Lawrence of Arabia, but how could I not give it a ten when it struck me as so gaspingly funny?  I have a friend who didn't like it, but she said I hate Monty Python, so there you have it.  If you like irreverence, this delivers. With cliches and exaggerations abounding for everything else it sounds trite, but this movie was really, really hilarious.  "},{"Title":"I missed half of it the first two times, i was laughing so hard.","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the only movie I've ever seen that I had to stop periodically because I was in actual pain from laughing so hard.  I'm not exaggerating. The first time I watched it, I missed half the movie laughing at the other half.  I went back and watched it again and caught the other jokes I missed the first time, and laughed even harder.  Every time I watch it, I find something I missed the last time and it never fails to make me cry laughing. For those who are familiar with the MST3K series, the movie is identical to an episode  of the show except that they took even more time on the jokes. The satire in this movie is unparalelled.  They cover every topic from lite rock stations, nazis, skinny dipping, to Flash Gordon, the Who, military intelligence, and everything else under the sun.  If you're a MST3K fan who hasn't seen this movie, the firing squad is on its way over.  For those who aren't familiar with the series, get this movie posthaste, even if you never plan on watching the show, to see the perfect execution of the funniest concept ever to hit the TV. "},{"Title":"No different from the TV show","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You may wonder why they made this movie, when it could have been just another episode of the TV series. The reason is this movie was made simply to spite Comedy Central for dropping the show, which got picked up later by Sci-Fi. That's why they made this movie, to spite Comedy Central.It's funny, don't get me wrong. It is just a large-screen TV episode, so it certainly is funny. There is one other thing different about this movie, the old crappy movie that Mike and the robots make fun of is often considered to not be crappy. When This Island Earth was released in the mid 50s, it got good reviews. But today, some things about seem cheesey. For example, there is a scene in which an alien commands that his space-ship screen be changed to Normal view. Just then, loud powerful music starts playing. Mike and the robots make fun of it by singing Normal view to the tune of the song.It's just a typical TV episode, except on film. "},{"Title":"Fun","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I never liked Mike, or the changes they put in the show since Joel's departure but of course I had to see Mystery Science Theater 3000 The Movie. I didn't get to see it on the big screen since they only released it in select theaters. Him and the 'bots do an exceptionally good job of tearing apart This Island Earth. A lot of great one liners. You also get to see a little bit more of what the interior of the Satellite of Love looks like.  The movie is considerably shorter than the TV show. I was surprised that it ended so quickly, as it's only a little over an hour. However, what you do get to see is pure MST3K.I hope you had a nice sleep cuz it's time to die. "},{"Title":"You either get it or you dont","Date":"7 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Quite a few bad reviews here from those who just dont get it and thats ok. To me the movie was just the funniest episode ever! So if you never watched the series, or didnt like the series, you probably wont like the movie. But if you have never heard of MST3K, give it a try but know what you are in for. A very bad movie being ripped on by two very funny robots and a janitor. It helps if you are the knowledgable sort since these guys are the kings of the obscure reference. In fact, i think a great part of the fun is catching those obscure references and laughing your ass off as you pat yourself on the back for getting it.Anyway, had to add my 2 cents. I gave it a mega-10 and i cried during the last episode. thank you. "},{"Title":"All time favorite movie","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Mystery Science Theater 3000 (MST3K to us MSTies) is undeniably the greatest, funniest, and most original show to ever air on cable television. The movie took that exact same formula and brought it to the big screen in one of the most hilarious films ever.  Anyone who has ever seen MST is familiar with the layout.  Mike (in earlier seasons Joel) and his two robot pals sit and crack jokes throughout a painfully boring movie.  The movie is actually funnier than some of the episodes so if you've never watched MST before this is the best way to start.  Don't forget to bring a bag of popcorn and a notebook to write down all the great quotes!May your forehead grow like the mighty oakciao bella! "},{"Title":"This movie's pretty funny.","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you like the show, you'll like this movie. If I could name off anything missing in this movie... there is none.The first time I saw this movie (and for that matter, this series), I thought it was gonna suck... as it turns out, if you watch either one long enough, you'll laugh so hard you'll pee your pants. Trust me, it's that good. "},{"Title":"Comedy Genius","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The TV show was simply the most brilliant comedy ever aired. The film was obviously done with a great deal of care and planning, as it is a culmination of everything great about the original series. The writing is spot on and there are more consistent laughs here than in any other film. I absolutely love this movie. "},{"Title":"Comedy Genius","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The TV show was simply the most brilliant comedy ever aired. The film was obviously done with a great deal of care and planning, as it is a culmination of everything great about the original series. The writing is spot on and there are more consistent laughs here than in any other film. I absolutely love this movie. "}{"Title":"Be ready to laugh","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sometimes you just need a movie to watch that doesn't make you think or worry.  This is it.  I laughed so hard and I can escape reality for a while with it.  Also, watch it with friends,  it will give you inside jokes to share for years to come. WATCH IT! "},{"Title":"Deserves seven out of ten","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Despite the fact that Mystery Science Theater 3000 is one of the most creative, hilarious comedies of the past decade, this feature film version is essentially an ordinary episode of the series on tape, despite some added fun and no censors (though they're hardly ever needed anyway). Mike Nelson and robot pals Tom and Crow are marooned on the Satellite Of Love (SOL. Get it?) and forced to watch awful B-movies by the mad Dr. Forrester. This time it's This Island Earth. Great wisecracks throughout, and fun with audience participation. But MST3K The Movie is pretty much a single episode of the series packaged as a feature presentation. "},{"Title":"One Good Movie","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I had seen several episodes of MST2K and MST3K before watching this movie, so I knew what to expect.  My friends, though, had not seen or heard of the show.  So to see this film with them collectively for the first time, it was hard to describe.  The concept is so simple.  Yet the results are so awesome! You see, there is absolutely NO ARTISTIC CONTENT of any kind in this film and it still one of the 5 funniest films I've ever seen.  Sure, now I read that it was indeed cut short through editing, and the humor was changed a bit to show to the general public.  So what!?!  This is a must see for all MST2K/3K fans and satirical teens.Hey!  I suddenly have a minty fresh flavor! Weenie Man, away! Hey!  They worship the Everlasting Gobstopper! "},{"Title":"My favorite is blueberry! - Mike Nelson **mild spoilers**","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Now, I'm not going to explain the plot of the show, since you can read about them at any number of places.  Plot summaries are the most excruciating parts of reviews for me anyway, so . . .Well, they watch This Island Earth . . . which isn't that bad.  I'm pretty sure I could've enjoyed the movie on its own - but I'm commenting on the MST3K film, not that movie.As someone weaned on the sci-fi series, I must nonetheless say that Clayton Forrester (Trace Beaulieu) is funnier than his mother Pearl (Mary Jo Pehl), if this movie is anything to go by.  The host segments (which include Crow trying to tunnel through space, Mike crashing into the Hubble, Tom looking for his interositor, and the party at the end) are all side-splittingly hilarious - something the host segments on the show itself rarely achieve.  But as always, the riffing is the high point of the show - here is some sample dialogueSuddenly I have a refreshing mint flavor!; See big men sticking screw drivers into things - AND ADJUSTING THEM!; Bringing you the latest in soft-serve technology!; You know what my wife would like? A real man!; You know what my kids would say? YOU'RE NOT OUR REAL FATHER!; Did you notice the big indentations in their foreheads (see the movie)? NO!; and of course their hilarious Normal view song.And they also riff their own credits (EastMan - he came from the east to do battle with the AMAZING RANDO (after some crewmember named Rando Schmook or something like that)!) - which is hilarious enough in of itself.Nine stars for MST3K The Movie.Normal view, Normal View, Normal View, NORMAL VIEWWW! "},{"Title":"If not fully satisfied with this film, return unused portion for a full refund.","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  We've got movie sign! (possibly very, very minor spoilers)Hilarious from opening scene to closing credits. (Don't leave during the credits! The movie isn't over yet!)  Even the in-between bits are great, despite Mike's cardboard acting.This Island Earth really is a cheesy movie, which makes it perfect for MST3K; however, it's regarded as a classic for some reason, so it's even better for MST3K The Movie! And they destroy TIE so beautifully, it's hard to believe. The Brains made a good choice for their theatrical debut.There are also some nice subtle extra touches in the movie. For example, the switch for the manipulator arm is labeled MANOS. Yes, it's Spanish for hands, but lessee here, hmm, could it also reference Manos The Hands of Fate, widely regarded as one of the best episodes ever!? (I haven't seen 'Manos' yet, ironically.)And why wouldn't they make fun of credits that are dark red on a black background, covered by random white dots? So these are images from the Hubble?All in all, one of the funniest films ever. Watch it, before I send 'The Amazing RANDO!' after you! "},{"Title":"obscenely fun!","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After watching Don't Go In The House, and Doom Asylum the same night, I was expecting the 3rd movie to be worse that the previous 2 , the 3rd movie is  Mystery Science Theater 3000  The Movie. I have to admit that I had a great time watching it! My night was done right after watching it. Mystery Science Theater 3000  The Movie deserve a recognition for turning  The Island Earth one of the worst movies I've ever seen, into a good movie. It works like this  It's a very bad film that's actually good.Join Tom Servo , Gypsy and friends for a laugh hard time. "},{"Title":"Joe, Joe, watch out for the prop Joe,...","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is only one of the many lines I absolutely love in this movie.  I went to the theater to see it, after only catching a few episodes on TV.  I laughed so hard I'm surprised they didn't throw me out.  I have it on tape and when I need a Tom Servo fix I pop it in.  My husband's name is Mike and whenever something happens I say Mikey broke the Hubble!  I honestly couldn't watch the real version of This Island Earth without Mike and Co. This movie will get you commenting on all cheesy movies you watch from now on.  Watch it with MST3K fans and newbies alike and get ready for a great time! "},{"Title":"..AND IF YOUR HANDS WERE METAL THAT WOULD MEAN SOMETHING","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's nice to know I'm not the only one who liked this movie, despite the fact that I don't think the movie being roasted was a particularly bad movie.  I believe it was state of the art for its time. Just the same, it did leave itself to some reality checks like the one liner in this summary(possible spoilers) chimed in response to Exedor's comment that the bars Cal & Ruth were stuck to were magnetised.    Though the moveis viewed in the series episodes seemed to be much more corny, I must say that one of the main things I found so funny about the heckling & improvising is the way that it contrasted so much as 90's tolerated dialogue juxtaposed against the straight-laced 50's dialogue of the movie. I reserve comment as to whether the change over time is progress or moral decline, but the mixing of the 2 is a hilarious contrast. That's why I like the fact that the wisecracks sounded like they were on the same sound track. Many of the lines were not particularly funny in & of themselves. But the fact that they were interposed into an era that wouldn't have touched the subject matter made them funny.  For example, Cal was telling his assistant Joe about his all night pondering as to whether or not to take Exedor up on his offer. He said he went through 5 cups of coffee before saying to himself-..I gotta pee! interrupted one of the robots finishing his sentence for him. Also, I knew Russel Johnson was in this, & I knew Professor Jokes were inevitable. Looking back, though they did roll in, it's surprising how constrained they were, apparantly careful not to milk a joke for more than it's worth.  Any criticising of the cartoony nature about the way the robots & Mike Nelson & Forrester behaived should be balanced by realising that nobody in this makes any pretence of expecting to be taken seriously. Also, I can only have so much sympathy for Rex Reason & the other actors in TIE. You would have a hard time convincing me that they didn't do their share of hilarious pratfalls & out-takes during shooting & rehearsals just to get it out of their system. The straighter the script, the greater the comic tension. Maybe not, but don't hold your breath. Anyway, guess I betterauger this baby in. "},{"Title":"Freakish Fan Feeds his Findings","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Mystery Science Theater 3000 is an excellent movie.  No, wait, I take that back.  It's two excellent movies (one of which is made to resemble a bad one).  People being forced to watch movies....it's sheer comedic brilliance in its simplicity.  While I don't think that the movie being viewed (This Island Earth) really qualifies as a bad movie, it certainly gives a lot of hilarious material for Mike, Crow, and Tom to work with.  Watch it if you haven't. "},{"Title":"It's out of this world ...","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you're unacquainted with the film's progenitor, a cult cable series on the Sci-Fi Channel, fret not. Think of Mad Magazine meets a live-action version of Beavis & Butthead, and you're on your way to the moon. Instead of having Burger World's Dickheads of the Month unspooling wisecracks over Cinderalla and Warrant video clips, you have two androids, Gypsy and Crow, and their human pal, Michael J Nelson, unspooling wisecracks over an endless stream of horrendous Z-grade films. They are held captive aboard a bone-shaped space vessel by an evil scientist, Dr Clayton Forrester (Trace Beaulie who also co-wrote the script), who plans to conquer the world by exposing Earthlings to celluloid crap and, in the movie, the choice of deconstruction is the 1954 sci-fi schlocker, This Island Earth. No household names with eye-candy looks, no costly visual trickery and certainly not much of a plot, MST-3K has less to do with science-fiction than the cannibalisation of popular culture; their gleeful nitpicks are peppered with a litany of pop culture references from The Addams Family and Top Gun, to Kate Moss, the Matsushita Corporation and even William Shatner. The namechecking may alienate some and the jokes are of a hit-and-miss variety but when it does hit, it hurts.  "}{"Title":"A good time to kick back and stop thinking.","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When my friends and I first went to see this film in the theater we had never seen any Mystery Science Theater 3000 television episodes. I'd heard the title used online a few times but didn't have a clue what the show was about. Apparently the show is all about making you choke on your food.I haven't laughed this hard at a movie since... well, ever.This is not a good movie in terms of acting, direction, writing, or plot, and everybody knows it. Most especially the characters. Nobody in the film takes any part of what they're doing seriously. This whole movie is about bad movies and making fun of them. Including their own.This is not a movie to be enjoyed on your own. This is a movie to be enjoyed with a crowd of your closest friends. Just don't sit in front of anybody during the movie or you'll get your hair soaked in soda ejected through someone's nose.  "},{"Title":"grrrreat","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"   This is not the greatest mst3k, but, since I have no control (i keep eating and eating), I`ll call this a really great one. The thing that gets me is that people regard this island earth an okay movie! I can`t reason with that, not that there is any reason around here what with all the shenanigans and goings on. The first half of this movie is a riot, and the last half is just good. Is there a better movie out there? I don`t know. And I don`t want to know, just love me! "},{"Title":"Witty, funny, hilarious and intelligent; who could ask for more?","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  To anyone who is unfamiliar with the TV-series where the mainoutline is that a few guys are trapped in space and has to watchawful movies from the middle of the century produced in the USA.So they watch and make funny remarks, like most people do whenwatching something together. The difference is that these remarksare the entire charm of this movie, except the corny movie that theyare watching of course, but who has patience for those kind ofmovies? Their comments and witty remarks make up for all themany passages of little interest in the original movie andtransform whatever horrifically boring movie they're watching into ahilarious spectacle of uncomparable sorts! It's a gem toremember indeed! "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  'Mystery Science Theatre 3000 The Movie' starts out pretty lame indeed. The first impression I got of this movie was that the Professor was going to be the main focus.. The whole bad boy thing made me think the movie was going to suck. But my doubts were cleared up when the actual cinema bit started. They managed to take an amazingly boring movie This Island Earth, and turn it into something amazingly brilliant! This Island Earth is a real movie (now on DVD), but it is a real dud. The hilarious comments by the 2 robots and the guy inside the theatre made this movie shine. This is one of the BEST movies I have ever seen! "},{"Title":"Made Me Laugh Hard","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Mystery Science Theatre The Movie made me laugh so hard that I couldn't catch my breath.  It might not be for all people, but if you enjoy quirky off-beat entertainment, this is right up your alley.  They make fun of This Island Earth with a barrage of comments that are totally hilarious. "},{"Title":"Utterly, utterly brilliant","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Without belaboring the specifics of this movie, I'd like to add that the guys at Best Brains stand right beside Monty Python atop the pantheon of comic brilliance. This particular installment may not be the best one for first time MST3K viewers (for that I'd recommend any of the tapes now published by Rhino) but for even the most casual viewer of the TV series this is simply a must see.   "},{"Title":"Oh great, I just know they're gonna probe my anus!!!","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As an avid watcher of MST3k since February 14, 1994, I have to say that this movie was a fabulous effort on the part of Best Brains production company. I saw this movie in a tiny theater in downtown Madison, Wisconsin. Just being around other MSTies and laughing together at this extension of the show we all loved was a thrilling experience. Since then, I have watched this movie so many times that I have most of it memorized. There is no doubt that some of the jokes are tamer and some of the humour is not quite up to the par of the show; this is all because of the big studio that was marketing the movie. Apparently, many of the jokes were considered too obscure for audiences and the original ending was cut. The big money-grubbing studio that took over control of this movie must have decided that we weren't smart enough to handle all of these in-jokes. All they did was take away one of the main reasons people love this show. The more obscure the comment, the funnier it is if you understand it; if you don't understand it now, there's always the chance of discovery later. What I hate most is that major control over this movie was literally taken away from the creative geniuses who best know the show. As great as this movie is, I know that it could have been better if Best Brains had been allowed to retain complete control over THEIR movie. All complaints aside, this movie is still one of the best motion pictures ever made in my opinion. The wit and creativity of Mike Nelson and Co. still shines through in all of the skits and movie segments. The movie This Island Earth was an excellent choice for ribbing. As a very colorful movie to begin with, it afforded endless oppurtunities for quipping. One thing I don't understand is the fact that, at one point in the movie, Ruth's dress changes between two scenes that are supposed to be minutes apart, and Mike and the 'bots don't say anything about it. This isn't something that would normally slip by these guys so I guess we can just chalk that one up to bad editing. True, the movie may not be as funny or as well-acted as such classic episodes as Pod People or The Day the Earth Froze, but it is still a blast to watch, and offers no end of quoteable lines. A must-see if you're a die-hard fan, a casual viewer, or haven't yet been introduced to the wonderful world of Deep 13 and the SOL.  "},{"Title":"How can you NOT love this movie?","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Being the serious MSTie that I am, I thoroughly enjoyed Mystery Science Theater 3000 The Movie. You cannot go wrong with this offering from Mike and the 'bots. I thought I had seen it all, but MST3KThe Movie did not fail to disappoint me. My ONLY gripe is that they decided to do This Island Earth - a truly distasteful piece of rubbish, but not nearly as bad as, say, Glen or Glenda? or my favorite B-movie of all time, House of Wax. If you are even REMOTELY appreciative of MST3K, by all means, watch the movie. "},{"Title":"The greatest collection of One-Liners ever to grace the silver screen","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie, I laughed so hard I fell of the couch! The sheer stupidity of This Island Earth and the comments by the subjectees worm their way into your brain and you find yourself spitting them out whenever the situation arises (most likely every five minutes) Truly an excellent, low-budget, silly party movie. 10 stars!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"So funny i laughed til i cried","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this movie was so darn funny.. it kept me laughing from the beginning to the end.. it was Hilarious !!! i LOVE Tom Servo and Crow.. and i really like Mike Nelson too !! all their silly comments and carrying on is great.. especially when Mike wrecks the Hubble Telescope.. and the two robots say mike broke the Hubble  and all the comments they make on the movie this island earth' is Hilarious !!!! it had been the first time i had even seen this island earth and it was MUCH better seeing it this way.. made it less boring... but i really LOVED this movie.. and anytime im feeling down.. i just pop it into my VCR and watch it and i feel much better afterwards...  "}{"Title":"There's Them That Gets It, and there's Them That Don't.","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  MST3K is (was) one of the most unique, long running shows.  For 10 years the cast (which successfully survived so many changes that the entire original cast was eventually replaced) has riffed on movies, to the delight of their fans.Sure, the movies can be truly horrible.  Sometimes they're not-too-bad, sometimes they're even fairly decent, just out of date and a little loopy. That's half the fun--what else are these movies good for aside from cannon fodder?  And I'm willing to stake a lot on the fact that episodes boost sales of the mocked movies--I sorely doubt that flicks like Gorgo and The Giant Gila Monster would be out on DVD were it not for Joel, Mike and the 'bots.A lot of people don't like it.  They think its cheap, they think its silly, they think its dumb.  Fine.  I'm not going to defend the show, because it really comes down to your sense of humor.  Either you get it, or you don't.As far as the infamous Joel/Mike fan debate, I am personally a Mike fan, though I am still terribly fond of Joel.  I think that the Joel/Mike argument is just the MSTie version of the Trekkie/Trekker debate.At any rate, I MST3KTM.  The jokes aren't as densley packed as a normal episode, but clearly this was deliberate.  And the jokes that *are* there are belly-laugh funny.Good job, guys.  We'll miss you. "},{"Title":"A good film, but could've been better...","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Mystery Science Theater 3000 has always been one of my favorite shows. From Agent for H.A.R.M. to Time Chasers to Prince of Space, the boys from the Satellite of Love do an excellent job of what everyone in their right mind has always wanted to do- freely mock horrible movies, and get PAID for it.  With the cancellation of the series in 2000, I find myself having to mock bad movies on my own.  And I'm not nearly as good at it. MST3k, as I said, was an excellent series.  From their actual movie-mocking to the skits they'd put on between segments, the show was straight out hilarious, always constructed in just the right way. The movie version, unfortunately, falls just a bit short of the norm.  It's still good, the skits in particular being insanely funny, but it somehow seems a bit off.  I find myself thinking that the good folks on the show were a bit too stressed about this being a movie, and were just not up to their usual feel-good level.  On the whole, it seems rushed- This Island Earth, the movie in question, doesn't seem to take as much abuse as most of the films on the tv version of the show, as though the MST3k guys were being too careful, trying to avoid offending anyone that might like the film.  A great number of the jokes involve the special effects of the day, something they usually avoid with good reason.  After all, many times the special effects are the best that could be done at the time, and the show was made to mock movies that just didn't try, not ones that did.  This Island Earth is widely regarded as a real classic, and it seems like it really was a step above the usual movies MST3k mocks.  While that's not to say that there isn't anything funny in the movie segments, they just aren't as good as they usually are, consisting mainly of the previously mentioned special effects jokes and Star Trek references, with better jokes on the acting or plot coming far less often than in the TV series.  The mocking of the MST3k credits is actually funnier than the rest of the movie segments. Still, the MST3k movie is easily worth watching.  It's a good introduction to the series, and the skits (particularly Mike broke the Hubble) are lots of fun.  If you're looking for the best they can do, though, this isn't it. "},{"Title":"The beefiest MiSTied flick.","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  MST3K The Movie will make just about any fan happy.  Even though the movie is basically a souped-up episode, it has some plus points.  For one, Mike and the bots actually swear once or twice, which is funnier than one may expect.  The movie, This Island Earth, is also longer than an ordinary episode, and is a classic that you might have actually seen before.  My one grief with the movie (not counting the fact that it only played in about 4 theaters across the country) is the way it fails to bring in new fans, as a tv-show-based movie should.  Most people that have never seen MST3K before feel as if they're being left out of someone else's private joke while watching the movie. Overall, this is a hilarious film, and stays true to its roots.  * "},{"Title":"The Cheese has landed","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay, this is probably not the best MS3TK ever, but it is very funny. There are parts I'm still laughing at, Uh...should we be watching this.. and Ladies and Gentlemen...a Flock of Seagulls. What can I say but I never realized what a goofy movie This Island Earth really was. A lot more over the top than I had thought. I suppose perspective is everything. "},{"Title":"MST3K for the masses..","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  For hardcore fans this is a great movie.  It is not as good as many of the series' episodes simply because if you watched the series you were into the show already.  This movie was marketed more towards opening the eyes of people who don't have an excuse to watch a 1.5 hour TV show.  MSTTHE MST OF FATE!! "},{"Title":"MST3K Fans Unite!","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"    I love this movie ! For the first time, I can see more of the rooms and bowels of the Satellite of Love and hear Trace Beaulieu's voice of Crow the Robot before he was replaced. I just have to ask why do you have to make a movie to riff a movie. They could have done this in the regular series. Once they got the movie budget, they could have asked Joel to come back to document his life before being shot into his space, his time working with the Mads and then on to show the creation of the Bots before riffing on a movie. It could have even been done in flashback from Mike's point of view. Not to insult this movie, I really like it, I really, really do, but did they really sink a big-time budget into doing the same thing they always do. In riffing This Island Earth, they demote it from the alledged classic it's supposed to be down into the turkey it probably really is. I guess I'm going to get hate mail now from the This Island Earth fans; all seven of them. Don't forget to share the tapes ! "},{"Title":"a laugh riot","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I love this movie and I loved the series.  A lot of die hard fans didn't like the movie because Joel wasn't in it. I actually prefer the later ones. I thought this was very funny and more importantly has lots of quotable material. Sense I am nothing more than a collage of tv and movie quotes and really have no actual thoughts of my own I am always looking for usuable quotes to express myself. When someone says Diann did you get the mail? I can say Sort this deliver that I'll make em all pay. Diann would you like to take a vacation to the Grand Canyon I can reply with Aww when are they going to fill that thing in.  MST3k has helped me communicate with the world. Thank you MST3K..Thank you.  "},{"Title":"My favorite DVD!","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie at least six times in the hard-to-find venues when it was released, and enjoyed every viewing. One of the best efforts of the Best Brains crew, the jokes and sly remarks are dead-on and frequent. I watched in on video so many times I wore it out, so I bought the DVD. It's a blast! "},{"Title":"The awesome show in easy to digest movie form!","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If ya don't know the premise of THE BEST SHOW OF ALL TIME(my name is after it), it is this Dr. Forester has shot a man into space, and thru bad movies, will drive him in sane, and then subject the world to the movie and take over the world. Weak plan yes. Weak show NO!! The man is the hilarious comic/ writer, Mike Nelson (author of Mike Nelson's Movie Megachesse)(hope I spelled that right) who with the help of two robots, Tom and Crow, makes fun of the movie, making it infinitely better. GO SEE IT!!! NOW!!! You can get it at Suncoast fer $10 on VHS. It is an awesome show and makes an awesome movie. That's about it. leave with thisNOT SINCE TED KENNEDY IN A BARNEY SUIT!   "},{"Title":"This movie freakin rules!","Date":"3 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have been a fan of the show for a long time from back when Joel was still the host and every episode had me rolling on the floor holding my sides because of Joel(and later Mike),Crow, and Tom Servo's uncanny wit and ability to come up with the funny jokes that they do to mock all these bad cheesy movies. The movie had the exact same effect on me. I laughed so hard I about died. Now the only thing that I must say was wrong with the movie is that they made it shorter than the show. I mean they finally get to make a movie and they have to make it shorter. What's up with that? But anyways if you are a fan of the show or even if you aren't. You'll love this movie and enjoy it for a very long time as it is one of the funniest movies ever. "}{"Title":"The most imaginative and funny movie ever made, no exceptions.","Date":"25 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you want to rent a down right hilarious movie, or are just in a good mood, this is for you. I hate to say it, but I would pick watching this over Metropolis, and I love Metropolis. I couldn't believe it when I found out there was an alternate version with a different ending. No matter, they did a fine job with the new ending. You don't even have to be a fan to like this movie, it's great fun for all. Okay, so the host segments weren't quite like the ones in the TV series, but they were just as good. I have no favorite part, I love the whole film. Even the most straight faced bore on Earth will crack a smile during this, and who couldn't laugh at the jokes about Rando at the end? This Island Earth wasn't that good to begin with, although the plot about aliens needing help was somewhat original for the time it was made. They couldn't have done a better job. Who says this isn't as funny as the show? It's every bit as funny! And it's even shorter than an episode! A great, great, great film, totally hilarious. "},{"Title":"I hope you have a strong rib cage!","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first saw this movie 3 years ago.  I had no idea who or what Mystery Science Theater was.  But any way i put the recently rented tape into my vcr and sat down with a nice cup of milk, milk that was soon all over my shirt. I have NEVER laughed so HARD in my LIFE!!!! This is BY FAR THE FUNNIEST movie ever made, I could not breathe i laughed so hard at some scenes. To sum the movie up quickly, the movies hero(?), Mike, has been sent into space by an evil doctor who enjoys torturing him with cheesy movies.  Now Mike would've gone insane years ago if it hadn't been for his robot buddies he constructed.  Mike brings these robots with him to watch these cheesy films, and mock the heck out of them! If you like to laugh this movie is for you. "},{"Title":"The Greatest Movie ever!","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is great. Any fans of the show will love this movie. Their comments will make any one laugh. You don't even really need to know about the show or know about the references they make. It has some humor for everyone. Every day people make hundreds of comments on movies. This is one of them. "},{"Title":"Keeps Getting Better!","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have lost count of how many times I have seen this movie and I can honestly say that I still enjoy almost as much as the first time I saw it. It is definitely a movie to see with friends, many times, because it is an instant classic. The most fun is watching it with people who've never seen this kind of thing before because if they have any sense of humor, and they like movies, they will be on their sides laughing. One of my friends was literally lying on the floor in tears, laughing so hard.Sure, if someone tries to describe it to you, it sounds weird, but do yourself a favor and watch it. Seriously. "},{"Title":"GREAT adaptation of the great show....","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've been a fan of MST3K for about 4 years, and I have seen many of the great episodes.  MST3KTM just takes the same concept of the show and turns it into a movie form.  But this is a good thing, mind you. There are so many things that Mike, Servo, and Crow cannot say in this movie that they couldn't say on the show...I LOVE THIS MOVIE. It was hillarious and original, just like the show has been after 11 years. (Canceled now thanks to the Sci-Fi channel) Rating ***** out of *****! "},{"Title":"It pains me to write this","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I feel that by writing this, I am betraying fellow fans of the show, but here goes I didn't like the movie nearly as much as I like the show. I mean, most of the comments were really funny, and the movie's version of the host segments were pretty good, but I just didn't find myself laughing as much as I thought I would. I just felt disappointed at the whole thing. It could have been a lot funnier. However, I would still recommend the movie, just not as strongly as I would any given episode of the TV show.  "},{"Title":"I don't see how people could NOT like this movie...","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm really not sure how anyone could put this movie down... I mean, yeah, it's cheesy, and yes, the movie they're watching sucks, but their creativity in thinking up retarded comments is absolutely hilarious!  I rented this about two weeks ago, after having watched the original series for some time, and I didn't stop laughing through the whole thing.  Sure, that might say something about how dumb I am, but hey, it was pretty danged funny.. You should watch it. "},{"Title":"Absolutely hilarious","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is an incredibly funny movie. Well, to be honest, the scenes outside of This Island Earth itself are fairly forced and unfunny, but when the cast is actually commenting on the film itself I could not stop laughing. The minds behind this film are very sharp. It's worth staying for the film's own credits, too. "},{"Title":"And if your hands were metal that would mean something...","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I can't even count how many times I have seen this movie but I still laugh each and every time I watch it. You have to watch this at least once in your lifetime. It's got it all, sci-fi, comedy, puppets and mad doctors. Don't forget to watch the credits! You'd never forgive me if you missed the Amazing Rando! "},{"Title":"Mike, Crow and Tom's got some big foreheaded sissy butt to kick!","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The brain-child of Joel Hodgson just got a whole lot bigger.It's nice to see the new SOL bridge. The movie takes us places on the Satellite that the show doesn't the basement, Tom Servo's bedroom...Mike Nelson, Trace Beaulieu and Kevin Murphy really shine as Mike, Tom and Crow. Jim Mallon is good as Gypsy, but unfortunatley Gypsy only gets a few lines at best.Best scene Mike trying to get the Hubbell off the hull of the SOL.It's a shame MST3K is finished. I was looking forward to another movie. "}{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The only unfortunate thing about this movie was that I actually found myself listening to the plotline of This Island Earth from time to time.  Now, I suppose it isn't all that bad of a movie in the first place, but any movie can be subjected to this kind of ridicule, it's all in perspective.  What interested me was the range of humor here, from low level jokes (still humorous) to allusions to other movies such as Casablanca (and still more subtle ones).  I have never seen one episode of the show, but this one had me on the floor at several points, and now I have an idea of how to handle a movie like Bats the next time I go see it.  I hope there will be more of these(although I doubt it will happen), since it was just a tad short, but oh well, still great - 7/10 "},{"Title":"good movie, but too short","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Loved the movie, but it had one major flaw it was too short. With a bigger budget and not having to fit into a 2 hour slot with commercials you'd think they could have watched and joked over the entire movie. Instead they cut about 1/3 of This Island Earth out to keep it just over 90 minutes even with host segments. Its a tremendously funny movie, but that funniness would have been even more enduring if they'd watched the whole movie (they cut out so much its hard to follow). "},{"Title":"Does anyone NOT like this movie?","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Everyone MUST like this movie, I'm sure of it.  I found out about this show in grade six, my parents wouldn't let me watch PULP FICTION, so I started watching the episode with Santa versus the martians.  Hilarious!  After that I saw the movie, what can I say, it's one of the funniest movies I've ever seen. Altough I did like Mike better than Joel.  ***** "},{"Title":"We've got MOVIE SIGN!","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Critically well-received, yet barely promoted during its theatrical release, this is a top-notch, very funny movie.  Made by practically all of the same people who made the TV show, the film version has Mike and the 'bots riffing on This Island Earth, a better-produced-than-usual target, but with a goofy quality that suits the show.  Unlike most big screen versions of TV shows, the makers stuck with what worked on TV and just made it bigger.The movie isn't perfect, though.  It's too short and studio interference mandated some ill-advised cuts.  But it's still funnier than the majority of the alleged comedies put out by Hollywood.  If nothing else, it's a great intro to MST3K for those unfamiliar with it. Besides, you have to start slow before you get to the heavy stuff, like Manos or Castle of Fu Manchu.  "},{"Title":"Funny as a movie, not just another episode","Date":"23 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although I am a big fan of the (now cancelled) show, I was reluctant to pay $8 for something that seemed no different than a commercial-free version of a tv episode. I rented it was pleasantly surprised by the density of the really good jokes. I was in tears at some points, it was so damn funny. They obviously spent much more time on this one to make it jam-packed with comedy. Don't knock it because its a movie version of a TV show, most movie comedies are 90 minute sitcoms anyway.Weenie Man away!! "},{"Title":"This is Funny","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Mystery Science Theater 3000 is an entertaining flick, which can only fully be enjoyed on the small screen when you're in a mood to see a flick that won't make you think, just make you laugh. One night I found myself in this sort of mood, and my friend rented this. I had never been a fan of the TV show, and was rather unenthusiastic about seeing it. But, I agreed and I'm proud of it. It's funny in a way which many will love, and many will hate equally. So if you're the type of person who is easily amused by horid movies, MST3K will make a decent rental. Just don't expect too much "},{"Title":"It is no different from the tv show... that's why it's so good.","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first big screen adventure of the Mystery Science Theater 3000 gang has them watching the movie 'This Island Earth', wreck the Hubble, and use an interociter to talk to a guy in the shower. All of that makes it just like a regular episode of the show. And like I said before, that's why it's so good.The story has evil Dr. Forrester subjecting Mike Nelson, the robot duo Tom Servo and Crow to the worst films ever made, as part of a plot to beat the world into submission. The premise is very weak, but fans watch the movie not for the premise but the commentary from the movie watching trio.What Mike, Servo and Crow do is the impossible. They make the worst movies ever made hilarious and fun to watch. This film was my first viewing of anything MST3K and got me hooked. The sad part is the fact the show is now over.As mentioned above, the film they watch this time is 'This Island Earth'. A cheesy sci-fi flick that for some reason is considered by some to be a classic. Maybe it is and maybe it isn't. All I know is, that the MST3K team bring to better light and make it very enjoyable. Overall, I would say this is one of the best movies I have ever seen and is a must see. "},{"Title":"Not nearly as good as it should have been.","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  MST3K The Movie is nothing more than an elongated episode of the series and hardly one of their best. There are great moments, as there always are with Tom, Mike, and Servo, but not as many as there often are.  The additional sets and camera angles during the interludes just detract from the bits, which aren't at their best either. See it, by all means, but be sure to check out the regular episodes for more enjoyment. "},{"Title":"A great Movie, a great TV series","Date":"16 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you haven't yet experienced Mystery Science Theater, I encourage you to start here. Then watch the SciFi channel and see the series (while they're still playing reruns) and buy all the videos from Rhino. Bad movies are finally given the treatment they deserve.  "},{"Title":"As good as the TV show -- and that's really, really good.","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  MST3K The Movie is no different in format from the TV show; The Movie is as funny and clever as any of the better episodes of the show. (The only difference is that the movie, oddly enough, is shorter than the series.) If you've never seen the TV series, this is a good first exposure to it. A guy and two robots watch a bad movie and make fun of it. It's as simple as that, but very, very f "}{"Title":"The best comedy ever!","Date":"17 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is so funny! It's about a guy named Mike and his robot pals trapped on a satellite, forced to watch cheesy old movies. While they watch the movies, they make fun of them and it's so funny! It's also a TV show (which is now cancelled) that's been on for 10 years. The movie is shorter than the actual TV show, but still very funny. In this one Mike & the 'bots watch an old '50s sci-fi movie, This Island Earth. I think it's the best comedy...ever! "},{"Title":"Creative Comedy","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the most hilarious, no, the most hilarious film I've ever seen.  In a time when much of the comedy we see is stale, this is a wonderfully creative piece of comic genius.  I remember seeing it in the theater and there was not one person in the audience who didn't love it.  Its as good as any episode in the movie series.  You have to see it!   "},{"Title":"Oh yeah ... gotta love it.","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I first saw this, I thought, Why am I paying to see an MST3K episode? But now that the show is cancelled again, I find myself wishing they'd do another theatrical run. THIS ISLAND EARTH isn't the best choice - it's not nearly as good as, for example, the INCREDIBLY STRANGE CREATURES WHO STOPPED LIVING AND BECAME MIXED-UP ZOMBIES episode of the TV show, or the WEREWOLF episode, but it's still good, solid MSTing fun. Always a good time. Watch it, in memoriam of this great show. "},{"Title":"MSTies Missed Out","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Those of you who saw the theatrical or home video version of Mystery Science Theater 3000 The Movie (1996) did not see the true version.Those of you who attended the second convention in 1996 got to see the actual ending that Gramercy nixed. ORIGINAL ENDING Mike and the 'bots made an elaborate practical joke in which they used the interociter to transmogrify a regular ant into a MutAnt (affectionately known as Scrotor), who promptly throttles Dr. Forrester. Meanwhile, Crow uses the chainsaw he found in Tom Servo's room to once again try to dig his way back to Earth.Not only is it funnier, but it explains Crow's interest in the chainsaw in the previous segment, which in the edited version is basically a throwaway.If the ending felt tacked on at the end -- you're right, it was. I hope people pressure Gramercy to have the original ending included in the DVD version.As for This Island Earth, as one reviewer stated in their review of MST3K The Movie, is not true limberger, just cheese that didn't age well. It may not have been the best movie to use, since This Island Earth is so slow-moving -- unfortunately, they probably could not afford famous trash like Plan 9 From Outer Space. The movie is also a curious artifact in that it has one sole villian Dr. Forrester. TV's Frank had left the previous year, and Mrs. Forrester did not appear in the movie. Additionally, Trace Beaulieu (who plays Forrester) departed from the show after the movie was released.Season 7 was also shortened to six episodes due to the movies shooting schedule, as well.  "},{"Title":"MST 3000 The Movie. Accept no substitutions!","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  IN SPACE, NO ONE CAN HERE YOU LAUGH.  The MST movie is a worthy companion to the cult TV show and is a must-see for Msties.  A lot of people have complained that This Island Earth didn't deserve to be riffed on because it's actually a good movie.  So what?  They could make fun of Citizen Kane for all I care, as long as they'de make it funny.  My only regret is not seeing it on the big screen when it first came out.  It would have been great to see Crow T. Robot and Tom Servo in all their 35mm glory. "},{"Title":"Cheesy Fun.","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  MST3000 The Movie is a cheesy way of having fun on a Sunday afternoon. Basically, this is a movie where a guy and two robots sit in and watch cheesy movies and grade it on it's content and make fun of it in a silly way.  It's genius to find things like this in the entire world as they spoof different ways of telling the film.  I recommend this to any space-spoof fan in the world! "},{"Title":"Good intro for new viewers, a change of venue for the fans.","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As a fan of this show from a good way back, I loved this movie. The premise was somewhat hard to understand and bizarre to friends who weren't familiar with the show (They just talk through movies? Where's the humor?), but even *they* got it after a while. Indeed, while This Island Earth was not nearly as unwatchably hideous as some of the stinkbombs they've done in the past (thoughts of Mitchell still make me faintly nauseous to this day), it provides quite enough camp to riff on (the slacks wearing toad-alien was a favorite). It's a good introduction to the show for people who don't know of it, and it served as an excellent way to get the hard-core MSTies out of the house and into some sort of public activity for at least one night. Basically an episode on a larger screen? Sure, but why not? And for a note of supreme irony, and one which I think Mike and Co. would appreciate, in the theater during my showing there were people sitting ahead of me riffing on the movie of people riffing on a movie. Only in MST. We shall not see its like again, I'm afraid. "},{"Title":"A good episode","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  MST3K The Movie is esentially an episode of the TV show with somewhat higher production values. In fact, it's actually shorter than an episode of the show. Still, it's a good one with lots of laughs for one and all. While This Island Earth may not be quite a bad as, say, Catalina Caper or Zombie Nightmare, it's still goofy enough to merit the treatment.Although the odds of another MST3K movie are rather unlikely, I hope that another film will be made someday. Especially now that the show has faded from our TV screens. "},{"Title":"A milestone of cinematic achievement","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  MST3000 The Movie is one of the most clever and original comedies out there. Not to mention hilarious. I havn't laughed this much since The Naked Gun (the original). So if you want to watch a comedy that doesn't assume its audience has low IQ's, check this film out. "},{"Title":"Hilarity for sci-fi fans","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In short, a great film. Though the acting and aesthetics are somewhat loose, this is unimportant. It's just plain funny. It's for everyone who likes humorous science fiction, spoofs, or is just sick and tired of bad movies, SF or otherwise. The film is rife with pop culture references, showing that the writers are paying attention, and the humor relatively clean. There is not much of a plot besides Test subject forced to view bad movie, but in the end, it doesn't really matter, It's a true shame that I'm Canadian, and can't get the Sci-Fi channel, where this program is weekly. "}{"Title":"One of the best MST3K's","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This entry into the MST3K library is one of the funniest.  I think it helped that the movie they make fun of, This Island Earth, is actually half-decent, rather than the usual grade-Z movies they use on the TV series. It forced the writers to be wittier and more creative--anybody can trash something like Final Justice. "},{"Title":"Great entertainment.","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Very funny, but still not as good as the show. The FX and sets are much better but unfortunately, kind of hurts it. It was the purposely cheesy sets that makes the show funny. Also, the film they trash, This Island Earth, is a bit too good for MST3K. It was one of the best and most big budgeted Sci-Fi films of the 50s. However, if you can get past those defects, the film is very well done. I saw this in theaters, and it was very exciting to see an MST episode on the big screen. It is also good on tape. They make great jokes, and some of the host segments are hilarous. This serves as great entertainment for anyone. This especially is funny for anyone who has never seen an MST3K episode.  "},{"Title":"Move over South Park!!! This is soooo cool!!!","Date":"22 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Move over South Park, Mst3k is better! The movie that is! I bet Mst3k the movie is better than the South Park movie (coming June 1999) This movie has less swearing. You know when on tv,they cut out swearing.  Well, If they cut out South Park's swearing... The program will be 1 min. long. That's how much SP swears!!The movie features This Island Earth. A good 50's movie. And Mike, Crow , and Tom Servo make weird  a-4 curve remarks about the movie. This movie is soooooo good. This is 1 heck of a movie. Watch it. Rated PG-13 for language and humer. "},{"Title":"Come to Uncle Scrotor","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't know what makes it a movie, as opposed to an MST3K episode.  It was shot on film instead of tape, and you see it at a theater instead of on your TV, I guess, although our TV is the only place many of us will seen it.  Anyway, it's a very funny one.  Uhhh, I'd wait a couple of minutes before opening Cal's tube. Normal view, Normal View, NORMAL VIEEEEEWWWW.  Come to Uncle Scrotor.  "},{"Title":"*****perfect 5 stars,The most hilarious Boy & his Bots story ever","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  1 thing you can say is that this film followed the show perfectly (except for no theme but I'll get to that). One reason why that the movie lacked some things (Frank,A theme,& perhaps others) is because the film was made during the dark days of MST3K,(After Joel & Frank left but still on Comedy Central),but it remained fantastic. The humor is still as top notch as ever,& they actually improved some thing in the movie(the bridge sequence actually looks beautiful). My one & only complaint is that the movie This Island Earth is actually partially decent(Compared to other MST3K shown films),but that could be explained by the reason mentioned way above, so Msties rejoice & you'll greatly enjoy this comic masterpiece. "},{"Title":"One of mankind's greatest innovations","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The show is arguably one of the greatest achievements in human comedy in history.  The movie does justice to the show by giving us the no-less-bad-movie This Island Earth.  You'll especially like it when Mike and the crowd start singing along with the music.  Actually, this is one of the better movies shown.  It isn't as good as the best episode (Puma Man, in my book), but it's still better than your average Hollywood fare. WATCH THIS MOVIE!    "},{"Title":"a disappointment","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am a religious fan of MST3K; I have been ever since the third season, and I have seen nearly every episode.  Despite this- or because of it? - I was disappointed by MST3Kthe movie.  THIS ISLAND EARTH provides surprisingly little good material- it would have been good fodder for an okay episode, but not a full-fledged movie.  I honestly thought the folks at Best Brains would have searched harder for the perfect bad movie.  Nonetheless, MST3K the movie is a good deal more funny than most comedies with actual plots and characters.  It's a shame the writers couldn't match their usual standard.  "},{"Title":"I laughed, I cried, I peed...","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you are a fan of the TV show, you won't be disappointed with MST3K The Movie. The sets are a bit different, allowing the camera angles you won't see on TV. Mike and the 'Bots are in top form, and this is some of Trace B.'s last work as Dr. Forrester.I predict that, twenty years from now, this TV show and this movie will have a cult following.  "},{"Title":"If you ever made fun of a bad movie, SEE THIS!","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is an absolute must for any MST fan or even if your never seen or heard of the show in your life. The bots and Mike take on This Island Earth(laughable enough on its own), but with the MST touch, its 10 time as funny. I highly recommend to anyone on the face of this planet who has access to somewhere to rent or buy this movie to get up right now, run to  the store and get it.  "},{"Title":"Very funny but needed to distinguish itself from the series more","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  MST3K The Movie is funny, but I was somewhat disappointed with the format being so similar to the TV series.  Although I am a fan of the series, it was a shame that the movie did not distinguish itself from the TV show more.  When they were about to release the movie, I had really hoped it would boost the show (maybe having it appear on a TV network instead of some cable channel I don't get).  Unfortunately, it doesn't really stand out from the rest of the MST3K works, and it got inadequate exposure when it was out in the theaters (most of them didn't even show MST3K The Movie, at least not in my area).    "}{"Title":"Terrific!","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was great.  Never an unfunny moment.  The show may have slipped a bit as of late but this movie is indicative of how funny MST3K truly is.  "},{"Title":"Pure beauty","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It makes me so happy to know that so many people like this movie.  Since it got so bad of a raw deal on its theater run, it relieving to know that cable has somewhat saved it, providing it to the masses, which is what it truly deserves.  I bet Gramercy sure is steamed that it picked Barb Wire to back up instead of MST The Movie. As a supremely avid watcher and loyal follower of the show, I suggest this movie to everyone with the means to see it.  I also suggest to the people that liked the movie to check out the series, on the Sci-Fi channel.  It hasn't been on the air since 1988 for nothing. The movie, like the show, provides some of the best humor available anywhere, from some of the best writers, anywhere.  Watch this show, you will NOT regret it.  "},{"Title":"Lame Comments on MST3K The Movie (1996)","Date":"8 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Fans of the TV series <now on the Sci-fi channel> will love  this riff on Universal's This Island Earth.   After reading a few reviews I feel that the stuff doesn't quite measure up to the show.  But I give it a 7, It's nice to see the SOL out it wide distribution.    A must see for the Shatner jokes alone.  "},{"Title":"Ah, the script has arrived!","Date":"7 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  half way through this film ,the script arrives. Sound strange? Watch the movie. In it, two home made robots and a guy named Mike bash a horrible sci-fi flick. It's by far the funniest thing you will ever see, with the exception of the Clinton Impeachment hearings (maybe). "},{"Title":"Best of the best, seen it 10+times! must see for MST3K fans","Date":"7 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you've ever seen the show Mystery Science 3000 (MST3K), and even if it didn't tickle your fancy, you still should see this contraption. These guys are genuses (genuii?) of wise cracks and comments. Every time I saw the movie again, we could find more and more jokes that are just unnoticeable the first time (or the 3rd time)... Once again, a must see. My favorite comedy movie of all times. "},{"Title":"Awesome movie! If you like the show, you'll love this movie!","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was rolling on the floor laughing all the time during this movie! If you haven't already, you have to see this GREAT movie! It's usually on Cinemax or Showtime, hardly ever on HBO. "},{"Title":"For fans of the show, just like a high-budget episode.","Date":"24 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  We've got movie sign!.  Are there any sweeter words to a MiSTie?  I think not.  And this time, the movie is This Island Earth, ca. 1950.  This is basically a higher-budget episode of MST3K.  Oddly enough, its run time is around 80 minutes, significantly shorter than a TV episode of MST (120 minutes, with commercials).  This Island Earth is about 90 minutes, so, as you can imagine, quite a bit is cut out.  What remains is ripe for riffing, and it's some of the best yet. "},{"Title":"each year hollywod releases hundreds of movies this is one of them","Date":"21 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  was the tag line for the movie I am a huge fan of the show and as i went to the theater i was not disapointed at all. tighter and more jokes and better jokes then an average show they worked hard at this and it shows. with better looking sets and such but still extremily campy.  being in a theater with the classic model ship flying by and the audience laughin is somthing i'll never forget "},{"Title":"A movie about a movie that is a movie itself?","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" How can't anyone like this movie? Yes, MST3k having their own feature film which I guess is about the show, yet features yet another stink bomb of a movie.The odd thing is the movie isn't really too much different from the show itself, which perplexes the viewer even further. There's the front, middle, and ending sketches which are typical of the show. The movie they are forced to watch is This Island Earth.It's just as well. Of course as always the MST crew does a great job at poking fun at an otherwise dull and or boring flick. My hats off to Mike and the Bots for having fun with this experiment! 6/10 "},{"Title":"not as great as an episode of the show. But alright","Date":"20 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  first off I would like to say that I love the show. I have been a fan ever since I first saw the movie on Starz.Now with that out-of-the-way, I would like to say that the movie is definitely not one of my favorites. Maybe it's the fact that I have seen the movie numerous times, and the jokes just don't effect me the same way anymore. Or maybe it's the fact that some of the jokes are just not top-of-the-game material. But they are still kind of funny.Somehow it just feels like their hearts were really not into the making if this movie. Maybe Universal forced them to have to do this movie, I don't know. But I do get the strong since of something like this happening around Universal. The jokes really do feel like they were screened by Universal and had to be okayed before being done. The acting is just like it is in the show, which is not bad.The cast all do good. Trace returns again as the demented Clayton Forester, though without TV's Frank this time(?) We get to hear him return as the voice of Crow again. Mike is....Mike...His goofy humor really pushes the movie along in a good direction. Kevin Murphy does great -- as always -- as the voice of Servo. We get a new(and not too great in my opinion) door sequence. I don't know why they did not just keep the original Mike era door sequence. The other thing about the door sequence is they only show the fool run of it once. The next couple of times we start off on the second-to-last door.All in all, this movie is not too bad. If you have not seen it and are a fan of the show, you will like this movie.  "}{"Title":"Doesn't quite succeed","Date":"27 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Making the jump from the little screen to the big one is never easy, but it's even harder when there's already a big screen inside that little one. 'Mystery Science Theater 3000 The Movie' tries to fulfill fan expectations without alienating newcomers, and it doesn't quite succeed.I know that many have complained about the choice of the sci-fi classic 'This Island Earth' as a target here, but that objection doesn't make much sense--really, folks, there are very few films that are simply too good to be poked fun of, and 'This Island Earth' certainly isn't one of them, even if it doesn't live down to MST3K's usual standard.No, the problem is largely one of rhythm. The charm of the TV show has always been its overloaded quality, with the snarky armchair wits keeping the jabs and pop-culture references flying so fast that the bomb-to-laugh ratio always stays relatively low. Not so with the bigscreen version, where the stream of jokes was apparently slowed down to accommodate audience laughter in the cinema. On video, you can really feel that, and it hurts the pace terribly. The 'linking' material feels redundant to the initiated, and isn't likely to impress the novice viewer much.Still, many of the jokes that are there do work, and the overall effect is one of rather weak episode of the TV show. Of course, that's going to appeal more to some people than others, so fanboys and newbies alike should consider themselves warned. 6.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Tito apparently has NO sense of humour","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Or he's a Cubs fan.  This movie is so incredibly funny.  I've owned it for years and I can still get a laugh out of it.  And it makes watching other bad movies so much more fun. If you have a silly sense of humour then definitely rent this movie.  You will love it. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable if you have a sense of humor...","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is definitely not Shakespeare and no one viewing it should expect that.  First of all the premise, although simple, borrows from the fact that most people have some kind of dialogue, either internally or externally about a film they're viewing.  Obviously most movie-goers don't externalize their comments and that's what makes MSTK 3000 work so well.  The films chosen are often times total bombs, but most are campy and fun.  Myself and many others feel that the commentary takes what is otherwise a droll, sometimes insipid picture and makes it hilarious.  All I can say is 'be openminded' and remember This ISN'T a Merchant-Ivory Production. "},{"Title":"Cinema's zenith and nadir.","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  How ironic that one of the brightest moments of this fine art form should be found in one of it's darkest, most neglected corners.  This is post-modern philosophy at it's best as our witty raconteurs caustically mock some of the most inept dreck ever to sully a cinema screen.Truly transcendental!  Bravo!! "},{"Title":"Its a mystery why this film was ever made","Date":"19 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Watching 'MST3K - The Movie', I came to the conclusion that it deserved to be on 'MST3K - The Television Series' far more than 'Danger Diabolik', 'Squirm' or 'Phase 4'. Bad script, ham acting, lame jokes, poor special effects - it had the lot. It also managed to insult one of the finest science fiction films of the '50's - 'This Island Earth'. Why that particular movie? Could they not find something more suitable, such as 'Plan 9 From Outer Space'? The sad thing is that its audience will never know how good a film 'This Island Earth' is because all they have seen of it is a silly send-up. The funniest line in the whole 90 minutes was I've farted! and that tells you all you need to know. The 'MST3K' brigade do not seem to be aware that any idiot can laugh at an old movie, especially if it is of its time. It takes real intelligence to be able to look at 'This Island Earth' and see it for what it is, an imaginative and exciting sci-fi picture.'MST3K' bombed on its release, and the show itself was cancelled a few years later, so one good thing came out of it at least. "},{"Title":"Talking back to the screen as an art form priceless","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  MYSTERY SCIENCE THEATER 3000 THE MOVIE (1996) *** Mike Nelson, Tom Servo (voice of Kevin Murphy), Crow T. Robot (voice of Trace Beaulieu).  Hilarious big screen debut of the cult tv series where science experiment gone awry prisoners Nelson and his wise-cracking robot pals are forced to watch the worst films ever made (in this case This Island Earth) while constantly hurtling sarcastic bombs at the unspooling.  Good iconoclastic fun. "},{"Title":"Finally... a movie that understands me!!!","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  For a few years they've had this movie at the video store, and I always wanted to get it. But for some reason I never did. So last night I finaly rented it out and I loved it! The begginng starts off and you get turned off by it. It just seems a little stupid. But once Mike, and the others start watching This Planet Earth, it is just plain hilarious. (minor joke spoilers ahead)I love alot of the jokes, like the Buddy Epson one, and the Weeny Man jokes. Or the Do we need to be seeing this?. I could go on forever. It will all make sense when you watch it. And believe it or not, you're getting two films in one.Even though few will want to watch THIS PLANET EARTH, you kind of get to wattching it, but what keeps it interesting and lively are the jokes made by the gang, watching the movie. I had a real fun time watching it, and it was just the kind of movie I needed. It had nonstop laughs from begginng to end. For the comedy achievement made by this film, and the nonstop laughing I had, although it may not completely deserve four stars, I am going give it 4 just for the movie giving me all those laughs. 4/5 stars "},{"Title":"PLEASANT OUTING SHOULD HAVE BEEN FUNNIER","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Snazzier special effects do not a movie make. However, those of us who adore MST3K already knew that was part of the in-joke. The so-so sets, the campy set up and planet's cheesiest, godawful movies, and the stage has been set for a hilarious bout of ad libs and commentary.The selected feature (THIS ISLAND EARTH, 1955) is actually a pretty darn decent sci-fi flick. So, to make merry of this movie, the chore is a little more difficult than ridiculing a dud. The small, send up skits prior to the main event, were seemingly watered down from what I had grown used to from the tv series. At least they didn't commit the mortal sin of spending half the movie explaining the pretext or set up for the film, itself. All in all, a pretty noble effort was put forth, but this isn't something that'll keep in the memory after the house lights went up.In movies that play to a particular audience, the verdict isn't so much fair to middling, but hit or miss. As much as it bothers me, MST3K THE MOVIE hit the guy who was holding the target.   "},{"Title":"In space . . . . . . . . . . . everyone can hear your screen.","Date":"4 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Wow, just wow. The popularity of this movie (and, by logical extension, I would have to say the TV show) astounds me.The concept? There is a man in space who is being tested by being shown the worst movies ever made and so he sits through them with a couple of robot buddies and makes fun of them. That's it, and to some people that's all well and good and makes for some of the funniest stuff that they've ever sat through.For me, this ends up being one of the very worst experiences I have ever had to endure in my whole life of movie-watching (and I've watched a LOT of crap, believe me). My main issue with the thing is that, to me anyway, the comments from the folk on screen are just annoying and unfunny. Okay, okay, I smirked on about two occasions but that's not a very good average for something that's supposed to be a comedy.There will be those thinking I am just a massive fan of This Island Earth (the movie being watched within the movie) and feeling all defensive about it being so insulted. Well, this was the first time I had seen This Island Earth in any form and there's no denying that it was a risible movie but the fact remains that many of my own thoughts while watching the movie would be/were funnier than those mentioned by the Mystery Science Theatregoers (who are, essentially, the annoying people sitting in the row in front of you in a cinema, thinking they are smart-assed greatness with their constant nattering and stream of lowest common denominator consciousness).Pretty much all of those involved (director Jim Mallon, stars Trace Beaulieu and Michael J. Nelson, etc) had a hand in writing this nonsense and so can all share the blame. Unfunny, irritating and just absolutely awful. It was like spending just over an hour listening to nails on a chalk board while I tried to enjoy a bad 50s sci-fi flick. I never ever want to see this again. Ever. "},{"Title":"Terrible really, but very funny.","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is perhaps aimed at a younger audience but nevertheless it is absolutely dreadful - that is, in the link sections.  Dreadful dialogue, dreadful puppetry, dreadful acting. But I have to admit, when it came to the main course, I ached from laughing - it was truly, brilliantly histerical. This was one of the most difficult films to rate.  If you need cheering up, WATCH IT! "}{"Title":"Some amusing jokes, but they're let down because it's just too easy","Date":"9 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A friend of mine once said that certain works of comedy - including some genuinely inspired and funny ones - tend to attract people who like to borrow someone else's sense of humour because they have none of their own. This is one of them.The best heckling sessions are spontaneous.  They come about when a group of people sit down in an honest attempt to enjoy a movie and find their efforts frustrated by the movie's jaw-dropping awfulness.  This Island Earth, while admittedly no masterpiece, looks (from what we can see of it here) to be reasonably well produced, NOT utterly moronic in conception, and far above the level of jaw-dropping awfulness required - unlike the linking segments shot for this film, which have all the frenetic, forced goofiness of an infantile Saturday morning cartoon show.  Besides, the hecklers never even gave This Island Earth a chance they let loose with the wisecracks the INSTANT the opening credits hit the screen.  Whatever else may be wrong with the rest of the movie, there's nothing wrong, surely, with the opening credits.Most of the wisecracks are, it turns out, funny, which is one of two reasons the exercise is not a total loss.  But few of the jokes are as funny in practise as they are in principle.  Something about the way they're superimposed on top of the original soundtrack - the way the 1996 movie has been superimposed on the 1954 one, so that we're sort of watching both at once - prevents the comic timing from being exactly right except by accident.  Jokes far weaker than these could have been made far funnier if the original soundtrack had been completely replaced, as Woody Allen did with a cheap Japanese movie for What's Up, Tiger Lily?  (1966).  (Which I haven't seen.  I have seen the 1993 Australian movie Hercules Returns, though, which is hilarious.)  Such an approach requires skill; you cannot take any old wisecrack that occurs to you and throw it in, for it may destroy the overall story; nor can you spend your time making mean-spirited fun of the earlier film, since you are, so to speak, melting it down to make something genuinely new.I said there are two reasons this film isn't a total loss.  The second one is based on a mere possibility the chance that this production and others like it will encourage Hollywood studios to invest more money in properly restoring their old titles.  Here's hoping. "},{"Title":"Big problem when the butt of the joke is better than the joke","Date":"1 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The big problem is that this cascade of lame and contrived snarkiness only works (to the extent it does actually work) when aimed at a genuinely malodorous cinematic turd. THIS ISLAND EARTH is a good if not great science fiction movie that brings to cinematic life the style of an above average science fiction magazine tale of the era. The special effects are at least par for the era and there are no big problems with the acting, script or overall production values. It is too good for this treatment. With trash like THE QUEEN OF OUTER SPACE, JOURNEY TO THE SEVENTH PLANET, REPTILICUS, SANTA CLAUS CONQUERS THE MARTIANS and sooo many others out there (without even going down to Ed Wood) why trash a real movie? There may be no Bevis but there was definitely a Butthead in charge of this project. "},{"Title":"The TV show is better.","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Look what just popped up on the screen.  Is it a meteor?  No.  Is it a balled-up dog excrement?  Close.  It's the movie version of MST3K.  A movie within a movie.  In this outing, our friends watch and poke fun at This Island Earth.  The concept is totally unnecessary.  Stick with the TV show. My evaluation *1/2 out of ****.   "},{"Title":"Three laughs maximum.","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A couple of unfunny comedians do something your drunken buddies have been doing for years, but WORSE, and get paid for it. Lame Trek and anal probe jokes abound. Probably amusing for fourteen year olds but a massive bore for everybody else. Still more laughs than 'Dogma' though! "},{"Title":"No No No","Date":"24 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Imagine Beavis and Buthead but for Nerds with even more juvenile, and that is pretty much what you have here. I found it very hard to find anything to like in this movie and will certainly never re-visit it (my sure fire way to tell if I like a movie). We can all laugh at old sci-fi movies but this is something that is best done with friends in private where you can share some common jokes. I am actually a fan of old sci-fi and taken as films of their time they can be very good, so for me this is just easy cheap humour, and best avoided. The premise of a guy in space being forced to watch old sci-fi is pretty brainless and the main character's robot companions have nothing going for them in either terms of animation or character. If you want some quality children appealing sci-fi. Find some old Muppet Show episodes of Pig's in Space. "},{"Title":"Pitiful","Date":"13 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" It doesn't matter that this movie is based off a successful T.V. show. It still is painful to watch.After a confusing and messy opening monologue by some creepy professor, for whatever reason the audience discovers that this movie takes place in space. And the spaceship our heroes are in looks suspiciously like male genitalia. I never quite understood whether that was intentional or not.The only thing sadder than the plot of this movie is the robots. Seriously, its like whoever designed them died half way through the process. I don't know if they're from the T.V. show or something (NO, I have never seen the show), but they are just utterly awful. One is something that I think resembles a crow, and the other is just a talking gumball machine. It creeped me out.What was the point of even having the robots, or the random guy who is friends with them? (By the way, was Trace Beaulieu blackmailed into playing Mike Nelson?) The comments made about the movie these characters are watching are juvenile and distracting. At one point, one of the robots makes a sound like a car engine when a car pans on screen. Where is the humor? What am I not getting?Halfway through the movie (that the characters are watching), the filmmakers decided to spare the audience by having the film reel break. While we wait for the creepy scientist guy to fix this, our useless heroes break the Hubble telescope. This is, in fact, their biggest accomplishment of the entire movie.The movie the creepy scientist makes them watch isn't that bad. It's actually pretty interesting, if a little cheesy. You'd think if the whole point of the movie was to make fun of another movie, whoever made this would've at least picked a bad movie to make fun of.The worst part is the ending. Usually, in the last ten minutes of a movie, loose ends are tied up. Nope. Not in this. Nothing happens.One star, because at least this movie was SHORT. "},{"Title":"too over-rated","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have no idea how 880 people could have awarded this movie with a '10'. I have no clue. And I don't think there's at least ONE person in this world, who knows about movies and is able to see the real value of a film, who could tell me that this movie is good. I think it's cr*p. I gave it a 5 just because i think the idea is pretty funny - to try to destroy people by forcing them to watch the worst movies in history - and some comments are also funny, but that's it. Except that, the movie suc*s bigtime. I mean is that a script? You take an old stupid movie and comment on everything on the screen. That's it.I am not at all familiar with the TV series, actually i never heard about it, but as far as i heard it's just an extended episode. Okay so a short analization.MINUSESAlmost everything. --The passages between watching the old movie Last Island Earth are totally stupid and childish. --The way the 2 human actors act is horrible. Actually i don't even remember such bad acting. They are SO bad!! --It's pretty boring. I thanked God that it was only a 72 min movie, cause if it would've been longer i don't think i would've had the patience to watch it. --The feeling you have when you watch it is that you actually don't watch a real movie, it's more like you watch the old movie Last Island Earth. --Some of the remarcs are totally unappropriatePLUSES--The idea (original, if you don't know the TV series) --Some comments, very very funny (eg I'm an excellent driver)Well that's it. Interesting to watch, but only ONCE and only ONE episode. I wouldn't have the patience to watch the whole series.And by the way, the experiment almost succeeded This Island Earth is such a bad movie, i almost gone insane.Vote 5 out of 10 (cause it caught me in a good mood) "},{"Title":"Irritating and laughless","Date":"5 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It seems as though I am definitely in the minority when I say that this movie was truly awful.  I genuinely believe that the movie that was being made fun of is actually better than all of the one-liners that made up this so-called comedy.  I don't think that I even laughed once during this film. I had never seen even one episode of the original series when I sat down to watch this movie.  Now, I can't imagine why I would ever want to see one. "},{"Title":"Fans Might Like It . I Didn`t","Date":"27 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I had heard of the cult TV sci-fi comedy  MYSTERY SCIENCE THEATER 3000 but had never seen an episode . I also knew what the show involved and its premise hadn`t exactly struck me as ground breaking ( Though possibly this might have influenced DVD commentary tracks ) but after seeing the praise showered upon by commentators I decided to watch MST 3000 THE MOVIE , after all if I didn`t like it I didn`t have to give a good reviewSorry guys but I didn`t like this and it won`t be getting a good review from me . The problem lies in two areas . First of all is the fact that this show has all the potential to be entertaining family fodder with its really cute robot characters ( And just think how much merchandising potential there lies in there  ) but for some reason the producers have pitched the show towards a juvenile teenage schoolboy audience with juvenile humour which brings me to the second problem Whether you think the humour is juvenile or not doesn`t matter because it`s unfunny , a good example is when a character from the film THIS ISLAND EARTH appears and the MST 3000 audience shout  Sieg Heil  - it`s seconds before that character is revealed as being a German thereby ruining any potential laughs from the joke . In fact I only smirked once during the film and that was a joke involving Pete Townshend which probably wouldn`t have been funny in 1996 when this movie was made  "},{"Title":"As bad as the show that spawned it","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Several years ago, a once funny prop comedian got the idea to do a show in which he and and some puppet companions ripped on bad movies. This slender premise (based on something everyone does all the time. So much for it's fan's claims of originality) actually spawned a long lived TV series called Mystery Science Theater 3000, the zenith of which was this flop film. The target this time was This Island Earth, a weak film to be sure, but one that many sci fi film fans swear is a classic, so much so that many of these fans were ready to place hits on the creators Mystery Science Theater. They needn't have bothered. No one saw this thing in it's original run. If you've seen the inane TV episodes, then you know what expect, except on a bigger scale, which isn't saying much. "}]