[{"Title":"I knew it was unbelievable, but I didn't expect it to be THAT good","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"21 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I saw the Winged Migration before this one and I though that was the most beautiful and amazing films ever made. I never though I would be proved wrong soon. Microcosmos has everything Winged Migration has, such as amazing cinematography, beautiful music and the best studio ever, our planet, it also has something more - the whole new world to show that most people don't realise exists. Look at your feet, this funny world. starts the beautiful song while the opening credits roll and we are treated to a beautiful flight through the clouds. The camera pans down, to the forest and then lower still. Thus starts the most amazing journey you ever saw on film and for the next hour you can't take your eyes of the screen.Palm trees, anakondas, space aliens... Grass and insects actully, but shown in the way you never thought possible. Who would have known that the sight of two snails making tender love is so cute and lovely, that spiders are so scary, dung-beetles are so funny and waterdrops so heavy? Watch how grass grows, flowers open in the morning, insects eat plants, plants eat insects, insects make love to other insects, plants and vice versa, chrysalis change into butterfly, etc., etc. And did I mention tender snail lovemaking? )There is whole new world under our feet. Everything so small and so amazingly beautiful at the same time. Don't let it stay unnoticed. Go and watch this film immediately (and see Winged Migration as well). "},{"Title":"Up Close And Personal - With Insects!","Date":"30 November 2006","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" This is a French-made nature film that features a lot of closeup photography. Much of that footage is amazing stuff. How they got closeups that sharp on these insects is a tribute to the camera lenses available today and the expertise and patience of the photographers.Some of the shots are so close that, at first, you don't know what insect you're seeing. Other insects are not familiar ones you'd recognize, anyway. Some are really strange-looking.The colors, the wild shapes and actions of these creatures all make a for a fascinating movie in parts, one that literally all ages should enjoy, as the cliché goes. I found, however, that with no dialog, it was tough to watch more than 30 minutes at one time. You might want to break this up into two or three segments. There is sound, however the sound these insects make. With the camera-work, it makes you feel as if you, too, were a small object on the ground listening to these strange sounds.Obviously, this is a unique film and highly recommended. "},{"Title":"My jaw was literally dropped through some of this film.","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"25 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Amazing. There must have been millions of hours of footage shot to obtain these perfect sequences of magnified nature.  Each segment was fascinating, beautiful, in some cases strangely emotional.My jaw was literally dropped through much of this film. I even found myself wowing like a hippy and chuckling like Butthead many times. There were even some moments that I almost said, No, that's not realistic. They made that up.The soundtrack was almost non-existent, so you appreciated it more when the haunting music worked its way into a scene. The sound quality of the actual critters was very good as well. There is nearly no narrative or narration throughout the film -and that would be my only criticism -there should have been NONE. The movie was  spectacular with no commentary, and the human voice for a brief moment in the beginning and end detracted from the alien environment.This movie was not a documentary, it was just fine filmmaking that would only fall into the genre of mind-f---. "},{"Title":"Look at your feet.","Date":"14 October 2003","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Microcosmos is a magnificent journey, an experience to explore a world full of details and wonder. After watching this documentary you would never see another insect in the same way as before.If you read some comments complaining about the little-to-non-existent narration is because they fail to understand this documentary is not about getting the facts straight. It is an experience and as such it is to be lived not to be told.Sit on the grass, observe, and paint the daughter of the dragonfly. "},{"Title":"A nature film done by the French","Date":"18 June 1999","Score":"13 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  The technology of the human race has finally let us truly see the marvels of what lies beneath our feet every day. I don't know how a documentary on insects could ever succeed with out some guy's deep soothing voice come in to tell us what the heck was going on but this movie proved that it can defiantly be done. Micro Cosmos actually make me feel small for not realizing what happens in the real world of insects. If you thought A Bugs Life was cool in terms of the technical aspects, after watching this, you will know where they got they're ideas from. I have no interest in bugs, but if youre ready to be enlightened; this will do it for you. "},{"Title":"Fascinating and beautiful!","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Microcosmos is definitely one of the best animal documentary movies ever made! It's not about the most bizarre and exotic animals somewhere in Africa, but shows the all-day life of tiny insects like flies, spiders, bugs, ants, frogs, worms and snails in a French forest. There are nearly no comments, but well-chosen classical music adds a fascinating rhythm, dynamics and atmosphere to the stunning pictures... the French filmmakers just don't watch the tiny animals like scientists, but point out the beauty of their appearances, movements, actions and searches for food. Every single insect appears like painted from an artist and is shown in full close-up so that you can discover  many new sides about the small animals somewhere in your own garden... and if you've watched a really romantic love scene by two snails know what natural beauty really means... highly recommended!  "},{"Title":"Amazing detail of another world","Date":"19 July 2004","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  This film gives an incredible account of insects and other little creatures many of which are known to home gardeners who are continually fighting a battle against them.  But here we see the insect life in all its intriguing detail and wondrous colour. The photography is superb. It's a pity more attention was not given to the sound which comes and goes in an unpredictable fashion.  There is very little commentary so one must just accept the beauty of each particular shot.  One does not have to be a zoologist to enjoy this strange world the inhabiatnts of which outnumber humans on planet earth.There is some sound e.g. the flutter of wings and the buzzing of bees but much of the film is silent as one might expect in a world of insects. Music accompanies some of the scenes adding a degree of drama. Two slimy snails are seen touching and fondling each other indicating unmistakably that foreplay has begun and sexual union will follow as the choral music climaxes.  The photographers must have a rare patience to record such intimate and detailed incidents.The film is not without its humorous moments.  I thought the caterpillars marching in single file were an absolute gem and evoked genuine laughter. Fascinating too was Mr. Spider working at lightning speed as he wrapped in a shroud his most unfortunate victim.I found it even more enjoyable on second viewing. "},{"Title":"Actually, a hint or two would have helped","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"15 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  It was undeniably beautiful.  Take a meadow in France that appears to consist of nothing but grass, and show us what wonders there are to be seen if you lower your eyes and look at the very very small...Insects (and arachnids and teensy molluscs) offer a possible advantage over, say, lions; in that with insects, cinematography really comes into its own. If you want to show a lion catching an antelope then you have to point your camera at a likely spot and wait and wait and wait until the event occurs; and when it does, chances are that the lighting is at its worst, the background is less than ideal and you would have got a better view from somewhere else.  The world of the tiny gives the fellow with the camera much more control, much more room to manoeuvre.  It's much easier to hit upon the perfect angle from which to show the spider eating the grasshopper.  I don't know if this is true; but it's one possible explanation for why the shots are so gorgeous, and why we feel we were given the best possible seats.But if you find yourself asking, What the hell was going on? - well, you shouldn't have to ask.  You should have been told.  One of the reasons (I hope) for watching what is after all a documentary, is to find out WHAT GOES ON in an ordinary meadow; and if the producer thought that a human voice would destroy the sibylline loveliness of it all, that's just too bad - film-making isn't all pretty pictures.  If you don't want David Attenborough doing the talking (although frankly, I don't see why you wouldn't), then find someone else or some other style of narration; or, perhaps, take more care to arrange the images so that the images themselves tell the story. I'm sure it could have been done.  As it was I got the impression that we were shown ants getting hit by raindrops until they thought we must be tired of ants - and then we were shown something else.I don't want to carp too much.  The makers could well retort that books, rather than films, are ideally suited to explanation, and that they had simply made a film for us to watch AFTER we had read the relevant books. Perhaps they have a point.  At any rate, we may remain in the dark, but we have a wonderful view. "},{"Title":"Probably the best nature film ever made!","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  The stunning images are not what make it a masterpiece, rather it is its poetry which conveys the sheer beauty of life.This movie is a religious experience. "},{"Title":"It's just bugs coming and going","Date":"19 March 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" I'm all for innovation and creativity. Quite happy with weird films. But this is just a film of bugs coming and going, going about their normal daily business. Yes, of course they're nicely photographed, and the flowers they visit have lovely bright colours. But it's not really a film, is it?I tried with Microcosmos. At first, I though I was waiting for the dialogue to kick in. But no. And then, I thought the beetle activity would form into a plot - maybe it does, but I simply couldn't get it. I think it was this belief - that it would somehow form itself into a story - that kept me from walking out. But when it finally ended I was none the wiser, and wished I hadn't bothered. "}{"Title":"Great camera work, no narration","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  The film shows some amazing pictures, the one thing it is missing is some narration that would help people understand the things they see. At least, naming the insects would be nice. Also without narration many very interesting events portrayed are likely to be either missed or misunderstood (eg a very funny shot of orchid attracting a drone by looking like a young bee queen, and many other things too). "},{"Title":"...When two brown snails making love looks like one of the most amazing things you've ever seen","Date":"10 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" That's how good this documentary is! I simply mentioned the snail couple because that particular scene made such a strong impact on me. I never saw more affection and love in the animal world...the two brown snails were, honest to God, kissing. Actually, they were all over each other) I find it a little disturbing that some previous posters don't qualify Microcosmos as a documentary. I think that it didn't need to narrate and explain what it was about, but it indeed documented something, a part of the beautiful nature that surrounds us. The fact that so little human presence is required makes it even more enjoyable and somehow, pure. It is truly mesmerizing and captivating, like watching a beautiful moving painting that relaxes the body and soul. How better to honor nature? "},{"Title":"You may come to love nature.","Date":"16 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" The word 'insect' in the minds of most people brings about images of destructive, disease-carrying 'bugs', flies, maggots, cockroaches. But if Microcomos does anything, it reminds me that there are hundreds of thousands of constructive insects that are simply beautiful.The directors of this film spent a number of years using microscopic cameras to capture breathtaking images of hundreds of insects in their natural habitat (in this case, a meadow in France). They select just the right music for a scene in which a pheasant who attacks and ant colony. Two snails seem locked in some time of embrace, a ladybug tries to take off but has a little trouble getting off the ground.'Microcosmos' fits the category of a documentary. But depending on how you take the behavior of these amazing creatures its a love story (two snails who seem deeply in love), a war movie (two beetles lock in moral struggle), a child-birth film (several insects giving birth), a disaster movie (a rainstorm in which the drops seem like a meteor storm) and a monster movie (a pheasant that attacks an ant colony). I sometimes felt like and interloper peering down into their lives in their most intimate moments.I saw a movie a few years back called 'The Scent of Green Papaya' which contained a scene of a curious little girl squatted down on the ground smiling as she watched a colony of ants at work. I wondered about that and when I saw 'Microcosmos' I felt that I had a ringside seat at what had captivated her. "},{"Title":"Absolutely awesome","Date":"6 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" This movie is beautiful and really pleasing to watch. The title of it says exactly what it is microscopic world. It's like a different universe which you may never have noticed right under your feet. Vibrant colors and astonishing beauty where you may never have expected it.Though it's not really a movie, more like just a video, I'd still call it one of the best movies I ever saw. If the world would be ending and I'd have to escape Earth in a spaceship and could only take a handful of videos with me, this one would be on the list.If you haven't watched it, do yourself a favor and watch it. "},{"Title":"Revealing the marvelous miniature world of insects, and a couple of randy snails.","Date":"24 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" I saw the English version, as a streaming Netflix video in Hi-Def. It is narrated by Kristin Scott Thomas, but really there are only a few sentences at the beginning, and even less at the end. The vast middle of the movie has no narration, only appropriate music as we are left to observe the miniature world. The picture is superb, as it has to be.There is no plot to the story, and it doesn't attempt to encompass all of the miniature world of insects. It simply gives us, the viewers, a series of brief glimpses into their everyday world.We see ants busily moving a variety of grain into their tunnels. In a different clip we see a colorful bird, perhaps a Pheasant, busily pecking and eating ants who have no clue as to protection.We see a spider and its web, and how it uses the web to wrap up a small grasshopper that happens to jump into captivity.We see a mighty struggle, a battle, between two large beetles. And in another clip, a Dung Beetle working mightily to successfully roll its ball of dung to its burrow.Plus many, many more small critters.The image saved for last is an impressive one, we see what looks like a giant sea monster rising slowly out of the water, and when it is over we realize it is a mosquito emerging from its larval state and then flying away.A wonderful viewing experience for anyone who is at all fascinated by the miniature world around us. "},{"Title":"Fascinating documentary about insects.","Date":"11 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Filmmakers Claude Nuridsany and Marie Perennou use unique microscopic cameras and powerfully specialized microphones to look into the lifestyles of insects and minute creatures in an ordinary French meadow and pond. Up close and personal using slow motion and time-lapse photography; footage of ladybugs mating, snails doing their slimy coupling, spiders waiting and pouncing on prey, caterpillars on the march, bees pollinating...and a moderate rain hardly interrupts the micro flora and fauna, but the tiny creatures deal with danger. This documentary won five Cesar Awards at the 1996 French Academy of Cinema Awards; one for Best Cinematography and another for Best Music scored by composer Bruno Coulais. MICROCOSMOS is narrated by Jacques Perrin and Kristin Scott Thomas. "},{"Title":"Innovative and Highly Entertaining","Date":"29 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" This innovative, often highly entertaining film is spoiled only by its insistence on overstaying its welcome (by about fifteen minutes). Directors Nuridsany and Perinnou explore a world about which we know very little, and understand even less.The amazing close-up photography reveals a veritable society that is as intricate as it is interdependent. The world of the insects is a fascinating, oft times amusing one peopled with hard working, organised ants, frantic bees, hungry birds and determined beetles, just to name a few. Microcosmos reveals this hidden mystery as a place where a day is a lifetime.Truly this movie is testimony to the unfathomable God who created this awe-inspiring world in which we live.Monday, June 1, 1998 - Hoyts Croydon "},{"Title":"anthropodelica","Date":"8 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" The second time I watched this I started wondering whether there was any difference between this and the 'cute' anthropomorphic Disney films I own on Super 8. Take away forty years of lens technology and you're left with Sloth vs. Jaguar, right? Well not quite - for one thing it's erotic, thanks in part but not entirely to the enhanced capacity for intimacy that those lenses provide. For another, it's got a bit of a structure, and it aims for mystery. Also, it confines the stupid voice-over to the bookends, not that I wouldn't rather that they dispatched it entirely, which goes double for the sporadic John Villiamsisms of the soundtrack. While I eventually stopped suspecting CGI, I do not doubt that some of it was staged, including one of my favourite scenes, the dung beetle rolling the dirt ball. Still, there's a lot of beauty in here, and even some small portion of the 'mystery' is justified by the content. We'd been waiting to see some of these facts of life first-hand for a long, long time. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, fresh, cutie, natural","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" I am still not sure if it is counted as a documentary or film, but this does not matter. I always liked nature so this movie is near to my spirits. I wished to see it as 3D but I think that such a release has not come up yet. The movie does not need any comment or subtitles. Just watch it. Keep on and you will learn who you are and where you live. The documentary is about everything, although it focused mainly on insects. You can imagine what just an innocent step in microcosmos can cause. All these little cuties and monsters have their own world and microcosmos maps it with a mild sight. French are great at such documentaries and this can be seen as a kind of conclusion. Beautiful shots, I can imagine setting the camera for hours, waiting for proceeding of an ant and then show all that crusade during several seconds. Maybe it seems that this kind of movie does not need any screenplay, but I do not agree with it. When you watch it, you find out it made some sense. Insects also behave according to schedules and needs. Actually, there is no point in describing the movie here, you must see it and you will want more to see. Beautiful beauty. "},{"Title":"The world, viewed as if you were an insect.","Date":"26 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" The world of tiny things is viewed, greatly magnified, as if you were as tiny as an insect. This fascinating film, although officially a documentary, is actually a work of art, depicting the beauty, as well as the ugliness, that exists at that level. There is no story, only many wonderful episodes, beautifully filmed. All aspects of life are depicted mating, birth, death, violence etc. The mating scenes range from humorous to romantically sensual. The sounds of nature are sometimes enhanced by music and the sights by time-lapse photography. You may recognize some of the scenes; they were used in several TV commercials. "}{"Title":"very unique!","Date":"25 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Anyone that gives this movie a bad review is retarded for renting it in the first place. What were you expecting? Acted out scenes? Dialogue? Morgan Freeman voice-over? It's a beautifully-made film showing bugs and a few minutes from their orderly lives. It's uniquely filmed in a way unseen in film/TV before its release. Dismissing it as boring or not educational enough is... I can't even express the close-minded idiocy of that kind of attitude. It is what it is. A beautiful, and musical, DISPLAY of insects going about their boring lives, but it's a boredom we never truly witness, and therefore it's very interesting. The quality of the film-making and the time put into the film-making deserves respect.I ultimately HATE pretty much all bugs, but this is an EXCELLENT film and I was intrigued from start to finish, and that's counting multiple viewings. "},{"Title":"Despite the subject, this is a nice movie","Date":"5 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" If you know the documentary Le peuple migrateur (or Winged Migration in Enlgish) and you loved it, than you also must give Microcosmos Le peuple de l'herbe a try. It's not exactly the same of course, but you'll certainly recognize the same style of images and narration and the idea behind it.This time it isn't about birds, but about insects. I know, many people don't like those creepy little creatures and to be honest, neither do I, but why shouldn't you try to get to know them a little bit better? Indeed, there's no reason why not, except for when you are terrified to even watch them on a TV-screen of course. And when you watch this documentary, I can assure you that it will surprise you, because this is the first time anybody has ever watched and portrayed these little animals in such a magnificent way. You are really able to penetrate their world and to see that meadow, pond or garden in which they live as one giant universe, their world. I'm not saying that I started to love insects after seeing this movie, but I certainly learned to see them in a different perspective. I guess that they'll never be my favorites, but that doesn't mean of course that this documentary isn't nice to watch. The fact that everything was shot in close-up, sometimes even with time-laps camera's, just to show every little detail, makes this a very interesting view on their little world that we know so little of. I give this movie a 7/10. "},{"Title":"Please release on DVD in USA","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I saw this movie on cable in 1999 and was blown away.  I recently bumped into the movie title again in Roger Ebert's review of Winged Migration and was reminded of this movie.  It is quite an experience.  This movie takes you up and personal with the insect world and shows you what it is like to be an inch tall.  I particularly enjoy the scene with the dung beetle doing his work - trying maneuver some dung up a hill.I would love it if this movie were released on DVD in the USA.  "},{"Title":"Beautiful!","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  'Microcosmos' is a beautiful documentary in which we see the life of insects. Very close and still very sharp the insects are on your screen. They mate, they eat, they fight each other, they work as a team, it looks beautiful.If you like nature and have interest for these kind of things this is a perfect movie to watch. The photography is great. You learn how certain things work and you are amazed by some of the ways these insects handle things. Especially the ants look pretty smart. I liked it very much. Pay attention to the beautiful music as well. "},{"Title":"Breathtaking!","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  This is a truly astounding movie. Aside from the exquisite photography, it worked as a parody of movies. It had action scenes, drama, a terrifying monster-movie sequence, slapstick, romance, and ballet. (You can see quotes from this movie in A Bug's Life.)But mostly it was cast of insects, spiders, and other tiny creatures, taking us into a world that's often very different from our own. (Have you ever thought about how an ant takes a drink of water?) The bugs, some beautiful, some comical, and some scary, have a natural charisma that's unmatched by human actors. Don't miss any opportunity to see this on a big screen with an excellent sound system. (I travelled 60 miles to see it that way and was glad I did.) "},{"Title":"Beautiful documentary","Date":"18 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I think this film really stands out from your usual nature documentary.  Some people complain about the lack of narration, but I really like that the film is (mostly) unnarrated.  I like that we're just presented with the images, to me, an explanation of what's going on would take away from the awe I had watching this film.  The cinematography is nothing short of amazing, I wonder what kind of lenses they used.  The insects in the film almost look like aliens or monsters at this level of magnification, far from the cute characters in Disney/Pixar's A Bug's Life.  Some of the scenes in this film are no doubt going to be burned into my mind, like the oddly beautiful snail lovemaking scene and the Godzilla-like peasant attack on an anthill.  If you liked this film, there's another French nature documentary worth checking out, Luc Besson's aquatic documentary Atlantis, with music by Eric Serra (as always) and no narration.  Unfortunately, this film is rather rare in the US, and I've yet to find a copy, but I'm looking. "},{"Title":"Beautiful movie!","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  This is another example how documentaries can be an extraordinary experience to watch. I mean, see Koyaanisqatsi and Powaqatsi and then see this and you will find that movies don't need actors or an original plot to be an enjoyable thing.This one is quite a favorite. Don't miss it "},{"Title":"Creepily Mesmerizing","Date":"8 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Quite possibly the most fascinating documentary ever to make my skin crawl. The lense is so close that half the time you don't even know what you're looking at, but it is impossible to draw your eyes away.  Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Beyond anything we could imagine...","Date":"10 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Beyond anything we could imagine, yet almost beneath our notice. An exquisite film, painfully beautiful. It's relatively easy to find beauty in the majestic Grand Tetons, Monument Valley, or the brooding giants of a Big Tree forest. This film finds incredible beauty unnoticed at our feet.Ants drinking raindrops, or clustered around a tiny puddle -- then sharing back at the nest.Caterpillars marching in close formation.Ladybugs as the voracious predators they are. Ants protecting their aphids from the ladybug. Ants drinking the nectar exuded by the aphids they farm.Two snails locked in loving embrace.Alien-looking mantids suddenly taking notice of the camera.Beetles in extended combat. We are not shown why.A mosquito emerging from pupa. A butterfly also. A caterpillar hatching from an egg -- then eating the shell.Winged ants crowding out of the nest for their nuptial flight.Caterpillars in weird diversity, one with two horns on its posterior that extrude and retract bright red filaments. What /are/ they?The film is almost entirely visual. There are only a few seconds of voice-over at beginning and end, and the soundtrack is very low-key, for the most part, of the natural sounds of the action. Occasional light touches of music or choral voices nicely complement the photography.I was struck by the cleanliness! Bugs cleaning, cleaning, cleaning! Even an earthworm emerging from burrow glistens in pristine translucent beauty. After viewing this film, how could anyone say that bugs are dirty? "},{"Title":"Visually stimulating!","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" So many movies we view are about money, drugs, cars, corruption, violence, etc. This movie provides major relief from these common themes, as well as a great visual education of what we cannot see without a serious microscope!!! It is certainly a movie worth viewing, especially if you are partial to wildlife doco style films. This movie definitely rates along with other great visual/educational movies such as deep blue.There is little narration, but the sound effects of the bugs themselves within their environment, accompanied by the soundtrack works well. It is a somewhat relaxing movie, but portrays so many creatures and settings that are quite awesome. The cinematography, intense colours, great lighting, and the actual animals activities are simply fascinating.If you really need a story line, or girls/boys and fast cars to be entertained, then this is not the movie for you ) there are however, scenes of bugs being somewhat raunchy.. "}{"Title":"A documentary that contains clever camera movements and effects","Date":"6 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Microcosmos is a non-narrative film, concentrating on insect life in fields and ponds. The film contains very little dialogue.There are only a few lines of speech in the whole film.At the beginning, and toward the end.There are numerous,frequently used, camera effects such as slow motion, time-lapse e.t.c.Much is filmed outdoors,however some of the camera obviously done in a studio.The music that runs the full course of the film, adds to the overall feel of the film. "},{"Title":"A good documentary featuring well developed effects.","Date":"6 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Microcosmos is a documentary about the lives of insects. The film includes the insects' habitats, what they do to survive and the insects themselves. There is no equilibrium; this is just a well filmed documentary including great camera effects and shots.Microcosmos is an original film which does not follow a story. The ideas are very imaginative and new. The ideas were very well planned and created some great effects. The characters seem believable because the film shows how the live and what it shows is true. For example, a spider does catch its prey in a web and wrap it up. The characters are all insects and animals so there aren't really any actors. The film seems to fulfill its duty of conveying a sense that the visions have been honestly expressed and it looks very real. The theme is obvious. It is a documentary about nature and the film successfully portrays this. The setting is very effective because it looks just like the insects' habitats. The shots are developed to the highest extent. They are created precisely how the directors wanted them to. There is no colour or texture effects but the film does make good use of lighting. It focuses on the insects, not the surroundings and it sets the scene well. There isn't really a soundtrack but there is two pieces of commentary. The first is an opening description of the film, and the second is some closing poetic words. This was diagetic sound. The camera angles are used very effectively. I don't recall them being used for any particular effect but they show precisely what they are meant to. There was one noticeable special effect used. This was the opening and closing of the flowers. this was obviously speeded up because the film would have been far too long if they hadn't!I enjoyed watching this film because the camera effects were well used and the way the directors filmed it is extraordinary. If you would like to learn more about insects and how they live, then I strongly recommend you watch this film. "},{"Title":"I'm not a documentary person and I LOVED it!","Date":"3 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  This was an absolutely brilliant piece of art.I caught this movie on cable the other day and was fascinated with it. It's basically loads of film about insects but the actual filming of it is the fascinating part. They filmed close-ups (and I mean very, VERY close up) of bugs. They must have used very small cameras, so they didn't scare the bugs away. The color, sound, lighting, everything in this documentary is breath taking. I recommend it to everyone. "},{"Title":"More than a documentary, this is fine art, delicate poetry.","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  David Attenborough has, deservedly, been the king of nature films for a long time but, at last, his work has been transcended. This film about insects is a rare work of fine art. The images of insects are situated in an abundantly beautiful nature, captured with an artist's eye. There is a delicacy of observation and subtlety of touch in this work which is a refreshment from the normal fact-deadened approach we're used to. Here, nature unfolds with exceptional beauty and we are allowed to use our own intelligence to appreciate the wonder for ourselves. This is an elegantly spiritual work which respects nature and the viewer. "},{"Title":"Spiders & Beetles & Snails....Oh MY!!!","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  This one has it all!  It's a Comedy, Action, Romance, Adventure,Horror, Drama, Musical, and even has a little Porn thrown in forgood measure (insect and mollusc porn that is)!  Beautifully shotalmost completely in extreme close-ups, MicroCosmos takes usthrough a day in the life of the small inhabitants of an anywhere- on-Earth grassy meadow (although some of the film was clearlyshot in a studio environment).  This is one of the few films I can watch over and over again due tothe mesmerising nature of the subjects, whether they are insects,molluscs, arachnids, amphibians, birds, or even plant-life; everyaspect of their existence and interaction is utterly engrossing! (Punintended.) The cinematography is quite possibly the BEST I've everseen, and between 2 years of equipment design and 3 years ofshooting (not to mention 15 years of research!), I suppose thatperfection is the natural outcome.  One aspect I found deliciously refreshing is the lack of narration,and sometimes sparse musical soundtrack.  Whereas mostdocumentaries saturate the viewer with facts, names and nearstep-for-step action guides, this one just lets you WATCH; theresult being that you feel like that curious viewer in a meadow ofyour childhood once again.  Magic exists once again!  My onlyminor complaint is that I'd have liked it to have been longer.9/10.  Truly makes you marvel at the diversity and WONDER ofNature! "},{"Title":"Fascinating","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Microcosmos is a fascinating if not a false movie. There is some wonderful camera work that is supposed to be natural but sometimes is quite obviously done in a studio. It really is hypnotic in parts but the put in sound affects can be a little irritating. overall it was good .7 out of 10  "},{"Title":"More explanation ... then again, maybe not","Date":"28 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Thoroughly enjoyable film, although I did at least in the beginning want more explanation. I wanted to know what that particular spider (or other creature) was called. I wanted to hear things like Lucky catch. Sometimes a spider will sit for days without a meal. (I don't really know if that's the case.) Little bits of information like that would have been welcome.But then I became absorbed and realized that it was enough just to observe and learn what was available visually. The use of music to tell the story was not perfect, but good enough. I apparently do not enjoy snail mating as much as the film-makers though, because they chose absolutely beautiful music and it went on entirely too long. Strange.Nevertheless, I did enjoy this one and I would watch it again. It turns out that when you know more about them and can see their beauty this tiny creatures don't seem so creepy any more. "},{"Title":"This is not a documentary","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" I was very disappointed with this film. I watched it on TV, was waiting for it for a week when they announced it. Somebody compared this work with David Attenborough's, but in this movie you won't learn much about the fascinating life of bugs. All you see is some beautiful images of nature, accompanied by nice music, and it becomes pretty boring after an hour. I think it could be compared with those whale songs recorded on audio CD, personally, I prefer real music. This is like watching a football match without the commentary. I don't know much about movie photography, techniques or editing, all I can say that it seems perfect to me. So if you want to learn more about nature, go with Attenborough, this is not what you are looking for. It is a bit unusual tough, it gives it that must see component). "},{"Title":"The Best Documentaries You'll Ever See","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I was truly mesmerized when I saw Microcosmos. Never before had I seen a documentary with such brilliance. The film makers use special lenses and cameras to bring up-close shots of insects and other tiny little creatures. The most memorable moments involve beautiful scenes involving ladybugs, caterpillars, and snails.There were a few things more that made this better than any documentary you will see on the Discovery Channel. First, a normal documentary on little creatures would show an abundance of spiders. This had one brief moment where a spider was catching grasshoppers. There was a second spider that somehow lived underwater(!) that they showed. That was an amazing moment. Second, a normal documentary would have an irritating narrator explaining everything under the sun to the audience. This one only has the narrator in the very beginning and the very end.I am a person who never watches a movie twice, but I was so moved by Microcosmos, that I did this time. Actually, I saw it in two consecutive days. It is definitely worth everyone's time. Zanatos' score ##### out of ##### (or a ten, on this page). Check it out.     "},{"Title":"Quality to shame the lame digital fx of ANY blockbuster !","Date":"1 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  A film that exceeded my already very high expectations of it ... utterly wondrous. It puts into perspective (and shames) the painfully obvious digital fx found in blockbusters such as Jurassic Park, Titanic, Matrix etc.Nothing artificial can come close to this jaw dropping reality. "}{"Title":"The most beautiful film until The Thin Red Line came along.","Date":"30 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  This is an amazing visual piece of work.  The extraordinary close-ups are incredible, and it contains some of the best moments in recent cinema, including two snails getting it on - the greatest sex scene of all time (no, really). Watch it. "},{"Title":"Only for nature lovers.","Date":"6 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" This film is original, they didn't base it on any book or film or anything. The characters are very believable because they are real and bugs cannot act. There was special effects used such as speeding up time to make the bugs go faster, apart from that no other special effects were used. It is arty because it's got special effects that don't affect the story. The story showed bugs living there every day lives. I didn't really enjoy the film, especially as it was so long for a film with no narrative. The film is non-narrative cinema. The film hasn't got a soundtrack because all the way through it there is sounds like birds, water, etc. "},{"Title":"Bored at first.... but then...","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" I watched it for 20 minutes then pressed eject because I was bored... then I came back and watched the rest of it. The year is now 2006 and this documentary was made in 1996. But watching the DVD looks like it was shot in high-def with the most modern camera. It's crystal clear. I would recommend this even though it starts out boring. There is very little narration, which is kind of nice. I laughed so hard in one scene... a dung-beatle is pushing his find along and it gets stuck. He finally figures out how to get it unstuck. There are so many interesting scenes. Another one shows a spider building a large bubble under-water by going to get air several times and bring more air to make the under-water bubble larger. Lots of interesting things just like that. It kind of makes insects look cute. "},{"Title":"Seeing is Believing, How about Hearing?","Date":"25 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Kudos to the filmmaker for the effort and patience to film our planet's smaller creatures.  He lets our eyes peer into a fascinating world.  Our ears are another matter.  When an underwater spider grabs a bubble of air from above the surface, does it really make a popping sound?  I think not.I'm amazed in the contrast between what an audience demands visually in a movie and what it tolerates aurally, even in a documentary, which is supposedly about real life.  I once attended a lecture from David Attenborough who was promoting a documentary on plants.  He got rather melodramatic in answering a question about the sounds used in making his work.  Their creed seems to be if it's moving, some sort of sound has to accompany it.Explosions in space, bird songs from the wrong continent, squealing tires on dirt; common examples of glaring errors that viewers simply ignore because they are heard and not seen. "},{"Title":"maybe i'm imagining things,but...","Date":"21 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" i was disappointed in this documentary for two main reasons.the first thing is,sometimes i swear the insects/bugs/creepy crawlies were CG in some shots and hand made,out of cloth or something,in others.a lot of them just didn't look realistic to me.other than that though,there were some very beautifully photographed scenes.there were also some grotesque scenes though.and there were also some humorous moments.there is almost no narration,save for the opening and one other part,so if you need a bit of context,you might not like this film.i did find that it did sort of jump around a lot aimlessly.i did find that the film was slow at times.i found it watchable,but nothing spectacular.plus,those two reasons i mentioned earlier that made me disappointed,really took me out of the movie.i could be way out too lunch,and maybe the creatures really do look like they are depicted in the documentary.i'm sure some of them do.anyway,i give Microcosmos a 5/10 "},{"Title":"For Nature lovers only","Date":"6 December 2004","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Microcosmos is a film directed by Claude Nuridsany and Marie Perenndu. It was released in 1996 and non-narrative cinema.There is no plot synopsis as it's non-narrative cinema but it basically consists of close-ups of bugs. The film isn't adapted from fiction or drama it's purely based on an original idea.The characters are believable because there aren't any unreal bugs that appear. The cast can't be judged because no actors appear in at all in Microcosmos. The film is meant to come across as 'arty', and could to the right people but certainly not to me as i'm just not interested in watching bugs for hours.The theme of the film is bugs. Its made up of short clips, of mainly insects involved in everyday life. These clips are well developed and put together. These clips are shot in appropriate settings. The cinematography is effective and the film makes good use of shadow eg. When the caterpillar was the other side of a leaf you could see the shadow of it's body but when you actually saw it, it had spines coming out.The music used in the film is appropriate but isn't to my taste.Camera angles are used effectively, they mostly consist of close-ups. But different camera angles were used, looking up at a bird from and ants point of view made it look imposing.There are no special effects used.The film does contain shots of snails mating, which aren't really necessary.Overall i didn't enjoy Microcosmos because i'm not really into nature but if you were the right kind of person you could love this film. "}]