[{"Title":"Wait a year, try again","Date":"4 May 2005","Score":"19 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Mother is a beautiful movie, in that it gives us an insight to our relationships with our parents. While I am not female, things might be a little different for daughters, but as a son, I can see the same behaviors that have cultivated in my mother. And she can see it in her mother. My girlfriend can see it in her mother, and her grandmother. While the comedy is a little dry, and actually slightly confusing on the initial viewing, if you return to the movie after a year or so, it will make complete sense. It only gets better after that. I can understand being underwhelmed by this movie the first time. Please don't judge it too harshly. I know I would have rated it a 6 or so when I first saw it, and now I've given it a 9. Maybe I should explain why it doesn't get a 10. There are a few sequences that should have been altered. I found the date scene to be a little too long, and the Mrs Robinson sequence should have been almost completely eliminated. It is a painfully bad gag, and the humor of it is something that can only be appreciated by those of a certain mind set. Don't worry, I'm not insulting you if you like it. "},{"Title":"Living with mom","Date":"24 November 2006","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Albert Brooks plays the son.Debbie Reynolds plays the mother.The son, science fiction writer John Henderson, moves back home to his mother Beatrice Henderson.And the reason this grown up man does so is because he feels like he should do so after two failed marriages.He thinks after that experience his chances for a successful relationship would be better.Albert Brooks directed, wrote and acted the lead in Mother (1996).He's terrific in the movie as is the legendary Debbie Reynolds playing the mother.Rob Morrow, who's still very well remembered as Dr.Joel Fleischman in the great 90's series Northern Exposure, does very good job in this movie playing the brother Jeff.Lisa Kudrow of Friends does a small part as Linda, the blonde John goes out with.She's just wonderful.Paul Collins is brilliant playing the Lawyer.John C. McGinley plays Carl in the movie and he's very good.Mother is a terrific movie that combines comedy and drama in a fine way.It's mighty funny when John makes his room look like exactly the same it looked like when he originally lived there.I think we all should take trips to the past every now and then.Maybe we learn something about ourselves. "},{"Title":"The movie grows on you","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw Mother in a theater and came away only partially impressed. Although I appreciated the witty script, I thought Brooks missed making his point about the complicated relationships between mothers and sons. However, I've warmed to this film after seeing it over and over on cable. The dialogue is great, and Brooks and Reynolds are a wonderful comic team. For example, I love the way Brooks wags a banana at Reynolds when she questions why women leave him. And it's hilarious when Brooks and his brother fight over Reynolds like she was their mistress. The ending is a little too pat -- I don't think sons ever resolve their conflicts with their mothers, or even understand them. But it's Brooks' best film after Lost in America. And that ain't bad. "},{"Title":"A genius on top form","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Sometimes, from the endless stream of average movies, comes a gem, this is one such film.Albert Brooks is impossible to beat if you're looking for character driven comedy, and Mother comes second only to another Brooks film, Modern Romance.Here we have the story of a science-fiction writer, blocked and fresh from his second divorce. It's the break up with this woman that prompts John Henderson (Brooks) to move back in with his mother, in the hope that solving his life-long problems with her will lead to the solution of his myriad of other problems.The comedy is brilliant throughout. The scene in his mother's kitchen (food talk) is a contender for the finest comedy scene ever written. And the small things, that other writers neglect, are what make this film a standout One example is the scene when Brooks' character is attempting to make a start on his next novel; it's truly hilarious, and any telling of its humour hear wouldn't convey the true laugh-out-loud quality of the moment, so just watch the movie.Albert Brooks and Debbie Reynolds both give perfect performances as the lost and insecure son, and the unsure and uninterested mother, and their chemistry is unique.An absolute comedy gem, and my second favourite film of all time; second only to Modern Romance "},{"Title":"A great film.","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  For me, this is one of the best films out of Hollywood in the 90's. A fine and believable plot, great dialogue, perfect comic timing, amazing acting (and an excellent choice of cast) -- what more can I say? Even the musical score and the cinematography were right on. Why aren't there more films like this coming out of Hollywood? Don't they think people have brains and can understand the subtleties of human relationships? Kudos to Albert Brooks and Monica Johnson. "},{"Title":"Mother love","Date":"9 December 2004","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Albert's Brooks' comedy 'Mother' is frequently hilarious, with some cracking dialogue, and highly perceptive few viewers will fail to recognise some aspect of their relationships with their family in its portrayal of its eponymous central character and her middle-aged son, played by Brooks himself. But in taking their interaction as its principal subject, instead of using it as a backdrop to a wider story, the film chooses to pursue limited ambitions, and there's a level of contrivance necessary to support this narrow focus while, at a micro-level, the film is perfect, the overall plot makes less sense, and the ending is a little pat. Not a great film; but one guaranteed to make you smile. "},{"Title":" Universal Problems...","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I think Albert Brooks did a wonderful job with this film. Portraying all the odd little things that happen in our relationships with our respective mothers. We all have those moments where we look at her and can't believe that we were spawned from her loins. The ways that at any age, she can reduce us to about 9 years old and completely humiliate and embarrass the hell out us at a moments notice.Debbie Reynolds is magnificent as the mother, she has that maniacal sense of motherly perfection that all of our mother's, at the very least, attempt to portray. Rob Morrow is also hilarious as the jealous younger brother. Every scene between him and Brooks is a laugh riot, because they both seem to regress to their younger days when they would fight over toys and the remote control.All in all, I think it is something everyone can relate to on some sense. We have all had one or two of these moments with our mothers and it is more than likely they will happen again.  "},{"Title":"A decent middling movie with some contrived plot and laugh lines...but warm and fun","Date":"30 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Mother (1996)A mildly amusing and warm movie about a middle-aged man who returns to his old house to live with his mom. A jealous and over-achieving brother gets in the way a little, to some light comedy, but mostly it's the growing awkward relationship of mother and son that makes the movie.In a way it is Debbie Reynolds (as the mother) and not Albert Brooks (as the main son) who dominates, and lifts it up a little. She's come a long way from the breakthrough 45 years earlier of Singin' in the Rain and other 1950s classics, and she still has a kind of innocent warmth on screen. In fact, you expect at first she might be a monster or a manipulator, but she's oddly straight forward and exactly the therapy the son needs.There is a lack of real conflict to the plot, however. And any butting of heads or the big twist in the story (relating to their ambitions as authors) seem contrived. An opportunity was lost (or avoided) in trying to make something gel in dramatic, human terms. But it's all in an effort for some easygoing laughs, and some irony. Faint praise here isn't mean to quite condemn the movie, but it's true, this isn't ever going to be a great one, nor a flop. It might be attractive mostly to people who like either of the main actors.There is a weird (and fun) re-writing of the Paul Simon song Mrs. Robinson (and sung by some very good Simon and Garfunkel imitators). Add that to the Alfa Romeo driven by Brooks, and there is a slight reference to The Graduate built in, though I'm not sure it really is meant to go very far. But then, nothing in this movie goes very far. Just perhaps for some far enough. "},{"Title":"A Terrific Pairing Of Brooks and Reynolds","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a great movie that is a lot of fun. I really liked Debbie Reynolds, who I think deserved a Best Supporting Actress award for her performance. Her comic timing is perfect.Albert Brooks is great too. He reminds somewhat of Woody Allen, playing a neurotic science fiction writer who gets writer's block. He moves back home with Mom (Reynolds) in hopes of breaking the block. The interplay between these two great actors is marvelous, thanks to a wonderful Brooks script. One other comment I will add is that there is practically nothing in this movie to find offensive or objectionable. Good, clean fun, with many laughs.Brooks more recent movie, The Muse featured a similar theme of a writer whose talents are temporarily stifled. I wonder if there is any autobiography to Brooks' scripts, but I am sure there is not, for his stories are often full of wonderfully funny moments.I really recommend Mother. "},{"Title":"Another Great Albert Brooks Comedy","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  With Mother, director Albert Brooks has given us another great comedic filmmaking triumph. The acting is terrific, the laughs come at a fairly steady pace, and, like all great comedies, it has an inner meaning underneath all the smirks and giggles.Brooks co-wrote, directed, and starred in this one, playing the somewhat unsuccessful science-fiction novelist John Henderson (he's contstantly being compared to Stephen King) who blames his problems with women on Mom. Therefore, he decides to move back in with Mother (played by Debbie Reynolds, whom Brooks somehow lured back to the big screen) and figure out their problems. What ensues might have been sitcom-style laughs, but Brooks and co-writer Monica Johnson know better than that; the laughs are pretty fast-paced but their well-observed ranting as opposed to tasteless wisecracks.The keys to the film, however, are Brooks and Reynolds, the latter which brings a special emotional undertone to a role that would have been played as all sap by any other actress. Check Mother out; if you want smart, funny humor and even a tad bit of drama, you should enjoy it immensely. Rated PG-13. 104 minutes. 8 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Debbie does comedy----","Date":"2 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Miss Reynolds came out of semi-retirement, as she likes to say, to star in this Albert Brooks comedy. She is amazing - so underplayed - so deadpan - so funny. Brooks on the other hand can be a whiner at times and you almost want to slap him for what he says to his mother, but like a good mom, she takes it and realizes he loves her deep down and doesn't mean it. The two together in their scenes are right on with pacing and the snappy dialog Brooks has written. Rob Morrow is a hoot as the jealous brother who also wants the mother's attention as well as a young Lisa Kudrow in a small, but very funny, part of a girl he goes out with after his divorce. For anyone with a mother, this film is a must! "},{"Title":"A boy's best friend is his mother?","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I normally don't like Albert Brooks comedies because his humor is subtle, and sometimes, so sarcastic that it seems to me, that he tries too hard. He often comes off like a gigantic dufus who's every character, is always the over-looked, but honest and quite nice guy (see Broadcast News). Here, he is once again, the same character. However, in watching this movie with my folks, I found it to be quite a funny little comedy about a grown man who tries to connect with his mother. Brooks plays John, a writer who is recently divorced. Suffering from writer's block, probably due to his recent 'problems,' he decides that he needs some sort of emotionally reinvigorating experience. One in which he is in search of something, but he doesn't really know what it is. Sort of like, he'll know it when it happens.He goes to spend some time with his widowed mother, Beatrice, played by the lovely Debbie Reynolds. They seem like exact opposites, she is timid, and somewhat flaky. He is rather pushy, and often, sarcastic. She appears more provincial; he comes off as more modern. It doesn't seem like they're related at first, because they're so different. What might've started as a desire to find some inspriation to write by cooling off from a divorce, becomes a 360 drive to reconnect with his mother, and work out their innocuous differences in personality, outlook, humor, and so forth, until mother and son finally understand one another. This may not be clear to either intially that this will eventually be the ends to the vacation.Rob Morrow plays John's equally annoying brother, a mama's boy type who frequently contacts Beatrice, trying to get her to be more modern and everything else like John does, but at the same time, not trying so hard to force it on her, and also, not trying like John to resolve anything laden in their relationship that may be troubling them. Though, it seems to be suggested that there is a slight Oedepis Complex. But, Rob Morrow is only a subplot, and kind of an aggravating character at that. Beatrice seems so pleasant, and so well...motherly. The strange reformations that John and his mother take on are quite amusing. The bit, for example, in the beginning when John first arrives at his mother's house, and she doesn't seem to have anything he likes to eat. Or, when they go to the mall together, and he tries to stop her from always feeling obligated to explain everything to strangers (like her son is a middle aged divorced man with writer's block). It's really cute. According to the trivia, Nancy Reagan was considered for Debbie Renynolds' role, which would've probably been played wonderfully by her. Some of things that Reynolds's (like the restaurant scene) is hilarious with the cursing and all of that as she becomes impatient with her son John's wanting to change her every moment. Basically, the whole movie is Albert Brooks and Debbie Reynolds. John McGinnley and Lisa Kudrow show up for a minute role as the best friend and blind date (respectively). It might be worth watching for older audiences. I watched it with my folks, and they really seemd to enjoy it (they usually don't like Albert Brooks movies, either). It's worth a try. "},{"Title":"This movie is about my family","Date":"26 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The first time I saw Mother was at a theater in Toronto where my sister and mother from Chicago were visiting. My husband and I and my mother and sister all went to this movie. My sister and I were laughing SO HARD, we fell on the floor! My mother didn't understand why we were laughing so hard but this movie was the story of our lives! The only difference is we are Jewish (as is Brooks) and this mother wasn't, but she was still MY mother. It was like Albert Brooks hid in our house when we were growing up and had written all this down. We especially loved the line that Debbie Reynolds says after they just got back from dinner Dear, are you hungry'? and then starts pulling out frozen food from the freezer...my mother! All Jewish mother's think about is FOOD! We also thought it to be hilarious that she freezes everything, my mother does too. And the way Albert Brooks felt that she loved his brother more, hello...my life!This movie is smart, funny, witty and totally realistic! The casting is great, Debbie Reynolds is marvelous as the mother who can't understand why her son wants to move back home after a divorce, and Albert Brooks is also very believable as the confused son.If you put your self into this movie, you also might see signs of your life with your mother! Funny, funny flick! "},{"Title":"Albert Goes Home Again.....","Date":"3 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Albert Brooks moves back in with his mother to conduct an experiment. His latest marriage is down the drain and is in the process of a divorce and he wants to figure out why his relationships with women never work out. Hence, mama, here he comes! Debbie Reynolds, who had stayed somewhat productive during her long career, but had a lull in the eighties, made her comeback in this lightweight but feel-good movie. (Due to the response to her in this movie, she was cast the following year in the Kevin Kline movie, In and Out.) Some critics may not call Mother his best material, and it may not have the same reputation as other Brooks films, but this is very good, and written very true to life. (We all know or have a mother just like this.) Rob Morrow is very memorable as Albert's brother and a whiny mama's boy, who can't get through a day without talking to his mama. To me, it is one of the best family movies of the 90s, with Albert Brooks' self-deprecating humor and winning performance. Lisa Kudrow is good in a bit part near the beginning, also.To me, you can never go wrong with Albert Brooks, and with Debbie Reynolds, too, you're in for a Mother's Day treat any day of the week! "},{"Title":"Enjoyable light comedy","Date":"15 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Albert Brooks seems to have made a career out of writing, and starring in, successful small films about a man (played by Brooks) who has some self-esteem issues. By small films I mean they can be shot in any city, don't require special effects, and use very good actors but ones who are not fantastically expensive at the time of the filming. I usually find his movies enjoyable, but not rolling in the aisles with laughter funny. (Very few shows cause me to laugh out loud, and fewer crack me up the way some of Alec Guinness' classic comedies did.)This film is no exception. It is not the funniest or wittiest film of our time, but it is funny, witty, insightful and points out the humor of the human condition. In this case the story is about a writer (Brooks) who has recently been divorced, again, and is trying to understand why his marriages, and relationships with women in general, have been so unsuccessful. He realizes that the common factor in his marriages is that he marries women who are not supportive of him; they don't see him as a successful author. He comes up with the idea that his problem with women stem from his relationship with his mother (played delightfully by multi-talented Debbie Reynolds), who always finds fault with him but dotes on his younger brother (played by Rob Morrow), a sports agent with a wife and children. So he decides to try an experiment of moving back into his old room in his mother's house to try to learn more about why they interact the way they do.Woody Allen also writes comedies that are strong on character, but Allen seems to me to be on a higher tier, with more complex characters and deeper situations. I don't see Brooks as the West Coast Allen. "},{"Title":"Well worth seeing","Date":"20 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If I enjoy a film enough to purchase it, then it means I KNOW I can enjoy repeated viewings of it, and that is certainly the case with Mother. The story is character-driven, and the comedy is clever and often subtle, rather than being filled with broad, gag-oriented laughs--so it won't appeal to everyone. Debbie Reynolds is wonderfully understated, and does a great job of shedding the glamorous persona we're used to seeing from earlier films and TV roles. Albert Brooks is his standard but enjoyable self, and though his screen characters are known for their complaining, I never found it irritating. Lisa Kudrow has a small but funny role as one of the women Brooks dates early in the film. "},{"Title":"Your Mother And Mine","Date":"30 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Albert Brooks is one of the finest comic minds in Hollywood today and this is perhaps his best work (as a writer, I mean). He has chosen for his subject matter a story that most everyone can relate to, since most everyone has mother issues. In this case, his character has just gotten through his second divorce and, in order to figure out why, is moving back in with his mother to see where the trouble all started. See if you don't catch yourself thinking, That's just like MY mother! at least three times during the film. She can't work the machinery, she freezes her salads, she doesn't believe in brand names, she tells personal details to complete strangers, she can't drive, and, oh yeah, she secretly hates her son. The chemistry between aged film star Debbie Reynolds and Brooks is perfect, (not to say Freudian), the dialogue is brilliant and the characters are so real, they make you cringe.In short, it's better than The Muse. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly True","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I didn't hold very high expectations before I watched this film because the only Albert Brooks film I had previously seen was the dour 'Muse'. When I read the plot I began to think is this gonna be the muse all over again?, A man with writers block trying to find a way to get out a script! So you can imagine how surprised I was when I watched the wonderful moments between the extremely difficult Beatrice Henderson (Debbie Reynolds) and the extremely neurotic son John Henderson (Albert Brooks). The frustrating moments between the two create some amazing scenes and the generation gap becomes the central point for most of the humour (The best being the very true kitchen scene where Beatrice freezes all her food to make it 'keep' like so many mothers and grandmothers do, with John so clearly frustrated). Both Reynolds and Brooks give very good performances and work very well together, and we easily step in the feet of John and create an empathy which was was surely meant to be made. However I do feel that the films ending was very, well pathetic and conventional and this was a great let down on what could have been a great film. Watch IT! "},{"Title":"A Hilarious movie- I've seen it 3x since it came out. Just as funny everytime.","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Albert Brooks is so understatedly funny. You laugh with him and you laugh at him, so you never know exactly how its going to happen, you just know you're going to laugh. Debbie Reynolds is very funny as Mom and Rob Morrow plays a great supporting role which had me cracking up. These characters are absolutely realistic and that reality base is why this Albert Brooks film, like Defending your Life, is timeless. All three actors are funny in their own unique way. All three characters are three dimensional and the dialogue between them is classic.This movie re-enforces the notion that you CAN always start over, even when all signs tell you it's too late. Your family is also the best catalyst in making that change.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I loved this movie! I think Albert Brooks is one of the most under- rated writers of our generation. I found this movie both hilarious and profoundly moving. It was very real and touching. Debbie Reynolds was fantastic as the mother! One of the funniest scenes was in her kitchen with her trying to feed him the frozen lettuce, cheese and ice cream with the protective covering. I've seen this movie 3 times and every time I laugh until I cry. Very few movies can produce a painful belly laugh out loud. For some reason, this one does it for me. I highly recommend this movie! "}{"Title":"Incredible Depiction of One Man's Coming to Terms with an Overbearing Mother","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Mother is definitely one of Albert Brooks' finest films, in both the directorial and performance departments.  It is a funny, touching, and sometimes frustrating story of a science fiction novelist, played by Brooks, trying to find the cause of his failed personal relationships by moving back in with his mother, played excellently by Debbie Reynolds.Not a laugh riot, as it was not intended to be, Mother is a study in the relationship between an overbearing, yet non-attentive mother, and her distraught, hopelessly lost son.  The performances are exquisite by all of the players, including the little seen Rob Morrow as the momma's boy sports agent brother of Brooks' character.A true triumph for Albert Brooks and a little known gem, Mother is an unforgettable film which can also stand to teach a few lessons about what parents and their children give up in order to live with one another.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"How to make an effective movie w/o a car chase.","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of those movies that's like watching a play on a movie screen, and what an enjoyable play it is.  Through deft writing and flawless acting, this film manages to capture the subtle psychological warfare taking place b/t Brooks and his family.  Also to his credit, the Brooks character is far from flawless or blameless that the relationship has become such an emotional wasteland.  A gentle giant.  "},{"Title":"Albert Brooks at his best !","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Albert Brooks has made lots of great movies (Defending Your Life, Lost in America) but Mother is his greatest achievement. Debbie Reynolds' performance is fabulous. The scene in which she tries to have John eat the frozen lettuce, cheese, and Sweet Tooth Ice Cream is one of film's funniest moments. "},{"Title":"Debbie Reynolds Should Have Won an Oscar","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  My mother was always a fan of Debbie Reynolds, so I took her to the theater to see this film when it came out.  I must agree with everyone else who states that Debbie Reynolds should have been recognized by the Academy for this film.  She nailed the part so perfectly, that sitting there, watching her on the screen with my own mom in the seat next to me, all I could think of was My God, they're twins! "},{"Title":"A delightful movie","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was great to watch, but I feel Paul Reiser could have done a better job as John. Debbie Reynolds was outstanding as always. The plot was a refreshing change from the comedies that are so popular today. "},{"Title":"I Could Relate","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One of Albert Brooks' best efforts. I was impressed by Debbie Reynolds, who proves she is more than able to take on roles like the ones the older Ruth Gordon once excelled in. Rating 8.   Will appeal to males more than females, perhaps because it hits a bit close to home. "},{"Title":"A poignant, hilarious, and brilliantly acted masterpiece!","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I wholeheartedly second the motions of all the above commentators who have raved about this movie, and can only scratch my head in puzzlement at those few who don't seem to get it.  Debbie Reynolds gives the performance of her career and everyone else is equally brilliant.  Your above commentators who have seen the movie many times and to whom the mother's character strikes home offer good testimony for the movie's emotional authenticity.  If you've ever been a member of a family don't miss it! "},{"Title":"This movie is hilarious!","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is hilarious, partially because of the characters who were funny (and who reminded me of some of my own relatives), and because Albert Brooks takes a humorous look at family relationships and situations in which, basically, you either laugh or cry. "},{"Title":"Not a single Oscar nomination? THIS is the crime of the 90s!","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  While it's disconcerting to realize that Albert Brooks and Monica Johnson were spying on my mother's behavior, they truly nailed her. And Debbie Reyond's portrayal of my dear mommie is flawless. What's that you say? You think it's about your mother? So exceptional is this film in writing, directing, and acting that it's painful to watch, both because it's true and because you'll laugh so hard you'll have internal injuries (you won't have to fake that limp). So, no nominations? Reynolds being overlooked is the all-time, you've gotta be kiddin' me oversight. The Oscars are a sham! What's that mom? You already knew that?  "},{"Title":"Mother Knows Best.","Date":"16 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Mother (1996) Dir Albert Brooks / Cast Albert Brooks, Debbie Reynolds, Rob Morrow, Lisa Kudrow, Spencer Klein Like many Albert Brooks comedies there is a seemingly realistic and normal setting until we begin to relate to its exaggeration. Here he presents a film about understanding our own mothers. He plays a struggling writer who just went through a divorce. In an attempt to put his life back together he moves back home. Amusing setup travels a rather sitcom appeal but not without conviction. Brooks has a keen ear for humour and dialogue. As director he previously gained acclaim for Lost in America, which seems to be on a broader scope than what he is given here. He and Debbie Reynolds have fantastic comic chemistry together particularly in a scene at a grocery store. This is Reynolds on screen for the first time in two decades. He will come to adjust to his past and face his future but not without humorous forceful jabs from mother who wants her son to get on with life and move out. Supporting roles are unfortunately not as broad or interesting. Rob Morrow plays the son she favors but he is mainly seen through a computer kissing ass. Lisa Kudrow is also featured but this film belongs to the leads whom uphold it nicely. With these complaints aside there are many laughs throughout with a superb message about relationships and where it all begins at home. Score 8 / 10 "}{"Title":"Terrific stuff","Date":"30 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" 'Mother' is a terrific comedy that invisibly segues from early scenes in which Albert Brooks delivers very Albert Brooks jokes in his brilliantly precise Albert Brooks way into a deepening story in which he and his infuriating mother (Debbie Reynolds) come to understand each other in a way they never bothered to before. It's consistently funny, but also very sweet and believable.The screenplay by Brooks and Monica Johnson fills in characters that made me buy that at the moment we join him and Reynolds, theirs is an antagonistic relationship that's existed for the past four decades. There's some really good writing here; there are funny lines that land better than others, for sure, but the development of their relationship, as Brooks moves back home in order to understand where he keeps going wrong with the women in his life, is genuinely touching without descending into sentimentality.Much of the success of the film is down to the three central performances. Brooks is Brooks, as he always is, and I could watch the guy all day. I love his measured delivery and his sharp timing. I just love the way he talks. Rob Morrow is excellent as the other son overcome with jealously when his mother's attention isn't lavished on him for a change - I loved his exasperated whining. And then there's Reynolds, who's utterly brilliant as the mom, managing to be both maddening (as seen through Brooks's eyes) and completely delightful; even at her most fussy and picky her character is completely charming. She and Brooks play off each other beautifully. The movie takes a while to get going, but once the central relationship and the premise is established it's genuinely endearing, and very funny, until the end credits roll. "},{"Title":"Very interesting study of a son and his mother, yet to reconcile past disappointments.","Date":"12 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I had heard of this movie when it came out in 1996, I heard that it was good, but never got around to seeing it. Until tonight, with my wife, on Netflix streaming movies. It is a very good movie.Written and directed by Albert Brooks, he also plays the lead role of John Henderson, Science Fiction author living in Los Angeles. He is just coming off his second divorce, and now working on his next book, but he feels blocked. When he talks to his mother, who lives in Saucilito , he always comes away with a feeling that she doesn't really like him. So one day he decides, he doesn't ask, he will go live with his mother for an indefinite time to get sorted out. His mother is Debbie Reynolds who is just perfect in her role as Beatrice Henderson, John's mother. She is sweet but doting, as mothers often are, and their conversations seldom have a satisfying conclusion.Things are complicated by John's younger brother, Rob Morrow as Jeff , who seems to have an ideal relationship with his wife and with his mother. So John is dealing with both issues, his mother and his brother.SPOILERS One evening when mom is out on a date John sees a box in the closet, takes it down, it is filled with notebooks of mom's writings from way before the kids came along. The stories were very good. John figured out, mom was mad because of John, when he came along she had to discontinue her writing and be a mom. But now that they both had this figured out, they could get on with their lives. And, as the movie is ending, John meets a fan, a nice single lady, and mom is at the computer, starting to write again. Her first story is about a man who moves in with his mother. "},{"Title":"Sweet, hilarious comedy about one man's mother","Date":"10 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Albert Brooks is regarded by many in the know as one of the great comics of our generation. But his style is very personal and quirky, which is why he remains a cult comedian even after writing, directing, and/or appearing in movies for over 20 years. (His most famous role is probably his Oscar-nominated turn in James L. Brooks's BROADCAST NEWS, where he played a brilliant reporter who failed as an on-air newscaster because he perspired more than Nixon.) Brooks's characters tend to be anti-heroes who are so obsessed with being politically correct and doing the right thing that it never occurs to them how obnoxious they are. (In Brooks's REAL LIFE 1979, he played a documentary filmmaker who nearly drove his subjects to nervous breakdowns.) But in MOTHER, Brooks has made a noble effort to meet his audience more than halfway, and he's definitely worth the trouble.Brooks plays John Henderson, a science-fiction writer who begins the movie in the middle of arranging his second divorce. (Trying to look at the bright side, John says of his ex, She brought great furniture to the marriage.) Doing some navel-gazing, John concludes that his problems with women stem from unresolved issues with his mother (Debbie Reynolds, in a welcome return to the movies). So he informs his mother that he wants to move back in with her as an experiment. The experimental situation includes returning his old room to its 1970's splendor, complete with tacky posters and a stereo blasting at all hours of the night.John's mother has been widowed and on her own for many years, and she doesn't take kindly to the thought of re-raising her son. But she gives as good as she gets, feeding John old food from her freezer (the freezer burn, she reasons, is a protective coating), and informing total strangers of John's failures with women. Adding to the mix is John's brother (Rob Morrow of TV's Northern Exposure), who thinks Mom likes him better but is in for a few surprises.Jackie Gleason used to say that he did a nudge act--you could watch blustery Ralph Kramden, nudge your partner, and say, That's my Uncle Charlie. I haven't known anyone who's seen MOTHER who didn't nudge me or anyone nearby and recognize themselves in the movie's relationships. The scene where John returns home is nothing but a prolonged take of John and his mother eating and squabbling in the kitchen, and it's probably the funniest piece of film that was shown in any theater in 1996.I hope I haven't made MOTHER sound like a dark, brooding comedy or a sappy sitcom about a grown-up kid and his mom. It's the most intelligent sort of comedy--the kind that goes for truth instead of snappy one-liners. All of the performances are believable and some kind of wonderful, and Brooks's screenplay (co-written with his long-time partner, Monica Johnson) proves that Brooks continues to be a little-known national treasure. "},{"Title":"Well-cast, well-written, and an all-around great movie","Date":"15 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Though I haven't seen all of Albert Brooks' films, this is definitely my favorite, so far. Written and directed by Brooks, he's made a movie that is relatable to just about everyone. Brooks stars as a struggling writer who, after just completing his second divorce, decides to move back home and examine his relationship with his mother (Debbie Reynolds) as an attempt to iron out his love life. The decision is met with confusion by his mother, and jealousy by his brother (the favored son, played by Rob Morrow).Anyone who's ever had a mother can appreciate the frustration Brooks encounters, whether it's his mother's penchant for nervously telling complete strangers about his troubled love life, or her indecisive driving (I can certainly relate, although mine tends toward the reckless). Their relationship is all about pushing each other's buttons; Mother as she picks apart everything in his life, and Brooks as he blames her for being the root of his lady problems. A terrific scene (one that sets the tone for all of their scenes to follow) involves Brooks being flabbergasted by his mother's food stock; the wilted lettuce in her salad, the three-year-old block of cheese, the freezer-burnt sherbert (housed beneath the protective ice). I've never met someone who can't relate to something akin to this, and it's symptomatic of a well-written slice of life screenplay. It also doesn't hurt that the two leads are extremely well-cast. Brooks is all about the miserable neurotic, while Reynolds embodies (with radiance) everything about the irritating mom who judges but doesn't listen. And when the two finally discover the root of their dysfunction in the film's climactic scene, it feels entirely heartfelt and not contrived. There's development to Reynolds' character; she's someone well-rounded, with hilarious results.8/10 "},{"Title":"Mama's Boy","Date":"20 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I watched this movie with an open mind and I came out disappointed. I had never seen a movie try so hard to be funny and really wasn't! I sort of like Brooks but this movie I really didn't care for.Debbie Reynolds did an okay job as Mother. She was quite sexy in a cougar-type of way! Ha-ha So it's very believable when her son discovers she occasional meets up with a 'Charles'(Peter White) for occasional sex! Original choice Nancy Reagan would have been interesting casting. But she declined because of her husband's condition at the time.Rob Morrow is the other son. As Brook's brother they seemed to play off each other rather well. Lisa Kudrow appears for a bit as a blind date gone wrong for Brooks. John C McGinley appears also for a bit as Brook's pal trying to console him about his recent divorce. Others that were wasted were Isabel Glasser as Morrow's wife, Vanessa Williams(Not the singer) as Kudrow's roommate.Joey Naber(Angel Town) had a nice bit as the TV delivery man as did Peter White as Reynold's occasional lover.The song by Simon and Garfunkel, 'Mrs. Robinson', was changed to accommodate the words and storyline of this movie by Brooks. Now called Mrs. Henderson. "},{"Title":"Albert Brooks' best film...no doubt about it","Date":"9 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" First off, to like Albert brooks' films you have to think like a Woody Allen fan. He is exactly like Woody Allen except he came after Allen 10 or so years later. His films are talkies or conversations.When I saw this back when it came out I walked out smiling. I hadn't seen it since then and so I thought I 'd revisit it and ya know what? I had the same reaction. What a wonderful little film.Basic premise is a not very successful SCI-FI writer decided he wants to go live with his mother to understand why he is the he is...and why he doesn't do well with women (he gets divorced at the beginning of the film). From there we get a jealous/needy younger brother and a look inside the inner workings of...well....moms. Why are mom's the way they are.In the end you'll get an AH HAH!!! moment when you see he figures his mom out. You'll go back in your mind and try your best to remember why your mom is, if not close, the same as Debbie Reynolds.There are so many funny moments in this film there are just too many to list. First and foremost, Albert Brooks is most certainly a writer...and a darn good one. I enjoy all his stuff like I do Woody Allen's. Walk into this and prepare to pay close attention to the dialogue and get all the little bits and pieces of ALbert Brooks mind.I'm pretty sure by the end of this one, you'll be walking away laughing and smiling one after another. "},{"Title":"The Mother of all Mother films ..........","Date":"18 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Debbie Reynolds is terrific as the Mother who is part of Albert Brooks moving home experiment. Trying to understand his women problems leads the 40 year old, twice divorced, writer to conclude that answers lie in his old room. Though it is light weight in concept, there are many moments that anyone can easily relate to. Mother is not as uproariously funny as Lost in America or Defending Your Life, but it is the misunderstandings between Mother and Son that eventually leads to bettering their relationship. This is one that the entire family can enjoy and relate to. ...................... Recommended - MERK "},{"Title":"Just a fun film...","Date":"3 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Albert Brooks is very good here as average man, John Henderson, who in the midst of writer's block and mild mid-life crisis, decides to visit his mother in Sausalito for a few weeks and tackle his writing issues.Debbie Reynolds is very good as Mother,quirky and set in her ways, he feels judged by her when she questions him on his failed marriage and relationships, and feels like a failure when compared to his obnoxious sports agent brother (Rob Morrow).There is much material here, as when mother is shopping at the local market and buys the cheap ice cream (I grew up in the Depression,she says, I don't need expensive ice cream). There is also an amusing cameo with Anne Haney as a busybody neighbor.There are several fun scenes, he visits the mall and his mother wants to buy him underwear, he picks up an adorable sharpei puppy at a pet store, and its facial expression is similar to his.Brooks' writing is understated and sardonic, which is why it works for me. Never over the top with cheap tricks, his humor is grounded in real life conflict, reminiscent of Neil Simon. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Not My Two Sons","Date":"3 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Albert Brooks and Debbie Reynolds star in this family mayhem of laughs; When A 40 year old sci-fi novelist tries to work out life and relationships, he wants to move back in with Momma(Reynolds). He wonders about his divorces, and hopes to solve his problem. Rob Morrow plays brother Jeff, someone who needs a bit of therapy himself. Lisa Kudrow, also stars as sister-in-law Linda.What John realizes, is that his mom was not always perfect as he had imagined. Jeff,apparently gets messed-up, and John becomes the most well-adjusted son.This viewer thinks crazy film is sweet, that you want to analyze your own Life as John does. Bravo and Wonderful! "},{"Title":"More sit-com than satire","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As in his later film, The Muse (which I thought hilarious), writer, director and star, Albert Brooks, is in male wish-fulfilment mode in Mother. John Henderson (Brooks) a sci-fi writer, puts his two failed marriages down to his not finding women who give him proper support - of course! So he searches for someone to blame - of course! And what better candidate is there but his mother - of course! So as an experiment he moves back in with her, and after finding fault with all aspects of her life-style eventually discovers that she once had aspirations to be a writer herself, which he interprets as meaning that she envies his success. He thinks this discovery has solved his problem and moves out. Apparently he is right, since on his way home he meets an attractive girl who thinks he's a great writer and supports him to the extent of agreeing - on the strength of a 30 second conversation - to accompany him back to LA. I hope that Brooks meant all this to be tongue in cheek, but unfortunately there's not nearly enough sharp comment and implied criticism of Henderson's egotism, selfishness and self-pity in the movie for it to work as satire. Instead, it comes over simply as a rather weak comedy. Debbie Reynolds is excellent as the long-suffering mother; as is Rob Morrow as John's go-getting  sports-agent brother. Lisa Kudrow also appears, but not for long enough.       "}{"Title":"A movie you can relate to your own mom!","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm only 16 years old and after seeing this movie about 20 times, everything my mom does to me is the same thing Debbie Reynolds does to Albert Brooks in this film. In this movie, John Henderson(played by brooks)is a mediocre sci-fi book writer who has problems with women, and he believes moving back in with his mother is the best way to cure himself. And Jeff(played by Rob Morrow)is John's younger, successful brother, who thinks John is nuts. But the moment John arrives at his mother's house(played by Reynolds),the realism just crashes down. She's too busy to greet him because she's on the phone, she ignores him all the time, and the hilarious, inevitable Food Talk...This is a movie for everyone, and watching it makes you look at your mother from a whole different perspective after you're through with it.-Jacob =) "},{"Title":"Play on Screen","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film opens with John Henderson (Albert Brooks) divorcing his second wife. As he contemplates what to do with his life, and deals with writers block he figures out that his bad relationships with woman stem from the conflict with his mother, (Debbie Renolds).  From there the film is just straight comedy. He moves in with her as an experiment to try to find the reason for this conflict. "},{"Title":"Brooks' Dry Humor Enjoyable","Date":"31 October 2006","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I enjoy Albert Brooks' dry sense of humor so much I almost made this video a keeper, but it fell just short of that status. His unique brand of humor, ultra-sarcastic at times but very low-key, is refreshing at times.Although this film is almost all talk and there are some lulls, it still maintained my interest. What I didn't like was the worldly outlook on things, a little too much pro-feminist ending and about seven usages of the Lord's name in vain. The latter is too much for a comedy, especially co-starring a classic-era actress in Debbie Reynolds.I enjoyed seeing the town of Sausolito again. I had done some sightseeing in the San Francisco area the year before I saw this film and was very impressed with Sausolito.Outside of those Bay-area scenes and Brooks' humor, however, the movie is nothing special. It's worth a rental. "},{"Title":"Too-sweet ending ruins good movie","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie a lot, and if not for the They lived happily ever after ending, it would have merited an 8. But after watching this wonderfully neurotic family for the entire movie, seeing all problems just melt away is too disappointing. Both Brooks and Reynolds are great. The boyhood room restoration sequence was excellent just for the 70s flashback value. Worth watching, 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Who would have guessed? Albert and Debbie are great together.","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a potentially funny situation and it reaches (almost) all the goals it sets for itself. Candy did it in 'Only the Lonely' but this is different Albert is not naturally as funny and any way he's got a delight of a brother. I guess it could have taken some of the funny situations a little further which it doesn't rate a 10 but nonetheless it is a good movie and well worth the time it takes to watch. "},{"Title":"Debbie Reynolds robbed of an Oscar!!","Date":"16 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie should be in the top 5 comedys that came out in the 1990s! It is hysterical. Debbie Reynolds is too funny. She plays the part with a very dry, deadpan delivery. It's hysterical. She really is, like a lot of the other contributors have noted, so realistic in her delivery. Because of her age, she may come across more as a grandmother than a mother in the film to a lot of the younger viewing audience but that should not stop them from seeing the film. This is a wonderful film and Mr. Brooks should get down on his hands and knees that he had a pro like Debbie Reynolds available to act out out the very funny script he had written. It's fun too see Rob Morrow too, in a funny part as a younger, needy mama's boy. Mr. Brooks is his usual nebbish self. Debbie Reynolds was robbed when she was not nominated for an Academy Award for her performance in this film. Yes, she's THAT good in it!!!! "},{"Title":"Mother!","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I can relate to this movie. My mother was sooo her when she was on the telephone. If you are over the age of 22 & your mother is independent, then you MUST see this movie! The best scene is at the store in the mall when Kimiko Gelman makes a cameo as the sales girl. To all mother's...No Offense okay! 1-10 (9) Z. "},{"Title":"Reynolds really good here, but that's not enough.","Date":"19 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Debbie Reynolds certainly hit all her marks on this one. She played very well a character that is much deeper than she seems. Albert Brooks did his usual thing with the whiny, needy, irritating character. Brooks is sort of Middle America's Woody Allen. His films are often slow-moving studies of characters filled with angst, forever searching for some elusive fulfillment. Lisa Kudrow was cute in her small part. The overall premise is a little weird, and the ending is just a bit too pat. The Simon and Garfunkle parody was probably cute to some people, but I found it grating. Worth catching on cable, but probably not a rental fee. I'm glad I saw it, but I'll be taping over it. Grade C "},{"Title":"Horridly boring comedy","Date":"31 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I couldn't stop from falling asleep.  After seeing the previews, I though this might have been a good film to rent.  Instead, I risked putting my then-date (thank goodness she forgave me later and married me!) into a coma. I can't remember more than two moments where I actually laughed at this movie.  I highly recommend you see something else. "},{"Title":"stinker","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Brooks, whose gentle and witty observations on life and people have given us some pretty decent movies in the past (Defending Your Life, Lost in America, etc.) here falls flat. This totally unbelievable premise - a twice-divorced man moving back in with his mother to get at the Freudian root of his problems - is not made any more credible by the lame script that follows. One keeps waiting expectantly for humor in the interplay between John and his mother; however, nothing funny arises from the tediously lame dialogue of their scenes together. None of the characters is engaging or funny. Mom is critical, insensitive, and ditzy; John is whiny and neurotic. Their unlikability, however, is eclipsed by John's brother (Rob Morrow), whose every scene raises 'obnoxiously annoying' to an art form. There is nothing funny in this movie; skip it. "}{"Title":"Middle of the road comedy never quite clicks","Date":"20 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Albert Brooks certainly runs hot (Lost In America, Defending Your Life) and cold (just about everything else). Mother combines bits of his quirky, low-key style with his more commercial impulses, but the results aren't especially funny or convincing or involving. Brooks as an actor is again right on the money playing a writer with female troubles who moves back in with his mom to find out where he went wrong in life. Debbie Reynolds is just right as his middle-aged mother who freezes everything except the Saltines. But this premise is dubious. It only passes in the film because Brooks rationalizes its merits, but it makes no sense on a realistic level. On the other hand, there are many quirky character traits that viewers will be able to relate to. It's a mixed bag, but is finally handicapped by a condescending dinner scene with Lisa Kudrow (typecast as a ditz) and also by Rob Morrow's irritating performance as Brooks' wishy-washy brother (not to mention a rewrite/remake of Simon & Garfunkel's Mrs. Robinson that verges on sacrilege). A one-joke affair. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Whine, Kvetch, Complain","Date":"23 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Albert Brooks has made a lot of money (and a couple of pretty good movies) by whining. He may not like being called the West Coast Woody Allen, but these neurotics who keep returning to the same neurotic themes are certainly not worlds apart. I'm a big fan of the writer/director's 'Real Life' & 'Lost In America' and I expected his mid-life crisis mama's boy movie, 'Mother', would delight me in the same ways. Nah. Brooks is not very enjoyable this time and Debbie Reynolds (as the cold-fish title character) is merely acceptable.In a creaky contrivance, two-time divorcee John Henderson (Brooks) decides to move back in with his unenthused mom to solve his woman dilemma. If he can find out what's wrong with this screwed-up relationship, then he might be able to find Mrs. Right Enough To Marry. It's a curious theory and I wonder if Freudian shrinks in the audience kept themselves from falling over in Hamlet-like convulsions. Most of the film is stuffed with the grating, quirky bickering of two complainers who weren't as fascinating as they might have seemed on paper. They weren't even interesting enough to keep me from thinking about my grocery list.This comedy ended 30 minutes ago and I can't remember one funny joke. Brooks' script (with frequent collaborator, Monica Mcgowan Johnson) has Debbie Reynolds uttering a few dirty words and the filmmakers seems to think this can carry minutes of limp comedy at a stretch. Sure, there are no invented melodramas (unless you count the awkward scenes with Rob Morrow, as the fortunate son who clings to his madre like a total wuss) and the film could have been even more annoying. What we have is a flimsy, psycho-babble kvetchfest with ho-hum revelations and a plot resolution that seems incredibly obvious from the opening credits. 'Mother' is too much 'Muse', not enough...well, anything other than 'The Muse'. "}]