[{"Title":"Variety Of Fighters, Nice Colors Made This Fun To Watch","Date":"21 November 2006","Score":"35 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Although it took four viewings before I finally lowered my rating of this from 9 to 8,, I suspect I will still watch this lame-brain action flick a few more times and enjoy it. That's because it offers a great mixture of fascinating fighters in the tournament that covers most of the final 40 minutes of the movie; is a modern-day martial-arts action film with almost no swearing and no sex; and offer some tremendous scenery in the first half of the film as Jean Claude Van Damme and company travel to the Far East for this World's Greatest Fighter tourney.That tourney is a lot of fun to watch except that it got carried away in the final bout, of course, that went on almost as long as all the preliminary bouts! However, the filmmakers were smart to make all the contestants totally different with different styles, making each one fun to watch. You didn't see the same thing each fight. There was everything from a huge Sumo-type wrestler to a little guy who imitated a monkey and a snake jumping and slithering around the ring. By the way, these were real guys, not actors imitating fighters.The photography is magnificent, far better than you would except. The colors are beautiful and the Thailand scenery spectacular. The movie benefits from a classy actor like Roger Moore joining the cast, too. Yeah, it's stupid in parts, but it's fun and highly recommended for first-time viewers who don't know the outcome of the bouts. "},{"Title":"Van Damme's effort as a director is a good surprise!","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"24 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This film is Van Damme's first effort as director, and he is surprisingly good in his task!The Quest is, of course, a simple action film, but it has a lot of good intentions and the story, written by Van Damme, is good-hearted. The star plays Chris Dubois, a man who is saved by a group of mercenaries led by a smooth and charming thief (Roger Moore, who brings a little bit of comedy and softness to the story), and this guy takes Chris to the Lost City to fight in a highly dangerous tournament. The winner takes home a beautiful, enormous golden dragon. This isn't the best film of Van Damme's career, his best phase was with the Chinese directors (Hard Target, The Colony), but The Quest isn't a good film for those who want to see explosions, Van Damme blowing people's heads off and those kinds of thing. This is an adventure, the type of film that, if we were now ten years old, would love!you don't have violence, shootings and explosions, if you want to watch something like that rent Hellbound Hellraiser 2, this is a Raiders-of-the-Lost-Ark kind of film. If you want to give the movie a shot, try to forget your grown-up side and watch it as if you were ten years old again. Then you will love it!it's a simple, entertaining and very good movie! "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I am a Jean-Claude Van Damme Fan and have to say this is a 'Damme' good film. Doesn't the film remind you of 'Bloodsport'? Well this has a good story about Chris who wants to get the golden dragon and ends up in a tournament for the dragon. The fight scenes aren't that violent as most people would want to see. But it is an Epic, with a dramatic story. Roger Moore even acts in it gives a 'Bond' type entrance to his name. Overall this is a great film which shall not be missed by all fans. Van Damme is the man! "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This film is a lot better than I expected, and much better than the other imdb comments would imply.  You can essentially split this movie in half, with the first half being an adventure movie and the second half being a fight competition.  I actually liked the adventure portion a lot more than the fight competition, which is surprising since I like stuff like Bloodsport (the fight part of The Quest is essentially a higher-budget version of Bloodsport).  At any rate, this movie is great visually -- it's filmed in a lot of exotic locations.  I also thought the direction was great...there were some interesting shots that really impressed me for Van Damme's first directorial effort.  The story kinda moves along too quickly and there are a couple parts where this strains the believability of the story (such as how easy it is for Van Damme to get the fight invitation/map from the boxer), but these are easily overlooked and don't really detract much.I went into this expecting it to be low-budget and fairly dumb, but I was surprised at the lavish production and the fact that it has an actual story which I find more interesting than the fighting. "},{"Title":"epic","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  It really get son my nerves when people criticize some films that are actually good. This film was great. It is in my opinion the best Vand Damme film ever. It has story/action/heart and mystery and the highlight of the film were the last battles which showed different fighters from the whole world (ala streetfighter 2) all showing off their capabilities. this movie also has an EPIC feel to it and I don't know what people mean by 'poor' movie cause this looked pretty expensive to me. Roger Moore was cool here too. SO was the babe. Give this a chance people. "},{"Title":"2 1/2 Stars out of 4","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Quest is a surprisingly decent Jean Claude Van-Damme movie.Quest is a period piece, and a pretty well-done one at that. Taking place shortly after World War I, Van Damme plays Chris Dubois, a humble indentured servant figure with Rocky-like ambitions to become a big fighting champion. Dubois has set his sights on some very elite and secret tournament in some mystical forbidden city, to which only the best fighter in every country of the world gets an invitation.To get into the tournament, Dubois enlists the help of a mischievous figure, Lord Dobbs. In one of the many parts of the plot I was unable to follow, Lord Dobbs owes him some unknown favor so he buys his freedom and makes arrangements to get the kid to Beijing, with the aide of an attractive blonde newspaper editor, Carrie Newton (Gunn).Dobbs is played by seven-time James Bond alumni Roger Moore, who I'm so used to seeing as Bond that I half-expected him to, at a crucial point in the movie, bag the attractive news lady, beat someone up, or use some cool gadget. Sadly, Moore only accomplishes one of these three things (uses a cool gadget) and fails miserably at it. However, Moore does carry one James Bond-like trait to this part which is being a smooth talker which gets Dubois in trouble in the first place. Apparently, Dubois was never really entered into the tournament, so he must win over the guy who's slated to fight for the U.S. and get his invitation, which raises the question, isn't Dubois French?Anyway, there's no reason to fret over little things like that, because considering the plot is secondary to the action, it's pretty well-thought out, and besides the action doesn't disappoint.The tournament where most of the actions scenes come from is probably my favorite thing about the movie because the single elimination bracketed format has the same thrill as watching something like NCAA's March Madness. The only difference is that except for rooting for your favorite colleges, you root for Industrial Era superpowers. The other plus of this was that the clashing of such a diverse array of fighting styles (sumo wrestling, Scottish fist fighting, Brazillian street fighting, and the like) led to some great action scenes.My main complaint about the action is that Van Damme's fight scenes attempt to create suspense by him being knocked down and then supposedly against our expectations, getting back up and winning. This just becomes predictable, and besides, because the Master of Ceremonies usually hits the gong after a guy gets knocked down, Dubois would have realistically been out in the second round after getting the crap beat out of him by the Spaniard. Even if he did get back up, he wouldn't have been able to overpower the other guy after having taken so many hits. If he is such a skillful fighter, why doesn't he just win the fight efficiently without all the drama? He reminds me of the present-day LA Lakers who slack off the entire regular season, knowing that they only really have to work during the playoffs.This gag would have been an effective if it was restricted to only happening in the film's climatic finale. Instead, to top the earlier fights, the tournament's final match really got to be a disappointment. The master of ceremonies was incredibly generous with the gong, deciding to let the fight continue even after Dubois got knocked down twice and kicked out of the ring, where he is beaten up some more and magically throws in a couple kicks at the right moment and walks away with the medallion.Anyway, the film is a decently played out story that has its moments. "},{"Title":"Passable martial arts flick","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The Quest is an odd mix of martial arts and epic adventure. Its running time is too short for it to be deemed a true epic, but the panoramic worldwide locations hint that Van Damme was trying to give it the flavour of an epic.It's a painfully simplistic story. Young American pickpocket Chris (Van Damme) has to flee from New York in the 1920s after a botched robbery. He ends up on a pirate ship headed for the Orient. Soon, he is rescued by another ship (another pirate vessel, this time captained by gentleman buccaneer Roger Moore). Moore drops him off on a Thai island where young men are trained as fighters, and before long young Chris is a very handy fighter indeed, with aspirations to win an ancient golden dragon in a fighting competition. The final third of the film is comprised entirely of fight sequences in which competitors from various nations combat each other in an effort to take the ultimate prize.The film marked Van Damme's directorial debut, and he gives it a lovely sense of scale and period but can't wring much out of the thin and obvious story. The backdrops pictured in the film are beautiful. Some of the martial arts moments are well choreographed. Roger Moore gives a surprisingly thoughtful and moving performance. Beyond that, it's very childish and simple-minded and doesn't contain enough memorable moments to be anything other than a passable time filler. "},{"Title":"A fine example of film d'martial arts..","Date":"19 May 2001","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Quest is certainly one of JCVD's best. It has a quite good epic story and style which generally you cannot see in a martial arts movie. Come on people, this is action and so evaluate it in its genre. Emancipate yourselves from film d'art complexes. Give its right, this is an exquisite film d'martial arts..  "},{"Title":"Where does Bloodsport end and The Quest begin...?","Date":"15 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" For a Jean Claude Van Damme movie, then The Quest is a fairly standard one. And if you have seen the 1988 Bloodsport movie, then you have essentially also seen The Quest. And I don't think that it is a mere coincidence, especially since the story was written by Frank Dux and Jean Claude Van Damme.The story is about Christopher Dubois (played by Jean-Claude Van Damme) who is living on the streets, when he is forced to run for his life and ending up as a stowaway on a ship. When he comes to his senses, he is put into slavery, working on the ship. By sheer luck he is rescued by Lord Edgar Dobbs (played by Roger Moore) and Harry Smythe (played by Jack McGee), two thieves and con artists. Setting out to steal a massive golden dragon in a reclusive and secret fighting tournament, Christoper Dubois finds himself fighting on behalf of the boxer Maxie Devine (played by James Remar).Storywise, then The Quest focused more on the fights and action. And as in Bloodsport, then there is lots of it, and the fight sequences are nicely executed and brought to the screen. The movie itself is as predictable as they come - but then again, aren't most of Jean Claude Van Damme's movies?There are so many similarities between Bloodsport and The Quest, that you just sit there wondering why The Quest was actually ever put on film. Wasn't it enough with this story being told in 1988 back when Bloodsport came out? But as with virtually all of Jean Claude Van Damme's movies, the main focus is the action and fighting, and whatever story or resemblance of a story there is becomes secondary. Obviously you have the fighting tournament held in an exotic location, there was the bested friend of whom Van Damme takes a headband, there was a woman reporter, there was a massive and seemingly invincible opponent, and of course there is Jean Claude Van Damme as the underdog who swoops in and wins it all against all odds.That being said, then The Quest is good entertainment where you don't have to use your brain at all. Funny, how I remembered this movie being much better back in the late 90's, when I remember my brother getting it on VHS. And after having obtained the DVD in 2013 and watched it again, it wasn't as cool as I remembered it to be. But still, fun and action-packed, a fairly standard Jean Claude Van Damme movie to be honest. "},{"Title":"Only Van Damme or perhaps Roger Moore completists need apply.","Date":"14 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Set in the 1920's, Chris Dubois (Van Damme) is a street performer who wears clown makeup, a funny hat, and walks on stilts for a living. Adventure finds him when he ends up a stowaway on a boat heading to mysterious Muay Thai Island. There he learns martial arts, and, later in Tibet, meets the charming Lord Dobbs (Moore) and his assistant Smythe (McGee). It is around this time that Chris seeks to be involved in Ghan Geng, a secret underground fighting tournament. The winner gets a huge golden dragon, so Dobbs has a stake in Chris winning, as he wants the Dragon. Fighters are invited from all over the world , and America is represented by boxer Maxie Devine (Remar). Chris must take his place in the tournament and defeat the sinister Khan (Quissi) to win it all. Also, there's some mild romance with the prerequisite female reporter Carrie Newton (Gunn).Van Damme does a solid , professional job with his directional debut. Having co-written the film with Bloodsport (1988) dude Frank Dux, you pretty much know what to expect- but this movie is rated PG-13, so it was clearly trying to bring the Punchfighting genre some mainstream acceptance. With its slick Hollywood look and booming, sweeping score by Randy Edelman, the final product is perfect for 13-year olds, presumably its target demographic.Interestingly, the movie is a period piece, and plays like a prequel to Bloodsport. Instead of The Kumite, It's Ghan Geng. Van Damme tries on a number of personas from Old Man Van Damme to Van Damme The Clown and many things in between. The presence of Roger Moore adds class and respectability to the proceedings, and James Remar of Quiet Cool (1986) fame stands out as Devine. He's always worth seeing. Janet Gunn from Night Of The Running Man (1995) and The Sweeper (1996) is the eye candy but not much else.It's important to remember this was when video games like Mortal Kombat and Street Fighter were at the peak of their popularity. So when the Ghan Geng section of the movie begins (pretty much the last half)- the plot just STOPS. It's just one fighter from one country facing off against another fighter from another country. It gets repetitive and pretty numbing after awhile. Other Punchfighters don't do this. They vary the Punchfighting scenes with other plot-based stuff. Not so here. Plus the fact the movie is kind of on the long side doesn't help matters. What The Quest should have been is an 80 minute R-rated Punchfighter. Simply cutting the length but adding more violence would have helped immensely. But they weren't going for that audience, unfortunately.The Quest is more of a big adventure film where characters are seeking a lost city and many countries and time periods are represented. This might be a good way to start younger viewers on a career of watching Van Damme movies\action movies\Punchfighters but for adults. Only Van Damme or perhaps Roger Moore completists need apply.For more insanity, please visit comeuppancereviews.com "}{"Title":"Another step on Van Damme's downward career arc","Date":"9 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This movie was directed by Jean-Claude Van Damme. Do I need to say anything more about it?Okay, if you insist.The Quest is about a man who journeys across the world to take part in a martial arts tournament to crown the world's greatest fighter. I know that describes several of Van Damme's films, but this is the one set in the 1920s. Chris Dubois (Jean-Claude Van Damme) is the acrobatic and not-at-all-child-molestery leader of a gang of street urchins. Chris decides to use his young followers to steal from the Mafia, which is possibly the worst idea anyone has ever had. When the gangsters try to get their money back, a kid gets shot and Chris flees from the police. He runs because another kid tells him the cops will blame him for the shooting, even though that doesn't make any sense given how it happened, but Chris being highly suggestible is a recurring theme through this story.Chris winds up a stowaway on a ship, forced to work in chains, until that ship is attacked by the forces of Lord Edgar Dobbs (Roger Moore). A pirate, con man and all around scalawag, Dobbs sells Chris into slavery on an island of Muay Tai fighters. 6 months later, Dobbs runs into Chris at a Muay Tai fighting match and Chris insists that Dobbs help him enter a secret combat tournament in Tibet, not so Chris can win but so they can steal the winner's giant gold dragon prize. Oh, Chris and Dobbs also join up with a female journalist named Carrie (Janet Gunn) and I sure hope Van Damme was banging this chick because there's no other reason for the character to exist.Tagging along with Maxie Devine (James Remar), the American heavyweight boxing champion invited to the secret tournament, they make their way to Tibet. After a scuffle where Chris literally kicks Maxie once and punches him once, Maxie decides that Chris is the better fighter and offers him his spot in the tournament.Then we finally get to all the fighting, which turns out to be disappointingly brief and generic. Except for the Brazilian fighter and the Chinese fighter engaging in a dance off, the Japanese fighter demonstrating the martial art of being morbidly obese and a Spanish fighter apparently trained in the deadly skill of flamenco dancing, there's nothing at all interesting about the combat. The designated bad guy turns out to be a Mongolian (Abdel Qissi), of all things, who glares a lot and kills somebody that was supposed to be a friend of Chris', even though the two characters barely said 6 words to each other in the entire movie. Chris and the Mongolian fight and Chris wins because this film was not directed by Abdel Qissi.The Quest is bad. I know that's not exactly a surprise, but Van Damme's ability as a storyteller is so derivative it's not even interestingly bad. Instead of doing some howlingly incompetent stuff, Van Damme is just mimicking things he's seen in other films, including what I believe is an homage to Clint Eastwood's Every Which Way But Loose. The script is written at the level of a 10 year old and the direction looks like any other terrible Van Damme flick.If this thing had been hilariously awful, that might have somewhat redeemed it. Instead, it's just another crappy step on Van Damme's career trajectory from nobody to action star to living joke. "},{"Title":"Beautiful...just beautiful","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I was very impressed with this movie. It had everything, beautiful scenery, good fighting, good actors(including Van Damme himself) and good plot. I was impressed with Van Damme's directorial debut. He made such a great and orignal story with a good message of self-discovery. People, don't believe all of the reviewers who say this movie sucked, that's just plain lying.Possible Spoiler warning I admit, the tournament was very Bloodsport-esque in a way, but it still had a touch of originality to it. In Bloodsport, I only saw fighters who were mainly trained in Karate or Kickboxing, maybe a little bit of kung-fu. But, in the Quest, there were fighters of all types. There were fighters from all over the world, each trained different styles of martial arts. There were men trained in Karate, Kickboxing, Muay Thai, Sambo, Capoeira, Sumo, Wrestling, Savate, and maybe a little bit of bando. I really recommend this film to any martial arts fan or anyone just looking for a good movie to watch. "},{"Title":"I'm doing this for Billy","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Jean Claude Van Damme directs and stars in this quite interesting action-adventure movie.Unlike Steven Seagal, Van Damme does an amicable job directing in his directorial debut.  He, unlike Seagal, doesn't fall into the trap of blowing your own trumpet and keeps the story moving, albeit slowly.In this movie, Van Damme starts out as an old guy sitting in a bar.But when some local thugs begin to trash the bar, Van Damme beats them up.  The landlord then asks Van Damme &#145;How did you learn to fight like that?' Rather than just saying &#145;I learnt how to fight in Tibet', Van Damme begins to tell his life story.The movie has Van Damme being the ring leader of a group of child pickpockets in New York during the very early 1930s, and how Van Damme gets mixed up with the local mafiaosi and has to escape New York and the mob swearing that, `one day I will come back, billy'.  He makes it very clear that he will come back.At this point the story begins to move very, very slowly.  But it's still quite watchable and at times, enjoyable.  However, it struck me as rather odd that in a movie which is about an old guy talking about his life story, we never actually hear Van Damme narrate.  Not once.So, Van Damme enters a tournament, much like Blood Sport.  But unlike Blood Sport he's not doing this for revenge, for honor. Nor for pride - but to steal the 'golden dragon' (which he never intends to actually steal) and for Billy, one of the kids he leaves behind in New York.During the tournament, Van Damme has to face various foes. All with their sterotypical outfits and fighting styles.Although all the fights are incredibly flashy (flashy kicks, flashy punches, flashy roars), they also look incredibly staged. Anyhow, Van Damme wins the very flashy competition and beats the Mongolian behemoth to return to New York.This is where I expected the film to pick up.  I wanted to see Van Damme, world's toughest man, to beat up the New York mob and save Billy.  Unfortunately we get a very lazy ending.We get Van Damme narrating something like `I eventually got back to New York and it turned out that Billy was okay, everything was okay, I was happy, the end'.Then, we cut from Van Damme's victorious final fight to some lady's hand closing a book cover.  Hang on a second, I thought we were hearing and watching Van Damme's quest, not some lady's novel.Apart from the lazy ending and the long running time, I think this film was amicable.  But if you're after a fun action movie, then it's better to hire Bloodsport.Overall 5/10. "},{"Title":"Just a rerun of Bloodsport that will please Van Damme fans but not really do much for anyone else","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  While running from the mob after stealing from them, pickpocket and homeless Christopher Dubois hides on a ship in dock. When he wakes the next morning he finds himself in the 'employment' of the ship's crew. He remains their slave until the ship is raided and Dubois rescued by Lord Dobbs, Edgar Dobbs. Dobbs Edgar Dobbs then sells Dubois into slavery on an island where he learns to fight over several years. When the pair run back into one another, Dubois asks Dobbs Edgar Dobbs to buy his freedom and help him gain entry into the secret contest where the grand prize is a solid gold dragon. Getting entry on the back of Maxie Devine's invite, Dubois fights his way through the best in the world while Dobbs Edgar Dobbs casts his twinkling eyes over the golden dragon. Having just watched Bloodsport again a few weeks ago, I was taken aback by just how similar this and that film were &#150; clearly Van Damme's desire to have a hit movie he decided to go back to basics for his first film as director. The film feels like it cost more than Bloodsport, although the period setting takes away a little bit from the rough edge that a martial arts movie should really have. The plot is a bit better and employs some humour (mostly from Dobbs) but this only means it is better than Bloodsport &#150; not that it's a great film! All the aspects of Bloodsport are here &#150; the fight, the fighter friend, the female journalist love interest, the different fighting styles etc. I think this damaged it a bit for me because I was very aware of how lazy it was just to do the same film all over again.The writing is mostly poor (the films is narrated in a bar at the start but ends being read from a book) and has few good lines and mostly just a load of halfbaked ideas but chances are you aren't watching for the plot! No, most of us came for the fighting and, in that regard the film is just about worth seeing.Aside from the lazy national stereotyping, the fighters are mostly good and even the ones given silly styles (oh look he's a snake/monkey/tiger) manage to impress. Van Damme as director focuses on showing us the difficult moves by using slow-mo occasionally but what he forgets to do is inject any of the fights with any real excitement, tension or passion &#150; even the last fight seems rather by the numbers in terms of watching it; I observed it rather than got into it! Aside from this he does OK as a first time job but I'm not sure if many of this film's weaknesses didn't come from him as writer/director/star. As star, he goes through his usual stuff and does his moves well &#150; he is a poor character (lazily using kids to get him to be a hero sort) but generally all his fans care about is that he fights well and here he does some good moves. Remar has little to do but I quite like him, but both McGee and Gunn just hang around the edges. Thank God then for Roger Moore who plays the whole thing with a twinkle in his eye and appears to be having fun while doing it. Hardly acting so much as just being himself, he evens introduces himself as 'Dobbs, Edgar Dobbs', which I thought was hilarious and, even if the material is weak, he seems to enjoy himself a lot more than I did watching this! The other fighters are OK but few really make an impact (if you know what I mean) and as big as Qissi is, Bolo he ain't!Overall if I had to pick one of them, I think I'd watch Bloodsport again as it is rougher round the edges and doesn't have the bigger budget pretensions that this film has. The fights lack passion and excitement but are quite fun to watch; just a shame that plotting, dialogue, structure, tone and acting are pretty much average at best. Van Damme photocopied his first American hit hoping that's all he's have to do to have another hit &#150; his laziness caught him out with this one; not a really bad all told, but not much cop neither.  "},{"Title":"Van Damme's weak directions","Date":"25 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Christopher Dubois (Jean-Claude Van Damme) is a street performer and pickpocket leading a group of orphans in NYC. He escapes gangster by stowing away on a ship. The ship is smuggling guns and the crew enslaves him. They are attacked by pirates led by Englishman Lord Edgar Dobbs (Roger Moore). Dobbs sells Dubois where he's trained in Muay Thai fighting. There is a secret tournament that invites the greatest fighters of each disciple from around the world. There is American reporter Carrie Newton (Janet Gunn). American heavyweight boxing champ Maxie Devine (James Remar) surrenders his spot in the tournament to Dubois as he fights to win against the best of the best.This is a copy of Bloodsport except it's stupider and inferiorly made. I don't know why Dubois has to go through all of that idiotic journey. It's a lot of badly written plot. Then there is Van Damme as a director. He really tries but lacks the skills to pull it off. He throws a lot on the screen but it looks cheesy. The acting is bad. Van Damme is highlighting the worst aspect of himself. The one hope is the fighting. While it may be compelling in real life to see the various fighting styles, Van Damme is not a good enough director to capture it. Most of the fighting lacks life or tension. It's slow-motion weak. Van Damme needs to let a better director to do the job. "},{"Title":"A Quest to Leave the Theatre Quickly.","Date":"5 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Quest (1996) Dir Jean-Claude Van Damme / Cast Jean-Claude Van Damme, Roger Moore, James Remar, Jack McGee, Janet Gunn Pitiful bag of crap that lacks imagination and originality for Jean-Claude Van Damme has ventured this dreary story countless times. The quest in question evolves around many stages of violence until only two factors remain. Complete mindless bullshit that is numbingly embarrassing as these idiots beat then living snot out of each other. Van Damme beats up opponent after opponent but we cannot keep from yawning. How many times has he played this crap out? He wrote the screenplay and then hired himself as director as if two wrongs made a right. Then again, who else would desire to be blamed for directing this garbage. Roger Moore saw this as a perfect career suicide opportunity. His career wasn't quite in the hole deep enough since leaving the James Bond franchise so this seemed like the point of no return. James Remar and Jack Mcgee also got talked into appearing in this crap. Van Damme should have sought work at an arcade if he really wanted to do this sort of thing. It would cost way less and be more rewarding. Karate classes are filled with more intrigue than this ham handed piece of junk. There is no point to this film other than to present mindless brutality so why not quest to the garage and beat this film with a sledgehammer. Score 1 / 10 "},{"Title":"Bloodsport's Second Best Remake !","Date":"28 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Before watching it, I have heard that it didn't do well in the box office, but I haven't known why. After watching it, that why wasn't hard to answer. It's so close to Bloodsport (1988), which was another movie starring Jean-Claude Van Damme, another movie inspired by martial artist Frank Dux's life and experiences, and another movie centers around a secret martial arts tournament. In fact, the similar points between the 2 movies are many; whereas a beautiful American she-journalist is on the lead's side, an earlier enmity happens between one of the contestants and the lead, a friend for the lead is cruelly beaten, let alone that the lead wins at last. True, they added an older time period, a character of a pirate who wants to steal gold, a situation where the lead proves his nobleness, but I felt I was watching the same movie again. At times, I thought that all of these differences was originally put just to mislead you that this is a remake of a movie done 8 years before !The first half's writing is fine. It is thrilling, swiftly paced, and takes place in numerous lands. The lead gets from a trouble to another fascinatingly. And he's a human action hero, who has lost and poor child inside of him, and wants to save other lost and poor children, by doing the right thing. Though, in the second half, things weren't as fine. The American journalist didn't do anything (or say anything !). Aside from presenting such a totally extra character, this took a lot from the emotional side of the movie; making it badly concrete. The basis of the enmity between the Mongolian fighter and the lead was trivial (a conflict around a restaurant table !). When the Asian guy's son is killed, we don't get enthusiastic over the idea of how the lead must avenge him, because we weren't introduced to that character appropriately, and the script didn't make them, the lead and him, friends or even close from the start. And I didn't find any use out of the first and last scenes, where the lead was narrating his story as a very old man, sure they ended up as naive. Plus, it's hard to believe that 90 something guy can hit 2 punks that easily !Van Damme's direction had its share of mistakes too. He overused the TV-ish close-ups, not doing much to hide the poor budget; in a movie that supposedly depends on impressive backgrounds, sets and costumes. Hence it has a medium TV pilot feel written all over it, especially with borrowed shots from richer movies ! I hated how Van Damme filmed the guy who announces the competitors before every match, by the same cadre and from the same angle, creating something between boring and funny. However, the bigger mistake can be felt in the fighting scenes. OH MY GOD, the action star did the action scenes wrongly. He suffered a hysteria which got to those scenes then to us, with too many various angles, stupidly fast cutting, and the most unnecessary slow-motion ever; which was being used every 10 seconds (as if Van Damme thought he was giving an illustrative lesson for martial arts students !). So the final result was annoying time, with nothing to concentrate on or watch. And by the way, Randy Edelman's music score seemed inane, and its fervent charge wasn't that fervent.The good points kind of compensate. The performance was so right. James Remar mastered that gallant fighter, having most of the lights for himself. Roger Moore was more than perfect as Lord futile swindler, being the best star to handle such a role, and the best relief this movie had. I loved discovering that he's a military captain-turned-pirate, which added much to his character beside his huge presence and genuine wit. I don't know why Moore considers The Quest his least favorite movie, since he has done worse (believe me, he has done a far far worse !). As an action hero, Van Damme provided his usual. And as an actor, he looked tired, maybe due to his being behind and in front of the camera in the same time. But he was more like Jackie Chan in some moments, managing to be a clueless child on a mission, and by that I mean a good thing. Casting all of those diverse martial arts champions was smart and interesting. The choreography of the climactic fight satisfied me the most. And the direction of Van Damme's fights outclassed all the rest's. The Quest is a B-grade B-movie. Undoubtedly it has some entertainment value. But clearly it needed more to win the box office, or my A- grade rank, like less copied story and more good directing. This way it would have been anything better than Bloodsport's second best remake ! "},{"Title":"Not the epic Van Damme was aiming for. This is sadly, routine with uninspired fight scenes","Date":"26 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Van Damme & Frank Dux collaborated together for this so called once in a lifetime project, hoping to make a classic Martial Arts film like of Bloodsport. Not only do they fail, but they created something that falls completely flat. I don't like criticizing Van Damme, as Van Damme is one of my all time favorite action heroes, but he has left me with no choice here. The movie tries to build up a deep relationship with Van Damme being trained in the art of Muay Thai. That ends as quickly as it begins, and it has no emotion what so ever. Van Damme clearly forgets this, and tries to recreate a key emotional scene in Bloodsport with Phang & Chris, but it has nowhere near the merit it had in Bloodsport, simply because The Quest failed to make me care like it should have. The fight choreography is a colossal disappointment. Van Damme who knows a thing or two about fighting, should know how to create an exciting fight, right? Wrong. The fights couldn't be more mundane if they tried. The fighters themselves have the repertoire to make an exciting fight, but they were often squashes with flashes of brilliance that never lasted as long as I would have liked. The end fight is typical Van Damage. Which means he gets his ass kicked for most of it and makes the impossible comeback; it works in most Van Damme movies, but not here. It's over the top and ho-humThe cinematography is actually excellent. It's a sight to behold at times, and I felt they got the time period they were doing down pat. Van Damme doesn't display any of that natural charm that he is well known for, and gives a one-note performance here for the most part. Maybe it was because of his directing responsibilities, but he was shockingly dull a lot of the time. His acrobatics are good as usual, but that's it. Roger Moore shamefully mugs his way through the film, and looks a bit embarrassed to be here. I have read he considers this to be his worst film. While I felt this movie was very much average, and not that great, it's far from his worst. He's made a couple of James Bond films that are worse than this movie. It's a rather annoying performance that quickly made me intolerant. James Remar is amusing as Maxie Devine, but his role is poorly written. Janet Gunn doesn't have much of a part except to be easy on the eyes. Abdel Qissi makes for a formidable presence as the imposing baddie. I was also disappointed by the lack of Chris's background on his childhood. We see snippets of it, but not nearly enough. A more thought out movie would have been really nice, but this is not the case. This is stuff I consider to be rather fruitfulFinal Thoughts It's watchable, but nothing more. Considering the epic he was going for in his directional debut, I highly doubt he had such a watered down retread of The Bloodsport in mind.5/10 "},{"Title":"There's a reason why JCVD and James Bond haven't worked together again - 43%","Date":"14 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Scrolling through the TV schedules as I often do, it's a rare film indeed that makes me stop and think about recording it. But how can anyone not be intrigued by a period action adventure with Jean-Claude Van Damme and Roger Moore - sure, it wouldn't be likely to change the world but what a line-up! My masochistic side pricking my conscious, I duly recording this and settled down today to watch what must be the strangest piece of casting I think I've ever seen.The Muscles From Brussels plays Chris Dubois, a ragamuffin street thief operating a child gang on the streets of New York in 1925. But after one daring escape from the police too many, Dubois inadvertently stows away and finds himself far from home and at the mercy of vicious pirates. Eventually, he is rescued by dashing British adventurer Lord Dobbs (Moore) and his partner-in-crime Smythe (Jack McGee) and they agree to help Dubois return to America. But Dobbs betrays Dubois and leaves him stranded in the Muay Thai Islands where his adventures really begin. He soon finds himself thrown into a global fighting tournament against the best in the world but as his paths cross with fellow Americans Maxie Devine (James Remar) and journalist Carrie Newton (Janet Gunn), Dubois realises he must win the tournament or risk all their futures...I can't comment on this film's similarity with the earlier Bloodsport because that film has somehow passed me by. What I will comment on is the alarming similarity to another Van Damme flick, the frankly forgettable AWOL Absent Without Leave. I can't help but feel that for his directorial debut, Van Damme should have stretched himself a bit more beyond the tired fighting tournament plot. He probably was too busy dominating proceedings - once the film's second half begins, the fighting takes over completely and dialogue fades into the odd shout and macho grunt. Yes, there are odd bits and pieces of plot to get through such as the moment when an opponent makes an enemy of Dubois and we then know who's gonna get beaten up last. It's as though JCVD felt that the cast weren't trying and decided to run the rest of the film himself. And to be honest, he may have a point - other than Moore, the rest of the cast disappear into the background like early morning fog. As does the plot - can anyone tell me why Devine hung around for so long or what exactly was the story Newton felt she had to chase? I couldn't find one to last the 95 minutes of this movie, let alone a Pulitzer prize.I could go on but you get the picture. The Quest is an unremarkable and deeply formulaic martial arts movie that reminds us why JCVD now spends his days selling Coors. It's poorly directed with lots of needless slow motion, incoherent and offers little surprises other than the bizarre combination of its two lead stars. It also feels very dated and that's nothing to do with its period setting - this film comes five years after the likes of Terminator 2 Judgement Day which is a quantum leap ahead in terms of story-telling, set pieces, special effects and performances. Van Damme has made decent enough movies in the past - I recommend the likes of Universal Soldier or Sudden Death - but this really isn't one of them. A Damme shame, then.And just what was the point of the whole thing being a flash-back? "},{"Title":"Speculation","Date":"15 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I enjoy Van Damme's films occasionally, especially Time Cop. Of his films, I consider this one of his worst, but that rating is purely from a technical vantage.A genuine martial artist is like anyone else when they go to the movies. They expect to see only fiction. The same is true even of martial arts action flics. Even if the choreographer and stars know their business, it's goosed up for entertainment purposes. Nevertheless, the discerning eye seeks a few gems, to see if the martial artists involved in the film's production at least cast a brief nod of respect to the art. In The Quest, that nod is within the first 15 minutes of the movie when an aging hero defends himself with his cane. The cane techniques are marvelous and entertaining and, suffice to say, a rarity in Hollywood kung fu cinema.Afterwards, it's typical dreck. Worse, as a long-time practitioner of Okinawan karate, I was mildly insulted by the portrayal of the champion of karate in the final segment of the film. One can only speculate why the producers (which included Van Damme) would show such a buffoon. We can go positive or negative in our speculation. Positively, we can say that Van Damme nodded in respect to the real masters of karate who, in the film's period time, were among the deadliest men who have EVER LIVED (Choki Motobu, Kanryo Higashionna, Itoman Bunkichi, Miyagi Chojun, to list but a few). Such men, though competitive, would have either not heard of the tournament or snubbed it.Negatively, we might say that Van Damme's Shotokan upbringing had rendered him oblivious to karate that was not watered down for schoolchildren (and a system that didn't even exist in the film's period; Funakoshi was only getting started teaching in Japan at that time). That would also be in line with many others' contemporary views of karate, common nowadays in the MMA, ever since the Gracies issued their silly challenge and no -real- karateka deigned to answer them.The sight of a karateka trying to side kick a sumo wrestler in the belly should make anyone twitch, unless they already nurse a profound (or ignorant) bias against real karate.I found the film otherwise tolerable if typical of Van Damme's work and of cinema of the 80s/90s generally. "}{"Title":"Enjoy Christmas in the lost city.....","Date":"24 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Chris Duboir is Kidnapped and enslaved by gun smugglers, sold by pirates and thrust into the murky underworld of gambling and kick-boxing. His journey takes him to Muay Thai Island where martial arts are taught, and finally, the ancient Lost City. There he must face the ultimate test of his manhood in the ancient winner-take-all competition in which the deadliest fighters from around the world employ the most spectacular feats of martial arts skills ever displayed in order to win the prized Golden Dragon. But fighting prowess alone will not be enough for him to triumph over such daunting foes. He must reach deep inside and access all of the determination, strength of character and sense of selfless honour within in order to triumph over this final obstacle.....When Van Damme met Bond is a really strange movie to watch and probably not the best Van Damme film to start with.It's basically a retread of Bloodsport, set in a different time and location, with added Roger Moore. And while it's nowhere near as good as that movie, it's pretty darn good, and beautiful to look at.Van Damme is competent behind the camera, and even thought the main action of the film is your typical video game style beat em' up, the characters are rich and a little bit different.Van Damme is good, and Moore looks uncomfortable, but it's Van Dammes Baby, and he really tries hard with this.Plus, he gets to fight the bloke from Hot Chocolate at the end. "},{"Title":"Predictable","Date":"29 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Slapstick and predictable to an extend where it becomes funny. Not a very well-considered movie. The plot awful planning of the plot is simply disquised by the amount of action figthing that is incorporated into the movie. Don't expect anything, but a relaxed, easy-to-follow, simple and adventurous watch.That's really all there is to say!Slapstick and predictable to an extend where it becomes funny. Not a very well-considered movie. The plot awful planning of the plot is simply disquised by the amount of action figthing that is incorporated into the movie. Don't expect anything, but a relaxed, easy-to-follow, simple and adventurous watch.That's really all there is to say!Slapstick and predictable to an extend where it becomes funny. Not a very well-considered movie. The plot awful planning of the plot is simply disquised by the amount of action figthing that is incorporated into the movie. Don't expect anything, but a relaxed, easy-to-follow, simple and adventurous watch.That's really all there is to say! "},{"Title":"amazing movie with terrible features","Date":"3 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I guess KISS (keep it simple stupid) does not apply here. they have amazing shots of scenery and amazing job making places around the world come to life. BUT one would expect a fighting movie to be realistic... like blood sport was. As they are trying to emphasize fancy moments they ruin it because in slow motion tricks of how they did stuff (eg. breaking tables) is revealed in ugly way and fighting in slow motion does not look all that pretty. (only Jackie Chan and jet li are masters of it). I would expect a better job on that. however if you are in a mood for a trip around the world.. with van-damme that is a only movie like that to watch. then you have a typical unrealistic stereotypes of nations and unbelievable fights in which the fastest wins. i am still watching it and hope that at least the ending will be worth watching with some beautiful bloodsport-like fighting.  "},{"Title":"great, action packed, tight movie.","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is an awesome film that is really under rated. I am very into martial arts movies and I dont care how corny or stupid and I liked how this one was similiar to Van Dammes greatest Bloodsport, I always like the secret tournament, nobody knows about, in a hidden location type movies, they never get old no matter how many times the plot is done over. If your one of those oh it seems so scripted and not enough realism type of watchers then dont get it, but if you block all that out and just focus on what the movie is really about then this is an awesome A+ movie. Great fight scenes and a good combination of different martial art styles. "},{"Title":"Just like the old days....","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Yes this film is cheesy, yes the acting is quite poor but as a spectacle its top notch! I greatly enjoyed the earlier Van Damme films and have been disappointed by such rubbish as Streetfighter and Sudden Death....but this was a breath of fresh air. This has everything the old movies had, varied fighters, over-the-top moves, ridiculous stamina levels - in fact everything that made Van Damme a household star. This is never going to win any awards but for great entertainment this is hard to beat! "},{"Title":"why bloodsport ruled while this sucks","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  When I saw a commercial for this movie on the Superstation, it looked like another Bloodsport, so I was excited to settle in and watch.  However, as the movie went on, I was hit with all the ways in which this flick falls short of Van Damme's original masterpiece.First of all, let's talk about the villain of this movie, the big Mongolian guy.  A clear attempt at a replica of Tong Po from Kickboxer, except this guy looked completely white, and the ridiculously thick ponytail was all but glued on.  Not to mention the fact that he was fat, out of shape, and had no decent fighting skills.What ever happened to the days when Bolo Yeoung was the bad guy (e.g. Bloodsport, Double Impact).  When you saw him fight, you were intimidated, and you knew that Van Damme's path to sure victory was going to be difficult, but most importantly entertaining.  Same with Tong Po in Kickboxer.  In the Quest we see this main evil character, and he is a total chump.  He is basically of the quality of Van Damme's early round opponents in Bloodsport.  I don't know what kind of fighter Van Damme is in real life, but with the prowess that he has in the movies, it's hard to believe that the Mongolian guy would be able to put up any kind of a fight.Oh, and what about the mandatory scene where Van Damme's friend gets hurt badly early on in the tournament so VD has some revenge motive?  In Kickboxer, it was believable when Dennis Alexio got paralyzed...In Bloodsport, I bought Donald Gibb's demise to Bolo Yeoung.  What the hell happened in the Quest?  The friend got picked up and thrown down--it looked like a fake pro wrestling move.  How that did any damage is a complete mystery.Other than these major flaws, the competitors in the tournament were overall subpar, and looked absolutely ridiculous compared to the guys in Bloodsport. Also, was it me or did the tournament only take up like a quarter of the movie?  In Bloodsport you could see that it took several days, and you could check out what happened in the time off, with Van Damme's training/meditating sequences.  Here it all just flies by, and the viewer is not compelled to care.One last thing...an actor like Roger Moore has no place in a film like this. Sure, Forest Whittaker was in Bloodsport, but movies like these have no room for any kind of quality acting.  Van Damme's horrible delivery of lines should be the norm for the cast, as any dramatic skills take a back seat to the fighting action.  Otherwise, the movie would have little drawing power, much like the Quest.Even the soundrack was lacking as those cheesy 80's power songs that usually make Van Damme movies exciting were nowhere to be heard.  Instead we got some geriatric elevator music at the end and throughout.  In short, the Quest is to Bloodsport as Loaded Weapon I was to the Lethal Weapon movies--a dumb, shallow spoof, with absolutely nothing to remember or think back on as the credits roll. "},{"Title":"Another Bloodsport","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This film has two curious points one, its story has been written by Van Damme and he's the director too. Unbelievable! But that's all, folks. In fact, that's another poor and extremely boring kickboxer film with no plot and only one or two good moments (like the sequence when Van Damme escape from America). The plot line resembles another Van Damme film, Bloodsport, maybe the best film that he had acted until now. It's a pity that the master of kickboxer, in this one, gets no kick at all. (1 star of 5 = Rating).  "},{"Title":"ANOTHER BLOODSPORT....","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Another bloodsport...only worse. This was very bad. I have no idea how Van Damme convinced Roger Moore to play in his movie. Some bad acting, some bad,or very bad, fighting scenes...that`s all this movie is! If you got a chance, avoid it! I would give this movie a 3 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"The Quest","Date":"23 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Quest does not know what kind of movie it wants to be - a version of Oliver Twist, a pirate movie, a film about Muay Thai training, or another Bloodsport - and so it covers all these elements at once and does so badly, rather than focusing on one element and doing it well. When I saw The Quest, I was impressed by the cinematography which seems reminiscent in a way of those great epic films of the 1950s and 1960s. Yet at the same time, I was bored with the film because the vast majority of its ideas seemed to be half-baked. If you want to do a film with multiple plots, like the Crying Game did, then what you need is an brilliant film director and excellent screen writers who know what they are doing. Yet Jean Claude Van Damme seems way over his head in his directorial debut. He knows how to film gorgeous looking scenes, but he cannot bring the various elements of film-making together into one coherent narrative. The Quest looks like an array of elements thrown together haphazardly in the hope that they would amount to something, but they do not. In the opening scenes, Jean Claude Van Damme plays a clown with stilts against a richly layered backdrop of a 1920s city coupled with a hideaway with thieving boys which is reminiscent of Fagin's lair from the film Oliver Twist. Then we have scenes that appear, at least on the surface, to come straight out of the movie Treasure Island(1954) which includes its pirate ship. This is followed by another epic scene with Muay Thai fighters training on the beach while large waves are crashing against the shore. Then we see Jean Claude Van Damme and company travelling through Asia on elephants and then horses en route to a temple in the snowy mountains of Tibet. But do all these scenes amount to anything? Actually no, because these scenes just accumulate rather than add up. We did not need to know anything about the Oliver Twist beginning in order to understand the Treasure Island portion. We could have understood the Bloodsport sequence without seeing the Treasure Island portion. In fact, one wonders if this film would be any better if it focused more narrowly on Jean Claude Van Damme's great Odyssey to Tibet and the adventures he had along the way.The other problem is with the acting. A film that tries to cover as much ground as The Quest does needs capable (probably even gifted) actors to convey its material well. But Jean Claude Van Damme, with his poor acting abilities, seems like an uncomfortable fit as the film's protagonist. Van Damme is much more suited for laid-back, easy going, macho films, like Bloodsport and Kickboxer, where you can excuse the bad acting (and laugh at it) and have a good time. But in The Quest, the sets upstage Van Damme, making him look small and insignificant. You really need someone with Eroll Flynn or Peter O'Toole's stature (when they were young) to carry a quasi-swashbuckling film, like The Quest, forward in a convincing way. Roger Moore is a more experienced actor, but he merely reprises his dull cornball James Bond role as the pirate captain and (like his James Bond character) his performance just doesn't work. Although Robert Newton's Captain Silver character has become a clich, I would have preferred that type of pirate captain rather than the one depicted by Roger Moore.Towards the end, Van Damme switches gears and creates another version of Bloodsport with its Hollywood formulae. He seems to be more comfortable with this material (especially since it requires him to do the martial arts that he knows so well), which explains why the martial arts sequences in the last 30-40 minutes of this film are reasonably entertaining. Those martial arts sequences are not, unfortunately, as good as the ones in Bloodsport which had better choreography and a great music soundtrack by composer Paul Hertzog.4/10 "},{"Title":"Overlooked Van Damme flick","Date":"28 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is easily one of my favorite Van Damme films, and I really struggle to figure out why it receives little attention compared to his other work. I am choosing to ignore the infamy surrounding Frank Dux (co-writer) for the time being and instead focus on basically anything but him in this review. Action fans of all backgrounds can appreciate the elements at play here.Van Damme himself is in fine form, performing the stunts and impressive martial arts movements on display in earnest since Bloodsport. The occasional ambiguity about his character's purpose is refreshing in this film. Typically there is very little detracting from the purity or innocence of any protagonist in movies like this, but some of the references to the reputation of thieves in society really make the viewer think twice about the moral character of Van Damme's Dubois. Sure, he is trying to make a better life for himself and the other misfits in the streets he left behind, but at the end of the day he is involved in some seedy activities.Roger Moore does a fine job as, well, Roger Moore (and this is just fine with me). James Remar plays a loudmouth who eventually changes his ways, like he often does, but this time around his motivations are a bit more tempered. This is by far one of my favorite Remar performances. I feel as though an entire movie could be made around his Maxie Devine and it would be endlessly entertaining.Overall, the performances are solid throughout. The locations are eye-catching, and some sea-faring and swashbuckling is thrown in to contrast the gritty streets of the US and the foreboding mystery of the tournament locale. I would not hesitate to recommend this flick to anyone who appreciates some unintentional humor and eye-rolling dialogue in their action gumbo. Most Van Damme fans have likely seen this and should check it out if not. "}{"Title":"Great for what it is","Date":"20 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" OK this is not a Shakespearean masterpiece by any stretch, but for what it is, it is a great movie. This is your summer action flick that happens to be a slightly lower scale production than your big box office draws but still looks great and manages to deliver entertainment in a big way.The cinematography is rather pleasing. There is a variety of interesting environments and some very nice shots. Van Damme does a rather good job acting (for once)- and really does a great job at showing that classic American heroic full of heart character that you see so little of these days. The fighting in this film really is truly top notch though as you have a variety of trained and skilled athletes including one actor playing the role of the fighter from Brazil who has perhaps the most agile and gymnastic like abilities that I have ever seen(especially given his size). There is also Roger Moore (James Bond) in this film and his Character is slightly witty and enjoyably amusing as he plays a modern pirate and business thief type character who is inextricably linked to Van Damme's destiny. This movie has a sort of uplifting emotional effect to it overall and in fact is even a little bit Disney like- though it certainly is worthy of it's pg13 rating. I really hope that everyone gets a chance to watch this good movie and enjoy it for what it is- which is a very good and highly underrated summer action flick. It's to be simply enjoyed with pop corn and ice cream- and not to be taken too seriously. It personally happens to be one of my all time favorites of it's kind- and when I saw it in the theaters as a kid I remember being surprised by how good it was despite not expecting much. I think most people who check it out will agree. "},{"Title":"Sadly, the goofy melodrama and the exotic martial arts just don't mix&#133;","Date":"7 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" In Van Damme's directorial debut, he stars as Chris Dubois, a New York City orphan who stows away aboard a ship on it's way to Asia to escape a life on the edge of society, only to be captured and sold quite literally into slavery. There's even a part where he is asking a shady character played by Roger Moore called Lord Edgar Dobbs (Dobbs, Lord Dobbs&#133;) to buy him so he can have a chance to go to a mysterious place called the Lost City to enter an ultra-secret fighting championship and win his freedom and maybe a little glory along the way.Sadly, the plot is one of the weakest I've seen in a Van Damme movie, which is not a good thing. The first hour comes across as almost an excuse just to get to the fight scenes at the end, which resemble some of his earliest fighting movie like Bloodsport and Kickboxer, but here are so brief and watered down that they are meaningless. It would be better if they just described them. But I'll get to that later.Clearly, Chris' motivation is to get his freedom, but there is also the matter of this fighting tournament, which is a little difficult to understand. The best fighters from all of a dozen or more different countries are there to find out who is the best in the world. It's sort of like the Olympics for fighting with all those nations represented, except it's super-secret so there is no publicity and no recognition for their achievements. One journalist is there, but she had to pull a serious amount of strings in order to get there. These must be fighting purists, the guys that do it for the spiritual reasons and not the money or fame.Anyway, this Lord Dobbs becomes interested when Chris explains to him that the prize for winning the tournament is a big dragon made of solid gold, so Chris is able to enlist his help in getting to the tournament, provided he can win his freedom if he shares the prize with him. All of this is generally irrelevant, of course. The movie exists just for the fight scenes, but sadly, once they finally get started it quickly becomes one of the most disappointing parts of the whole movie.The tournament takes place somewhere called the Lost City, which is described as the top of the world. Maybe this is meant to evoke something like Lhasa, the capital city of Tibet, which calls itself the roof of the world. There's no resemblance, but it's an interesting coincidence. Anyway, soon we learn that there is more to risk than getting the tar beaten out of you. One of the fight officials ominously warns Chris that, if he loses, he can never leave the Lost City.How's that again? Such stipulations are always a complete mystery to me. When I was in Tibet last summer, we took a trip to Namtso Lake a couple hours north of Lhasa, which claims to be the highest lake in the world at about 5200 meters (I'm pretty sure that there are dozens that are much, much higher, but no matter), the locals at the lake told us that the lake was sacred to them, so if you bathe in it, or even just wash your face or hands or feet, your punishment will be that they'll never let you leave. Uh-huh. Who would they really be punishing? Anyway, the actual tournament looks like a video game, a cartoonishly overblown ceremonial setup that reminds me of Mortal Kombat, which I understand is one of Van Damme's worst movies ever. I haven't seen it, but I can certainly imagine! Each country is represented by a goofy stereotype, often in wildly inappropriate attire. There is the German fighter who looks exactly like a Nazi, complete with calf-high standard issue military work boots, the Japanese sumo-wrestler, the squirrelly Chinese guy, the mountainous, frightening Mongolian (who doesn't look remotely Mongolian, but no matter), etc.What I especially love is that every fighter comes out, does some bizarre dance, and then the fight begins and ends within 10-15 seconds without fail. The Turkish fighter, who looks like one of the toughest fighters of all of them, gets shoved backwards by the sumo-wrestler and then I guess he just passes out. I've never seen anyone get knocked out from being pushed, but it happens in this movie. Anyway, things get strangely familiar again when Chris takes off the headband of a fallen friend, swearing revenge with an evil stare at the scary Mongolian. This is as goofy as it gets, but for some reason it's still fun to watch Van Damme in this kind of situation. Too bad the rest of the movie is so bad.What I mean by that, of course, is things like the conclusion of the movie, where Lord Dobbs and his hapless sidekick attempt to steal the golden horse, which has cleverly been left out in the middle of an open courtyard during the tournament, with so little security that no one notices when they try to steal it using a BLIMP. You see, they figure it's too heavy for anyone to carry off, which renders even the most conspicuous and noticeable vehicle perfectly acceptable. NICE.The end of the movie is abrupt and cheesy, complete with a ham-handed moral and a totally uncreative mention of the future of the cast. At least Lord Dobbs mentions that he's a pirate, but used to be a captain in the Royal Navy. Interesting because that's what most pirates were in real life before they turned to a life of crime. Sadly, there's not much else here. For some good Van Damage you're better off with the earlier kickboxing films&#133; "},{"Title":"hapless stuff","Date":"3 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I have to confess that i had neither the strength nor the patience to see this movie till the very end. I found it embarrassingly similar to the classic enter the dragon and bloodsport. The movie thrives to be similar but reaches nowhere and ends up as a ridiculous copy. I consider vandamme as a better action star than the likes of chuck norris and steven seagal. his stunts are more realistic as he brings some kind of emotion in his face during the fights. His movies like nowhere to run, sudden death, bloodsport etc were good entertainers with some very good action. but this one was a disaster. it neither scores as an action movie, nor as a drama. the saving things are the camera work and the lady in the lead. i strongly recommend everyone to AVOID it and grab any jackie chan stuff instead. at least you can have a few laughs. "},{"Title":"Good direction debut for van Damage","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Jean Claude van Damme both stars in and directs this movie. And the result is pretty good. The movie starts out rather bad, but it becomes better as the story proceeds. I'm a big lover of movies with fighting tournaments, and this one is no exception from that. One especially interesting feature with this movie is that the fighters represent their countries. The different nationalities are a bit overdone, but that's not a major setback for the movie. It was indeed surprising to see Roger Moore in a van Damme-movie. I'm a big fan of him because of his Bond movies and because he doesn't take himself or his roles that seriously. Therefore, he fits perfect in this well made action-flick. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as most people make out, but by no means brilliant.","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is an okayish feast of Martial-Arts ultra violence but features no really interesting story and quite poor direction from it's weak star. The film is very unbalanced in that it's almost filmed in 2 main parts. The first 45 minutes is like weak, drama, using Van Damme's unsurprisingly poor lead with Moore's muddled, embarrassed co-lead to try and create an exciting and unpredictable drama in exotic locations. The second 45 minutes is more-or-less pure Martial-Arts action with very little real dialogue. And despite what anyone may say, the films fight scenes are certainly well handled, if that's all that is. Roger Moore seems so lost in this ridiculous attempt at an Adventure epic and at times seems to be sarcastically portraying his stereotypical English Smuggler. James Remar is surprisingly disappointing but isn't left much room to breathe besides all the often annoying co-stars. Janet Gunn provides worthless screen presence and at the end, when Van Damme typically won the whole contest, they walk off together in each others arms, even though no relationship was built between them at all. Louis Mandylor's almost cameo appearence was very disappointing in that he could've been used alot more, for example, Van Damme could've met him at the tournament to have a bloody battle for Van Damme's freedom back to America. Overall, reasonable Martial-Arts flik but poor drama and adventure, an unoriginal idea that would'nt of been soured, had they not cast Van Damme and placed him foolishly in the director's chair. "},{"Title":"Don`t believe the critics!","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Many people say that this movie is really, really bad.  But that isn`t true. This is a different Van Damme-movie.  It`s got a lot of fighting, yes, but no explosions, no shooting, and not as much violence as in other movies. I like Van Damme and Roger Moore in this movie.  It is more of an adventure-movie than an action-movie.  The story is copied right out of films like Mortal Kombat but The Quest delivers tons of neatly shot fighting-scenes, which should please fans of martial-art-films. Don`t believe the critics, but do see this film. 7,5/10 "},{"Title":"Could the film be as inspired as the title? (Er, no.)","Date":"9 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  People are trying to say that this is Van Damme's best film? Okay, the urge to see it as a return to his solid, no-messing tournament-based roots after the mainstream sell-out tat of recent years is understandable, but when you realise that his repertoire of directing techniques when it comes to the all-important fight scenes consists of just strobing the action a bit now and again, it's hard to be convinced. The acting is of course dire, with poor old James Remar looking even more embarrassed than he did in Mortal Kombat Annihilation (an equally arse-numbing film, but at least it had those hilarious bluescreen effects) - and although Roger Moore lends his scenes a dignity they don't deserve, he should have been slapped across the back of the head a few times himself for straying anywhere near something labelled a Van Damme Directorial Debut. Talk about doomed to failure. And I mean, from 007 to this? What are you *doing*, man?Still, the opening sequence where JCVD gets to 'lay down some smack' as a wheezing OAP will have you in stitches - even more so when you think about Jean-Claude himself perched over in the editing suite rubbing his chin and mulling over its dramatic and emotional impact. The big Belgian nonce.  "},{"Title":"Do not bother watching this film, go rent Bloodsport instead.","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  A contrived, disappointing movie, even for Van Damme.  His attempt to direct and star in this film proves a failure.  The addition of his law suit over the stealing of the story from Frank Dux (Bloodsport) makes it all the more pathetic.  I could have written this story in an afternoon or just renamed his earlier work, Bloodsport, and called it The Quest.  This film is a bad version of Van Damme's finest work, Bloodsport (made years earlier).  The beginning looks promising but after the look at how tough and scary Van Damme looks scene it goes downhill.  Roger Moore is a needless character (and might I add, 'actor').  The PG-13 rating does not help, since superb violence is most of what one goes to see in a Van Damme movie.  The plot is see-through, even more so than most his films.  Do not bother watching this film, go rent Bloodsport instead.  "},{"Title":"A quest not worth taking...","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A thief is kidnapped by smugglers and then forced to fight in a competition, in which the winner takes home the golden dragon(Which is apparently worth millions, but looks like it was made out of brass) lots of fight sequences ensue. The Quest is proof that action stars need not direct. Jean-Claude Van Damme directs each actor in such a lackluster fashion that they manage to almost become invisible. Roger Moore and James Remar are truly wasted and even the fight sequences are poorly staged. If you really want to see something like this done well, check out Bloodsport and Kickboxer.* out of 4 (Bad) "},{"Title":"Van Damme's Masterpiece.","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The Quest was a great action film. It reminded me very much of Bloodsport and Lionheart which were great to me. This movie had a decent plot, not difficult to understand. JCVD did an excellent job directing this film, it was beautifully shot and the fight scenes were remarkable. Van Damme is still awesome and a great martial artist. Hopefully his upcoming films will be more like this or bloodsport, because thats the Van Damme that i miss and many others do too. 10/10. "}{"Title":"Run Harry!","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I think The Quest is very simular with one of Van Damme's other movies, Bloodsport. And because i like Bloodsport i must say i like this one to. Roger Moore is very good as Lord Edgar Dobbs and Van Damme is also good as Christopher Dubois. The movie is about a fighting tournament in the lost city and the winner gets a dragon of gold. But on the way to victory Christopher Dubois must face many of the world's greatest fighters.... "},{"Title":"A true Quest!","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is just great!! The plot is just amazing, the idea of a gathering from all over the world for a true tournament of champions, at a time when it was an adventure in of itself just getting there! The movie goes to some stunning location and the fights scenes are simply amazing! It has some of the most realistic portrayals of more styles than any half dozen other action movies! I love it! "},{"Title":"The Quest","Date":"16 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" With the James Bond 007 series celebrating its 50th anniversary because of Dr. No, and the third actor to play the famous spy role getting about a lot at the time, it made sense to me to see some of his films before and after Bond, so I found this one, the directorial debut from Jean-Claude Van Damme. Basically an old man is telling a story to a bartender after getting into a fight, and we flashback to this man younger, Christopher Dubois (Van Damme), a pickpocket living in 1925 New York who was orphaned as a child and runs a gang of orphan children pickpockets who also con and steal to get by. They get found by gangsters but Dubois manages to get away, but he does get the attention of the police as well, but he promises to return to the children before stowing away on a boat, but he is found by the crew and forced to be a slave by the pirates aboard. He is saved a few years later by mercenary Englishman Lord Edgar Dobbs (Sir Roger Moore) who agrees to help him get home to America, but in fact he sells him off as a slave on the island of Siam where he gets trained in Muay Thai fighting for a scheme that is coming up. Six months pass and Dobbs with his partner Harry Smythe (Jack McGee) are shocked to see Dubois fighting in the Muay Thai fighting ring, but they see he has become a skilled fighter, so they buy his freedom so that he will represent the USA in the Ghang-Gheng worldwide fighting tournament held in the Lost City of Tibet. Other countries competing in the global event include China, Japan, Germany, Brazil, France, Turkey, Greece, Spain, Africa, Korea, Soviet Union (Russia) and Scotland, all are eliminated round by round, and at the end of the tournament the winning country will receive the prestigious and valuable statue the Golden Dragon. As the contest goes on Dubois gets to know American reporter Carrie Newton (Janet Gunn) and heavyweight boxing champion Maxie Devine (James Remar) who give him advice and tips, and after winning against apposing countries the biggest challenge comes in the final round when he faces Khan the Mongolian Fighter (Abdel Qissi) who is savage. At the end Dubois ultimately wins the tournament, and refusing the Golden Dragon he wins the freedom of his friends Dobbs and Smythe who were sentenced to death after they tried to steal the golden statue, he returned to New York and got the children off the streets, Devine trained great fighters in his future, Dobbs and Smythe went deep into the Amazon to open a trading post, and Carrie wrote the story of everything called The Quest. Also starring Aki Aleong as Khao, Louis Mandylor as Riggi, Chang Ching Peng Chaplin as Master Tchi, Ryan Cutrona as Officer O'Keefe, Peter Wong as Chinese Fighter, Kitao Koji as Sumo Wrestler, Habby Heske as German Fighter, Csar Carneiro as Brazilian Fighter, Takis Triggelis as French Fighter, Azdine Nouri as Turkish Fighter, Stefanos Miltsakakis as Greek Fighter, Peter Malota as Spanish Fighter, Winston Ellis as African Fighter, Ong Soo Han as Korean Fighter, Brick Bronsky as Russian Fighter, Ip Choi Nam as Korean Fighter and Mike Lambert as Scottish Fighter. Van Damme is relatively interesting as the pickpocket turned strong fighter, I will be honest and say that I was paying more attention to Moore though with his charming mannerisms and overall English good nature, I have only seen a few of Van Damme's films, many of them are meant to be involving fighting, so as one of them this is I suppose a good enough one, the story is simple enough and the fight sequences are certainly gripping, it is an alright martial arts action adventure. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"The Big Picture of 1951.Spangles, cigarette cards and Tizer.","Date":"16 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A rattling good old-fashioned Boys Own Paper adventure redolent of Saturday Morning Pictures in the early 1950s,colourful,exotic,exciting. Lots of fighting,an almost Conradian plot,a pretty girl with some lovely dresses,a slightly tarnished Englishman as the good/baddie...... what more could any boy want? Mr van Damme has the odd attack of arty-craftyWhy the clown on stilts? There is a nice nod to Once upon a time in America,are they using the same set? But generally The Quest is good uncomplicated fun.Mr van Damme bounces around a lot,Mr Roger Moore comes perilously close to giving his best movie performance,certainly his most sympathetic one as Lord Dodds,the English privateer who rescues van Damme from one enslavement only to sell him into another. It reminds me of the times we used to stand around in the foyer of the Odeon,Guildford,swapping cigarette card,stocking up on Spangles and Tizer waiting for the usherette to let us in to the magical and mysterious darkened theatre to marvel at Roy Rogers,Frank Buck and Don Winslow of the navy. The Quest is a throwback to those innocent times.If you either remember them or want to experience them vicariously,you would be well-advised to watch it. "},{"Title":"Better then I thought","Date":"24 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I am not a Van Damme fan, i like some of his movies, and i hate others, i have seen my fair share of Fighting movies in my life. In the end i got really tired of it, so when i was told that there had been a new Van damme movie i quickly thought that this movie was going to be the same. I didn't know it was Van Damme that was the director and what not, i thank god i didn't know that. If i did i surely would never have seen it Van Damme made a story so likable, so interesting, i have actually seen this movie a lot of times, more then i normally do. He knew what everyone wanted, he knew what i wanted, this is an adventure for the family. Van Damme plays Chris Dubois a man living with a group of children in new york, suddenly he is forced to leave from new york, and right from there he meets the funny and witty man Edgar Dobbs (Roger Morre) the story is a little easy to figure out at sometimes, but it is really enjoyable.Bless Their Souls "},{"Title":"Van Dammed","Date":"16 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The nice thing about the career of Jean Claude Van Damme is that its essentially over. I liked him in Woo's Hard Target and he had moments in other pictures that made you think he could develop out of the fight movie ghetto and in to mainstream films like Arnold, but instead Van Damme kinda went the Steven Siegal route to oblivion and direct to video productions.This starts off with Van Damme dressed as a beloved street clown, walking on stilts, who is beloved to all the poor street urchins (who co-wrote this script with Van Damme, Jerry Lewis?) and goes downhill from there. It's supposed to be a grand adventure with people getting shanghaied and gun smugglers and golden dragons, but what it is is a bore. All the fight scenes are about as exciting as watching someone you don't know play a playstation fight game.Strangely as a director, Van Damme is better in the non fight scenes. The early scenes on the street and on the ship may be corny, but they aren't shot badly. It's when the fight challenges start that oddly, his ability fails him and the audience really drifts off. "},{"Title":"Van Damme the ULTIMATE 80's / B-movie actor","Date":"12 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Brilliant! Almost an identical plot as a few other of Van Dammages films - Bloodsport and Kickboxer. But as my pappy always says, if you can't beat it, stick with it! This movie was made in the mid 90's which proves its ability to transcend the decades as it is still as great to watch today as it was when it first came out. It also starts other greats as Roger-some-Moore, and James Remar. Remar really adds he quality to this film that other supporting actors added to Bloodsport. He plays a mug boxer, who finds Van Dammes style of using his legs to fight superb, thus becomes his biggest fan. No, on a more serious note this film is suberbly made. It has an edge of cheese (which is why we all watch Van Damme) which was purposely added, the evil Mongol bad guy, and James Remar. I would recommend this film not only to martial arts fans but movie critics as well. "},{"Title":"A good movie","Date":"24 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is similar to another van damme movie called Bloodsport. But overall there are great fight scenes a good story and a lot of different and unique martial arts used, The story is good and has a good cast. The Quest is a great movie that is worth renting if your a action movie fan,martial arts movie fan or a bloodsport fan. Th quest is a 10 out of 10.recommended Bloodsport Kickboxer the circuit  "},{"Title":"You've seen the rest, now see The Quest. Not!","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Here we have a typical Van Damme actioner forged along the lines of his earlier movies. You get a bunch of bad guys for JC to beat up and that's about it. There's an adventure movie kind of opening which is vaguely interesting, but ultimately it all comes down to JC duffing up lots of people.And when the big duff-up tournament starts what do we get treated to? Awful, awful stereotypes of people from around the world. The laughter never stops! What was meant to be the serious climax to the film is lost amid the endless guffaws at the costumes. I mean, it looks like they hired out of work extras from Disney's Cultures of the World theme park in Orlando, for God's sake! I expected the Spaniard would treat us to maracca-kata at any moment, given his stance. That, or a bout of Flamenco dancing. Horribly lame, just horrible.And what were Roger Moore and James Remar doing in this turkey? All they accomplished was to highlight how terrible everyone else's acting was. I hope they got well paid for the shame of it. Maybe they did it as a lark?The ending is equally awful, with a voice over narration telling us how JC gets back to America and makes things right for his kiddy-wink pals - but not how he accomplishes this. The whole plot (such as it was) was about his attempts to get back there to save his kiddy-friends from the mob. Being told It was all OK at the end was rather lame. Imagine if Peter Jackson, at the end of the Fellowship of the Ring, had put in a voice over something like And then Frodo and his companions set forth and destroyed the Ring and everything was just peachy-keen. and then never bothered to make the other two movies of the trilogy. Blech!I can't say this is JC's best or worst movie. It's just another one of a bunch of equally bland movies, this one with better sets and locations and some real actors in it. About the best thing I can say about it is that it's better than Mortal Combat Annihilation. But then, that isn't saying very much at all.   "},{"Title":"I think they should have gone on a quest for a new plot first....","Date":"19 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  At best, this movie would have been a 6 out of 10. I deducted points for it blatantly being ripped off of Van Damme's almost decent move Bloodsport and for rather poor, unrealistic fight scenes. Written by Frank Dux (The actual champion portrayed in Bloodsport) and Van Damme, the story does have a few differences from Bloodsport but these pale in comparison to the similarities. This film is borderline plagiarism. The acting in the film is almost decent; a fact which can be attributed to the presence of Roger , and the minimal lines given to Van Damme. The fight scenes, while flashy, look practiced and fake. 4/10  "}{"Title":"Hollywood's best representation of Martial Arts","Date":"27 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  there are no other films that can be compared with this in terms of fairly realistic martial arts styles, not even in hong kong MA flicks.  skipping the story as it doesn't matter, the various styles of Martial Arts are quite well balanced (other than that Scotsman and the Turk for the stomach churning wrench).  If only van Damme would've brought in a few of Jackie Chan's stuntmen, (Bradley James Allan and the asian taekwondo guy in Mr. Nice Guy), it would've rounded out the globe.  Too bad many still think Aikido and Taiji has far too few movements to look good on film.but in terms of the story it is yet another trademark Van Damme slow-motion growl bore much like Bloodsport.  the idea of the story would've been good if it was followed up with a decent fighting game, but then, at the time of the release, the US have no good fighting game (Mortal Kombat requires no skills, just memorization of fatalities, babealities, animalities, etc...) and I'm not sure if Van Damme would be able to convince SNK or Capcom to help them produce a good one from an American movie.I did give it a 9/10 because the rest of the american made martial arts flicks of the same period were pale in comparison.  no matter the story, it's still a martial arts flick and should have decent martial arts.  (eg. general rubbish like American Ninja, Charles Bronson movies, other Van Damme flicks, Seagal flicks with the exception of the brilliant Under Siege,...)If only other american made martial arts flicks were in the style of Ali or Raging Bull, then at least the fighting would be watchable, and last more than 10 seconds.  (applause to Quentin Tarantino for getting it half decent with Kill Bill vol.1, but the fighting was still poorly executed because they simply lack the training) "},{"Title":"A cool van Damme!","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is one van Damme you haven't seen over and over again. This one delivers a story as well as being a cool action movie. The story begins with an old man (van Damme) who looks back, this is not the best thing in the movie (perhaps the worst). But later when the real film starts it's non-stop action and good filming. This is one of the best van Damme movies I've seen and could be compared to Sudden Death and Universal Soldier. "},{"Title":"* OUT OF FIVE","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Jean-Claude Van Damme stars as Chris a thief who fights in an outlawed tournament for the prize of a gold dragon, in this inert head basher which is so bad it left Van Damme fans disappointed. Terrible actionscenes and horrible pace make this one utterly unwatchable. "},{"Title":"Directed by Van Damme,ohh that explains a lot","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is an epic adventure about fighters from all over the world which gather to fight in a tournament. This movie could have been better and the idea is not totally bad. The fight scenes should have been much more violent and well coreographed.You actually get bored in some of them. If the movie had gotten more good fighters and a good fight coreographer it might turned out OK. Remember to not expect a story in these types of movies.  "},{"Title":"Keeps us waiting too long.","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Van Damme and Roger Moore together? Talk about an unlikely and mismatched team! Roger actually looks bored most of the time, which is  very uncharacteristic of him. Van Damme made his directorial debut here and I think he did an OK job in that department, but it's the script that dooms this film. We have to wait an ungodly amount of time for the real action to begin, and while in the last 20 minutes there's plenty of it (and it's dynamically staged), it follows the same pattern that we have learned from so many other Van Damme movies first he gets beaten to a pulp, then he makes a miraculous comeback, etc.)       (**) "},{"Title":"Bad story, Bad acting, Bad fightscenes, bad movie","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  First excuse me for my bad englishVan Damme shows again how bad an actor he is, but at the same time this movie is his debut as a director. The story is has been seen many times before, and the fightscenes are okay until Van Damme hits the stage. He aint very good at martial arts, all the others contenters could have beaten him in real life. And there is always a guy that gets totaly beaten up by the villian, so we know how evil he is. The only good thing was Roger Moore, but then again it's sad seing him in such a terrible movie.  "},{"Title":"SUCH a good movie!","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I don't know what some people are talking about! This was a great movie! Especially comparing it to other movies of Jean-Claude Van Dame. I mean, have you ever seen Knock Off?? What a bad movie!! But anyway, this movie has great action and fight sequences, and shows different fighting styles from around the world back in the 20s. If this is the type of movie that you'd like, then definitely see it! If not, then stick with The Fox and the Hound or whatever you like... "},{"Title":"Good for a late-night movie...","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The Quest, while a typical and predictable movie can be quite entertaining at 3 in the morning after a night out and you can't sleep.  A good film if your into plotless films and just pure fighting scenes.  Sure, the fighting scenes aren't the best but it is nice to see the various martial arts from around the world. Watch this movie if its on TV, but I wouldn't waste money renting it. "},{"Title":"Same plot, different setting","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Anyone who's watched both Bloodsport and The Quest can hardly escape noticing the distinct similarities.  Jean-Claude Van Damme's debut film as director didn't strain his creativity.  This time the tournament, known as the Ghan-gheng, takes place in the lost city of Tibet.  The prize?  A golden dragon.The Quest falls short of reaching the standard set by Bloodsport.  Where Bloodsport maintains the pretense of a plot, Van Damme seems to allow The Quest to quickly deteriorate into mindless fighting.  He even fails to allow the crucial training scenes during the seemingly short tournament.  The only recurring image that might have been dramatic was his flashbacks to childhood.  Unfortunately, this too was left unresolved.Roger Moore on the upside gave the film a boost as Lord Edgar Dobbs.  He salvages the film bringing some acting ability.  This film is worth watching for the fight scenes, although Bloodsport would make a much better choice. "},{"Title":"a good movie","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  VD's directorial debut. Its good. It has its moments. Some of the fight scenes when the tournament is going on is cool. That fighter that was labeled Tiger was cool. He was moving around the mat like a monkey. Well VD battles the main bad guy & he does his awesome helicopter kick-hell yeah. It has a good storyline though. Its his 2nd PG-13 movie. Its worth seeing. "}{"Title":"predictable, just plain horrible","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was just plain horrible. I don't expect much from Van Damme but what was Moore thinking in allowing himself to be part of this movie? The first half was slow and uninteresting. The stereotyped fighting style from each country was obnoxious. The predictable ending lacked any sort of interest. Skip this movie. "},{"Title":"Van Dammes worst movie!","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is by far VDs worst movie. It is a cheap imitation of Bloodsport but without the blood. Van Damme should quit making movies with tournaments, we have seen a lot of them, so please VD make a movies with other better stories. Total waste of time this flick! "},{"Title":"Van Dammes Best Film","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is Van Damme's finest film. He also wrote and directed it. Don't believe those reviews that tell you how awful this movie is. The first part is a classic adventure yarn, with the Van Damme character traveling to Tibet to take part in a tournament featuring the best fighters in the world. The second part is the tournament itself. I'm not saying the film doesn't have silly moments (like the presentation of the fighters in the tournament), but the silliness is part of the fun this movie is. "},{"Title":"One Of Jean-Claude Van Damme,s Best...","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I really liked The Quest. I think that  it is Jean-Claude Van Damme best movie. I was glad to see Roger Moore in it as  well. The scenery is beautiful in it, and reminded me of The Man With The Golden  Gun. It was filmed in Thailand.  This is a fun movie to watch..     "},{"Title":"This film is so bad it's funny.  Almost.","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is the worst film I have ever paid money to see, and that includes The Lawnmower Man.  It's so bad it's funny, which is its only selling point. The prolgue/epilogues (all of them!) are totally pointless, and just make it even more of a shambles that it already is.  Even the fight scenes are poor this is a van Damme film, it's the fights we want!  The best performance in the thing is from Roger Moore - it's that bad. "},{"Title":"Direct To Video Fodder","Date":"15 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Jean Claude Van Damme stars in this dreadful action flick how or why Roger Moore ever got involved is something of a mystery, perhaps the part looked better on paper or more likely he was offered a wedge of cash. The story is nearly identical to Blood Sport except rather than a soldier this time Van Damme is a petty thief looking after the street kids. There follows a rather lame plot about him having to leave the country and ending up fighting somewhere in Asia and getting an invite to fight in the ultimate martial arts tournament (again nearly identical to Blood Sport).One thing that is admirable about the film is that it does try to include as many fighting styles as possible incl Sumo, Kickboxing and Brazilian Martial arts. Anyone from Scotland will cringe however when the inevitable kilt wearing Scotsman (well an American doing a bad scotch accent) appears briefly. It's a shame the fight choreography doesn't match up to the eclectic range of styles being as it is klunky and padded out with unnecessary slow motion.Acting wise this is a Jean Claude Van Damme film so you should know what to expect! But the quality is low even by his standard one character (the boxer who's so un-memorable I don't even remember his name) seems to exist solely to shout 'Chhhhriiiiisssssss' every time Van Damme gets hit. The setting for the fights looks like a bad 80's music video and there is a plot tacked on to give Roger Moore something to do but it just doesn't work.It seems this is a personal project for Van Damme and Frank Dux (who was the basis for Blood Sport)to produce the ultimate martial arts tournament movie but they just don't have the required flare to make it work, this is just a very slow and clunky direct to video movie.There is nothing to recommend this film as it's not even a good DTV film, the action is sub standard from what should be a good set-up the acting terrible, script is patchy I could go on but by now if I haven't put you off I never will. Give this film a miss if your in search of Jean Claude Van Damme in action go for Blood Sport it's better in every way or if your in the mood for something harder hitting then revisit Enter the Dragon for the best martial arts tournament movie ever. 3/10 "},{"Title":"I was on a Quest to find this film. Perhaps I should return it.","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I am not a fan of Van Damme but I bought this DVD because I thought Louis Mandylor would somehow be showcased more prominently being that he, too is an expert at kickboxing. But he was only in the beginning of the film (as a smartly dressed gangster) & that was it. Since Van Damme said he'd be back to that city, I thought Mandylor would get back at him, too for stealing his money. But he didn't.The start of the film was exciting but after Van Damme gets to that island & is sold into servitude by Roger Moore's character, I lost interest. The film seemed to have too many loose ends, as many of you mentioned here on this board of reviews. "},{"Title":"Van Damme almost came back","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The Quest is Van Damme's atempt at a comenack going back to the films where he was staright into fighting and not playing a cop or any like that. The film has okay fight sequnces but the storyline is a little murky and the fianl does drag a little. But still better than the two previous Van Damme films. "},{"Title":"Please, tell me this is a parody...","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Some of the aspects of this sorry film are unbelievably cheesy. If you can watch it without smiling, you're probably a teenager. Thailand vs Africa, Mongolia vs Scotland, all fighters representing their national garments - oh come on... The Spanish guy with black trousers, white shirt and flamenco gestures was so comical that I started suspecting that this film was a parody. The Scottish guy with a kilt getting kicked into his unprotected balls was also *very* creative, wasn't it? I wouldn't be surprised to see a Russian soldier with a military coat, a pointed cap with a red star and a bottle of vodka in his hands, or a Norwegian with a red beard and skis in this film. I'll refrain from commenting on the non-existent acting in this movie. It is possible to direct a good film with martial arts in it, but this is clearly not the case... "},{"Title":"The Chinese fighter was eye candy","Date":"26 June 2004","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The plot empty, if not silly. The arch of the story was really not going anywhere.Character depth nonexistent.The fight scenes The one - and only - thing I really liked was the Chinese fighter. Wonderful movements. Made all the others look really cumbersome. Without the camera work, all of it, except mentioned Chinese fighter, would have been just embarrassing. But there is worse, I guess.There was some effort put into the costumes and the attempt to keep up the semblance of a story. But it was just too shallow and empty beneath to redeem this movie. Good, though, if you have other things to do and just want something to run in the background. You can just look at the movie from time to time and are certain not to miss anything of importance.  "}{"Title":"Average JCVD period action adventure.","Date":"1 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Quest is set during 1925 where martial arts expert Christopher Dubois (Jean-Claude Van Damme) lives in New York & heads up a gang of child pickpockets, when he steals a large sum of cash from a local mobster he goes on the run & ends up on a ship headed for Thailand. Dubois is discovered & treated as a castaway, luckily for Dubois the ship is attacked by pirate Admiral Edgar Dobbs (Rogeer Moore) & his men, Dobbs sees Dubois fight & thinks he can use him to make some money & sells him on as a prize fighter on Mutai Island & leaves him there. Later while showing reporter Carrie Newton (Janet Gunn) around Thailand Dobbs & Dubois run into each other again, Dubois ask's Dobbs to finance a quest to the Lost City where a martial arts tournament is being held to steal the eventual prize, a huge statue of a Dragon made of pure gold. Once there Dubois enters the tournament & starts to believe he can actually win the thing...The Quest was the last film JCVD made under his five picture contract with Universal (Hard Target (1993), Timecop (1994), Street Fighter (1994) & Sudden Death (1995) being the first four) & he actually made his directorial debut here with The Quest, as has already been mentioned on numerous occasions by numerous observers The Quest feels a lot like a bigger budgeted remake of JCVD's early hit Bloodsport (1988) & both are based around the exploits of Frank Dux & his real life experiences fighting in martial arts tournaments around the world. I have to say I was surprised by how unmoved I was by The Quest, all the ingredients are here for a top action adventure film with the evocative 1920's period setting, some great production values, pirates, fights, plots to steal a golden Dragon, martial arts tournaments & some likable character's but somehow The Quest turned out rather forgettable. The Quest doesn't quite add up to the sum of it's parts in my opinion, I mean it's not terrible but it's just not that good either & I think this proves JCVD is not a director as many scenes are flat & seem curtailed. The pace is sluggish to begin with but it picks up towards the end although a lot of the fights look exactly the same, there's no sense of the tournament progressing either & we never learn anything about any of the other fighters either or why this tournament is even being held in the first place or how Dubois knew about the golden Dragon.I have to say I was disappointed with the action here, it's very tame stuff & each fight looks almost exactly the same as the last. There's a great sequence of pirates attacking & boarding a boat but that's about as exciting as The Quest gets. Despite being an action star JCVD doesn't know how to direct action, he uses a lot of seemingly random slow-motion during the fights which is alright I suppose but he even uses it when the fat Japanese Sump wrestler guy is fighting & see this guy's flabby & fat stomach flop & bounce all over the place in slow-motion is a rather unnerving experience. The one thing I will say it that The Quest looks great with lavish period mid 20's production values & I would imagine that's where the budget went. Frank Dux tried to sue JCVD when he claimed he collaborated with JCVD on The Quest & was then denied any of the profits, JCVD eventually won the court case.With a supposed budget of about $30,000,000 The Quest was probably one of JCVD's biggest budgeted films & it's a shame he didn't use the money more wisely, some of the scenery on show here is amazing & in particular the Thailand footage. Although set in New York & Thailand it was actually partially filmed in Montral in Qubec in Canada. The acting is OK, Roger Moore is watchable & returns to the same islands he shot the final scenes of the Bond film The Man with the Golden Gun (1974). Incidentally Moore states that The Quest is his least favourite of the films he has made & in his autobiography claims that JCVD is the second worst person he has ever met in the film making business (the worst person happens to be Moshe Diamant who actually produced The Quest).The Quest is an OK way to pass 100 odd minutes but isn't anything special & I wouldn't even call it top drawer JCVD (if such a thing exists!), not that bad but not that great either. "},{"Title":"Waste of time","Date":"28 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I don't know why I gave up the only show I enjoy on TV to watch this. It was Van Damme, and it was his directoral debut. I was just curious. Well, you know what they say about curiosity.They seemed to spend an interminable amount of time getting to the action in this remake of Bloodsport. When they got there, it did not seem as if Van Damme thought we were there to see some fighting. The matches were almost an afterthought. Was this in deference to Roger Moore? Were they trying to make his role seem more important than it was? James Remar and Janet Gunn - boring!Everything about this movie just said payday. "},{"Title":"Watch it for the fights or don't watch it at all","Date":"30 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Many celebrities don't know their limitations. Once, Jean-Claude Van Damme just thought he could act. This film marks the first time he believed himself to be able to direct, too. Luckily, he didn't do so again for a decade... with some luck, he'll either be prohibited from further attempts at the(admittedly tough) art of directing after his next effort, or have learned a thing or two since he made this. I'm holding out more hope for the first, to be honest. I suppose, if one were so inclined(personally, I have no interest in liquor), one could play a drinking game with watching this movie... but there certainly are other pieces of cinematic entertainment that are easier to sit through, and which would do the job for that just as well. The plot plods along, never really holding your interest(or even getting it in the first place). The pacing is among the closest to non-existent in any film I've ever seen. The acting... well, the less said about it, the better. The children in the first few scenes give in better performances than the actual names on the film(and believe me, that says a lot). The score is nothing worth mentioning. The writing is all rather poor. There is but one reason to watch this movie... and it's the fight scenes. Seriously, any martial arts fan should watch this for that one reason at least once in his life-time. So many styles of professional fighting represented. If the idea of watching a tournament right out of the Tekken games appeals to you, give the last third of this film a chance. About half an hour of this movie is non-stop fighting. Once it *finally* gets to it, it hardly ever stops to take a breather. For any other Tekken(well, from the third game and onward) fans out there, the fighting style of one of my personal favorites is featured... Eddy. Something that especially makes the fights exciting and entertaining is the unpredictability factor... while, admittedly, you kind of know who the ultimate winner will be, and who his main opponent will be(this is Hollywood-ish action, after all... can't break formula), the majority of the fights, due to the fighters only being that(none of them are really developed as characters(not that that's all that different from the level of back-story and development of the *actual* characters, but still)). They're possible opponents for our lead. Few of them are made out to be definite winners or losers. Think of it as the surprise level of the first Paul W.S. Anderson film you watch... only, you know, good. That is the one aspect of the film that makes it watchable. Well, that and it's good for a laugh(but there are other, less painful films to watch that provide the same). I recommend this only to huge fans of Jean-Claude Van Damme and martial arts. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Good Van Damme but needs Moore plot.","Date":"6 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This film wasn't too bad considering it was directed and cowritten by star Jean-Claude Van Damme.  The movie starts off in the 1920's with Van Damme dressed as a clown wearing stilts working with street orphans to steal some money from gangsters.   He escapes from  gangsters before being chased by the police onto a ship.  The next morning, out to sea, the ship owners chain up the stowaway and put him to work.  Shortly after the ship is ambushed by British cavaliers, led by Roger Moore, which free him      only to bring him to an island and sell him to the Mutai to be a fighter.  The action quickly changes from an adventure story to a video-game movie the likes of Tekken.  All of the best fighters in the world are invited to fight in a tournament at the Lost City for the prize of  Golden Dragon and honor.    The fighters are acted by real fighting champions from around the world.  Each brings his own fighting style resulting in some satisfying matches which are the saving grace of the film.This film would have been much improved with plot twists and more attention paid the the back story of Van Damme's orphaned past to gain a better appreciation of why the fighting is so important to him.4/10  -- diverse fighting but poor plot and not enough one liners.  "},{"Title":"Why?!","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Why would someone make this film?! There is absolutely nothing good about it, the fights are boring like hell, and the plot is so bad it's not funny. I can't belive Frank Dux would take a part in this - guess he wanted to make another Bloodsport.Jean Claude really stinks as a director. Jean, if you're reading this -stick to the fights will ya? Basically, this movie never should have been made. "},{"Title":"DAMME RIDICULOUS,MOORE OR LESS!","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  When Jean Claude I'm a charming guy Van Damme was making this terrible excuse for a movie he was quoted as saying that it would be the BEN-HUR of martial arts movies.He should have said it would have been like BEN (the sequel to WILLARD)because after this mess nobody gave a rat's a**e about JVCD anymore and it was his own fault.How could a 90 minute long low budget chop socky compare to a 3 hour plus epic masterpiece like BEN HUR? The ridiculous plot has former street urchin Van Damme compete in a secret martial arts tournament called the Ghang Gheng or some such.This name produced laughter in British audiences because it reminded them of a silly song sung by boy scouts in the UK called GING GANG GOOLIE.Roger Moore does not disgrace himself in this movie although he comes close.He proclaims that the Van Damme character is the greatest fighter he has ever seen;at this point he has only seen JC punch out one nondescript pirate!Production values are not too bad I suppose but compared to Steven Seagal's gripping and exciting directorial debut ON DEADLY GROUND,THE QUEST fails on just about every conceivable level.Don't hold your breathe waiting for JCVD's follow up as a director because there ain't gonna be one. "},{"Title":"the worst movie I've ever seen","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is definitely the worst movie I've seen in my entire life. I don't like Van Damme at all, and I only watched this one because my friends had it on video. But it's simply stupid and devoid of any plot, acting skills and logic. Although I knew from the very beginning that it would to be a bad movie, I didn't expect it to be such a disaster. Even worse than Maximum Risk, and that one was already terribly bad.Do yourself a favor and don't waste your time on something as unspeakably horrible as The Quest. "},{"Title":"This movie is an embarrassment.","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Too bad Roger Moore got involved with this pathetic waste of time.  Van Damme's obvious lack of talent as a director segments this movie into 4 meaningless story lines with no apparent point.  Perhaps his mother's annoying presence on the set was the reason he wasn't allowed to make something of the love story that is alluded to but never consummated at all. By the end of the movie it is unclear whether the main characters even know each other's names. "},{"Title":"Prepare to laugh","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Pure brilliance!If you easily appreciate spoof movies, prime yourself for THE QUEST by first viewing LIONHEART, BLOODSPORT, KICKBOXER, most any Antonio Banderas movie, a Rocky movie -- ANY Rocky movie, any movie that begins or ends with an old person reading a book, and that episode of LITTLE HOUSE ON THE PRAIRIE where the Ingalls family go to Chicago and meet children who are tought to steal.  THE QUEST spoofs and mimics it all!  Yes, it starts off a little slow, but eventually the lampooning gets going at full throttle. My ribs still hurt from laughing so hard.  More funny than a whole season of MONK -- by far, THE QUEST is the best comedy of the latter half of the 1990's. Highly recommended.  THE QUEST is laugh-out-loud  F U N N Y ! "},{"Title":"oh, brother","Date":"24 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" i hate to say this,but this movie is dumb,even for a Van Damme flick.the story is stupid and slow and has no flow at all.the fight scenes are nothing special,similar to blood sport but pale in comparison.Roger Moore is in this one,and may be the only good thing about this mess.and just once,is it too much to ask for Van Damme to actually sound like his character is from the locale in the movie.his accent never changes,no matter what nationality his character is supposed to be.in this one He plays Christopher Dubois,a Frenchman in NewYork in the mid 1920's.how about playing a character with a NewYork accent?it's obvious Van Dammme never took any dialect lessons or tried to change his accent in any way,which is what makes most of his movies more than a bit absurd.and don't even get me started on the title.i mean The Quest,how original.but then again the movie has no originality either,so i guess it's fitting that the title should follow suit.anyway,Van Damme directed and co-wrote the story with Frank Dux.all i can muster is 3/10 for Roger Moore "}{"Title":"Prepare to laugh","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Pure brilliance!If you easily appreciate spoof movies, prime yourself for THE QUEST by first viewing LIONHEART, BLOODSPORT, KICKBOXER, most any Antonio Banderas movie, a Rocky movie -- ANY Rocky movie, any movie that begins or ends with an old person reading a book, and that episode of LITTLE HOUSE ON THE PRAIRIE where the Ingalls family go to Chicago and meet children who are taught to steal.  THE QUEST spoofs and mimics it all!  Yes, it starts off a little slow, but eventually the lampooning gets going at full throttle. My ribs still hurt from laughing so hard.  More funny than a whole season of MONK -- by far, THE QUEST is the best comedy of the latter half of the 1990's. Highly recommended.  THE QUEST is laugh-out-loud  F U N N Y ! "},{"Title":"one of the stupidest ever","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Aren't these people sick of this sh*t yet?? Cause I am..... it's a movie you definetely should skip. You've seen this before, so many times... including in Blood Sport or in other Van Damme movies... This was done just for Van Damme to flex his pecs a little bit and show us his karate skills, cause the rest is absolutely unimportant.And an advice Mr Van Damme, please quit directing movies, it's a total fiasco... you have no idea how to do that. And please for the sake of all man kind go back to Holland and leave us alone.Vote 0 out of 10.(unfortunately that's impossible, so it's 1 out of 10) "},{"Title":"Directed By Jean Claude Van Dumb","Date":"26 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  THE QUEST is directed by and stars Jean Claude Van Damme and watching this movie I was struck by the opening scenes which have a passing resemblance to Sergio Leone`s ONCE UPON A TIME IN AMERICA , but don`t build your hopes up ,  we`re not going to be watching a masterpiece of American cinema and as soon as Jean Claude appeared as the head of a child gang of pick pockets I just knew I wasn`t going to be watching a masterpiece of American cinema . Oh and it`s a good thing dead people can`t sue otherwise Jean Claude would have received a copyright writ from Charles Dickens for using a surrogate Fagin . I hear the Jewish ADL are pretty good at issuing writs for people preaching anti-semitism and this has probably stopped Jean Claude uttering  We`ll pick a pocket or two moi dearz , we`ll pick a pocket or two  so instead the actor/director appears as a clown with his face painted completely white where he proceeds to give little children lots and lots of dollars . Expect Jean Claude to receive a writ from Michael Jackson in the near futureThis being a Jean Claude star vehicle we`re soon treated to our hero escaping from the law and finding himself having to resort to his martial skills to make ends meet . Sounds just like every other movie that`s starred Jean Claude Van Dumb doesn`t it ? And there`s absolutely no difference between this movie and Jean Claude`s other films . We`re even treated to these tedious arena scenes like what we saw in BLOODSPORT and LIONHEART except the ones here are directed even worse than we`d come to expect in a movie like this Watching THE QUEST I suddenly realised what it is that I dislike about Jean Claude movies - They lack any type of humour , everything is done in a completely dead pan and serious way with no room for any type of light relief . I don`t want to sound egocentric but I had more fun typing the first paragraph of this review than watching this movie and I reckon - He said modestly - Joe average would have more fun reading it than  having to sit through this dumb , formuliac , dire movie   "}]