[{"Title":"A pleasant surprise. Don't believe the bad press!","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"22 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I just saw Mr. Wrong on cable TV, and it surpassed all my expectations. The movie boasts a pitch-perfect cast, great gags, and genuine heart. I defy anyone not to at least smile when the children's chorus launches into I Want to Know What Love Is in Spanish. Please note I'm not some shill for whoever sells the home video of Mr. Wrong. Nor am I hopelessly devoid of taste I know why movies like Planes, Trains and Automobiles are funny, and why movies like North suck. Mr. Wrong has been unjustly placed in the latter category. If you're willing to take a chance on an ugly duckling movie, make this the one. "},{"Title":"Pitch Black Comedy With Numerous Funny Moments","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Mr.Wrong has been unfairly reviewed. Designed as a vehicle for the considerable comic talents of Ellen Degeneres, this perhaps wasn't what many people were expected. Okay so its got a glossy sheen and typical 'madcap' comedy music but its tone is much darker than your average comedy.Ellen plays Martha, a single women who thinks shes found the man of her dreams in Whitman, played with creepy assurance, by Bill Pullman. After making the mistake of telling him to act like himself, it becomes clear that he is completely insane.He makes her shoplift, sends her endlessly random gifts, steals mexican kids for her and in the most uncomfortable scene of all, in an effort to show her how much he loves her, he breaks his finger for her.For some people this may sound more like the plot of a thriller and some critics did find the film a little distasteful but for black comedy fans, this is great fun. Degeneres is fantastic as the goofy heroine, providing most of the films laughs.The random humour of the film is what makes it really funny. Disgruntled ex Joan Cusack's attempts to strike back at Degeneres are great. 'Do you want gum in your hair?', 'Prepare to be consumed by ants!', 'Don't be nice to her! Pull her hair!'It may not be to everyone's tastes but this is a real comedy gem. "},{"Title":"It's not wrong to like this film, it's very funny!","Date":"4 May 2005","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Martha (Ellen DeGeneres) is a single, thirty-something television producer who has had very bad luck in her relationships with men. Therefore, when she meets Whitman at the jukebox (Bill Pullman), a self-proclaimed investor-poet, she is smitten with his intelligence and his good looks. However, after a couple of dreamy days and nights, Whitman decides to reveal his true self. He tells Martha he's going to take her on a fun date...they are going to go shoplifting. This is the just the beginning of the swell times ahead! Poor Martha! Will she never find true love? DeGeneres and Pullman display full-octane comedy in this film. The viewer can not help but laugh at their antics. And the supporting cast is such a dream, with Joan Cusack, Dean Stockwell, Joan Plowright and others! The script is humorous, the costumes are a pleasure, the San Diego setting is very nice, what more could one ask for? Please give this film a try, you'll like it! "},{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"8 September 2003","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I would have to disagree with the overall rating of this movie- personally I loved it! It's so funny! I would definitely tell anyone that's interested in seeing it to do it and ignore the bad reviews of it- hey who know's you may end up loving it!!! "},{"Title":"Ellen's brand of Comedy is funny and smart","Date":"22 December 2004","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I wish Ellen made more movies. The talk show is cool but I think that she's wasting her talent. Mr. Wrong is a good case in point. Ellen is totally convincing in her role of a woman disappointed by, and still searching for, love. The casting was brilliant. Hope Davis, Bill Pullman, Joan Plowright, Dean Stockwell and Joan Cusack are an awesome ensemble. The premise of the movie is simple and straightforward enough to be believable but broad enough to allow for any number of crazy things to happen. Her character's job as a talk show producer is brilliant because it allows for cameos of all of Ellen's comic colleagues. It is also an old-fashion comedy in the tradition of It's A Mad, Mad, Mad World, and all of the other 60's comedies showcasing stand-up acts like Martin & Lewis, Bob Hope, etc. This movie was a lot of fun and I've seen it quite a few times. "},{"Title":"Rent it, Tape over it, Return it!","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Poor Ellen. She's finally getting some respect in Hollywood with excellent performances in such films as edTV, The Love Letter, etc, yet has to deal with having starred in this flop.Talent such as herself, Bill Pullman, Joan Cusack, Dean Stockwell, Ellen Cleghorne, and the sensational Joan Plowright is wasted in this turkey.I must admit however that it did start off promising - the typical single woman living in the shadow of recently married sister, meets nice guy, blah blah blah.. but went totally downhill soon afterwards.  What caused Whitman (Pullman) to be such a hyperactive fool? And Joan Cusack and her feeb slave Bob? I love Joan, she's had some great roles (hence the 2 oscar noms) but not even her charismatic prowess can save this hairball. She has to deal with a brainless character who cuts couches and puts gum in Ellen's hair! Sheesh - and the Mexican kids?? Well, I laughed at that scene.. I found it to be quite racist also mind you.Unfunny, unoriginal and uninspired right up to the end wedding where Ellen is in rollerblades or something and Joan is sporting a rifle. Spare me the hyperbole and give me my ninety minutes back.2.5/10 "},{"Title":"good cast, not so great movie","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" SPOILERS THROUGH I watched this movie never having heard anything about it so I was able to decide for myself, without knowing anything about what it was going to be about. I'm not going to say there wasn't any comedy in this movie because there was. There were moments of total hilarity due to an hysterical Bill Pullman who was really in top comedic form. The problem is, when those moments were NOT happening the movie just wasn't very good. It was a great premise but there were a lot of things about the movie overall, that I did not enjoy.This movie was strongest in the beginning, where I thought it was going to be a movie similar to Bridget Jones Diary. But I felt the movie went downhill fairly quickly. I guess this is what one would call a black comedy but as with many of this genre, I felt the movie was to focused on the meanness and not so much on the comedy. When Pullman's character first starts unraveling it's OK but after awhile it becomes a bit of overkill. The movie just becomes way to cruel, as more and more bad things happen to Ellen's character. That's the focus of the movie really, not the comedy. It's almost like the movie's seeing how many awful things can happen to Ellen'c character, and how much of her life can be destroyed etc etc. It didn't make me laugh, it made me a bit dazed and frankly I just wanted the movie to end. Throwing ants and gum on someone, and that person losing their job etc etc is not what I consider to be funny. The truly funny moments existed when Pullman was on screen because, as utterly annoying as his character came to be, he was hilarious. So yes there were a few moments where I laughed out loud.But those moments did not make the movie, for me, a great one. Another thing I didn't like was that the movie became way to over the top, a Virtual cornucopia of melodrama. Inga & Bob,rather then being funny, were a bit obnoxious. The whole wedding storyline was way to much. And the movie felt so LONG. I mean I know it wasn't but it FELT like it was.Ellen was very good as the lead though and Pullman, as mentioned was REALLY good and should probably have his own comedy television show. In a way I think I would have liked this better as a straight on comedy without the mean element or as a romance where Pullman's character did NOT change but stayed Normal. Or maybe even as a thriller or a film Noir. Basically I just felt this movie didn't work as a black comedy. I wouldn't consider this one of the worst movies ever made however. I would not recommend it either. "},{"Title":"I've been through that, so...","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  OK, everybody HATED this film, and I would've hated it too, if it wasn't for my last love affair... A similar stuff happened to me as well, and in some very funny parts of the film I saw myself, trying to break up but not being heard... Awful situation, believe me! So, this film made me laugh at my life, actually... it's weird when you watch it, but oh well. If you're in a relationship like that, or have been in one, you'll probably enjoy it. "},{"Title":"awful","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is possibly the worst movie ever made. It is at least the worst movie I've ever seen. Not only were most of the scenes unfunny, but they hurt me to watch them. Dark Comedy or not, this film belongs in the genre of Bad Comedy. "},{"Title":"I love it!","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I guess you have to have lived through this kind of stuff to get the outrageous humor!  Terrifically done - Bill Pullman is hilarious as is Degeneres...Joan Cusack and her sidekick were FUNNY and Walter a perfect fit.  If you have pretty normal relationships forget it but if you have had to deal with some pretty weird partnerships - give it a try.  I bought it because I enjoy watching it once in a while.  My kids 11 and 13 loved it, too. "}{"Title":"Unfunny Comedy","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" MR. WRONG ** Unfunny comedy, save two or three role-plays, that casts comedian-turned-actress Ellen DeGeneres as a hapless woman with no man in her life, and Bill Pullman as Mr. Right, the fellow she never figured she needed. But the story has seemingly charming Pullman become insensitive and obnoxious - qualities that can be said of what the screenplay evolves into - and DeGeneres wants out when she comes to terms with it. Wasting the talents of all involved, it's one of those films that seems entertaining on commercial release, but disappoints when you actually rent it. Don't waste your time. I saw the movie two or three years ago, and haven't seen it since, nor ever again. "},{"Title":"Wrong Comedy","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  After a few no hitters, Martha meets whom she initially believes to be the 'man of her dreams.'Martha (played in understandably reserved fashion by talented Degeneres) is disappointed by the 'no hitters' and brushes them off diplomatically.  After she meets the Pulman character, actress Degeneres should have taken over with her TV persona, and acted neurotically 'head over heels' in love with him, instead of the other way around.  To anybody who's been in love (or heard tear-jerking/heart-wrenching stories from friends), they know that when your romantically inclined prayers are answered, you become a bit neurotic yourself.    Like the TV character, more rambling chatter (Ellen does this best in the comedy world) would have been preferable to this inferior product which, to make my point, ended up bombing at the box-office.Ellen is an extremely talented comedienne, and Hollywood has overlooked better scripts, casting her in this film that can't make up its mind on whether it considers it a proper vehicle for her, or one for Pulman.Good Points Welcome San Diego scenery shots; irritatingly-neurotic secretary always wanting to get the last word; overly optimistic coworker who dispenses congratulatory hugs; and the eccentric mother-in-law-to-be who loves playing charades (so much promise, but neither of these aformentioned points truly 'deliver').  "},{"Title":"Great 15 minute audience capture!","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film lasted about 2 hours but had audience attention for about 15 minutes. They were not the first 15 minutes, but there were some interesting minutes. The actors did well. It was funny for a bit but dragged on too long. I would recommend this movie to rejected- feeling girls who want to feel more depressed than they already are. "},{"Title":"Let's talk about black comedy...and how this is a total failure...","Date":"23 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Mr. Wrong had to be written as a black comedy, but unfortunately misses the mark by a wide margin. The main problem is that the film is not outrageous enough. Bill Pullman's character resorts to becoming a mean stalker after his rejection by Ellen DeGeneris. At this point the movie turns into nothing more than a glorified cartoon. In order for dark comedy to succeed, it can be outrageous, but not mean spirited. Killing perverts to finance their dream restaurant worked wonders in Eating Raoul. Here, simply destroying someone's life, for one's own pleasure, is totally off-putting, and not funny. A big disappointment, and definitely not black comedy. - MERK "},{"Title":"Quite disturbing. Don't know what it's supposed to be","Date":"23 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's quite horrible. Ellen DeGeneres has been one of my favorite comedians for a long time, but her first foray into feature films was quite a mind blowing experience and mostly in a negative way.It's not that there is anything wrong with the premise. DeGeneres plays a woman who's getting on in years and meets a seemingly perfect man, Whit played by Bill Pullman. He seems to be perfect until Martha (DeGeneres' character) makes the fatal mistake of telling him to be himself. What happens next Martha discovers he's a complete lunatic.Everyone is terrible in this movie, even a seasoned pro like Dean Stockwell as a slimy private detective and by far the worst comedic performance of that year is performed by Joan Cusack as Whit's even more psychotic ex.If one can call it a redeeming quality, the film does spark some weird curiosity of how it all ends. However, the end is incomprehensible and totally unbelievable. It seems as if the writers just gave up and said Well, we can't make it any worse! DeGeneres hasn't had a starring role since this disaster, although she had a fairly good supporting role in EdTV.What more can you say except this was a total misfire from everyone involved. Bob Goulet did however do a fairly good job of playing, Bob Goulet. "},{"Title":"In Ellen We Trust","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Mr. Wrong is a little different as far as comedies go, but hey, so is Ellen. That's why we love her! So it may take a little open-mindedness to get into it at first but my advice is to trust in Ellen and stick with it. Perhaps Ellen is not for everyone and chances are that if you don't like her stand up or other stuff, then you will very likely not like this movie. However, it is one of my favorite comedies. I have seen it at least 5 times and will definitely see it again. This may be because there is really nothing else like it, it is very unique. It is very absurd and painfully real at times as far as the human tendency to misjudge others and pay a lot for this mistake. So you laugh and groan and generally admire Ellen's brilliance throughout. It is very reflective of Ellen's tendency to incorporate the many ironies of modern culture into her work and I personally wouldn't have it any other way. Bill Pulman and Joan Cusak are rib-splittingly funny in this too. "},{"Title":"Sure, it wasn't that great, but....","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I sure didn't think this was one of the best movies I've ever seen, but I also never expected to find it on the all time 100 worst list either! Sure, Ellen and Bill weren't at their best, but hey, there were some good laughs here. Normally I wouldn't waste my time commenting on a mediocre movie, but I just don't think, with so many other truly BAD flicks to chose from, that this one is top 100 material, maybe I'm weird, sorry! "},{"Title":"Does  not  deserve  the  bad  reviews  it  got","Date":"25 January 2004","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Sure, it's  not  the  best  comedy  you've  ever  seen. But  it  does not belong  on  the  worst  list  either.  DeGeneres  is  extremely  talented with  her  natural  humor  that  makes  Mr. Wrong  very  original.  I can't speak  for  everyone,  but  I  personally  identify  with  many  of  her reactions  and  behaviors. "},{"Title":"I found this movie very funny!!","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It started out so slow but halfway through it became absolutely hilarious. Definitely a chick flick for fans of oddities like Titus!  I have watched it several times and find it just as funny as the first time.  I guess, like Titus (the tv show) , you have to have  experienced it to see the humor. If you have ever had someone seem so right who turned out to be so persistent and WRONG you may enjoy Mr. Wrong. "},{"Title":"if only the script could have been better","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  i usually really enjoy joan cusak, bill pullman, and joan plowright....but either the director or the script just didn't give them a character at all to play.  honestly the only thing i really did enjoy about this film was ellen...i actually thought she did a very nice not typical ellen role "}{"Title":"Good acting, bad script","Date":"6 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" My girlfriend told me to tape this from TV and I had no idea what it was about. Initially I was pleasantly surprised by seeing Bill Pullman in a lead role. The last movie I saw featuring him was While You Were Sleeping which I thought was great.Mr. Wrong starts out reasonably good, but fairly quickly the stupidness becomes too much. Ultimately, it is made bearable by good acting from Degeneres and Pullman and a lot of funny moments. The moments in-between was unfortunately not just boring or neutral but plainly painful. This is obvious from the start when Martha Alstons (Degeneres) secretary brays on about receiving flowers from her boyfriend on valentine's day and Martha returns it in a totally non-funny way. I guess it could have been funny, but it was just painful to watch. Repeat ad nauseum with some genuinely funny moments in-between and you have this movie. In conclusion, its watchable and good for a few laughs, but if there's something more interesting available, just steer clear. "},{"Title":"Very Funny","Date":"22 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie was highly underrated. I found it to be hilarious. We all know Ellen can do comedy, but I never guessed Bill Pullman could. He is great as the stalker boyfriend Whitman. I also have to give props to Joan Cusack for her portrayal of Whitmans ex-girlfriend Inga, who is stalking Ellens character Martha out of jealousy. OK, so this movie would never make the top 10, but it is good for a few laughs. The best part for me was after Whitman met Marthas parents and made such a great impression. Martha urges him to be himself, so he complies and ends up coercing her into stealing beer from a convenient store. Martha ends up dropping the stolen beer out of her coat and the convenient store worker chases her with a bat. Good times. "},{"Title":"Definitely Not Bad","Date":"12 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The only reason I am voting for 10 for 'Mr. Wrong', is because it has such low rating. I don't think that it deserves such low rating, as there are some genuinely funny moments in the movie and I would recommend it to anyone for a viewing.There's nothing really original going on, it's just that Bill Pullman is really funny as a crazy guy (the 'Hold The Line' scene is one of my favourites). Ellen DeGeneres is fantastic in my opinion, playing a really down to earth person and she is exceptionally funny.The movie was made in '96, so maybe I am also nostalgic of that time...Anyway rent it, you won't regret it. "},{"Title":"Unfunny and really drags along like a dead horse","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  31 year old Martha is in a Mexican prison in her wedding dress.  She tells the detectives how she got into this situation and talks back over the past year back to the day she first met Whitman.  They fell in love of course and dated for a while but soon Whitman's personality began to become increasingly worrying and the relationship came to an end.  However as Martha finds, Whitman won't let her sabotage her won happiness.I knew that this film would be a romantic comedy without a great plot and would probably not be that good.  However I had hoped that it would have enough wit and energy to it to be fun if not brilliant.  However it is actually a bit dopey and really drags along with no fun whatsoever.  The film premiered in the UK on channel 5 in the middle of the afternoon schedule of soaps and bad chat shows &#150; that is how much they thought of the rights to this movie.The plot is really poor &#150; basically Whitman can't accept he's been dumped and starts to freak out Martha.  It does nothing funny with this premise whatsoever and it just gets increasingly desperate as it tries to be `wacky' and `off the wall'.  Instead I found it tiresome and just plain unfunny.  It didn't even seem to be trying hard &#150; it just seemed content to drag it's feet as it went along.  Whitman isn't sold as a stalker of any kind and his actions aren't ever explained as they finally go a bit extreme.  It ain't funny, it ain't romantic and it left me wondering what the point of it was.I like DeGeneres even though I know she's rubbish.  She does occasionally get some laughs in a poor vehicle.  Here she did nothing and if anything just made the film worse!  Pullman is usually good in anything he does but he has nothing to work with in a character who is never really given any foundation or basis.  The rest of the cast are simply TV support actors which suits the feel of this film. Oh, and special mention to Joan Cusack &#150; what a terrible performance and a terrible career choice!  Fire your agent.Overall this was a waste of 90 minutes and it really felt like it was twice as long as this.  It has no natural energy and it just drags along.  It is the least funny thing I have ever seen Ellen in.....and that's saying something. "},{"Title":"There's more that's wrong here than Mr.","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ellen DeGeneres, normally at least mildly funny in her sitcom Ellen, fails miserably in making this alleged comedy endurable. Completely paralysed, DeGeneres' character stumbles through the story kind of going with the flow. Apparently helpless, she deserves no kind of sympathy from the audience and would be better off at the back of the video store together with this miserable flick. "},{"Title":"Sorry Ellen! You lost on this one","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the worst films of all time.  I think Ellen is hilarious, but nothing she could do could save the horrible script and plot.  Avoid it at all costs.  I give it one star "},{"Title":"The WORST movie I've ever seen!","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  While I love to see movies that are so bad they're good, this one is just plain AWFUL! I love Bill Pullman (he made me melt in While You Were Sleeping), and while it's amusing to see him dressed up as a clown in this movie, he really missed the boat in this role. As for Ellen, I'm sorry, but I can't take her seriously in roles as a straight woman, no offense.I did enjoy hearing Queen's Crazy Little Thing Called Love (one of my favorite songs) in the film. That was one of the few bright spots in this film. The film really crashed and burned in the last 45 minutes. The kids and the guns (which ultimately turned out to be fake) was a very insulting scene.Don't even waste your money renting this horrible movie! "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I have ever seen","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the worst movies I have ever seen.  It is a shame too, because I really like Bill Pullman.  The story had a lot of gaping holes and there was absolutely no chemistry between the two stars.  The plot twist at the end made no sense. "},{"Title":"This black comedy has its laughs, but it also has some dead spots.","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I can't say I was completely disappointed in this black comedy, but it could have been better.  Ellen DeGeneres spends a lot of time silently reacting to the goings on, perhaps the fault of the director.  And the script doesn't handle well what she could have done to stop the harassment of Bill Pullman once she tries to stop seeing him.  I also disliked the flashback technique used by the scriptwriters. On the plus side, I enjoyed the kookiness of Joan Cusack, who steals the film, while Dean Stockwell, Joan Plowright and Ellen Cleghorne are excellent in their small roles.I was appalled at some of the reviews, many of which complained that stalking was inherently an unfunny situation inappropriate for comedy. Nonsense! Lighten up, you guys - this is a black comedy! Murder, torture, sadism and mental illness are also inherently unfunny, but very few complained about that in the very funny Arsenic and Old Lace (1944).  "},{"Title":"Way oversold in the commercials","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie had its moments of absolute hilarity.  Unfortunately, every one of them was also in the TV ad.  I'm glad I waited to see it on tape. "}{"Title":"Absolutely Terrible, NOT black comedy people!","Date":"12 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Let me start by saying that the only reason I gave this movie a 2 was because Ellen is awesome.But really the movie itself deserves a 1, if not a 0. Let me address the defense that this is a black comedy Definition of black comedy Black comedy or dark comedy is a sub-genre of comedy and satire in which topics and events that are usually regarded as taboo, are treated in an unusually humorous or satirical manner while retaining their seriousness. The intent of black comedy, therefore, is often for the audience to experience both laughter and discomfort, sometimes even simultaneously.I did not at any point experience laughter during this movie, except while laughing at how terrible it is. Perhaps one could argue that the topic of stalking is the element of black comedy here, but in no way does this movie, with its madcap soundtrack and completely horrible script, retain its seriousness.If you want a black comedy, then go watch Death to Smoochy, or even better, Todd Solondz's brilliant Happiness. Don't watch this dreck.Also, the scene where she is supposedly high on LSD (oft-named by this movie's necessarily idiotic supporters as one of it's funniest) is only funny because the filmmakers so clearly have no idea what it is like to be on hallucinogens.If you absolutely must watch this, get drunk during it so that at the end, it seems funny rather than infuriating that you just wasted two hours of your life. "},{"Title":"Not So Great Movie Made Worse by Ellen","Date":"8 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The script for this movie was OK, except for the last 15 minutes which were just horrible. I don't find Ellen funny, and her acting is far from diverse, she plays the same character in every project. Her and Bill Pullman were totally unbelievable as a couple. The fact that no one took her seriously when he was clearly stalking her was just asinine. She was such a whiny victim that I didn't feel sorry for her at all, fight back at least! Most of the other actors besides Ellen were pretty good, the script wasn't great, it wasn't very funny. Seems like this either needed to be a pure black comedy or a mainstream audience comedy, it tried to be both and succeeded at neither.  "},{"Title":"The most pathetic excuse for a movie I've ever seen!","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When I rented this I was expecting a funny, romantic movie and all I got was a long, long, long, boring story that not even Bill Pullman or Joan Cusack could make any better. The movie is full of scenes that will make you go DUH, YEWWW and I want my money back!. So, in case you're considering watching Mr. Wrong, change your mind right now and forget about it. It's really not worth your time. "},{"Title":"First half--funny; second half--insanely funny","Date":"29 August 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  At the start, Martha is in a Mexican jail wearing a wedding dress. So right away you know this is not going to be an ordinary movie.A few months earlier, as she explains to the authorities, Martha was at her sister Annie's wedding.  Her parents think Martha will be next to get married, as do about 30 other people.  But Martha isn't seeing anyone.Martha works for the KSDG-TV program 'Daybreak San Diego', co-hosted by Dick and Nancy.  Walter, one of her co-workers, Walter, is a possible romantic partner.  But Martha meets Whitman when he selects the same song she wants on a jukebox.  They fall for each other, and he meets her normal parents, and she meets his quirky mother and her maid Consuela.  Whitman's family appears to have money, and he doesn't have to work but can afford all sorts of expensive gifts, even though all he does is write poetry. After a while, it becomes clear Whitman has a fun side that Martha is too uptight to appreciate.  And things go downhill from there.  Not only that, but Whitman's former girlfriend Inga is mentally unbalanced and very jealous.  And she has a very large but friendly sidekick named Bob.  Things get so bad Martha has to hire private detective Jack Tramonte.During the first half, I thought this was just going to be a standard romantic comedy.  But the second half turned out to be anything but normal.  Let's just say Martha appears to be the only sane person left, but not for long.  Everyone else thinks she's crazy.  And what happens would be quite unlikely in real life.I'm not crazy about Ellen DeGeneres, but let's face it.  She has this irresistible perky quality about her that works very well here.  Not Olsen twins perky, but pleasant.  I can't stand Joan Cusack, but I think people might enjoy her demented portrayal of Inga.Most of the music was good.  A lot of it came from the 40s and 50s or at least sounded like it (I know Queen recorded 'Crazy Little Thing Called Love' around 1980).  And Martha went to the opera.  There was also Mexican-flavored music in some scenes.  And a boys' choir sang 'I Want To Know What Love Is' by Foreigner, which sounds much better here than in the original version.  Unfortunately, Whitman liked Foreigner, Toto, Boston and REO Speedwagon.This was a really good movie, once it really got going. "},{"Title":"It definitely has the Ellen touch... and that's a good thing.","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I don't understand why people have such an issue with this film.  It was well written for the genre that it was dark romantic comedy.  And noone could have played the part of Martha better than Ellen.  She definitely gave it the hilarious boost it may have needed.  It just wouldn't have been the same with someone else.Overall, the movie, to me, was cozy and wonderful.  I loved it.I really hope to see Ellen do more comedic movies in the future.  She's a gem. "},{"Title":"Seriously the Worst Movie I've Ever Seen (And I've seen some doozies!)","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I cannot even began to describe how awful this movie was.  I was expecting a good, light Ellen DeGeneres movie, but what I got was a depressing, pathetic excuse for a movie.  How the producers let this one slip by is a mystery to me.  The script was drivel, the acting horrible, and the overall piece ghastly filmmaking.  This movie's Mr. RIGHT would be Mr. Trash Pail.  I'd give it 1/2 out of 10, and that's being generous enough. "},{"Title":"A classic!","Date":"24 June 2004","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Hello, my name is Pursy and I am 17 years old. I first saw this movie when I was around 10 years old. It was such an enjoyable experience. I love this movie. I think the actors are great in it and they definitely know how to make people laugh. I rented it often and when I finally saw it for sale at a store, I bought it. I watch it to this day and still laugh like I did when I first saw it. Yes, I will admit that it is a bit out there and I can definitely see why most people don't like the movie but when you look past all that and see the movie for what it really is, it's a great movie and it really hurts me to see such negative attitudes and comments about it. If I could thank any two people in this world, I would want to thank Ellen DeGeneres and Bill Pullman for making such a hysterical movie. Thanks You.  "},{"Title":"Ellen Goes Wrong","Date":"7 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Thirty-one and still single Ellen DeGeneres (as Martha Alston) works on an early morning TV talk show in San Diego. She's feeling intense pressure to get married, but has no luck. There is attractive John Livingston (as Walter) at work, but Ms. DeGeneres considers him too boyish. Suddenly, while listening to Chris Isaak's version of Hank Williams' I'm So Lonesome I Could Cry on a jukebox, DeGeneres meets a man who seems to be Mr. Right. Investor and poetry writer Bill Pullman (as Whitman Crawford) and DeGeneres have a whirlwind romance. All goes well until Mr. Pullman proves himself to be Mr. Wrong...This comedy is based on an outdated premise and DeGeneres is far too modern and intelligent for her role. She's witty, but stuck in an unfunny situation. More thoughtful acting is needed to overcome these hurdles...Pullman and director Nick Castle make the scenes involving the personality change interesting to watch, at least. After this, the film becomes unfocused and farcical. When the action switches to Mexico, some of it looks poorly improvised. In the mother roles, Joan Plowright and Polly Holliday are serviceable. Detective Dean Stockwell (as Jack Tramonte) has one good bit, when he switches allegiance. Joan Cusack (as Inga Gunther) is more annoying than funny. Her rotund sidekick, Brad Henke is better off solo. The best impressions are made by Mr. Livingston and photographer John Schwartzman.**** Mr. Wrong (2/16/96) Nick Castle ~ Ellen DeGeneres, Bill Pullman, John Livingston, Joan Cusack "},{"Title":"Mr. Frightening!","Date":"24 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a PG-13 rated film which came into theatres when I was a little less than 9½ years old, so I was too young to see it and never heard of it at the time. Sometime probably in the late nineties, I noticed a copy of Mr. Wrong in the video store, and after that happened, I could remember the front cover but not the title. It wasn't until probably sometime within the past couple years that I finally came across a copy of it again, and this time, I saw that the woman on the front cover was Ellen DeGeneres. I wouldn't have recognized her the first time I saw that cover, and am still not THAT familiar with her work, but at least I found her amusing as the voice of Dory in Finding Nemo. This film, however, has left me flabbergasted, and not in a good way! Martha Alston is a shy talk show producer who is still single at the age of 31, when she watches her younger sister get married. The older Alston sister is pressured by her parents and coworkers to find her true love, but things don't look good for her after an unsuccessful blind date on Valentine's Day. Depressed, she goes to a bar, where she meets a charming man named Whitman Crawford, and soon falls in love. So, does this mean Martha's search is over and she has finally found her Mr. Right? Well, it certainly does look like it at first, but unfortunately, it doesn't last. After a while, it's clear to her that Whitman is actually a nutcase, and not a 100% law-abiding citizen. When Martha wants to break up with him, he just won't get a clue, and it doesn't help that his jealous and insane ex-girlfriend, Inga Gunther, who has a big accomplice named Bob, threatens violence on Martha if she doesn't stay away from Whitman! For much of the film, I wasn't sure if I had any right to judge it. Nothing was making me laugh, and I found the beginning of Martha and Whitman's relationship to be badly scripted and not the only part the can be described that way. However, I was wondering if the film was actually bad, or I just wasn't getting it. I did some research before watching Mr. Wrong and heard it described as a chick flick, and I'm not female. As I watched, that chick flick description was making sense to me. If I had the same feeling throughout the film, I doubt I would be writing a review of it, but things change later on. To me, it remained unfunny, but eventually got really weird and little disturbing! Towards the end, it no longer looked like much of a chick flick to me. It basically just looked like one insane story! Bill Pullman is quite lame as Whitman, a character who seems to be a maniac for the sake of being a maniac, and Joan Cusack is also lame here, in the role of Inga, and I've certainly seen her do much better. Watching these characters putting poor Martha through a nightmarish adventure is not fun! Even if this didn't do well back when it was released fifteen years ago and is still somewhat obscure today, it does seem to have a following. I've looked at the votes for this film, and have seen that the female rating is bit higher than the male one, but still certainly not high. Even if this 1996 romantic comedy has more female fans than male, it clearly has impressed some male viewers, and even with the chick flick label, there are definitely female viewers dislike it more than I do. Many of those who like Mr. Wrong might say that I'm of the wrong gender to get this film, and/or I don't have the right experience to get it, and they may be right, especially with the latter, but I will still say that I personally agree with the low rating here. If you like this film, regardless of your gender, that's cool with me, and I'm still not 100% sure whether I should have written this review or not, but there's not a single film in the world that can impress absolutely everybody who sees it, and I think I will always be one who doesn't like this particular romantic comedy, for whatever reason. "},{"Title":"A Normally Bad Movie Until...","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was another 90 minutes of wasted talent, a poor plot, and sloppy editing until the last few minutes came in. Not only did they make me automatically wish I had done something else, but they made it impossible for logical closure. I was willing to accept that Hollywood spent more money in this stalker comedy then I'll ever make until the last 15 minutes started. I mean, come on! I don't see how the editing room saw this as OK. The First 3 quarters of the movie 4/10. The Movie altogether 2/10. "}{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When I saw the previews for this movie with my best friend, I thought it would be terrific. Well, I was wrong. The beginning of the movie is funny and delightful. It made me feel like there had to be a little luck in love somewhere just waiting to be discovered. Then Whittman's crazy physchopath girlfriend, Inga, shows up. From there on, the movie goes down hill. It was serious movie at first turned funny then stupid. I'm glad I didn't waste my money on it at the theatre. Do yourself a favor. Don't bother seeing it unless you like weird movies with crazy plots.  "},{"Title":"Mr. Turkey for the 90's","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Each decade produces it's share of really bad movies. This just happens to be one for the decade of the 90's. It falls short in everything it presents. Ellen DeGeneres is completely miscast in her role and one wonders at times if she's just going to yell out That's it stop this movie. Bill Pullman does the best he could but there just wasn't anything to work with. This film should only be viewed if it is possible to see for nothing. A Fatty Arbuckle silent film comedy is more entertaining to watch.  "},{"Title":"It Was Okay","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It really wasn't as funny as I expected to be, plus I thought that it would be better.  I thought it was boring for the most part.  Yet I will admit this  It wasn't as bad as people say it was.  I mean I liked a few parts from it which were okay, but the rest of it was pretty lame.  Plus, it was unusual seeing Ellen straight (no offense!!!). "},{"Title":"No possibly about it...","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is definitely the worst film I've ever had the displeasure of seeing. When it came out I felt like a moment of my life had been brutally wasted when I saw it, even IF it was for free.  Ellen and Bill have both done much better in their careers...and I have done better at picking movies.  "},{"Title":"Ellen Degeneres in a very unfunny disjointed non-comedy.","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Mr. Wrong is a case of decent concept, lousy execution. Ellen is laughable as the romantic lead.  Bill Pullman has moments of believable lunacy as Ellen's pursuer. Movie loses steam about a third of the way through. I had a hard time staying awake. "},{"Title":"Ellen's wrong movie (we love Ellen, but we have to be realistic)","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  *sigh* It's bad. REALLY bad. Poor Ellen!!! (although she earned two million dollars for this... thing) Ellen fans THIS IS NOT THE ELLEN WE ALL KNOW AND LOVE. DON'T WATCH IT, AND IF YOU DO, KEEP IN MIND THIS IS NOT ELLEN! IT'S JUST AN ALIEN FROM MARS ATTACKS! THE WHOLE CAST ACTS HORRIBLY! It's clear that Ellen didn't feel too happy about having to kiss Bill Pullman (and we can't blame her!) Forget about this movie and remember Ellen & Anne!  "},{"Title":"Too Bad Mr. Or Ms.Right Didn't Write The Script","Date":"24 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What we got here is a wasted but talented cast not being able to over-come a script which was not ready for being filmed. The script is so bad that it even makes the directing and continuity make no sense. Ellen herself is a great talent. I am glad she got married recently as she deserves happiness as much as anyone, and even though her idea of marriage does not match everyones, she is as sincere in it as anyone else is in their beliefs. Along with that, my wife doesn't have to worry if I should ever meet her as with both of us married & sincere, safety is assured.It has turned out the historic irony of this films title reflects the entertainment value of the film. It is the right cast, with the wrong script and the wrong filmmakers. That Ellen has not been slowed down by this shows how much talent she has. I am not sure my talent would survive anything near this. If I were ever on her hit daytime show, I'd congratulate her on that. Being a shy person, I'd be afraid to tell her how attractive I find her, because she is attractive and intelligent, more so than most people. Those qualities are almost totally hidden by this script. "},{"Title":"All-time least favorite movie","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is absolutely terrible. I've seen it once, and since then it has come to mind any time someone has asked what the worst movie I've ever seen was. I remember the movie finishing, and then me thinking to myself, I can't believe what piece of garbage that was. It makes me want to swallow a sack of thumbtacks. If your not sure what your least favorite movie is, go see this so that you'll know. "},{"Title":"It had to be the horrid Writing of this, Because ELLEN is the FUNNIEST woman of two centuries !!!","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Usually from the 1st line to 2nd from the last, I'm Laughing till my cheeks hurt from Ellen Degeneres !!!  I couldn't have been more surprised while watching this movie Mr. Wrong;;;  that 10 minutes into, I hadNOT laughed once....  17 minutes... NO laughter.  I fast forwarded a bit and checking again, still NO Laughter. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Mr. WRONG, had to be the WRONG WRITERS, because it was the WRONG movie for the ultra talented Ellen to be in. Thanks for this opportunity to give opinion. "},{"Title":"funny, cute movie","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have seen this movie maybe 5 or 6 times, i never get sick of it. Its so cute and funny and sweet and the concept of it is just adorable, i mean, girl cant get a guy to fall in love with, guy comes, but hes crazy and so is his ex fiance, i mean how can it get better then that???? "}{"Title":"a comedy about domestic violence? that is WRONG!","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I always thought Ellen DeGeneres was so much better and smarter than this.Whose idea was it? I'm all for laughing into the abyss, politically incorrect stuff, gallows humor, etc. Would I have liked this movie any better if it had succeeded on that level? I don't know.But really.Who said okay to a movie about a woman who is drugged and kidnapped at gunpoint by a deranged suitor who convinces her family and friends to help him force a wedding on her because he loves her and she is the one who is crazy? This has happened more than once out here in the real world, and it hasn't been funny yet.Shame on everyone involved in this clueless, insensitive waste of time. "},{"Title":"a comedy about domestic violence? that is WRONG!","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I always thought Ellen DeGeneres was so much better and smarter than this.Whose idea was it? I'm all for laughing into the abyss, politically incorrect stuff, gallows humor, etc. Would I have liked this movie any better if it had succeeded on that level? I don't know.But really.Who said okay to a movie about a woman who is drugged and kidnapped at gunpoint by a deranged suitor who convinces her family and friends to help him force a wedding on her because he loves her and she is the one who is crazy? This has happened more than once out here in the real world, and it hasn't been funny yet.Shame on everyone involved in this clueless, insensitive waste of time. "},{"Title":"It's all in the title","Date":"19 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It seems too many people went to see Mr. Wrong thinking it would be a cutesy little film of fun and romance.  To them I say, Hello?  It's called 'Mr. Wrong'.Take the basic premise  Woman falls for a very smooth, very romantic man. Once she tells him to just be himself, he reveals he is lewd, rude, and shrewd.  He swears, he steals, he litters, and he won't go away!  Ignoring every attempt she makes at breaking up with him, he insists she has cold feet and needs to learn how to commit, then proposes marriage!  That is funny.She hires a private detective to watch him.  Rub him out?  No, just watch him.  So, don't rub him out?  No!  Don't rub him out, just watch him. Talk to him, try to convince him she's seriously through with him. ***Spoiler*** He returns, now working for Mr. Wrong telling her SHE is the one who needs to get her priorities straight.  How many women would want a guy as romantic, committed, and handsome?Too many people who have posted their negative reviews here seem to not understand that the ex-girlfriend and so many other bizarre elements in this movie should be expected in a farce like Mr. Wrong.  Instead, they'd call Mr. Wrong a farce like it was insulting.  It isn't.  Mr. Wrong is intended as a farce.  Now, if you compare it to Gone With The Wind, yes, Mr. Wrong is horrible, horrible movie-making.  But if Spaceballs and Office Space are among your favourites, Mr. Wrong knows silly.  And it delivers silly.I say, don't try to see the forest for the trees.  See the trees for the trees.  That's what they're there for.  See the forest for the forest. That's what it's there for.My rating Mr. Wrong as an action/thriller, romantic drama, historical documentary -- 0.1 Mr. Wrong as a zany comedy -- Good solid 8. "},{"Title":"Not as Bad as everyone says...","Date":"4 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Mr. wrong not as bad as everyone says. It has lots of very funny moments. I could see how some people looking for a more serious movie might be disappointed, but I would definitely recommend to rent it. "},{"Title":"I'm surprised at the hate there is for this movie","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I really liked it and have watched it several times.I thought the cast did an excellent job, especially Cusack with her psychotic Inga character.7/10 "},{"Title":"poor comedy, but makes a good case for lesbianism","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The idea of a dream guy who on closer inspection turns out to be horrendous has potential, but the movie itself is pretty dismal.  It relies heavily on Ellen's inability to put together a sentence like, he's not my boyfriend, he's a psycho.  This sort of thing worked better in silent movies, where writer's didn't have to bed over backwards coming up with dialogue that doesn't say anything.  Ellen was just too much of a victim and the movie failed to take advantage of her charm and played her as pretty much of a doormat.  Pullman actually managed to get more laughs with his sincere stalker, but neither he nor Ellen had much of anything to work with. It's basically watchable, and there's an occasional laugh, and Cusack is always amusing, but really, no excuse for something this poor to have been made and released.Oddly enough, my girlfriend liked this a fair amount. "},{"Title":"Can I Vote Lower Than 1?","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  THIS IS THE WORST MOVIE I HAVE EVER SEEN.  The only reason I kept watching is because I figured it had to get better at some point.  Apparently, I was wrong.  It was stupid, stupid, stupid. It wasn't in any way funny or clever. I never laughed once. "},{"Title":"Wrong wrong wrong","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  even though Mr. Wrong came out before DeGeneres herself came out, that's not what makes this movie smack with the bad aftertaste of *yeechhh*  What starts out as a mildly funny portrayal of an overzealous would-be-beau turns into mostly annoying over the top hijinks and finally muddles into an inconsequential mess so embarassing that I was almost ashamed to have been sitting in the theater for it.  at least I paid to see it in the dollar seats.  Even though that was four years ago, it was SO bad that I felt a need to come here and comment on the bad-ness.  The final scene is so ludicrous a resolution I swore up and down it had to be a dream sequence. what I wouldn't do for that two hours back.   "},{"Title":"Comedy? What comedy?","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was incredibly unfortunate to have had the unbearable experience of sitting through this *thing*. To think that I was going to watch Sense & Sensibility but it came off a few days before. This is the worst movie I have ever seen. Honestly, I would've done better watching a blank screen. The audience in my theatre were trying desperately (you could hear them) to squeeze a laugh out of their mouths for the whole duration of the film. There were more laughs in Schindler's List - literally.  "},{"Title":"Quite shocked at how bad this film was","Date":"1 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I do love comedy, and I like romance, together they can be a mixed bag. Some work, some don't. Mr. Wrong sadly is one of those romantic comedy films that doesn't work. In fact I was quite shocked at how bad the film was. It does have a talented cast, Ellen DeGeneres, Bill Pullman and Joan Cusack, but they are wasted by tedious direction, a predictable story, shallow and clichéd characters and unfunny and unfocused script. DeGeneres can be very funny, but because of her material even she is quite horrendous. Pullman is bland, and Cusack tries hard but it is an example of wasted talent at the end of the day. The pace is off as well, the film just ambles along and at no point does it recover. The film looks okay locations wise, but the editing could have been tighter. Overall, lame and unfunny and makes a waste of a good cast, as far as the movies of 1996 go it is not as abysmal as Ed and Bio Dome but it is among the worst. 1/10 Bethany Cox "}{"Title":"Under the radar...","Date":"24 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ...and dropping bombs on marriage, men, and mainstream American culture.Isn't it interesting that this film was released BEFORE she outed herself?IOW, this film was intended to subvert cultural norms regarding marriage, but it wouldn't work at all, (as badly as it DOES work), if the viewer knows the protagonist is a lesbian.Another question Why does Ellen keep getting funding for her projects, when her record of success is precisely zero? Every film or TV show she has done has lost money for it's producers.Why do they keep giving her a public platform? "},{"Title":"Hard to resist","Date":"2 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It is hard to resist such a funny film with wit and timing such as this? Degeneres sets the perfect tone as a woman falling victim to real obsession! Bill Pullman put his finger on the spot of the whole weirdo thing. I have to say that I LOVE this film, and I always laugh a little more every time I see it. How can anyone resist Ellen DeGeneres? She is so unbelievably funny in almost everything she does! I can't stop thinking that Every now and then, we actually get what we want. Almost too funny, my face Hurts when I view this film! One of the funniest films in the world!(next to Sticky Fingers (1988)) "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I will say this before anything else, I have never thought that Ellen Degeneres was funny at all, I've never laughed at anything she has said ever.  With that said, I didn't expect much going in, and I was still disappointed.  Never once did I believe there was any chemistry between Ellen and Pullman, the movie is just awful on every level, I never laughed or even so much as smiled.  It is one my least favorite movies of all time. If you are thinking of renting this for laughs, instead bang your head on the floor for 2 hours, it's less painful. 1/10 "},{"Title":"Racist and plain obnoxious","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was struck by the racism in this movie. It was set in San Diego, yet the only Mexicans there were a maid and her gun-wielding children. Just offensive. -( I actually found parts of the beginning funny, including the clown scene. But by the end, I was disgusted. Stalking has been made funny in some movies (What About Bob) -- but this was just sad and scary. Yuck. I want my two hours back! "},{"Title":"Very Funny","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm not sure why this movie is unpopular.  I laughed out loud.  At first I thought Oh what a cute little movie until the moment Whitman lets his guard down.  Then it just gets out there.  Joan Cusack (or Joanie Baby as we call her) is hilarious.  My favorite scene The sisters reaction to each other when Martha describes her first date with Whitman.  I love this movie, and I'm usually pretty picky.  In a way, it reminds me of After Hours, just not as dark. "},{"Title":"Yowza!","Date":"22 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The sexual chemistry between Ellen DeGeneres and Bill Pullman radiates from the screen in a scorching erotic comedy! Terrific performances and dead-on casting combine with a brilliantly witty and profound script. Bill Pullman's Adonis-like face and physique are a revelation, and DeGeneres shows an voluptuous and sensual eroticism that burns up the screen. Distinguished actors Joan Cusack and Joan Plowright also give powerfully comedic supporting performances, but it is DeGeneres and Pullman's hypnotic performances that compel the viewer's gaze. This tasteful but carnal comedy was unjustly overlooked in the theaters; home viewers can now remedy their oversight by savoring the sensual delights of two accomplished thespians reveling in a passionate and insatiable animal attraction!  "},{"Title":"Hot comedy!","Date":"10 December 2004","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I recently rented Mr. Wrong because I am a big fan of Ellen Degeneres from Finding Nemo. I loved Mr. Wrong, but this is not a kid's movie like Finding Nemo. Ellen plays a sexy ingenue in this movie, instead of a fish with amnesia. I agree with the comments about the sexual chemistry in this movie--you get the idea that Ellen and hunky Bill Pullman couldn't keep their hands off each other. This makes some of the comedy a bit unlikely when they are supposed to be fighting, but overall it's very funny and touching. If you are looking for an adult, sophisticated sex romp to get you hot under the collar, then this is your movie. But be warned that it's not a movie for kids, because in this one, Ellen's no cold fish! "},{"Title":"Not bad, but not too good either","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Contrary to popular belief, I think Ellen DeGeneres is a very funny comedienne and I loved her supporting roles in movies like Ed TV and Goodbye Lover.  Despite hearing loads of negative reviews (which sometimes increases my fascination for a certain film), I was eager to check this movie out.  I was thinking of renting it sometime soon, but then it came on the Starz network, so that's when I finally got to see the movie.  Is it as bad as people say?  Of course not.  But it isn't the least bit remarkable, and definitely doesn't live up to its trailer.  It has its moments, but it's all pretty forgettable.After discovering Ellen's homosexuality, it was a little difficult to accept her as a straight character.  I think I wouldn't have noticed it at the time it was made, but now that I do know about her sexuality, her kissing scenes seem a little forced--kind of like she's playing Truth or Dare and she got dared to kiss a guy.  And there never seems to be any real chemistry between her and the male characters.  Working with a moderately weak script and not having too many comic opportunities, Ellen gives a half-a**ed performance. Bill Pullman, on the other hand, gives a very spirited performance and has some amusing moments.  With stronger writing, his character could've been much funnier.  Joan Cusack is completely over-the-top, but then again she was playing an utterly annoying, unfunny character, so not much could've been done.The story is all-too-predictable and hackneyed.  This could've been a great dark comedy.  The minute we see Pullman on screen, we know this guy is too good to be true, so we're not really shocked at his subsequent hijinks--which are more silly than witty, but if Pullman (a fine actor) weren't playing the role, I wouldn't have gotten any laughs.  And towards the end, the movie really plays dead.With stronger writing and directing (Nick Castle's timing and delivery of each gag are way too limp), Mr. Wrong could've been a hilarious comedy. The premise is perfect.  I'm sure many women have had boyfriends like Pullman--seems like a nice guy at first, but turns out to be a complete psycho.  But most of the laughs were given away in the trailer.  Not Ellen's proudest moment.My score  5 (out of 10)          "}]