[{"Title":"I feel bad for the author.","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"50 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I read the book first and I can only say that I feel sorry for its author, Carl Hiassen.  The book was an extremely funny satire of capitalism, politics, gender roles, etc. and the film was just an excuse for the lead actor to show off her surgically enhanced body.  I mentioned the book in a university tutorial for my course on literary satire, and no one would believe me that it was not trash because they could not separate it from the movie which followed it. Too bad - the book is good enough to have warranted a script that stays true to the original story rather than exchange wit and sophistication for extended dance sequences and the lubricatory possibilities of yogurt. "},{"Title":"Good or bad? Funny or ridiculous? Misunderstood satirical masterpiece or...","Date":"12 August 2005","Score":"35 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" ...the flop that deserves six of its Razzies and the nomination for Worst Picture of the Decade?I think, Striptease (1996) directed by Andrew Bergman based on the book by Carl Hiaasen, is all of the above - a curious mixture of laughs, satire, absurdism, darkness, silliness, and over-seriousness. The latter comes from Demi Moore who plays Erin Grant, the FBI secretary - losing her job and the custody over her daughter to no good small time crook wheelchairs stealing husband (Robert Patrick looking and acting like a stoned, redneck version of Gary Oldman) and who takes a job as an exotic dancer in the local club Eager Beaver to earn money for her court appeal. In the club she becomes the hottest attraction and meets many...interesting characters, the most colorful being, of course Congressman David Dilbeck (Burt Reynolds) who just loves naked women. It's a character flaw and who is absolutely smitten by Erin. Erin also makes friends with a club bouncer, Shad (Ving Rhames) who is perhaps the best thing in the movie - clever, sharp, sarcastic, with the great sense of humor. One scene where Shad tells to Dilbeck's bodyguards that Meryl Streep used to work in Eager Beaver as an exotic dancer and they seem to believe him is brilliant. If only everything had been as good as he was we would've had a really great movie. What do we have now? Well, Demi Moore looks really good with the minimum clothes on. I mean, the woman was a 33 year old mother of three at the time and her body was marvel to behold. I just think that she was too serious, intense, and solemn doing the striptease numbers &#150; after all it is not only strip it is tease, too. It goes to her acting in the movie in general. Reynolds seemed to have a lot of fun with his sleazy drunk Congressman David Dilbeck, election-day choice of Christian groups and a lot of laughs comes from his mannerism and quotes. There are plenty of laughs, actually, in Striptease but quite often they seem like the wrong and unintentional type for the movie material. Who had the best laugh? I'd guess, Demi Moore did after been paid $12.5 million &#150; one of the highest paychecks for an actress back then. "},{"Title":"really, a very funny movie","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"49 out of 78 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Hey, come on, guys - where's your sense of humor??  The movie is based on a book by Carl Hiassen, the master of comedy/thrillers set in southern Florida.  Demi Moore, Burt Reynolds and especially Ving Rhames bring the characters to life, and then some!  Doesn't seem realistic?  Have you seen John Sayles' Sunshine State?  This is how the other half lives, believe it or not... And even not, it's a very funny film.  Demi deserves a lot of credit for taking on this quite challenging role.  She's got a great body, and more power to her!! May the best woman win!!  And she does!!!In addition, Burt Reynolds once again proves that he has a marvelous sense of comedy timing, character creation, and isn't afraid to make a fool of himself.  And Ving...., he's just marvelous. For a good time, rent Striptease.  And bring along your friends. "},{"Title":"Not Without My G-String!","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"30 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The summary line above came from my wife after seeing Andrew Bergman take a really funny book by Carl Hiaasen and turn it into a Sincere Sally Field Gutsy Mom Works As A Stripper Even Though It Means Shame And Disgust Because It's For Her *Daughter*!!! movie.Ving Rhames and Burt Reynolds deliver deft, wonderful performances that are completely sunk by Demi Moore's Jawline Of Grim Determination.  The book pointed out that the ones degraded by stripping are actually the men, who turn into drooling, brainless fools, while the women have the control and collect the money.  The movie has to add a scene where the daughter sees the mother dancing (oh horrors!) and the mother has to explain her Sordid Living to the Innocent Babe.Also, in the book, Erin is a top dancer who doesn't have the biggest boobs in the room, but who gets the best tips because she actually knows how to dance.  So who do they get to play her?  Bebe Neuwirth?  Noooo.  Demi Moore.  All tits and no dancing talent.Demi Moore was apparently determined to keep this movie from being seen as a comedy.  The worst thing to say about this movie is that she succeeded completely. "},{"Title":"Hiaasen should slap somebody","Date":"4 October 2006","Score":"22 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" for those of you who don't know (and I'm sure there's a lot of you) Strip Tease was actually a book written by Carl Hiaasen, and a damn good book at that. Brilliant characters, an intriguing storyline, hilarious incidents, sex, violence, the works...I gave the movie a 5 because Robert Patrick and Burt Reynolds were absolutely hysterical and on-point (I'm sure THEY actually READ the book), but aside from those two gems this movie was a disgrace.What happened to the plot?!? What happened to like half the story?!? What happened to my self respect?!? Why change the ending?!? The story was enthralling and thoroughly enjoyable when I read the book, the movie (breasts considered) not so much..There's a gratuitous 3 minute topless dancing scene, followed by 3 minutes of Demi and the little girl crying and being superdramatic. CHOOSE which audience you're marketing this movie towards! Women won't respect a nonsense T&A fest and men don't want to see a bunch of sappy overdramatics when the movie was advertised like a softcore porno flick.The fact that a BOOK about strippers was exponentially better than the movie.. that's saying something.- Anonymous Disgrunted Hiaasen Fan "},{"Title":"Good stuff","Date":"28 January 2009","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a very misunderstood film. It's not some sleaze erotic thriller but a comedy drama. It can be off putting when you go from joke to a serious part of the story, and there might be a little too much stripping but it's not that bad. The story has murder mystery and and full belly laughs and a few terrific one liners. If it was made by the Coens everyone would call it a masterpiece. You shouldn't watch this film expecting something serious, just go with it and see how much fun you have. Burt Reynolds gives the performance of his career, Ving Rhames as good as ever, and there's Robert Patrick playing a loser so with out morals he steals wheelchairs for a living. Films like this, that are neither one thing or the other, are always uneven. But the director/writer manages to pull it off. It could be better but it could have been a whole lot worse. "},{"Title":"Why the hating?  It was fun!","Date":"21 January 2005","Score":"17 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" It may not have mirrored the book, but it has its own charm. I haven't read the book, so maybe that's why I can judge the movie on its own merits.Ving Rhames is terrific-- honestly, has he ever had a clunker of a performance? Demi is luscious (the dance scenes, and the cute scene where she's getting dressed/dancing after a shower), and Burt Reynolds is hilarious. I really loved the congressman character meeting the right wing group slathered in vaseline. Fresh, hot, lint! indeed! Give it a whirl... it ain't Citizen Kane, but it ain't Battlefield Earth either. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as they say it is, but still pretty poor...","Date":"13 February 2004","Score":"29 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  StripteaseDire, but strangely fascinating, Demi Moore vehicle about a single mother who turns to a life of stripping in order to gain custody of her daughter. (Robert Patrick is the drug-stealing ex-husband who gains custody of the child.) Ving Rhames is a bodyguard and Burt Reynolds has a nice co-star role as a sleazy political candidate. This movie was extremely bashed when it came out, but it's better than Showgirls, and sort of watchable. If you don't expect much of a story, then this is for you...be warned, however, that there is  a lot of stripteasing in this film.** / ***** "},{"Title":"a skillful blend of comedy/drama/politics/thriller/crime drama  (and Burt Reynolds in a brilliant comic turn)","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" the movie Striptease is a combination crime drama/comedy/thriller.with a bit of political humour thrown in.it manages to balance all of these elements well,and as a result is very entertaining.Demi Moore gets top billing here and is very convincing as Erin Grant a woman who loses custody of her daughter to her small time thug husband( played with great relish by Robert Patrick).In order to obtain the money to appeal the verdict she resorts to being an exotic dancer at a strip club.There are a few well known names in this movie,but It is Burt Reynolds who steals the show.Reynolds Plays Congressman David Dilbeck,who happens to be in the audience(incognito,of course)and falls head over heals in love?with Erin. Congressman Dilbeck also happens to be a full time horn dog,so comedy ensues.But there is one scene in particular where Dilbeck is scheduled to appear before a youth Christian conference and is late.the reason he is late is absolutely hysterical.I won't give any more away,except to say watch this movie.You will enjoy it. 7* out of 10 "},{"Title":"Liked it, a revolution at the time for sure","Date":"10 August 2013","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Woa I remember when I thought this e-Striptease movie starring Demi Moore was trashy and obscene back then.... now it's actually more prude that the usual music video on MTV. Demi Moore gave her 100% in the stripper character and wasn't afraid of breaking new grounds and offending people in 1996. This is a recipe for success, just like Madonna did for the entire lifetime of her career. I love especially the scene where she stripteases from a cabaret costume with the fedora hat. Hot! And all this plot about the gangster guys and how she needs to protect her and her daughter makes it a timeless, revolutionary movie in my opinion. a+. For the relatively low budget at the time in 1996 this movie is a modern masterpiece in my opinion and since almost 20 years no one has even dared to replicate such subject matter and plot on the big screen. "}{"Title":"It is a political thriller, not an erotic movie for god's sake!","Date":"1 July 2007","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Many critical reviews are totally off the mark as they judge this movie as something it is not it is not an erotic movie, a comedy, or a beauty contest, it is a political thriller - and an excellent one!In this genre, there are few films that can compare in suspense and memorable scenes and characters. Demi Moore plays a mother who works in a striptease bar to raise money for a trial to get her daughter back from her criminal ex-husband. When a corrupt congressman becomes obsessed with her, misbehaves and is blackmailed, his political friends set out to kill everyone who endangers the reelection of their puppet. Demi Moore's character, as those of her allies, the formidable bouncer Shad and the clever and honest Police Lt. Al Garcia, are very likable and easy to identify with. Armand Assante as Al Garcia, and Ving Rhames as Shad, put in excellent performances as did most of the supporting cast, such as Stuart Pankin as dodgy lawyer, Robert Patrick as crazy ex-husband, or Paul Guilfoyle as sinister campaign manager. What I did not like, and which was consequently attacked in almost all reviews of this movie, are the actual striptease scenes. They are not sexy, are nothing but distractions, and should have been kept down to a minimum. Also, Demi Moore's acting performance, while not bad, is not on on a par with, for instance, Burt Reynold's.Speaking of Burt Reynolds he is what makes this movie special. I challenge anyone to name a politician in movie history who is more corrupt or depraved than Reynold's character in this movie. Can there ever be a scene that more vividly portrays corrupt politics than when the congressman has to be dragged away by his handlers from his masturbation session to hold a speech to young Christians about family values? But may be it is this political message that caused the media to revile this movie so, which it does not deserve. "},{"Title":"Justice Is Great","Date":"9 February 2008","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" There is nothing better than seeing someone who is straight up evil and heartless get what is coming to them. This movie was a cult comedy that had a great ending. Demi Moore marries a man who is addicted to pills. After having a daughter with this man, she loses her job as an FBI secretary, divorces him and loses custody of her daughter. So she fights to get her daughter back and to prove that he is trying to keep her from doing that. She is emotional but she is strong and angry and knows exactly what this man is about, hes a liar. Hes a thief and she isn't going to let it go. Sharing custody with her ex husband they fight with everything they have, finding a homicide detective to actually help her cause and get her daughter back. In the end thats exactly what she does. Getting custody and raising her daughter. Its a true story of a stripper fighting for what she knows is right. Fighting for what she knew she would want for her child. She doesn't give up and she doesn't quit. Its a funny movie. He was an unfit father and he will never see his child again. A good movie, a must see. "},{"Title":"Misunderstood Black Comedy","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is just like Carl Hiassen's novels (upon which it was based) -- a little off, a little crude and incredibly funny. The dark humor mixed with the believably bizarre characters makes this a wonderfully funny time. I almost died laughing... especially Burt Reynolds, who steals every one of his scenes. Not for everyone, but this film is hilarious if you take the time to enjoy it. "},{"Title":"I'm guilty too....","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  of overlooking this little gem when it was first released. Probably suffering from Demi-overload at the time or something. However, this is a terrific sleeper. A great combination of humor blended into the dark side of strip clubs with a good dose of real politik. Demi Moore is outstanding as a newcomer to the Eager Beaver, a raunchy strip club where she does a more than adequate job of raising pulses whileVing Rhames watches over her as self-appointed guardian(he's great as usual), and Burt Reynolds has never been funnier as a U.S.Congressman that would make Bill Clinton proud! The scene where he covers himself with vaseline to make love to Demi's essence is hysterical. This movie has a few low points but overall I give it a solid 9. "},{"Title":"I loved this movie and I'm not afraid to say so.","Date":"23 August 2005","Score":"14 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" OKay, so it's a movie about a stripper... but I loved it and I don't care who knows it! I'm a huge Annie Lennox fan and Demi Moore was great dancing to her songs, she's a great actress and brought a touch of class to the stripper scene! (I'm not a lesbian by the way!) Basically I thought it was a great movie and can't see why most people think it's a dud... sure the storyline was a little unbelievable, but it wasn't taking itself seriously... the characters were all so different, all great in their own ways... I especially loved Ving Raymes character 'Shad' who was so hilarious... the whole movie was fun, energetic and overall in my opinion a great film... so stop the hating!! "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have seen the movie and I think it is brilliant.  Demi Moore is so sexy in it.  Especially when she wears the white shirt in her first scene.  I think she looks amazing while she is dancing around the pole with the white shirt on.  Overall the movie is excellent and Demi Moore is a babe in it.Stephen Allan "},{"Title":"A very good film, that dosent get the credit it deserves.","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I really enjoyed Striptease, it was such a good comedy, mixed with drama and thriller, but mostly comedy.And look at the cast involved, I mean Burt Reynolds was just classic in this film, I think it is one of his best roles ever, he was a crack up!! in striptease.  I don't care what any body else say's,  This film was fantastic,  anybody who says otherwiz doesent know good movies when they see one.  YOU MUST SEE THIS MOVIE.10/10 "},{"Title":"Brilliant, if only for the performance of Ving Rhames.","Date":"26 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A nice film. Nicely shot, good soundtrack. Fine actresses. But for the purists Ving Rhames' performance as a bouncer and bodyguard is brilliant. A classic line 'Call me a dreamer, but I don't wanna be a bouncer forever' superb. Burt Reynolds is also superb, as is Demi Moore. I cannot stand Armand Asante though and his wooden style of acting is a bit of a spoiler. All in all, well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"A funny movie about stripteasers and Florida politics","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I thought it was funny and sexy. Demi Moore (even though I'm not a fan) was very convincing as a stripper - excuse me - dancer. The extras (other real strippers) were very good. It was high-quality pornography with a great story. Some of the actors were exceptional and a great find was to see R. Patrick as her husband (now star of X-files.)  Her daughter is played by her real daughter and is very cute and the whole thing just works. Reviewers who say this is a bomb are just wrong. Watch it for fun. "},{"Title":"Stripper defeats evil with a couple of adequate one-liners. Live with it.","Date":"19 June 2005","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" It's funny! It's a movie about a stripper, are you really expecting it to be complicated and profound!? It's funny, it's fun,and it has enough to keep the general populace interested besides the stripping. Just let it be what it is, and you sure won't be disappointed, you'll probably even be impressed! )Honestly, folks, it isn't supposed to be the Lord of the Rings, nor is it supposed to be the Godfather or Trois, or anything else amazing, if you even call those such. I don't, personally. Anyways, hope you enjoy, I don't think the movie's anything fandabulous, but I think we should look for things to see what they say, not expect them to say what we want. If any of you are waiting for that, go out and make your own movies! Heh. Seeya. "}{"Title":"There must be a more painless way to see Demi Moore disrobe...","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"18 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Shabby comedy-drama from Carl Hiaasen's novel has ex-FBI clerk Demi Moore turning to stripping in order to pay off her legal debts; seems she's in a fight to retrieve her child from her disreputable ex, yet the film doesn't see stripping as disreputable and therefore Moore is the good guy in the plot. Director Andrew Bergman may have helmed this project blindfolded, how else to explain the sketchily-drawn characters, the ridiculous strip-club sequences or a dire sub-plot involving Congressman Burt Reynolds? Solid supporting turns by Armand Assante as a cop and Ving Rhames as a bouncer give the film its only validity. As for Moore, she isn't a bad actress, nor is she a stupid one, but the $12 million she acquired for her non-performance here seems a joke on the audience--and on Hollywood. * from **** "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"5 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The thrills and pace were kind of a stop-and-go affair, as you really felt it because the tepidly cardboard script led to many silly (and contrived) avenues working their way in and the lack of a strong lead performance really showed it up immensely. All characters are surviving in a grim world. Fortunately the director lets the actors breathe and the music lets the atmosphere live. In the end, the audience gets a casserole of film elements and little of the satisfaction that comes from watching these types of movies. Formulaic, cheesy b-fun emerges. I don't know why God let this movie get made. My buddy Mack told me I had to watch it because it was so stupid. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies I have seen in a long time.","Date":"6 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Apart from Demi Moore being really hot here and showing her gorgeous boobs completely in two scenes, I thought this was a really funny comedy.Almost every character was very very funny, but especially Burt Reynolds and Robert Patrick, stood out as likable but complete morons.The movie is not very realistic and aside from two murders that are not shown it seems like Pretty Woman involving strippers instead of hookers.I can definitely recommend this movie to other guys that like strippers, Demi Moore when she was hottest, showing everything but her vagina and a comedy as funny as Dumb and Dumber.A lot of women will probably find it offensive and objectifying women but don't worry about them.Just sit back, relax, enjoy and get ready to laugh your ass off. "},{"Title":"It has it's moments","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Come on guys, this movie wasn't all bad. Everyone has heard that book is great, and it was. Much like all Carl Hiaasen books. But the movie lacked the spice that the story had. So much was left out of the movie that it couldn't be anywhere near as good as anticipated. The only aspect of the movie that was portrayed well was of course Congressman Dilbeck (Burt Reynolds). I mean, smelling a strippers laundry lint while covered in vaseline right before giving a speech on family values? That's priceless! Demi Moore was... well, below average. As she is in most of her movies. Never the less, I do recommend this movie if your looking to only watch it once. "},{"Title":"Not sexy, hilarious","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was not what it was billed to be. The commercials, and even the listings billed it as an erotic drama. It was not that erotic. Demi Moore is made of plastic, and her dancing is not that great. This is, however, a great movie, what it should be based on the book. It is a comedy, with many hilarious moments, definitely worth seeing, whether or not you are into female nudity. Robert Patrick shines as does Ving Rhames. The only downside is Demi Moore herself, who can't tell a joke. Take a nap during her scenes, but laugh yourself silly during the rest. "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I thought this was a very funny movie, deserving far better than the rating it's got. Especially the end scenes were superb, but perhaps you need a certain kind of humor to appreciate it; I don't know. The by far funniest character is Erins ex-husband Darrell Grant (Robert Patrick), who makes a living by stealing wheel chairs. He pretty much makes the movie as the rest of the cast is somewhat lame, although Shad certainly has his moments as well. Demi Moore isn't funny at all, but I guess she was chosen because of her other qualities. There's not a whole lot of nudity in it (and perhaps that's why it's rated so badly) but for people wanting nudity I suggest renting a porno movie instead.  "},{"Title":"Has nothing to do with the novel","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"18 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The novel Striptease was everything you could ask for in a novel.  The movie is the complete opposite and a major disappointment for me.  I thought Demi was a decent choice and also applauded the casting of Robert Patrick as her good-for-nothing ex, and Ving Rhames as a bodyguard at the club.However the entire thing ended up being a mess, and I can only hope I can erase the image of Burt Reynolds in his boxers, smothered with petroleum jelly from head to toe, from my mind.Read the book!! "},{"Title":"Demi Moore strips while being targeted by sugar company","Date":"23 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Striptease (1996) is tagged a neo-noir by critic John Grant. It does have neo-noir plot components, but it's heart is divided between those and many comic elements. It's a comedy neo-noir. This is hard to pull off and fully succeed. Classic Bob Hope movies done at Paramount often had serious plots upon which the comedy rested. That's the kind of movie that Striptease strives to be. It's partially successful. Not bad, but also not rising above the pack. It's average entertainment.The film has some charm. The strippers are a friendly bunch, and their group acting is good. Ms. Moore's dances are okay and then some, considering she's not a dancer by profession. She carries the lead part quite well too. Burt Reynolds plays an outlandish and corrupt Congressman who wants Moore. He's expert at that kind of role and doesn't take it at all seriously. The movie needs the serious element because it's not a total farce, and Moore supplies it along with detective Armand Assante. Ving Rhames and Moore's husband, Robert Patrick provide characters that fall in between, sometimes serious, sometimes comical. There's plenty of room for the satire to be directed at the political class, elections and the voting public as Reynolds courts different constituencies. Reynolds is the paid hack for a taxpayer-subsidized sugar company, and it is the big heavy in the story.The IMDb rating of 4.3 is too low. Voters seem to have ganged up on this film in the same herd fashion that they sometimes gang up to produce favorites that are not that good. People like to identify winners and losers and feel comfortable at times going to excess applause and excess sneering. The movie is not that bad. "},{"Title":"Slight fun","Date":"11 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The 90's saw a lot of comedic fluff come and go, some memorable, others not so much, and some nestled in that perfect, laid back place just between. Striptease falls into that category; it's not that eventful, but provides an enjoyable diversion with the help of a cast that's clearly having fun, and a reliably solid lead performance from the always fantastic Demi Moore. Here she plays a stripper doing her vest to raise her young daughter (Rumer Willis, Demi's real life daughter with Bruce Willis) right without much money or help. Moore is gifted in the fact that she can play the nastiest chicks just as proficiently as the more innocent good girls, and every area of gray in between. Here she's clearly got a good heart and has been obligated to enter her line of work trough her devotion to her daughter. That and it makes for a sexy character quirk to keep audiences perked. She's also attempting to avoid her deadbeat, dim bulb ex husband Daryl (Robert Patrick) who steals wheelchairs and sells them lol. She gets caught up in a dangerous blackmailing situation when a cheerfully alcoholic congressman (Burt Reynolds) takes a shine to her one night, and is forced to turn to sympathetic cop Al Garcia (Armand Assante) and bodyguard Shad (Ving Rhames) for help. It's slight, breezy stuff and although it's not the greatest movie, I was charmed by Demi and the happy go lucky tone that it keeps up. Having her real daughter in the film also really strengthens their scenes with a dynamic that you wouldn't otherwise get. "},{"Title":"Not Great But Better Than A 4.3","Date":"15 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Different people watching this film see different movies. T and A people see naked and think great. The rest see this as crap. Except for Carl Hiaasen fans. I'm one of the latter and since I've read the book I can't help but see this as an attack on political corruption and environmental folly.After losing her job as an office clerk for the FBI due to her ex-husbands recent criminal proclivities, Erin Grant (Demi Moore) resorts to stripping to support herself and her daughter as well as the high legal fees of a custody battle with said ex. When a corrupt congressman takes a lewd interest in Erin, she is drawn into a profitable but dangerous situation involving Florida sugar growers.Become a Carl Hiaasen fan and see this movie for what it really is and delegate the stripper bar to just the setting, much as a spaceship is in a sci-fi movie. It's not a great movie, but when can see the content rather than the package, it is worth far more than a 4.3. Burt Reynolds character is worth much more than that. It deserves a 5 or so. I give it a 6 just for Hiaasen. "}{"Title":"Demi Moore Strip Dancing","Date":"15 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The poster is attractive, and Demi Moore has definitely had dancing lessons in how to gyrate in strip dancing. It is not a real world, but her performance is believable. Even Ving Rhymes looks as though he can act in this film. Her estranged husband is despicable, but his performance is good. The detective also put in a good performance, but you weren't sure if he was one of those seedy characters that frequent a strip club. Burt Reynolds was just himself. I had no sympathy for Moore's character. She is prepared to dance for $2,000 and $5,000 respectively. Just how far would you go just to earn money? The film ends up being a comedy because it just cannot be taken seriously. Only the performances make this film commendable. "},{"Title":"Mixed Results","Date":"18 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  My Rating ** out of ****. Striptease was massacred by critics and given six razzie awards. But I believe is that its nowhere near as bad as critics and movie fans say it is. I will admit this is not a good movie but it does have some good moments to it. Demi Moore was awarded a razzie for her performance. Even though I am not a fan of Miss Moore, her performance was not worth a razzie. She was ok in this role. In the dramatic scenes, she was not particularly good. This damages the movie a bit and you wonder what it would have been like with a better actress. However, I cannot believe Burt Reynolds did not win a razzie. His performance was a complete backfire. If he was trying to be funny, than this performance was a failure. Actually, I do not know what the hell he was going for here. The Supporting Cast is actually quite good. Ving Rhames gets all the good lines and delivers them perfectly. Armand Assante was solid in his role. Robert Patrick adds a little more comic relief. Rumer Willis actually shows some potential here. However, once you look by the supporting cast and a couple of funny moments, the movie does not have enough going for it. Yes, Demi Moore looks good when shes stripping but like I said she is not good when she has to act in a dramatic scene. Striptease is trying to be a comedy, drama, thriller, and with a little erotic flavor. It has moments of comedy and is somewhat erotic at times but it is not particularly thrilling. It seems to go on a little too long. Overall, Striptease is at times entertaining and some of the supporting cast, Particulary Rhames, is almost worth seeing it for. But the movie is lacking many things that do not quite make it good.  "},{"Title":"Demi Moore","Date":"3 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Andrew Bergman directed this film that stars Demi Moore as a recently divorced young mother who has lost custody of her daughter Angela(played by Rumer Willis) to her thief ex-husband Darrel(played by Robert Patrick) so she takes a job as a stripper in a nightclub, and is a big hit, though must dodge the unwanted attentions of a lecherous Senator(played by Burt Reynolds) who is involved with the murder of one of her admirers that was blackmailing him, and that a police Lt.(played by Armand Assante) is investigating. Despite Demi's undeniable beauty and skill in her dance/strip routine, this film is dreadful, both poorly directed and written, with (mostly) unappealing and obnoxious characters, and utterly unfunny comedy. A dud. "},{"Title":"Abuse","Date":"4 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Good lord, this movie abuses every conceivable cliché possible. Imagine a movie about strippers. These strippers are different because they're naive, put upon, victims being forced to degrade themselves for icky men against their will. None of them are just whores or anything, and all of them, especially our heroine, have angelic hearts of gold. They are protected by large African American guardian Shad. The plot centers around Erin, played by Demi Moore, who was an FBI secretary until her husband's misbehavior got her fired and caused the dissolution of their marriage and an ensuing custody battle. The husband is not a great guy, as you can imagine, and takes their child, who is so un-important as a character that I can't remember her name, and engages in a wheelchair theft scam. Unable to win custody through legal means as a result of her occupation as a stripper, Erin illegally abducts the child. An elderly congressmen attempts to recruit Erin into his harem, using knowledge of the illegal abduction as leverage. You can pretty much use your imagination for everything that happens next. From here, the cliché abuse continues as it becomes a foregone conclusion that Erin is a near perfect mother and there is never any meaningfully developed conflict about her struggle raising a child given her choice of occupation. Just a stripper who's a great human being on the inside warring against her victimizers. The acting is horrendous, the characters are flat, the plot is predictable and contrived. And on top of this, despite being a movie about strippers, it was completely unsexy and un-arousing in any manner.The only thing that saves this from being a 1/10 are unintentionally comedic non-sequitors. The horrific and one dimensional portrayal of the congressman, for instance, crossed into strangely amusing territory at times, and something similar happens with Erin's ex-husband. "},{"Title":"All About Demi Moore's Body","Date":"14 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Striptease is about a stripper who becomes involved in both a child- custody dispute and corrupt politics.It is a sex comedy film directed, produced, and written by Andrew Bergman. The film stars Demi Moore, Burt Reynolds, and Ving Rhames. The film is based on the novel of the same name by Carl Hiaasen.The screenplay,based on a satirical novel, tells the story of Erin, who has just gotten a divorce from Darrell, the sleazy ex-con she foolishly married. However, the judge's memories of Darrell's days as a football hero win him custody of their daughter, and Erin, concerned for her child's safety, is determined to fight the decision. Erin has just lost her position as a secretary for the FBI, so, to cover her legal bills, she takes a job as an exotic dancer at a strip club called the Eager Beaver. While she has no experience taking off her clothes in front of an audience, Erin soon makes friends with the fellow dancers and finds a protector in the club's burly but good-hearted bouncer, Shad. She also makes a few fans among the regulars at the club, most notably David Dillbeck, a drunken lout with a bottomless appetite for sleaze -- who also happens to be a conservative congressman with ties to right-wing religious groups. One of Erin's admirers snaps a photo of her with the congressman when a brawl breaks out at the club, and he suggests that it would make fine blackmail material. However, when the man with the photo turns up dead, Erin discovers that Dillbeck's people play a bit rougher than she expected. This movie showcases nothing but Demi Moore's star appeal and sexy body.Nothing more.Andrew Bergman's screenplay and storyline was a complete mess.Personally,I do believe that this movie,Striptease together with G.I. Jane,practically placed Moore's stardom into a downhill and it never recovered since then.She could have been a better actress had she chosen better materials after attaining popularity in Ghost instead of going for the high paycheck that movie offers come her way that does nothing except use her star appeal rather than her showcase her acting ability. "},{"Title":"Better than expected...","Date":"26 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" While Andrew Bergman's adaptation fails to capture the essence of Carl Hiaasen's satirical novel it nevertheless is nowhere near as bad as its reputation suggests. Demi Moore, whose career was already on a downward slide judging by the number of times she bares her breasts, plays a mother who is forced to work in a strip joint to earn the income necessary to fight for custody of her daughter, the care of whom a condescending judge has awarded to her low-life husband (Robert Patrick). While on the job, she catches the eye of a sleazy senator (Burt Reynolds) who is prepared to go to any odds to have her perform a private dance.While it's fair to say that the film completely botches the satirical aspects of Hiaasen's story, it still manages to provide an absorbing story after an undeniably shaky start. The nudity isn't as in your face as you'd expect, and in fact becomes almost incidental as the story moves along. The cast are all reasonably good, with Reynolds and Patrick in particular standing out Reynold's character could have been something of a classic had it been toned down a little &#x96; although he's still likable in a sleazy sort of way, he's just too downright weird for the audience to take to him completely. Patrick's low-life husband is also likable despite his failings and Patrick works hard to make him this way. His drunken intrusion into the senator's long-awaited private dance with a cheery 'evenin' party-goers' is one of the funniest things I've seen in a while. Ving Rhames also scores as an outwardly surly bouncer with a soft spot for all the girls in his charge.I suppose in a way, Striptease has something of an advantage due to its reputation you come into it expecting very little, so the fact that it's got an engrossing &#x96; if far-fetched plot &#x96; works in its favour. Worth a try if you're in the mood. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable movie, marred by Burt Reynolds","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Maybe it was just the TV Movie version I saw, but the film seems to concentrate unnecessarily much on the sexy dancing, and then cut off before seeing anything, which seemed a bit strange.Ving Rhames manages to shine whatever material he's given to work on, and here he comes off as a near-comic genius. Demi Moore's performance is notable only for the dancing scenes, but what is particularly surprising about the movie is the comedy. It is a really funny film.Settle back with some beers and some friends and get ready to have a laugh.  "},{"Title":"An unwatchable mess","Date":"11 November 2013","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is the film that got Demi Moore into a bit of a downward spiral. She's still relevant, but her acting career was never quite the same. The problem with this film is that it doesn't fully know what it wants to be. It tries to have the best of both worlds with action & comedy, but it doesn't work with this movie. The action is not exciting, and the laughs come across as unfunny and desperate. The only time I was remotely interested in this movie is when Demi Moore does her strip scenes. She's got such an amazing body that I became jealous of one of my favorite actors (Bruce Willis) because he used to be married to that gorgeous woman. It tries to throw in cheap sentiment with a custody battle, involving Demi's daughter in this movie (played by her real life daughter, Rumer Willis) to no avail. A lot of the time I end up liking films that are verbally thrashed much more than others do, but this deserves all of the bad reviews it gets. Demi Moore tries her hardest, but her beauty isn't enough to make this movie interesting. I really did try to come up with reasons to care about her, but I couldn't do so. It's not her fault that she's in such a horrible movie. Burt Reynolds embarrasses himself in this movie. He wears an awful blonde wig, and has a poor accent too boot. Ostensibly, he wanted this part very badly, according to IMDb trivia. I get that his star power was nowhere near what it once was, but come on, Burt! Armand Assante smokes a lot of cigars, and doesn't make much of an impression. Rhames, Patrick, and others do what they have to do adequately, but they can't do much with the script. The ending might involve the most cocaine I've ever seen on filmFinal Thoughts Save yourself the trouble, and avoid it. It's bad enough to begin with, and it's almost two hours. You really wanna go through with that? Didn't think so1/10 "},{"Title":"Fantastic.","Date":"25 July 2011","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Its just a straight up guy movie. No intricate plot. Just stripping. Demi Moore has an excellent body, considering she was a mother at the time, it's unbelievable. Yes, it's just a movie for perverted men, but that doesn't mean it can't be funny and worth watching. Ving Rhames plays his character well making him hilarious and interesting. I've only seen the original but it makes me wonder how much extra could be in the unrated version. Hopefully that'll be really worth a watch. Just from the title of the movie you keep waiting to see her perfectly sculpted body but you have to wait through a few strip scenes before you get to see her breasts. "},{"Title":"After all the years this film has four great things going for it.","Date":"12 December 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" As with most comments I'd imagine Carl Hiassen is fairly annoyed. I've read most of his books, and they are riotously funny and extremely inventive. Not sure if the Florida State Tourism authorities would have him on their Christmas card list, but that's bureaucracy for you - no sense of humour.The fourth thing. Ving Rhames. Shad is a well intentioned muscle in the book, and Ving does it close enough to the mark. Wouldn't argue with him, anyway.Third. Burt Reynolds. How can anyone forget the image of an excited Congressman in boots, hat, shorts, and little else, covered in Vaseline and sniffing a girl's clothes dryer lint. And the Hava Nagila scene. Come on, Burt was laughing at himself throughout. At least, I hope he was.And the final two. The immaculate Demi Moore dancing (no, better yet, stripping) to Annie Lennox / Eurhythmics tracks. I already loved Annie Lennox's entire persona and musical output, so good tracks at volume with Demi doing very good visuals is just about perfect. The best? - I thought the scene after her shower in the apartment.No, it's not going to be a film to snuggle down with your wife to (or maybe it is), nor is it a family film. It's a slightly guilty pleasure, and the only loser is Carl Hiassen as his humour didn't shine through. "}{"Title":"Florida politics on display","Date":"28 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I am a big Carl Hiaasen fan and, while this may not be his best work, it certainly exposes the flaws in Florida politics for all the world to see. While certain environmentalists are celebrating Governor Charlie's transfer of $1.7 billion to Big Sugar, you can see in this film, even in a comical way, how they have out congressmen in the bag.Demi has come up against DCF and has to do anything to get her children back. Unfortunately, she has come into the clutches of Congressman Burt and his evil henchmen. I really didn't think her performance was all that terrible, and I certainly appreciated the new work she had on display in a very skintastic moment, just as I appreciated seeing the lovely Pandora Peaks, Rina Riffel (Candyman 3), another skintastic performance by Dina Spybey, and that snakey performance of Barbara Alyn Woods. Let's hear it for all the fine performance that took our attention away from, well, I guess there wasn't much else.Ving Rhames was good as usual, and I did enjoy Armand Assante. But, that aside, it was the performance on stage that really stand out. "},{"Title":"This movie is the very definition to what is wrong in our American society","Date":"24 March 2008","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I remember watching this and thinking, Wow, if Demi Moore was the father in this, she wouldn't have had to go through all this crap, which I think and hope the movie was pointing out. I could relate to her very much. I had to go through a bad custody battle when my very abusive and religiously zealot, cultist ex-husband did everything he could to have me pistol whipped in the court. It eventually backfired, of course, but I was under so much scrutiny and he was under none. That was a double standard, discrimination and extremely unfair.But you will do anything for your kids and if I would have had the guts to, I may have done the same. With all the skills she had and all that she could offer any company or agency, but has no feasible choice but to work in a strip joint to earn the money for attorney's fees to get her daughter back and yet be a good mom and keep her self respect, dignity and deal with the stigma that goes with being one of them meaning the label that society has marked on women who do this for a variety of reasons, mostly because of their kids. If I still had the body I use to, I would do it now.I mean, did anyone see Independence Day? Vivica Fox played a similar character and yet she was probably the most loved character in the movie. I remember Don't be, my baby's worth it.There were some really good actors in this movie and they did good. No one can ever say that Demi Moore is bad at anything; Ving Rhames always puts on a great performance; Robert Patrick, a excellent and gifted actor, Frances Fisher is a great talent. So, it is not like the cast was bad or they did a bad job. Burt Reynolds is the only one I don't care for both professionally and personally, but that is not to say that he was not good in her heyday.I believe that what people had a problem with is the subject matter because strippers are not suppose to have their kids, but addicts, drunks and convicts should, especially if the woman is a stripper.The character of Erin even said that she would have to find another job, a respectable job. Go figure. She was not a prostitute and even a prostitute can be a good mom.I thought the acting was quite good, but I have to agree, it could have been made a little better, such as it seemed as if the story line would go over in one direction and then suddenly get back on track. But, most of that ended up on the floor in the editing room.Just my take on it. "},{"Title":"A dreadful job from a terrific book.","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Yes, I know that books aren't movies, and that faithful adaptations are not always possible or desirable.  But Hiaasen's book is eminently filmable lots of plot, eccentric characters, blacker than black humor and very imaginative violence.Instead of filming *that,* this was a vehicle for the sexy-as-day-old-bread Demi Moore.  She's built, but as an actor ... she's built.  Ving Rhames and the marvelous Burt Reynolds are seldom seen, Demi preens and prances, and the comic violence which drives the book is almost all excised.  A pointless bore.  "},{"Title":"At least Showgirls had personality, what was this?","Date":"22 March 2009","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I was cruising through my movie channels and I saw that Striptease was playing, I remember seeing the trailer for this movie back in 1994 when I was a kid and wanted to see it, oh, my parents had to forbid it. But of course since I'm 23 and on my own, I think I was allowed to view it. I kinda wish now that I had my parents here to tell me no because this movie was really bad. I mean most people make fun of Showgirls, I mean yeah, it's understandable, but at least that had personality and more memorable moments than this. Demi Moore just strips down to some really depressing music and this movie has the strangest humor in the world. I could see how some people might get a kick out of it, but over all it just a bad movie, it has no zest and nothing to make it special. A story about a stripper... OK, here it goes.The film revolves around Erin Grant, a former FBI secretary, who loses custody of her young daughter Angela to her ex-husband Darrell. In order to afford an appeal, Erin becomes a stripper at the Eager Beaver, a Miami strip club. A Congressman named David Dilbeck visits the club and immediately begins to adore Grant. Aware of Dilbeck's embarrassing indulgences, another Eager Beaver patron approaches Erin with a plan to manipulate the Congressman to settle the custody dispute in Erin's favor. However, Dilbeck has powerful business connections who want to ensure he remains in office. Consequently, those who can embarrass him in an election are murdered. Meanwhile, Erin retrieves her daughter from her negligent husband. Dilbeck's personal interest in Erin persists, and she is invited to perform privately for him. He asks her to become his lover and later his wife, despite his staff's concerns that she knows too much information. A debate occurs as to whether to kill Erin or simply keep her quiet by threatening to take away her daughter.Demi is alright in the movie, if even that, I'm being pretty generous considering she let her daughter, Rumor, act as her daughter in this movie. If I were Rumor, I'd be like next time, I pick the mother/daughter bonding event. I wouldn't really feel like watching my mother dance around naked for men nore a camera. Well Rumor must have gotten a huge raise in her allowance for that to happen. But anyways, I wouldn't recommend Striptease, it was a sleazy movie, I would even go as far to say that if you want sleaze, go for Showgirls, it's more fun to watch and make fun of, this was just a sad movie.1/10 "},{"Title":"so bad, it's funny.... ?","Date":"26 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Erin Grant (Demi Moore) loses her secretary job at the FBI due to her criminal former football star ex-husband Darrell (Robert Patrick) and loses custody of her daughter Angela (Rumer Willis) due to losing her job. She ends up stripping at the Eager Beaver trying to earn the money to appeal the decision. Congressman David Dilbeck (Burt Reynolds) becomes a big fan. Shad (Ving Rhames) is the bouncer. Her fan Jerry comes up with a scheme to use the congressman to get to the judge. Jerry is killed and police detective Al Garcia (Armand Assante) investigates.This is deliberately stupid and the characters are deliberately ridiculous. Yet Demi Moore is playing it completely serious which is the way that she's written. The movie is caught between a scary Lifetime movie and a wacky comedy. It is utterly unsustainable and none of it works. There are points where the movie is so bad that it borders on being funny. Mostly, it's cringe-worthy. "},{"Title":"Not funny enough, sexy enough or bad enough to be remotely memorable","Date":"22 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" It was with some surprise a few months ago that I read a list of worst movies ever made and this one was mentioned. This was surprising for a couple of reasons the first one being that I'd forgotten the film existed, the second being that I struggled to remember any details from it that would lead to me to feel strongly enough about it to say it was the worst movie I've seen.And so, for some reason, I opted to watch this again. As I suspected, it was a waste of my time that achieved nothing of any value and took the cumulative total of minutes this film took away from me that I will never ever get back to 234. I can only assume director Andrew Bergman met Satan at an abandoned fork of a road in the deep south for this one to bring in $113 million world wide.Striptease is not good, not at all. The performances are bizarre, the script is not funny or sexy and even the soundtrack just doesn't fit. Demi Moore seems to have got her money's worth on highly publicized breast implants and is in fine physical condition, but still somehow unwatchable. Having said that though, this is no trainwreck. The actors all know what they're doing. The scenes are all strung together in a coherent narrative. This may not be any good, but it isn't incompetent either, and that makes things even worse.At the end of the day, unless you have a Demi Moore fetish, you will remember nothing about this movie. You'll forget that Burt Reynolds or Robert Patrick are in it. You'll forget that Moore's character had a child. In time you will forget the film exists. It's simply not bad enough to be entertaining or memorable, or worthy of any thought, positive or negative. And that is the film's biggest crime. Ultimately, Striptease is a giant black hole of nothing. "},{"Title":"Demi's Career Laid Bare.","Date":"13 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Striptease (1996) Dir Andrew Bergman / Cast Demi Moore, Ving Rhames, Burt Reynolds, Robert Patrick, Armand Assante What woman is stupid enough to believe that this film is helping their image? Title indicates that this morbid entertainment is an illusion or a tease. Demi Moore loses a child custody battle so she bares her boobies for cash. She is the centre of attention of a drunken congressman who is so obsessed with her that he has items of her clothing stolen. Eventually he offers her a large sum of money to dance for him privately. He soaks himself in Vaseline and lusts after her. Too many erotic dance sequences and too little plot. Locations and costumes have appeal but structure is predictable. Director Andrew Bergman used similar themes in Honeymoon in Vegas but his talent here is uninspiring. Moore basically prostitutes herself in facing what many strippers are up against but she isn't doing herself any favours. She has never looked more stunning but that is all part of the tease. Burt Reynolds is amusing yet unreadable as the congressman overcome and overthrown by lust. Ving Rhames plays the stereotypical bodyguard. Robert Patrick is given the thankless role of ex-husband whose final scenes are embarrassing. Armand Assante plays a cop who should be searching for a decent script for Mr. Assante. Mindless circus act serves only as a cheesy erotic peep show. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"Demi Moore at her hottest form... but at her weakest acting level.","Date":"4 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Oh come on, Striptease and Showgirls deserve to be aired 24/7 on a cable channel.Demi Moore takes off her clothes and many, many people paid for it. I'm not ashamed to admit that I was happy with the final result. Well, the plot is terrible and there are monumental mistakes and goofs but Demi looks at her best and delivers a raunchy, almost comical performance. Burt Reynolds is a joke in this movie. His look, his attitude, his lines! The social message of the working mother who raises her daughter is just a fog curtain to hide the real intention of the movie  show a naked Demi Moore. That's it. You don't need to know more.Watch this movie if you appreciate Demi's sexiness and beauty. There's not much to dig from Striptease. The acting is horrible, direction tried to be classy (even with some references to Mission  Impossible!) but it just looks like a direct to video trash. "},{"Title":"What if any one or more of well-known celebrity beauties had been cast alongside Demi Moore instead of just Demi Moore?","Date":"13 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" What if any one or more of well-known celebrity beauties hadappeared alongside Demi Moore as a fellow stripper in Striptease? First, there are Pam Anderson and Michelle Pfeiffer.Then there are Elizabeth Hurley and Anna Nichole. How aboutMariah Carey and Toni Braxton? Or how about Paula Abdul, KimBasinger or even Maria Gennaro? Ms. Gennaro (or Genero)appeared at the end of Striptease in a bit role as a TV reporter.Would it have made any real positive difference in the quality thatpicture? Could it have even brought about a successful sequel? Itcould well have done so! Who will ever know? Those above-named celebrities are some of the most gorgeous ladies Ihave ever seen in my entire life and any one of them would have fitright in! "},{"Title":"I found it entertaining, but it got kind of ridiculous","Date":"21 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Erin Grant wants a better life than stripping ... excuse me, dancing. But after getting fired from her job as an FBI secretary because of something bad her husband Darrell did, this is all she has.  And it's not helping her get custody of daughter Angela, even though her husband steals wheelchairs and sells them for a living.  To get Angela, she'll need help, and that help might come from a sleazy congressman who wants her bad.I thought Demi Moore was really good.  And she looked good, even with clothes.  Her character, despite the profession, remained strong, confident, and somewhat dignified.  Her quest for her daughter was the most important thing.  This could have been a totally different movie, and parts of it gave us the illusion of a quality production.  But of course crazy comedy became a big part of the film, because several different con games, some related, figured into Erin's efforts.  The tender scenes with Demi, both the ones with and without her daughter, were good (and no wonder she was so good with her daughter; it was really Demi's daughter!), but it was the comedy that made this movie work for me.Was Burt Reynolds good?  Well, I found his perverted character entertaining.  Perhaps having a quality actor in the part meant he wasn't so bad.   Robert Patrick as Erin's ex mostly ended up the victim of physical comedy, which was okay.  Ving Rhames was quite menacing as a bouncer and really funny at times, but I know he's better than this.If you don't want to see plenty of skin, this may not be your movie.  I saw an edited version, but still .... The title and the promotion of this movie should have been enough to give that away.  It wasn't garbage.  In the wrong hands it could have been.SPOILERS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!One of the con games involved roaches in yogurt.  A secretary ended up with one of the infested containers, but it didn't bother her!Darrell, in a sugar refinery and drunk, saw a cup on an equipment box and decided the box must be a coffee machine.  He pushed a button hoping for no sugar, and a ton of sugar came from above and buried the bad guys.  Darrell's response 'I said no sugar!' "}{"Title":"Reynolds just rocked","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I only saw this film because Burt Reynolds was in this movie.  He is a great actor.  I thought Demi Moore was just great in this film.  Aside from Moore and Reynolds, the movie sucked.  Burt Reynolds never lost his acting skills. Reynolds will be number one.  Always. "},{"Title":"Don't forget to read the book","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The only thing that really gets stripped here is author Carl Hiaasen's wit, which is subtle, slapstick and irony all at the same time.  The writer and director concentrated on the lurid aspects of Erin Grant's job and ignored the more intricate facets of the story.  Two things mystify me, though one, why didn't Erin use a stage name at the club (as most strippers do), and two  they cast real-life stripper Pandora Peaks as movie stripper Urbanna Sprawl - why did they bother to change her name - one is just as ludicrous as the other (her real name is Stephanie Schick). "},{"Title":"Vaseline is squishing in my boots","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Though this movie is considered a bomb,this is probably one of Burt Reynold's most degrading performances in addition to Boogie Nights. One of the most funniest die-hard scene is when he covers himself in vaseline. Burt is literally parodying himself. During this time he and Loni had experienced turmoil. This is worth watching on a boring rainy day. "},{"Title":"what a waste of resources","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film has a story suitable for twelve year olds The bad guys are not reeaally bad, but sometimes even become sympathetic when they are drunk, horny or beaten up, and the good guys do not really have to suffer a lot, even though Erin Grant keeps telling that she is missing her daughter so much. So, the amount of nudity seems a little misplaced here, for it is not enjoyable for adults in this plot and not needed for the attraction of kids. The film also has a problem in deciding whether it is a comedy or a drama. After all, I liked the single performances of Burt Reynolds, Ving Rhames, and the dancing of Demi Moore. But they were wasted in a clumsily put together movie. "},{"Title":"Senseless...but sexy","Date":"24 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I think the movie isn't that bad, I mean, I think its fun to watch it, especially for men ;-)... I don't know the book, but I have to point out that the acting performance and the whole storyline is just a shame... After I watched the movie, I thought like Where is the sense in it? Ving Rhames is my favorite character, some kind of funny, but Reynolds? Just a weak performance, annoying, stupid and negative for his reputation I think... Anyway, visually really touching, but the dialogues and the story just kills any serious possibility to watch this movie...5 points, because of demi moore's dancing skills... "},{"Title":"at least it's better than Showgirls","Date":"22 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The problem with the film is that it can't seem to make up its mind what kind of film it wants to be comedic farce or semi-serious social commentary. It seems Demi Moore and Burt Reynolds are acting in two different pictures. Moore plays it fairly straight while Burt seems to be having the time of his life. The only really outstanding thing about this film is Pandora Peaks as Demi Moore's best friend (another stripper) who has the best set of tits seen on screen in a major release since Pamela Anderson. The film does not go far enough. It had all the elements to be a very edgy comic film but it falls completely flat (with the obvious exception of Pandora Peaks whose tits should have been given a lot more screen time than this movie provided). "},{"Title":"a bit better the 2nd time around but can't TOUCH the book.","Date":"9 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The first time I saw striptease, I rated it a 4. Now, having seen it again, I admit it's a bit better the 2nd time around-maybe a 5 or 6 but no more. My main problem is still the same-it just isn't half as funny as the book. And without that incredible humor, the movie didn't have a chance.I did enjoy the perfectly cast Ving Rhames as Shad and Burt Reynolds breathed life into the bumbling congressman. But while there were a few funny lines, the movie didn't wear comedy well. It kept switching back and forth from a comedy to a soap opera. Demi Moore while as beautiful as ever didn't stand out to me in this role, they maybe should have gone with an unknown actress. I also think the strip dance scenes weren't sexy. There was this almoast desperate quality coming from the movie like here's Demi-everybody drool. I thought it was a bit over the top.And that's just the problem-the story which WAS over the top worked as a book-here it didn't work quite as well, certain things that happened just seemed ridiculous. Without the tongue in cheek humor that made me absolutely LOVE this book, the story was lost and became-almost ordinary.Anybody who has read the book knows how marvelous this could have been, I actually believe it could have been a classic. As I mentioned, there were a bit more positives this time around,the MALE characters were better then the female and certain lines and scenes did work a bit better when I saw it a second time. But knowing what a 10 this movie could have been, it's kind of sad. I can't put my finger on exactly WHAT fell flat but as mentioned, the best I can say is the movie should have taken itself less seriously and focused more on the comedy-there was a real lot of comedy in the book to focus on!-it's tough to do a hilarious satire like movie and also make it a mini soap opera. The movie didn't quite pull it off but the strong casting of the male leads sure helped. 5 or 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Demi!!","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Anytime you get to see Demi strip is a blessing.  The movie was pretty awful, but I would rather see Demi strip than act any day.  Burt Reynolds look 100 years old in the movie, but he is still a great actor. "},{"Title":"it simply ruined a very good actress career","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  i used to love demi moore before this movie, she lost all special characteristics she had as an actress.Maybe it was worth it ( for the money)but still after that movie you can't accept her in movies like ghost , indecent proposal , or few good men. "},{"Title":"Total failure","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well , first is to be said I respect Demi for her talent and not only for her silicone lovely ... hmm ... things. I can only understand her but certainly not support her for this awful performance. Everything in America is done for the money. And this putrid movie is an outrageous example of the above. As if everyone in the set was thinking mainly for the upcoming check - so <censored> ... oh I mean STRIP the details. So ... in the end of the long run - please please DO NOT WATCH THIS TOTAL FAILURE even if you are big Demi fan! Save your two hours for something else ...  "}{"Title":"WATCH IT IF YOU LIKE DEMI MOORE...OTHERWISE LEAVE IT","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am a big fan of Demi Moore movies. I think she is both beautiful and a great actress and I have enjoyed most of her films (particularly Ghost and G.I. Jane). That is why I decided to watch this film.The plot of the film is quite good but it's not what attracted me to the film initially. If the film had starred an unknown actress then I probably wouldn't have watched it.As I said in my summary, if you like Demi Moore then it's probably worth watching. If you have no preference for Demi Moore then it's probably best not to watch it. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest movies of 1996.","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie will always remain in my heart forever. I still remember how I felt after watching this masterpiece at the theater the day it open. I was so fascinated by Demi Moore, it was a great of my life. There is not enough movies like that anymore done by Hollywood. Plenty of nude scenes, perverts who want to have sex with Demi and I understand them being a proud pervert. Here is the story thanks to Thomas Meyer.Erin Grant loses care and custody of her daughter when she's divorced from her husband Darrell, a small-time thief. Struggling for money, she is a dancer at a nightclub, where one night Congressman Dilbeck (in disguise) attacks another member of the audience. A spectator, who recognizes Dilbeck and is fond of Erin, offers to get back her daughter by blackmailing Dilbeck. Things do not work out as planned, though. This movie belongs in every DVD collection in the world, if you don't have it, stop reading this comments and go buy it now. It include so many great scenes of Demi Moore dancing, her breast, her legs, her sexy buttom. It is incredible. The DVD includes a great surround sound so you can experience the movie at a hundred percent. A gem, masterpiece "},{"Title":"Surprisingly average","Date":"11 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I first saw this movie after reading about how absolutely horrible it was. However, I found it to be nothing more and nothing less than an average Hollywood film.  All of the characters (e.g. a person whose profession belies their inner character, a sleazy, womanizing politician) and plot devices have been seen before, but the characters are played well enough (especially Burt Reynolds' laughably lecherous Congressman Dilbeck) that the movie ends up being reasonably entertaining. "},{"Title":"Hilariously bad!","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film is just so bad it almost becomes good. The whole sillyness of the movie, the utterly stupid scenes and lines can make this film eventually a cult classic like Deep 9 From Outer Space etc. Burt Reynolds and Ving Rhames are great, both roles are so shallow, simple and stereotypical but still quite funny.Demi Moore is just such a horrible actress, she just sucks in every meaning of the word. Yes, she can dance a bit, she has worked out, her face is fine - but to get millions for showing off her nonexistent acting skills, and her body - an accomplishment of plastic surgery - is just another proof that there's something seriously sick and disgusting in this world.Burt Reynolds, Ving Rhames and Robert Patrick did understand that this was a satire, and executed well. Demi Moore was just so stiff and bland and unsexy it  ruined it. The last 30 minutes were hilarious. It still is a very, very stupid film. Whatever message it had (haven't read the book) gets ruined by the lame Demi show off.  "},{"Title":"Reading is sometimes better","Date":"10 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I loved the book and hated the movie. I don't know how they could have killed the comedy but they did -( "},{"Title":"It'll ruin your love of yogurt","Date":"17 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is certainly not the best movie in the world, but if I looked like Demi Moore, my life would be set. Some funny parts, but afterwards you won't be able to eat yogurt for a long time.  "},{"Title":"More hype than tease. A Congressman desires a stripper.","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A few chuckles interrupts this disappointing movie. The hype and trailers were better than the whole film. The ravishing Demi Moore plays a young mother that turns to stripping to earn enough money to go to court and get back the custody of her daughter. Moore delivers the goods about three times. It seems more clinical than erotic.Burt Reynolds plays a sleaze bag Congressman that is obsessed with his lust for the young stripper. This has to be the worst role I have ever seen Reynolds play. Instead of funny, he came across pretty sick.The title STRIPTEASE is quite a tease itself. If you go into this movie with the expectations of seeing a lot of skin and erotic fun, you are due a giant let down. In my opinion it was a waste of Miss Moore.Ving Rhames and Armand Assante have some what solid roles and play them decently. Instead of a real good bump and grind, we end up with a misfiring thud. This is still a must see for Demi Moore fans. "},{"Title":"A mishmash of failed attempts and missed targets that ends up doing nothing of value","Date":"8 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" When she loses her daughter and her job in a court battle with her sleazy husband, Erin Grant becomes a stripper to earn money while making her appeal. In her club she gets the attention of men from all walks of life &#150; a gentle little obsessive up to a Republican congressman in the club in disguise. When the obsessive offers Erin a chance to get her daughter back by blackmailing a powerful person, he ends up dead. Meanwhile the congressman becomes obsessed with his angel and wants to be with her while his associates worry that she is yet another threat that could expose his hypocrisy and bring him (and them) tumbling down.I understand from people that know that Hiassen's book is very much a hilarious satire on American Conservatism and what he views to be the hypocritical way they approach life. I accept this may be the case, because you can see how the various characters, stories and themes within this film could be used to create such a work, but if it was pulled of in the book then I applaud it because it certainly didn't work in the film. This is a real problem, because if it had been clever and sharp then I could have probably forgiven it the glaring problems that run all the way through it. Sadly, without this intelligence, the narrative is all that is left and it is mostly dire. From the very start we are expected to swallow a lot of unlikely events and this continues the whole film through &#150; I couldn't get past this and as a result the rest of the film is just plain weak. The story itself didn't engage me once and is incredibly uneven and half-cooked. I'm sure the novel used the strip club as a background rather than the focus and I suspect the film tried to do the same, but it is hard to buy that whenever everything grinds (pardon the pun) to a halt for Moore to have a dance every now and again.The cast can't do anything to help because most of them seem to be in different films. Moore herself appears to be in at least three different movies and none of them are any good. Her body is good but her dancing isn't; her character has potential to be complex but her performance is as flat as a pancake. Reynolds is in the hilarious satire that I'm told the book is and, in his scenes he is actually pretty good and if the whole film had been this movie then he would have been perfect. However, as it is, his performance doesn't fit with the majority so he does end up looking very silly and out of place. Playing it down the middle without being as cr*p as Moore, support is actually OK from Rhames, Assante, Patrick, Guilfoyle and a few others but it is a matter of them making the best of a bad situation rather than doing well.Overall this is a poor film that missing the potential it had by failing to bring off the sharp satire that aspects of it suggest it should have been. The narrative is roundly poor and uninteresting, failing to do anything (the politics, the mother/daughter stuff, the strip stuff) well at all. Mostly the film uses nudity as a background and doesn't make a fuss of it, but as soon as Moore gets them out the film comes to a complete stop, showing that this was perhaps the main focus of those involved &#150; certainly Moore's performance did nothing to convince me otherwise. Not bad enough to be worth seeing for laughs, this is really just a mishmash of failed attempts and missed targets that ends up doing nothing of value at all. "},{"Title":"Much More than a strip movie!!","Date":"19 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Based on Carl Hiaasen's satirical novel, Striptease tells the story of Erin (Demi Moore), who has just gotten a divorce from Darrell (Robert Patrick), the sleazy ex-con she foolishly married. However, the judge's memories of Darrell's days as a football hero win him custody of their daughter, and Erin, concerned for her child's safety, is determined to fight the decision. Erin has just lost her position as a secretary for the FBI, so, to cover her legal bills, she takes a job as an exotic dancer at a strip club called the Eager Beaver. While she has no experience taking off her clothes in front of an audience, Erin soon makes friends with the fellow dancers and finds a protector in the club's burly but good-hearted bouncer, Shad (Ving Rhames). She also makes a few fans among the regulars at the club, most notably David Dillbeck (Burt Reynolds), a drunken lout with a bottomless appetite for sleaze -- who also happens to be a conservative congressman with ties to right-wing religious groups. One of Erin's admirers snaps a photo of her with the congressman when a brawl breaks out at the club, and he suggests that it would make fine blackmail material. However, when the man with the photo turns up dead, Erin discovers that Dillbeck's people play a bit rougher than she expected. "},{"Title":"Vacant, empty film","Date":"27 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Rather a vacant film form Andrew Bergman (Fletch screenwriter) about a single mum who loses her FBI job and her little girl because of her selfish, obsessive and criminally minded ex-husband. As a comedy/drama this one misfires most of the way, being especially impotent on the dramatic side. But of course Striptease (a mis-title) was promoted as just that, titillation in the form of one Demi Moore. The lovely Mrs. Willis has been working out to obtain the body that she flashes for around a minute all up on screen.While Moore uses her looks to full effect (male fans won't be disappointed), her considerable acting talents (which began to show promise in A Few Good Men and Disclosure) are nowhere to be seen here.Bergman's script - adapted from a novel - manages some timely humour along the way, but it is otherwise flat and silly, while his direction is uninspired. Resurrection of this near flop is left to a couple of comically enjoyable turns from two of the support cast. Ving Rhames, who really does get better and better, seems to be able to make something from almost anything, and he delivers a very funny turn here as an Eager Beaver bouncer. Robert Patrick gives the film's other hilarious showing as the nutty ex-husband who it seems will go to great lengths to stop his former wife (Demi Moore) from gaining custody of their daughter (played by real life daughter of Bruce Willis and Demi Moore, Rumer). Other support comes from Burt Reynolds and Armand Assante.Striptease completely fails at being a thoughtful drama about child custody and women fighting for themselves, but comically it has its moments. Bergman was just too busy being politically correct to make a decent drama.Saturday, August 3, 1996 - Hoyts Croydon "}{"Title":"Is it a comedy or a drama?","Date":"2 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The filmmakers really didn't seemed to be able to make up their minds. At times the movie feels like a drama but at times and especially in the last 30 minutes the movie suddenly turns into a (lame) comedy.This movie is truly a waste of talent. There are a lot of good actors in this movie such as Demi Moore, Burt Reynolds, Armand Assante, Robert Patrick and Ving Rhames. Also the music by Howard Shore really isn't bad and deserved a better movie.The movie makes a really pointless impression. The story felt highly unlikely and the movie was filled with many implausible moments. Also it may sound weird but also all of those striptease sequence got really boring after a while and they felt like they were put in the movie to put some life in it. Unsuccessfully though. Striptease is a failed movie that doesn't take itself serious enough at times with as a result that the already flawed story becomes even more ridiculous at times.Still a tiny bit better than Showgirls though.4/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Not that bad","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Most people watched this film only to see whether Demi's were real or not. They overlooked her very good performance in what is actually a fairly decent 'dramady.' Ving Rhames is the tough like he is in almost every film he's in unfortunately. Burt Reynolds has the most entertaining character, that of the lecherous Congressman. I thought this was mediocre movie not a bomb. 5/10.  "},{"Title":"An Abomination","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one incredibly bad movie on two fronts. First of all, this movie is badly acted by everybody except Burt Reynolds. Second off, the book by Carl Hiaassen is a comedy about the seemy underbelly of sugar smuggling. They have bastardized it and made it into a trite story of a single mother blah blah blah. I reccomend the book. "},{"Title":"Disastrously bad movie. Hammily acted and awfully conceived.","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The less said about this atrocity the better. It tries to be a domestic drama and slapstick comedy, doing terribly at both. Inexplicably bad performances from the cast, particularly Burt Reynolds, and Demi Moore proves just how desperate she really is. My advice is to avoid this like the plague. My IMDb rating a poor 3.8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A damaging film for all involved.","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Somehow seeing Demi Moore looking good in a bathing suit on the cover of The Star and Ving Rhames doing Radio Shack commercials with Vanessa L. Williams gave me the urge to review this much put upon film. I saw this one when it came on video and just couldn't believe that it was even allowed to be released or how The Video and DVD Movie Guide could give this 3 and a half stars.Based on a book I never heard of by Carl Hiassen, Striptease is about a woman named Erin Grant, a former FBI employee who loses her job and her child to her psycho ex-husband, a crazy man who steals wheelchairs. So to make ends meet and help pay the legal bills in order to get full custody of her daughter, she works as an exotic dancer at some club called the Eager Beaver.This movie's biggest flaw is that it's a comedy that isn't funny. It's a painful film to sit through, with forced humor, a ridiculous and stupid plotline, and pure bad taste. The acting is terrible, the script is painful, and the film fails to live up to its promise as titillating. Demi looks nice, but she just doesn't cut it here. Everyone else had their careers pretty much dead-ended here. Burt Reynolds (who barely survived), Stuart Pankin, Ving, Armand Assante, and Barbara Alyn Woods, as well as director Andrew Bergman did irreversible damage to their Hollywood careers. Then there's Rumer Willis, who proves that bloodlines don't always help you as an actor.The worst flaw is that the film has nothing memorable except for seeing Demi's horrible outfits and Burt's desperately tasteless performance as a lascivious Congressman. Unlike the similar Showgirls, this film has nothing that helped it be a cult favorite. I'm no fan of Demi's, but I do hope she can resurrect her career, but if she goes back to killing her career with bad movies like this or The Scarlet Letter, it'll be in the toilet once again. "},{"Title":"The only saving grace...","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" to prevent 'Striptease' from chalking up a minus score on the IMDb scale were the dancing routines. Some were sultry, and erotic. But in my view, even with the the allure of a shapely Demi Moore there was little else to give it merit. I took a girl with me to this one, half hoping we'd come away feeling a little turned on! But in truth we were slightly amused, and bored. The acting was dire, as was the script and plot. I cannot recommend this to anyone except die-hard Demi fans. Considering the effort she put in (dancing with strippers and working out for several months in preparation) it was a shame for her the cast and direction could not match up. On reflection, one has to wonder why Moore took part in a film that was merely tacky. The subject was a daring one to take on (or off as the case maybe) but as films go this one never gelled from start to finish. Give this celluloid dud a miss. Sorry Demi. "},{"Title":"Hilarious Stripper Flick","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Striptease, a very funny adaptation of writer Carl Hiaasen's darkly humorous novel, has tons of laughs and nudity.  Single mom Erin Grant is trying to gain custody of her young daughter from the hands of her scumbag ex Darrell.  You see Erin works as a stripper at the Eager Beaver and soon she becomes caught up in a scandal with a congressman who is totally smitten with her, and is clearly deranged.  See it!Striptease is UNRATED for nudity, erotic dancing, violence, and for language.NOTE  Striptease is available in both R Rated and UNRATED versions.  The UNRATED copy contains two extra minutes of strip scenes and nudity, while the R Rated version does not. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as at first made out, but still not great!","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Not as bad as was made out when it first appeared on the screen. An absolute fantastic performance from Burt Reynolds that had me laughing my socks off, every other character seems to just pale into the background. Moore shows more than she ever has, boy has she got amazing legs! The comedy really comes from Robert Patrick who plays Moores' husband who seems to get hurt at every opportunity, and when he meets Ving Rhames, his luck turns from bad to worse. The story is ridiculous with the ending adding strongly to that sentiment, but a strong performance from Reynolds certainly steals the show and categorically proves that he's still capable of out shining anyone. "},{"Title":"Not the disaster it's cracked up to be, but no masterpiece","Date":"3 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The critics always pan films that involve sex or stripping, probably because they're afraid of being called dirty old men and Striptease really isn't that bad. However it is certainly no achievement and doesn't deserve to be called `underrated'. A vote of 3.9 on IMDb at time of writing (3/2/00) sounds about right. The plot focuses on Demi Moore working as a stripper so she can get enough money to reclaim custody of her daughter from the hands of evil husband Robert Patrick. However sleazy Congressman Burt Reynolds (going incognito, but you can hardly blame him) falls for her and this sparks off events that lead to murder, which cop Armand Assante investigates. There are a good few laughs in here, such as Reynolds going to both Jewish and Christian fund raising events and covering himself with Vaseline. The film also contains solid performances from Ving Rhames as a tough but nice bouncer and the ever-excellent Assante. However the casting of Moore, who just isn't right for the role, dramatically or comically, fatally flaws Striptease. Director Andrew Bergman doesn't handle the film at all badly, but his script is a mess; failing to keep the courage of its convictions and unforgivably pulling its punches on the sleaze and satire. It just isn't funny enough, dramatic enough or compulsive enough to warrant more than a cursory viewing on television. For the record, Moore's (then) much hyped `assets' appear three times, but they like the rest of the film are strangely unerotic, probably because they look like the fake rubbery enhancements that they are. When the owner of the Eager Beaver confesses that he has been impotent ever since he opened the club, we can quite understand why. "},{"Title":"Silicon Silly Con","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ultimately, for a film called Striptease, this contains very little disrobing of any kind. It completely defies the expectations &#150; and requirements &#150; of it's audience by having Demi clothed for the majority of the duration, and it shoots it's bolt early by having Moore strip within the first twenty minutes. Moore reportedly met several strippers &#150; or `dancers' as they're respectful known here &#150; and doubtlessly asked for a sensitive portrayal to avoid causing offence. To this end, we have a very supportive, `sisterhood' of erotic dancers who are togetherness and praise. The bitchiness and snide competitiveness that you would expect in such an institution is absent (apart from a humorous scene where one girl accuses another of having a beard) and the stripping elements are toned down almost to the point of non-existence. In their place are fitted a very ropy `comedy-thriller'. Too silly to be a thriller, and yet not funny enough to be a comedy, it satisfies neither convention and flounders nowhere in between. Direction can be occasionally rewarding, such as the shot taken from inside a washing machine, and Moore plays it admirably straight. Ving Rhames and Armand Assante do well in their respective roles, though Rhames is essentially portraying a black stereotype.  Burt Reynolds, meanwhile, is lousily over the top as a libidinous congressman in a misfiring b-plot that attempts satire, yet never hits the mark. Is this really the same actor that was so effective in Boogie Nights?Striptease employed three dialogue editors, an amazing fact given that the script isn't exactly Shakespearean. However, Striptease can at least be commended for having a beginning, middle and end. The film also deserves praise for exploring it's subject without unnecessary exploitation. Topless shots of Moore are kept to a minimum, while she keeps her briefs on the whole time despite the nature of the job. It's just a shame about that blasted monkey.  "}{"Title":"What happened!","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was enjoying this movie up until the last 45 minutes or so. I'm not sure what happened, if the director was changed, the writer never finished the script or possibly there was a rush to finish the movie. The last half of the movie was not comparable to the first half at all! If not for Demi  the Goddess ) Moore ( more!) I would have turned it off. Burt Reynolds is a joke.....and I mean that in the worst way.Overall, I would say that this movie is worth watching just to see Demi dancing...she actually is quite good! And I mean her timing, presence, and of course, looks. I give it a 6.5.Interesting note I found this in the comedy section of my video store. "},{"Title":"So So Comedy","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"   With its all star cast including Demi Moore(ghost), Robert Patrick(terminator 2), Burt Rehnolds(boogie nights) and Ving Rhames(pulp fiction), this had all the elements to make this a stunning comedy thriller. Although in some parts, it drags on a bit, Striptease is an adequate film with worthy performances. Rehnolds is very annoying, and should soon see that he is not the man he used to be. Moore is great. Not only that she dances naked, but also because she puts up a touching performance with her daughter. The scene stealers though are Patrick and Rhames who deliver their lines perfectly. Striptease got awful reviews which is a shame really because it isn't all that bad. Just one thing that really worries me is Burt Rehnolds. A man whose reputation states he is a fine actor, but really he is not. Rating=3/5 "},{"Title":"Get Shorty if John Travolta thought he was in a drama.","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is like Get Shorty if John Travolta took himself seriously and played Chili Palmer like Hamlet instead of Mercutio.  Like almost everyone else who has said something about this film, somebody associated with Striptease forgot to tell Demi Moore that this was a comedy.  She probably thought we(the audience) cared about the trials and tribulations of a single mother.  We didn't. This could have been a good Elmore Leonard-style comedy about lowlife scum in Florida, but Moore ruins the movie by thinking this was a drama.  Burt Reynolds and Ving Rhames almost save the movie with some good screwball performances, but the screwiest of all is Demi.  It's amazing how her blandness sucks the energy down in every scene she's in(which is to say, the whole movie). I would have paid seven bucks to see the movie if it would have been a real comedy, but instead I shelled out two-fifty at Mr. Movies for a gander at Demi's boobs.  I wonder if the producers are questioning now which approach to the film would have gotten them more money.   "},{"Title":"Endurance test","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well, this film was sold as a chance to see Demi Moore naked, and I'll be honest, that's why I watched it.  I wasn't prepared for one of the dullest films I've seen in a long while though.  It's not that the film is bad per se, it's just that it's so damn boring!  I'm told it's a comedy, well there were more funny jokes in Schindlers List.Acting wise, Demi gives her usual bland stock and trade.  She's not bad, but she's not good either.  Burt Reynolds and Robert Patrick ham it up completely which conflicts badly with the 'straight' performances from nearly everyone else.  I wouldn't call Reynold's performance great, it's a long way from it, however it is still the high point of the film.  Ving Rhames just mumbles his way through his part, looking like he's wondering how he went from 'Pulp Fiction' to 'this'.So let's get to the meat of the matter, I don't think anyone was really expecting a great film, if your're going to watch it, it'll be to see Demi strip.  Now there are several striptease scenes throughout the movie, and Demi shows off her impressively scupltured body to great effect, stripping right down to a skimpy g-string.  Now I'm sorry, but people who say her dances aren't sexy are not human.5/10 - Worth a look for the thrill of seeing a famous celeb naked and seeing Burt Reynolds covered from head to toe in vaseline. "},{"Title":"The good, the bad and the truly atrocious","Date":"19 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Good VING RHAMES - I suspect the only actor who actually bothered to read the book. He had just the right mixture of menace and ineptitude; so much so that I forgot that when I read the book I'd assumed his character was white (I don't think his colour is explicitly stated); RENA RIFFEL - a truly gorgeous and sadly overlooked starlet (who was also in the oft-mentioned 'Showgirls'); underused, but looking her delicious best.The Bad How Carl Hiaason must feel.The Truly Atrocious Just about everything else, from hammy Bert to drammy Demi; and Pandora Peaks proving that porn-stars should not be given anything as difficult as lines. I also read somewhere that Demi Moore had artistic(?) control over the character of Erin written into her contract; well, this is the result - a confused and toothless adaptation of a wonderfully raunchy (and *funny*) book. Andrew Bergman doesn't show anything in his IMDb log for seven years after he penned this turkey...and it serves him right.The Lesson Don't let the inmates take over the asylum.My vote 3/10 for Ving and Rena alone. "},{"Title":"what a waste of time...","Date":"2 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I just recently have taken a liking to Demi Moore, as she is a beautiful woman (though now that she's 40 something its starting to fade a bit) but I feel most of her film choices were more publicity stunts than for meaningful roles. The plot in this film could have been done better. The bad guy played by Robert Patrick is extremely stupid -he steals wheelchairs and he's a badass criminal? What's more, I felt that the only good thing about the film was Demi's great physique, but that ain't anywhere near enough to make this enjoyable.How come Hollywood comes up with these stupid films? I hope Demi can make better choces in the future.A poor film. "},{"Title":"Demi's  Strip  Numbers and  Nothing  Else","Date":"3 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I think you can't blame Demi Moore for making this film and taking the 10.000.000 dollars she was paid; in fact I'm sure she was the first one to know she was entering a terrible piece of cinema.Striptease is a really poor product whatever its genre is (thriller, crime, action, comedy). It looks as a sort of updated episode of the 70's TV series Charlie's Angels and not one of the best either.If you are a Moore fan you can't miss her dancing numbers here where she looks all sexy and shows her incredible improved body. But don't expect anything else for the rest of the film doesn't make any sense and lacks interest completely.Striptease would surely enter the 50 worst films list ever and perhaps the 10 list of the worst ones ever in its genre whatever it could be. "},{"Title":"Better than I expected, but still bad","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Considering I'm a (heterosexual) teenage female, it's no wonder the fact that everyone seems to be complaining about-it wasn't erotic enough-suits me just fine.  The dancing was pretty good.  However, the whole congressman thing was so confusing, I didn't understand it at all.  They really did a bad job with that plot of it.  Otherwise I liked Aramand Assante, Demi Moore and Ving Rhames.  Some of the sub-plots were so-so.  All in all, a fair movie.  I rate it a 4.  "},{"Title":"How stupid a movie can be?","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Really, how stupid a movie can be? As far as Striptease is concerned very much! First of all I could not realize what kind of film it was. Was it a comedy, a drama, a thriller or a movie with a social inclination? I think the director himself do not know. The performances were not so good. As a matter of fact they were bad. Robert Patrick showed to have a noticeable talent in Terminator 2 but he totally wasted it in this movie. Criticizing Burt Reynolds I really have no comment to add. Lastly and... least Demi Moore. What can I say. Probably she had no money that period and wanted to make a movie that could be appealing and attractive to a great number of people. She has a very sexy body but not a single sample of talent!       "},{"Title":"Don't Believe the hype.","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The movie is a bland comedy about a mother (Moore) fighting for custody rights of her daughter. It could even be called a satire on the corrupt ways of the United States politicians.While watching the movie, I wasn't sure if it was supposed to be a comedy. There were a few bland jokes but that was it.Demi Moore does a fair job at acting, she rarely chooses bad roles but this I'm afraid is one of them. "}{"Title":"Not very good","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  You have got to admire Demi Moore, she regularly opts to make poor films, gets slated by the critics for her troubles, yet always bounces back to demand 7 or 8 million for her next project. Striptease turns out exactly how you know it is going to. To be kind, you could say that it is most definitely not a comedy classic. Demi makes a good stripper and Ving Rhames is amusing as her body guard. Once you have said that, you have said everything.  "},{"Title":"Not cheesy enough to enjoy","Date":"19 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie tries to tell the story of a desperate mother fighting for her daughter, but forgets that plot usually doesn't involve awful comedy skits. The mix really doesn't work, and the clash between Demi Moore's overly serious acting and Burt Reynolds' whatever the hell Burt Reynolds was doing couldn't be more off-putting. The boat scenes, dear God the boat scenes, the memory just won't go away. That's what I call nightmare fuel. Robert Patrick and Ving Rhames are also in this movie, which I guess makes it a bit cooler than it deserves to be. Their characters aren't interesting in the slightest, but hey, they're still Robert Patrick and Ving Rhames. As well as pretty much every other aspect from this weak, overlong movie, I really hated the climax. If that's the best solution you can come up with, you might want to consider not making movies. This movie may not be as bad as Showgirls, but it's also one hell of a lot less entertaining. "},{"Title":"Anyone who voted 10-7 on this movie has to be funny, right???","Date":"27 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Demi thinks, I think, in this movie she's much more then she really trully is. Indecent Proposal awesome, this movie detracts from that. An actress/actor can truly diminish themselves from early work by taking on these types of parts. Did she need the money or the ego boost. Anyway, I didn't feel good about seeing the Ghost, IP, AFGM lead actress do this movie at all. Demi, not that you'll read this, but keep it real from know on....... I'm outta here, safe to all.  "},{"Title":"Demi Semi-Naked still can't save this abomination","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  As a rule, It's usually the truly great films or the truly awful films, that inspire me to add my meager 2 cent worth to the IMDB user comments data base. Unfortunately in this case, it is the latter not the former.Demi Moore stars in this comedy (Comedy ??? excuse me, i forgot to laugh) playing a woman forced into stripping (um, pardon me... DANCING !) as her only means of financial support. Her deadbeat thief ex-husband has custody of her daughter and she desperately wants little Angela back.  Burt Reynolds plays a repugnant Congressman with his libido set on HYPER and has his heart and other parts of his anatomy set on capturing the lovely Ms. Moore.The Stripping scenes were at best mediocre, and they were, by far, the best part of the film. If they edited the movie down to a short 15 minute Stripdance by  Demi, it would be a marked improvement. The plot was typical of most murder mysteries but quickly lost its way and the ending was contrived and (unfortunately for a comedy)not humorous in the least. I can fully imagine that the film's money ran out and the necessity for a real ending was also discarded.Ving Rhames, playing the bouncer, was as always a pleasure to watch, i developed a true appreciation for his acting skills in Pulp Fiction (If your film needs a macho heavy call Ving. Or Vin Diesel for that matter, apparently there is something in the Vin )Only Demi flashing her lovely bod saved this film from my bottom of the barrel rating of 1 (So far only the Blair Witch Monstrosity has garnered that dubious distinction)2 stars of out 10 "},{"Title":"So bad, it's not funny","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a very painful movie.  Ving Rhames deserves some sort of special Oscar for being able to make it to the end of this.  Even if you just want to see the sex/strip scenes, it completely fails, because there are thousands of more erotic movies out there.  This is so bad that I don't want to waste any more typing by reviewing it.  Just one more thing to say, think of all the good things that could have been done with the money that was wasted on this crap. "},{"Title":"Avoid like the plague","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I don't care if Demi Moore was nude dancing beside me in the theater, that couldn't prevent me from walking out on this cheesefest!  How could Burt Reynolds even think about walking off the set of Boogie Nights, yet think that this was a cherry role?  Heck, I would have even starred in Smokey and the Bandit 3 before I would get near this sorry pile of vomit. Overall, it's the only movie I've ever walked out on and it will never be viewed by my eyes again. "},{"Title":"Not even the nudity helps this film...","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is probably one of the worst written scripts of the 90s, however the terrible thing about this film is that some really good actors are wasted in it (Ving Rhames, Robert Patrick, Armand Assante).The storyline is absurd, too...a mother strips to get money.  Yeah, that's basically the whole plot, and it doesn't help any that Demi Moore is the lead actress who is supposed to shoulder the burden of making this picture decent.  I mean, she's not horrible, but she's no Meryl Streep either.You'd think the nudity would at least be an entertaining aspect of the film, but it's really not...the only good thing about this movie is Burt Reynolds, who is absolutely hilarious in his role as a perverted Congressman.  He's the only reason I gave it a two instead of a one. "},{"Title":"What was the POINT?","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've never been inside a strip joint.  I don't know what they're like. I'll wager, though, that there's a fair amount of variety - whereas it looks as if Hollywood uses the very same place for reference in every movie in which strippers appear.  It must be doing great business.  That damned fireman's pole at the front of the stage - what, is it holding the roof up?  Why do the dancers perform on a poorly-lit stage with a strobe lamp going off? Has it occurred to anyone that the audience might want to get a good look at things?  And why is the predominant colour an unappealing blue?  Surely ALL strip joints aren't like that.  Let's hope not, anyway.Do you want to see bare breasts?  Forget it.  Some powerful person behind the scenes clearly belongs to a splinter religious sect and believes that nipples are evil, and so they've carefully choreographed even the backstage scenes in order to prevent us from seeing one.  This sort of thing I would object to in a disinterested way even if I weren't a heterosexual male. It just looks silly.  It looks silly when people have sex wearing boxer shorts; silly when people pour detergent into their baths and hide under the foam so that the camera can't see their naughty bits; and sillier still when the action is set in, say, a strip joint.  If they really want to be so self-consciously coy they could have rewritten the story ever so slightly and made Demi Moore work for, say, a greengrocer.  (The movie would have been no duller and a good deal more honest.)  But AS a heterosexual male, dammit, I wanted to see tits.  (And NOT just Demi Moore's.)  Is that too much to ask?  Failing that I would have settled for an interesting story or witty dialogue or any one of a hundred other things that were also absent. I can't claim to be too annoyed since I didn't pay a cent to see the movie - but I feel for those who did. "},{"Title":"A T&A movie... with a plot?!? Who came up with that?","Date":"5 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Like Paul Verhoeven's Showgirls, this is a T&A movie. The thing is, while Verhoeven knew what T&A was about(T&A standing for Tits and Ass, it's obviously nudity), Andrew Bergman(who I suppose is the person to blame for this movie) doesn't; I guess he thought it should be more than just nudity, and tries to inject a drama plot. Newsflash naked girls and family troubles don't mix. Any teenager can tell you that. Apparently, Bergman didn't know, or maybe he was trying to break new ground... who knows. The result is a mess. One minute you're seeing half-naked ladies with fake breasts, the other you're expected to care about the main character's child and her difficulties with getting custody. It just doesn't work. The plot is decent at best; it probably could have worked, with a hell of a lot of work done to it and in a very different movie. But as it is, it doesn't work, on any level. The acting is mostly ridiculous; I guess the actors didn't take it too seriously and just went through it as campy as they could. Apart from Demi, who apparently believed that the film was serious. The characters are poorly written clichés. Robert Patrick's character is too cartoonish, and, frankly, belongs in a slapstick comedy. It was interesting to see a role so different from the hard-ass characters he normally portrays, but still. He added very little comic relief, and mainly came off as a pathetic attempt at it. Burt Reynolds' character was also so over the top that you didn't know whether to laugh, cry, or feel sorry for him. The dialog is amateurish and the script is poorly written. The humor is childish and the film tries far too hard at making you laugh, which pretty much only results in the audience cringing over it. Basically, the film could have been something, had it just determined to be a drama or a T&A flick; 'cause it sure as hell doesn't work well as both. The climax of the film brings one or two smirks, but no real laughs, and in the end, you feel like you've just wasted almost two hours that could have been spent doing something far more creative. If you want to look at naked women, find a better T&A film, or search the Internet. If you want to see a naked Demi Moore, look for one of the other films where she gets undressed, or, failing that, look for screen-caps of this film. Whatever you do, avoid this one. It's really bad. Really. Bad. I recommend this to no one, apart from possibly people who are willing to do anything and watch anything just to see Demi's breasts. Or people who'll watch anything, for one reason or another. 1/10  "},{"Title":"This is a comedy?","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I make a point of watching the recipients of the Razzie award for worst movie, but 'Striptease' was impossible to sit through.  Unlike its predecessor, 'Showgirls', 'Striptease' is not so fabulously bad that you enjoy watching it.  Not only did EVERYBODY in this movie turn in a spectacularly lame performance, but I think somebody forgot to tell Demi that it was supposed to be funny. The whole thing came across as unfocused and disorganized, and the stripping scenes were just bad, particularly Demi's 'rehearsal' at home.  I gather, from what friends who have read the novel have told me, that the book is quite funny.  Too bad the Coen brothers didn't decide to adapt it.      "}{"Title":"The worst film ever made","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I have considered this long and hard, but can honestly conclude that I have never seen a worst film than this. Most films in worst films lists are low budget films that were rushed B movies that turned into D movies. But Striptease has no excuses. The story is taken from a good book and made into the worst script I have ever heard. Of course, the acting, direction and script are all bad, but with Striptease they are so consistently awful throughout the film that it really defies belief.And don't even mention Demi making her character such a mindnumbingly clichéd doing it for the kids mom! Starpower at its worst? Nothing can beat this. "},{"Title":"Demi Moore displaying the best body money can buy.","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Burt Reynolds steals the show with his comedic portrayal of a corrupt politician. Demi Moore is beautiful and still has the lovely eyes and sexy voice that first made her notable. And, yes, her body is the best cosmetic science has to offer. "},{"Title":"Striptease","Date":"21 September 2005","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Taking off her clothes was quite a popular thing, so somebody thought, why don't we get Demi Moore to do it throughout a whole film, and it happened, from director Andrew Bergman (Honeymoon in Vegas). The result a higher pay for Moore, more flesh than usually shown and a rather silly script/story. Anyway, Erin Grant (Razzie winning Moore) needs to get a job that earns a lot of money so she can have proper custody of her little girl, so she decides to become a stripper in a rather popular Las Vegas type club. She earns loads of money from using really good Annie Lennox songs and the power to dance and flash her flesh. Also starring Razzie nominated Burt Reynolds as Congressman David Dilbeck, Pulp Fiction's Ving Rhames as Shad and Terminator 2's Robert Patrick as Darrell Grant. Personally, it is only worth seeing for the nudity content. It won the Razzies for Worst Picture, Worst Original Song for Pussy, Pussy, Pussy (Whose Kitty Cat Are You?), Worst Screenplay and Worst Screen Couple for Moore and Reynolds. Okay! "},{"Title":"More Baloney Than Bare Facts","Date":"16 August 2006","Score":"10 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This soft-core glossy skin flick (which is what it is, if you're honest about it) actually was better than I anticipated. the story was interesting all the way through, featured some great female bodies of course, but had decent acting and photography. The nudity involved breasts, nothing else and there was no sex. Demi Moore looked awesome at times; too tough-looking at other times.Robert Patrick and Burt Reynolds played over-the-top characters who got a bit annoying after awhile. Reynolds is particularly sleazy and they use him in this film to denigrate elected officials and people who speak out for family values. Hollywood loves to trash the latter, having no values of its own. They also trash Republicans and a group called Young Christians, just more typical cheap shots of the Libeal film-making industry. They are unrelenting.The only likable character in the movie is played by Armand Assante, although the film makes you root for Moore in her custody case.I understand the book is much. Gosh, that's a surprise! "},{"Title":"Demi and her new breasts","Date":"27 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Ousted from her CIA job Erin takes her new breasts and serious expression over to a strip club called the 'Eager Beaver' to work as a stripper (I don't think dancers take their clothes off) to earn enough money to gain custody of her daughter. Ironic really as the cost of her boob job would probably have paid for the custody battle.The central character of Erin is played by Demi Moore who seems to have taken the role to show off the talents of her plastic surgeon; but sadly displayed little talent of her own. This is the films major downfall as the other actors are fine (especially Burt), but Demi's character does not gain any particular sympathy as she is alternately intense, reproving, frowning, stern, serious and then back to intense again. Even with a great body you can be a serious actor she seems to be saying. In short, Demi was boring and I really did not care whether she won or not.Demi does have a great bod, but personally I find her strangely sexless and preferred any of the other women she worked with. Burt also seems to be the type that would have gone for the blond with the huge breasts rather than the antiseptic Ms Moore. I know I did. "},{"Title":"no significance whatsoever","Date":"2 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Offensively stupid 'comedy' stars Moore as a stripper and single mother who tries to earn extra cash to gain custody of her daughter after she divorces her lowlife ex-husband. Out of options or ideas, she forms a liaison with a sleazy Congressman who may be able to help her get what she needs, that is if he can keep his hands off of her. Obviously this listless film is likely to please certain undiscriminating fans, most especially males, but it's not funny enough to pass for comedy, or serious enough to pass for drama, or acted well enough by its usually capable cast to even make it worth the viewing experience. An embarrassing showing for all those involved, especially Reynolds who's a total bust. * "},{"Title":"BIG BOMB FOR DEMI","Date":"17 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Andrew Bergman has made some good films, but STRIPTEASE is not one of them. This is an unfunny, undramatic, and unprovocative look at a mother striving to retrieve her daughter into custody. For quick cash, she takes off her clothes as a stripper at The Eager Beaver. Meanwhile, a horny congressman (Burt Reynolds) pursues her. Demi Moore may be OK, but STRIPTEASE is a complete misfire and wastes some good people (Reynolds, Armand Assante, Ving Rhames). While the movie tries some jabs at comedy and drama, it comes up short in both departments it's actually ugly. Moore's career isn't looking good. One star (out of four).  "},{"Title":"Not sexy, not funny, not anything","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ok, to start with, the buzz on this film was Demi got $20mill to get naked. that went away and then they said, It's really funny I haven't read the book although I did enjoy many of the author's other works. I saw the film, truthfully to see Demi naked, (sue me, I'm a guy) and would have been happy had I gotten that. I'm sorry though 11 seconds of nipple is not worth 20 mil, even if you are married to Burce Willis. the flick is also not funny. If you need to see Miss Moore naked, rent GI Jane. "},{"Title":"Burt Reynolds' Worth The Misery","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Say what you will about Striptease, God awful, miserable, contrived, etc., but, man, Burt Reynolds is hilarious in this piece of garbage. Honestly, it's worth bearing this disaster of a film just to hear him utter his pearls of perversion.      "},{"Title":"Just plain awful","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  As far as mainstream movies go, this is about as bad as it gets.  A completely unfunny idea is perhaps the biggest problem in this horrible comedy, a film that truly has no redeeming qualities.  This movie was overlong, and very dull, and basically a complete waste of time.  Even if you're someone who absolutely, positively must see Demi nude, spare yourself the agony and find it on the internet instead. "}{"Title":"Guys It's Not Meant To Be Serious","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Some people take both life and cinema far too seriously . Look at STRIPTEASE for example . The opening scene takes place in a court where Erin Grant is fighting for custody of her child against her husband Darell who has a serious problem with drugs . The judge decides that because Erin is unemployed pill popping Darell should get the kid ! Erin realises that the only way to get the kid back is if she gets a job as a stripper at The Eager Beaver nightclub and on her first night there she blows away the opposition . Got that a woman who has never stripped before is miles better than than the old pros who have been doing their dance routine for years . In fact she's so good Congressman Dilbeck feels duty bound to save her from a punter by hitting a drunken punter over the head with a champagne bottle . Hmm so you've got a senior politician who frequents The Eager Beaver nightclub which obviously doesn't harm his career prospects and assaults a fellow patron andnobody calls the press ! That's just the start of the movie ( And it gets more and more incredible as it goes along as if you hadn't noticed ) but people come on to this site to say what a terrible movie it is ! Thanks for pointing this out but it's not actually supposed to be a great movie is it ? It's done tongue in cheek with Burt Reynolds giving a career worst performance as Congressman Dilbeck . This alone would have made it watchable enough without Demi Moore flashing her silicon enhanced breasts around at every opportunity . If you think this is a serious movie then perhaps Ving Rhames role as Shad is a knowingly ironic character  No it's a f--kin' shrimp . Course it's a roach  which is a clever way of explaining to the less clued up audience members that it's not a shrimp , a roach or a turkey - It's a tongue in cheek movie "},{"Title":"It's not as bad as they say...it's WORSE!!!","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"14 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Two amazing things about this movie; no, make that three(1) That Carl Hiaasen actually liked the adaptation of his hilarious novel.  Hiaasen is still one of the funniest writers around(if you read STRIPTEASE and liked it, I highly recommend all of the other novels he wrote by himself), but this proves his taste is questionable.  This movie, unlike the novel, is painfully unfunny.  There are occasional good lines from the novel(like when Ving Rhames(the only good actor here, along with Demi Moore's daughter Rumer Willis) telling two security guards that Meryl Streep used to strip under the name Chesty LeFrance), and even a couple of original ones(like Moore refusing to dance with cream corn because she doesn't want it to go up her hoo-ha), but the motivations, the characters, and the story are all hacked away; (2) that Andrew Bergman is responsible for this mess.  After all, from his track record as writer(THE IN-LAWS, FLETCH, co-writer of SOAPDISH) and director(THE FRESHMAN, HONEYMOON IN VEGAS(both of which he also wrote), IT COULD HAPPEN TO YOU), you'd think this was someone who knows funny.  But he goes so wrong here it's unbelievable.  Typical is the scene where Burt Reynolds character, who we know is a lech, delivers a sermon on family values.  Did Bergman think he was actually breaking new ground here?  Contrast that to a similar scene in the book, where we hear(though don't see) his character deliver an off-the-cuff speech on Israel which works precisely because he's feeling horny.  This is funny.  What's in the movie isn't; (3) That Demi Moore keeps appearing in novel adaptations when she apparently doesn't understand what made the source work.  This is the third novel adaptation(THE SCARLET LETTER, THE JUROR) in a row she appeared in, and they were all awful adaptations of fine books.  Okay, I'm not a big fan of hers, but she's done good work(G.I. JANE, IF THESE WALLS COULD TALK), and this isn't it. "}]