[{"Title":"Solid Falls","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"59 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Interestingly enough, at this moment the life and career of the movie's director seems to be at a maximum high, having just released the latest James Bond, while actor Nick Nolte seems to be in some kind of personal trouble in his private life, and without any major role for the last few years. 'Mulholland Falls' might remain his last great role - he is giving an outstanding performance here, in a solid and well paced film.The 'Falls' not only is located in the 50s, but it is also done like a 50s movie. Were not for the recorded sex scenes, hard to distinguish that the film was made in the mid 90s. The level of detail and authenticity is perfect. The only minus of the film is in the rather artificial manner that the story line is resolved - it looks again like a 50s B-movie end, but a bad one.'LA Confidential' came one year later, and referred to a similar story line and environment. It got much more attention, and better critical reception. In my opinion, 'Mulholland Falls' does not fall behind, and later critics will place the two films on the same shelf of the movie history. 8/10 on my personal scale. "},{"Title":"An Unexpected and Pleasant Surprise.","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"43 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" After years of reading bad reviews about Mulholland Falls, I recently turned on this DVD with low expectations and was totally surprised by how much fun this great little popcorn movie was; right down to the soundtrack . Great cast, great look and about as much logic and charm as the old 50's detective magazines. After seeing Nick Nolte in this, I'm now hoping to see him in a future Tarrantino movie. Nolte would also be a perfect fit in one of the upcoming Sin City sequels. I also have new respect for Roger Ebert, one of the few critics who enjoyed the movie for what it was meant to be. It seems to me that those who didn't like this movie, missed its point. While this isn't Academy Award material, it's a hell of a lot better than the critics would make you believe it was. "},{"Title":"Pretty good cop thriller (spoilers within).","Date":"13 May 2004","Score":"36 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Looking at the four stern faces of the suited men on the cover, you'd think this was yet another movie about gangsters. But it isn't. Fans of another fantastic period cop drama, L.A. Confidential, should enjoy this film, as they are quite similar in theme. Like Russle Crowe's hard-edged cop character in L.A. Confidential, the four cops in this movie, do what they must to dispense justice. Despite their violent methods, they are nonetheless vigilante about justice.Unorthodox and often unethical Los Angeles cops, Max Hoover (Nick Notle), Elleroy Coolige (Chaz Palminteri), Eddie Hall (Mike Madsen), and Arthur Relyea (Chris Penn), do what they can from keeping the trash from moving into the city. Tossing gangsters down Mullholland Falls, the symbolic dumping site for the exiled criminals, and tearing up coke dealers and pimps with a handy black jack, these cops don't take crap. (It should be interesting enough at this point to see both Penn and Madsen not playing their usual roles as sadistic gangsters).The four cops are preoccupied with a new investigation after Max's former lover, Allison Pond (Jennifer Connelly), is discovered dead in a development yard. The case tests Max's limits on the ability to sift out the suspects and overcome whatever obstacles stand in his way of justice. At first, it seems as though this is just another story in which the villain turns out to be zealous leaders of the mafia who go to all ends to get what they wants (usually a profit venture). But that is not the case here. Max and the gang find themselves going up against the government and military, implicating Atomic Energy Commissioner (John Malkovich) and an eager Colonel (Treat Williams), to find out what is what that Allison was involved with that lead to her death. The movie takes place during the 1940s around New Mexico's White Plains nuclear testing site, and makes some challenges to the ethics of nuclear testing.This movie has a tremendous cast, even in minor roles. Nick Nolte does a fantastic job, as does John Malckovich in the role of the dreamy, dying Atomic Energy Commissioner.I also compare this film to L.A. Confidential because it seemed like some of the settings (and even the arrangement of scenes) are very similar to those used in the former. For example, Max Hoover's house (especially the living room and bedroom) looked almost identical to the one where Kevin Spacey and Danny DeVito break into the house in the beginning to bust up a minor pot party. The bedroom looked much like that one for Kim Basinger's house as well. I wouldn't be surprised if some of the same people involved in Mullholland Falls likewise worked on L.A. Confidential.It isn't your traditional cop drama/political thriller because of the nature of the main characters. They don't always play by the rules, but in the end, they are the good guys. And, it's got a good finale. "},{"Title":"The Untouchables go to Chinatown...","Date":"18 March 2004","Score":"33 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" ...Or at least that's kind of what this movie reminds me of in only the most basic ways. This film is okay, with good performances and a mildly-engaging plot, but the finale is kind of lackluster. Mulholland Falls is where the elite L.A. Hat Squad takes unwanteds to teach them a lesson. Nick Nolte is the world-weary boss. This is not one of his best performances, and he seems to overact just a little bit. Chazz Palminteri is his best friend, a short-tempered member going to sessions with a psychiatrist to help deal with his anger. Meanwhile, Chris Penn and Michael Madsen have little to do, though a scene where Madsen tries to pick the lock on a gate to a military base rather than have Penn blow it off is a funny bit.They are trying to figure out how a girl found out in the desert was killed. Apparently impact with the ground did it. She was Nolte's mistress for six months during his marriage to Melanie Griffith. The trail leads to Gen. Thomas Timms (John Malkovich) who also knew the girl as his mistress. Malkovich turns in another good supporting role as a cancerous military man. Treat Williams, one of the officers and the real bad guy, turns in a fairly mediocre job.All in all the movie falls short, but it does include some nice uncredited turns by Bruce Dern as the Chief of Police, and Rob Lowe and CSI's William Petersen as a couple of hoods. (The latter of which is taken to the title location) "},{"Title":"Derivative cops & corruption","Date":"23 September 2003","Score":"35 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" It's not an awful movie but it comes rather late in a cycle of cops vs. corruption in high places during the fifteen years between Chinatown (set in 1937) and L. A. Confidential (1954) and encompassing True Confessions (ca. 1948) and Farewell my Lovely (1941). That is to say, we've seen much of this before. So have the writers, the director, and the composer. So instead of John Huston as a corrupt entrepreneur we have John Malkovich as an apparently homicidal head of the Atomic Energy Commission. The period is evoked by clothing and cars, especially a big black Buick convertible over which the camera lingers like a proud lover. But, forsooth, what ugly beasts they were, weighing as much as a Sherman tank, getting the same mileage as a prime mover, having the suspension of a giant trampoline, and decorated like a whore with chromium and fake louvres. The cops occupy the same gray area as the cops in L. A. Confidential or any of the other similar movies, dumping unwanted gangsters off Mulholland Falls, their mocking name for a steep hill off Mulholland Drive.Good cast, though. Nolte brings his brute-force persona to the role, gravel voiced, tough, inelegant. Chaz Palmintieri is a semi-comic sidekick (not his forte) who is, we can tell before too long, fated to undergo what so many other devoted partners without prominent roles undergo. Malkovitch is great as a wheezing, dying, ex-general who gets off a good riff on how, since atoms are mostly empty space, the very floor we stand on, our very own bodies, are little more than empty space giving off an illusion of solidity.(I used to tell my classes the same thing and when I was finished and waiting for the applause, I'd notice that everyone was staring at me as if I'd turned into some kind of marmoset.) Jennifer Connolly has only a few lines, but what lines they are! There are few more gorgeous creatures than she now gracing the screen. Melanie Griffith is given a washed-out very blonde look. She delivers in her small part what is probably her most intense and believable performance. At no time was I ever embarrassed for her. Treat Williams is pretty good as an eminence verte. The other actors aren't faceless -- we recognize Baldwin and Ed Lauter -- but they might as well be. The art direction lacks the temporal precision found in Chinatown or Farewell My Lovely, where even the tumblers and highball glasses were diachronically sound. Except for some subtle work in the general's house. The living room is, without ostentation, pretty gruesome in its decor -- stuffed pheasants, a table lamp that stands on (get this) stuffed deer feet!No wonder the general babbles on about atoms. The score is as derivative as the rest of the movie. Dave Grusin has borrowed heavily from Chinatown's melancholy theme, arpeggios on plucked strings, and tremolo violins bespeaking uneasiness. Underneath it all, though, it's another cops vs. villain movie. There are a couple of shootouts, a double plane-throwing, one or two mashed bodies. The characters are almost desperately differentiated but they are not captured. They don't do things like get a shave while they argue with other customers and banter with the barber. The film doesn't really seem to HAVE much of a setting, and it doesn't have much in the way of inhabitants. The scenes are strictly functional. Nothing is lingered over. There is no beauty here. On the plus side, there are some great shots of a DC-3 (or C47), one of the most pilot-friendly aircraft ever put together. Some of them are still flying commercially after 50 years. How friendly are they? A crew was flying one through dense fog over Greenland during the war when the flight started getting very rough indeed, pieces of ice banging against the fuselage, vibrations, terrible shocking bumps. Then the engines stopped entirely and the plane slowed to a halt. The crew found that they had made a wheels-up landing atop a glacier without knowing it. On the negative side, a minor carp, in the scene when we first meet Treat Williams, a radio operator in the background says something like Tango three, out. Wrong phonetic alphabet. In the early 50s it would still have been Tare three, out. "},{"Title":"Atmosphere, Photography Outshine The Story","Date":"24 February 2008","Score":"21 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" As a fan film noir, I loved the 1940s and '50s period atmosphere in this movie. This particular story takes place in the early 1950s. Parts of this reminded me of Chinatown, but this film doesn't have the impact of that one. It's just not as memorable.You get an idea that this might be another cops-or government officials-are-a- little-over the top when you see who plays them Nick Nolte, Michael Madsen, Chris Penn, Chazz Palminteri, Treat Williams, Bruce Dern, John Malkovich, Ed Lauter, Andrew McCarthy, etc. Those guys usually play crooks, not cops. Same with the women in here. Jennifer Connelly and Melanie Griffith aren't exactly Irene Dunne and Doris Day!We also see CSI star William Petersen playing a Chicago mobster! Unbilled in this film were Louise Fletcher, of One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest fame, and Rob Lowe.This story is a rough-edged for my tastes, with the normal political agendas (government is bad.....again) thrown in here and there, but what I really liked - outside of the look, the whodunit angle and the deep cast, was Haskell Wexler's photography. He makes it fun to watch, even if it is no Chinatown or The Big Sleep. "},{"Title":"Nice Nostalgia piece","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Nick Nolte must have thought he died and went to heaven when he was offered the part of Max Hoover in Mulholland Falls. Consider, in the film Hoover is married to the lovely Melanie Griffith while simultaneously involved in a torrid affair with ultra sexy Jennifer Connelly. Now I ask you, what sane man could turn down such a part? To Nolte's credit he kept his mind on business and turned in a excellent performance.As Hoover, Nolte is head of a post world war 2 Los Angeles police division assigned the task of keeping organized crime out of the city of Angels. Given cart blanch by their superiors Hoover's crew often resort to brutal even murderous means in carrying out their duty. Their favorite disposal site for human garbage is Mulholland Falls; a rocky cliff nestled in the hollywood hills.One day the squad investigates the death of a young woman found in the nearby desert. To Hoover's horror he discovers the body to be that of Allison Pond, (Connelly), a pretty prostitute who was his former mistress.Finding no clues on the murder site Hoover checks out Allison's apartment. While there Hoover realizes the apartment is the site of sex film anonymously sent to him days before. Hoover quickly discovers the films origin point in a neighboring apartment. He then just as quickly makes contact with the individual who took the films. Said person was secertly taking the movies to blackmail some of Allison's more influential clients including Hoover himself. Unfortunately, for Hoover the films are stolen before he can take them into custody.Later, when Hoover begins zeroing in on one of Allison's especially influential clients as a possible suspect in her killing he is pressured by everyone from the FBI to his superiors to backoff. He refuses but soon has second thoughts when a mysterious source  threatens to use the missing film to reveal his affair to his wife.As previously stated Nolte's protrayal is top notch but he is not alone. Several solid supporting performances including Griffith, Connelly, Bruce Dern and Chazz Palmeterri lend quality to the proceedings.  "},{"Title":"Film noir in the 90's","Date":"16 November 2006","Score":"18 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Along with movies such as The public eye or LA Confidencial, Mulholland Falls is one of those products that aim to recreate the atmosphere of film noir, making everything look a little bit more modern, more violent&#133;.Mulholland Falls moves between the thriller and the detective movies, and the cast is its strong point Nolte, Palminteri, Penn, Maden&#133; four time bombs, four real tough guys. When Nolte or Palminteri lose their temper you'd rather not be around&#133; Murder, questions, a good script, great actors&#133; Nice movie.*My rate 7/10 "},{"Title":"First class filmmaking and a terrific crime drama masterpiece","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I have no idea whatsoever why the hell I didn't enjoy Lee Tamahori's breathtaking Mulholland falls when I watched it for the first time. I guess I just somehow didn't get it, that's all. I'm so glad I decided to give it another chance. Impressive script, smooth camerawork, skillful directing, marvelous dialogue, entertaining story and first-rate acting from Nick Nolte, Melanie Griffith, Chazz Palminteri, Michael Madsen and Chris Penn makes Mulholland falls a special treat for anybody who appreciates a fine motion picture experience and definitive Chinatown of the decade. John Malkovich makes a tiny but magnificent appearance as General Timms. Movie I used to totally underestimate is nowadays a spectacular crime drama, highly exciting, extremely ingenious and downright irresistible 90's masterpiece. Bravo! 10/10. "},{"Title":"Justice and Jennifer","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" In a society built on the rule of law such as ours, we are constantly shown examples of evildoers who beat the system and continue to prey on the rest of us. They use the law to their advantage and dishearten most of those who go through life playing by the rules. A convicted rapist who breaks into a woman's house can sue her if he sustains an injury slipping on an errant throw-rug on his way to her bedroom.Mulholland Falls is about four Los Angeles cops who constitute a special task force whose mission is the dispensation of justice regardless of whether that dispensation runs counter to the law. Mob types, pedophiles, and murderers beware, this L. A. isn't your kinda town! The excellent cast extends far beyond the principal actors down to a wonderful uncredited minor role played by Academy Award winning Louise Fletcher as a sardonic staff member at LAPD headquarters. Chaz Palminteri is simply superb as Nick Nolte's loyal and devoted side kick on the force. John Malkovich delivers his usual strong performance as the terminally ill Chairman of the AEC. Treat Williams is the perfect zealot in charge of base security for the Army,and Jennifer be here! Jennifer Connelly consistently belies the oft-held misconception that extraordinary beauty and profound talent must be mutually exclusive. Her portrayal as the party girl victim combines gut wrenching eye candy with a typically powerful and sensitive performance which ranks up there with 'Requiem for a Dream' and 'Beautiful Mind'. "}{"Title":"Rambles off in strange direction...","Date":"5 July 2005","Score":"17 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Decent enough movie, with decent performances. Nolte is very good as the leader of an elite, slightly secret police squad dedicated to battling organized crime in 1940's Los Angeles. If the movie had developed something along this line, this may very well have been a terrific movie. This may have allowed the terrific actors who made up Nolte's squad to be developed better (played by Michael Madsen, Chris Penn, Chazz Palmintieri).However, this movie inexplicably goes off into a plot of murder, sexual intrigue, politics, corruption, military cover-up and the Atomic Energy Commission! What!? The movie seemed to meander so much, and the plot reached a point of ridiculousness. It's unfortunate because this had real possibilities, and Nolte was just superb. There are brief scenes in which we see the squad do what they do best - deal with gangsters trying to gain a foothold in L.A. The look and atmosphere were right on, and there was certainly a solid cast on hand to make this work. Unfortunately, the ridiculous plot made this difficult to accept.At one point in the film, a military officer sends Nolte's wife a film of Nolte making love to another woman, as a way of blackmailing him. Nolte comes home to see his unsuspecting wife watching this film of him with another woman. The stunned humiliation is played out very well by Nolte and Melanie Griffith. You can see and feel the revulsion that Nolte's character feels, as he tries to answer for what is playing out on the film screen.Brief pieces of good acting and atmosphere, ruined by a plot with too much stuffed into it. It just reached too far...for what? "},{"Title":"The Rule Book Is Out","Date":"24 January 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Nick Nolte heads the cast of Mulholland Falls which came out a year earlier than L.A. Confidential and covered the same time period with similar themes. L.A. Confidential is a much better film, but Mulholland Falls does have its supporters.The title refers to no waterfall because as a bad guy in the film so aptly put it, there aren't any waterfalls in Los Angeles. What it is, is a cliff off Mulholland Drive in which Nolte and his elite squad make a habit of throwing wise guys off. If they survive they have the option of a further trip or go back where they came from.This was in the days of Chief William F. Parker of Los Angeles who took over one of the most corrupt police forces in the country. He dealt with systemic corruption in much the same manner J. Edgar Hoover did in taking over the corrupt Federal Bureau of Investigation after the Teapot Dome Scandal. Both men were authoritarian in the methods and their temperament. And both men have their supporters and detractors to this day.But the main body of the film concerns a homicide of party girl Jennifer Connelly who as it turns out was not only involved with Nick Nolte, but with U.S. Army General John Malkovich who was just appointed to the Atomic Energy Commission. Malkovich has an aide in Colonel Treat Williams who is every bit as extra legal as Nolte and his squad are. In this case the rule book is out on both sides.In addition to those mentioned some nice performances are given by Melanie Griffith as Nolte's wife, Andrew McCarthy as the photographer and friend of Connelly who taped her sexual sessions. And stealing every scene he's in is Chazz Palmenteri as Nolte's partner, undergoing psychological therapy.Though L.A. Confidential is definitely the superior film, if you liked that film, you'll no doubt like Mulholland Falls. "},{"Title":"Not Enough Jennifer Connelly","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Mulholland Falls(1996) has a good premise but fails to realize its potential as a great film.  The depiction of The Hat squad is good and the image of L.A. during the early 50s is beautiful. The rest of the film lifts ideas that were better realized in films like The Big Heat(1953), and Chinatown(1974).  Another complaint I have of this movie is that Jennifer Connelly has very little screen time and I would have liked to see more of her because she has a presence that overshadows the other actors(her character is the only person to sympathize with).  Mulholland Falls(1996) would be remade in a sense a year later as L.A. Confidential(1997). "},{"Title":"There ain't no falls in L.A.","Date":"25 August 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Mulholland Falls is directed by Lee Tamahori and written by Pete Dexter. It stars Nick Nolte, Chazz Palminteri, Melanie Griffith, Michael Madsen, Chris Penn, Jennifer Connelly, Treat Williams, John Malkovich, Bruce Dern and Andrew McCarthy. Music is by Dave Grusin and cinematography by Haskell Wexler.1950s Los Angeles and four unorthodox detectives led by Maxwell Hoover (Nolte) are called in to investigate the death of a young woman found crushed at a construction site. The woman is revealed to be an aspiring actress who had recently had a relationship with the married Hoover. Can is open, and worms everywhere, and following those worms leads Hoover down murky avenues...It's the almost nearly great neo-noir movie, everything looks right in principal, it has a strongly assembled cast, the 50s visuals and cinematography are splendid, and the murder mystery element of the plot - with some added sex, sizzle and nuclear shenanigans - looks promising on the page. Yet it never delivers on that promise of being something dark, to be a labyrinthine noir thriller beating a black heart.It starts of so well, based on the infamous Hat Squad we reasonably expect the story to expand upon the opening macho machinations of the four tough hombres in the hats, but instead away from Nolte's grizzled Hoover, the other three guys are merely dressed up props. Which means there's some good actors wasted, sadly.As the plot moves slowly forward the investigation and Hoover character axis becomes less interesting. Griffith came in for some critical grief for a lacklustre performance, but she's done no favours by the writers who fail to give her marriage to Hoover any substance. So when things go pear shaped and the characters of Mr and Mrs Hoover should explode on the screen, we really don't care having had no interest previously to hang our emotional being on.It all builds to what can best be described as a poor pay off, the resolution to the hinted at muddy mystery is hardly shocking, and the big face-off sequence between good and bad guys (or bad and bad if you prefer) is about as exciting as watching paint dry. It's not an awful movie, but it is a very disappointing one. A film where a bit more thought given by the producers could have yielded so much more. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Decent Film Noir Attempt From Lee Tomahori..","Date":"20 November 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film looks fantastic and is chock-full of great actors(Nick Nolte, Melanie Griffith, Chris Penn, Bruce Dern, John Malkovich, Chazz Palminteri, and more).A low-brow Chinatown. The 'look' of this film, and Nick Nolte's performance are the only things that are even close to the level of that earlier, finer work.However, this is well worth a view - especially if you are looking for a throwback escape from all the new release trash that's out there today.Sidenote Jennifer Connelly's breasts should be the standard of perfection.Some of the fine actors have to take a backseat because there are just so many involved here. Nolte, however, is the star of this show, and his performance is definitely noteworthy.It's Nick's performance, and Tomahori's attention to graphic detail that make this film above average. The plot is an atomic bomb.You'll like this if you liked Black Dahlia, L.A. Confidential(note this movie is nowhere near that level), Miller's Crossing and Basic Instinct.64/100 "},{"Title":"Glacial pace wastes great cast","Date":"22 May 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" When I watched this film recently I thought that it must have been made by people trying to capitalize on the success of L.A. Confidential. It has the same look and it has nothing short of a phenomenal cast list. But it actually came out a year before L.A. Confidential. I suspect that the L.A. Confidential producers wee quaking in their boots after this attempted film noir bombed at the box office. But of course, L.A. Confidential turned out to be a great success and is remembered as one of the truly great modern film noirs, combining all of the best features of a great film, and getting that 40's and 50's feeling just right.About all the Mulholland Falls gets right is the 40's and 50's feeling. But the cast of the Hat Squad come off as almost comic book figures. They drive around town in a big convertible but their hats never even flicker, less blow off in the breeze, even when they are trying to outrace an Army jeep at a nuclear test site. Indoors, they take off their coats but never their hats.The pace of the movie is glacially slow. It's difficult to stay awake. The writing is sub-par and all too predictable. The two talented and beautiful women in the movie, Melanie Griffith and Jennifer Connelly are largely wasted with relatively little screen time. In one comical scene Connelly is slapped by her mobster boyfriend and barely flinches. She returns the slap and almost knocks the guy over. Aren't mobsters supposed to be able to hit better than that? Or at least take a slap from a girl? Parts of the plot are beyond ridiculous. At the nuclear test site, the Hat Squad takes off down a road marked restricted, shoots the padlock off a locked gate, and then acts surprised when the Army comes after them. And John Malkovich as an effete and intellectual Army general in a red smoking jacket is so out of place to be absurd.Continuity is also a shambles in this film. During the airplane fight, Treat Williams has one of the rip cords from a parachute tied around his neck as he is thrown to the floor of the plane in front of the door. The next shot is a close-up of him sitting on the floor and the cord is mysteriously gone. At the end of the film, the three surviving members of the Hat Squad place their hats on the coffin of their fallen comrade. Nick Nolte then proceeds to put on his hat (not the one on the coffin) as they walk away. Where did that hat come from? The film has its moments but its poor writing and incredibly slow pace waste a great cast that tries as best they can to overcome the deficiencies of a crummy plot. "},{"Title":"If you're paying attention, it's not a half-bad movie.","Date":"15 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  First of all, let's get this straight - the story takes place in 1953, not the '40's.  Now - you've got these four guys riding around in a convertible in bad L.A.  There's a comic aspect to this little ritual, kind of Abbott and Costello times 2, but it's hard to know who's the straight man.The plot is not a new one, but the violence has (at least) the merit of being real person-to-person violence (as differentiated from being acted in front of a blue screen and digitally augmented). There are too many name actors here, and (I'll grant) not much character development, but it's a chance to watch Nick Nolte and Bruce Dern do their signature performances - Nick, impassive and looming large, has played this role many times before, and always to good effect.  He was better doing it in Q&A, but that was TOO real, and a much too scary.  Bruce Dern's overacting is almost reassuring and one of the few animated performances in the picture.Melanie is subdued, being the window dressing, and they have her wearing shoulder pads, which wasn't a fifties thing, but she gives a good performance without any of the lip-licking she usually resorts to.  The photography is good, the desert ominous, and watching evil Treat Williams get thrown out of the plane most entertaining.It's not Chekov, it's not anything wonderful at all, but it reeks of ambience.  I'd recommend it as an evening's entertanment.  Much better, certainly, than the stuff that passes as entertainment on the big screen most of the time.Sure wish they'd given Michael Madsen more screen time - what if they'd pushed Chaz Palmintieri out of the plane early on and beefed Mike's role?  Whadya say? "},{"Title":"great visuals","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film has an excellent eye appeal due mostly to the efforts of Haskell Wexler (cinematographer). See more of his work in Matewan,Bound For Glory and The Secret of Roan Inish.Nick Nolte, one of America's best actors, gives us one of Film's best visual performances. Watch closely the scene in the cemetary with Melanie Griffith as Nolte,without words,displays a man who has lost the one thing that makes him love.   "},{"Title":"A forgotten '90s noir","Date":"11 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A top drawer cast stars in Mulholland Falls, a 1996 film starring Nick Nolte, Chazz Palmentieri, Melanie Griffith, Jennifer Connelly, Michael Madsen, Treat Williams, Bruce Dern, and John Malkovich, directed by New Zealand director Lee Tamahori.Sometimes when I don't know the year of a film, I try to guess. I placed this film in 1998 because I concluded it must have come after L.A. Confidential since it's about '50s crime investigation. Also, Jennifer Connelly is very young here - reminiscent of the way she looked in Dark City. I was two years off.The story concerns the L.A. Hat Squad, led by Max Hoover (Nolte) called to investigate the brutal murder of Allison Pond (Jennifer Connelly). When her body is turned over, Hoover realizes it's an ex-girlfriend. He's never told his wife (Melanie Griffith) about the affair, stating that he had the affair, it ended, no one got hurt, and to tell her would hurt her deeply. The investigation of the murder leads to a general (John Malkovich), an atom bomb testing site, secret film footage, and military secrets.Very good performances from everyone - had Nolte been able to keep his life together, he could have been up there with the very greatest. He's always been capable of truly great performances, all the way back to the Rich Man, Poor Man days. Here one can feel his tremendous sadness and weariness. It's a pall that hangs over the entire film. Jennifer Connelly, whose part isn't very large, is gorgeous, sexy, and tough. Melanie Griffith gives a mature performance as Hoover's wife. Uncredited in the film are Rob Lowe and Louise Fletcher. There is a very exciting scene at the end of the movie.Mulholland Falls never received the attention that L.A. Confidential did. One can blame marketing, but the story isn't special enough, the characters not as well delineated, and the pace is a bit too leisurely. This isn't to say it's not a good film. It's just not exceptional.I applaud anyone who does a period noir that comes off like a noir and not a bad attempt. There, Mullholland Falls succeeds admirably. "},{"Title":"A Decent Mystery that Revolves Around a Beauty (Jennifer Connelly)","Date":"17 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" There are five mysteries in this movie 1) Who killed Alison Pond (Played By Jennifer Connelly)? 2) Why was she killed? 3) How did they kill her? 4) who killed her next door neighbor played by Andrew Mc Carthy and 5) why?Spoilers Most of the solutions to the mysteries (with the exception of how) is shown in the opening scene. The opening scene, which is a home movie of several things, is repeated several times, throughout the movie. Pretty clever. The answer to the mysteries is being shown to you numerous times throughout the movie, including in the very beginning. Nick Nolte (who plays Max Hoover) and other people are the Hat Squad and part of the police force that have to solve this mystery. Max Hoover is also personally involved. By the way, do you think Jennifer Connelly is skinny, and maybe too skinny? Yeah maybe in many of her movies, she is pretty skinny, but not this movie. She packed on a lot of weight in all of the right places, and in my opinion Jennifer takes the crown. In this movie, Jennifer Connelly is the beauty crown winner and sexiest woman on any movie screen.But see her in this movie for yourself and decide. That is if you can either find a copy of the VHS or DVD on Ebay (the DVD for the movie is out of print) or if you can catch it on TV/cable. "}{"Title":"Justice & Conspiracy In 50s L.A.","Date":"19 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Mulholland Falls is a murder mystery which, at the time of its release, failed to achieve a very positive response from either the critics or the public. This is unfortunate because it does have a number of qualities which make it both entertaining and praiseworthy and its evocation of the period in which it's set (the early 1950s) is both visually impressive and atmospheric. Director Lee Tamahori and cinematographer Haskell Wexler deserve credit for this as does Dave Grusin who was responsible for the marvellous original score.In typical film noir style, the main protagonist (in this case a police detective) finds himself in a situation in which he's out of his depth and then finds that further developments just continue to make things worse as he follows a route which seems destined to take him into a state of being both morally and emotionally impoverished.Max Hoover (Nick Nolte) is the leader of a squad of four LAPD detectives whose job is to get rid of gangsters and criminals and they do this very effectively. Their modus operandi is to dispense justice in a very brutal and unorthodox manner and they're able to do this with impunity because they have the support of their Chief of Police (Bruce Dern).When a woman's dead body is found at a construction site and the squad investigate, it soon emerges that she was Allison Pond (Jennifer Connelly). Pond was an aspiring actress and Hoover is shaken by what he finds because he'd previously had a six month affair with her before deciding to end the relationship. Shortly after, a film is discovered which shows Pond having sex with a man who turns out to be General Thomas Timms (John Malkovich). Timms is the head of the Atomic Energy Commission and when the squad continue their investigation they soon come up against hostility and threats from Colonel Fitzgerald (Treat Williams) and FBI Agent McCafferty (Daniel Baldwin) before discovering the existence of a conspiracy to conceal the activities of personnel at a military base where atomic bomb tests had been carried out.The anguish that Hoover experiences during this case is worsened when a film showing one of his encounters with Allison Pond comes into the possession of his wife Katherine (Melanie Griffith). Although he'd eventually finished his affair with Pond because he'd cared more for his wife, the pain of discovering his infidelity is no less intense for Katherine who is totally heartbroken.The reason why Pond was murdered is gradually revealed and Hoover and his partner Ellery Coolidge (Chazz Palminteri) have to engage in a frantic fight for their lives before the story comes to its sombre conclusion.Hoover's squad, which also comprises Coolidge, Eddie Hall (Michael Madsen) and Arthur Relyea (Chris Penn) is great fun to watch as its members swagger around in stylish suits or cruise around in a Buick convertible. The picture of the four of them standing on the edge of a bomb crater is also particularly striking.The closest relationship within the squad is between Hoover and Coolidge and in a significant departure from the otherwise macho ethos of the group, Coolidge is not only undergoing a course of counselling to deal with his temper and food issues but has also completely bought into the benefits of psychotherapy. When Hoover is worried about Katherine finding out about his affair, Coolidge suggests talking the matter through to reach a solution. This suggestion doesn't sit well with Hoover who sees it as an abdication of personal responsibility because taking Coolidge's advice would lead to two people being distressed by his actions instead of one. Also in one of the movie's most memorable lines, he underscores the philosophical difference between them when he says here's something that doesn't cost you 25 bucks an hour.....you carry your own water Ellery......you understand? You carry your own water.Mulholland Falls boasts a star studded cast and some superb performances. Nolte is perfect in his role as someone who's tough, hard drinking, guilt ridden and given to outbursts of uncontrollable rage. John Malkovich excels as the eccentric Timms who says that some people must die before their time so that others can live. It's a cornerstone of civilisation. Madsen and Penn are excellent in their support roles and Jennifer Conelly and Melanie Griffith both make a strong impression as women who unjustly experience very cruel treatment. There are also a number of great cameos to look out for from Andrew McCarthy, Louise Fletcher, Bruce Dern and Rob Lowe and even an exquisite rendition of Harbour Lights by Aaron Neville. "},{"Title":"This isn't America, Jack. This is L.A.","Date":"20 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Nick Nolte, Chazz Palminteri, Michael Madsen, and Chris Penn make up the notorious Hat Squad, that will stop at nothing to rid L.A. of criminals.This neo-noir film brings back the look and feel of 1950s L.A. and unfortunately was not to receive the acclaim that was given to the similar L.A. Confidential one year later. That is a shame as it is almost as good.Jennifer Connelly is at the center of things as she is found dead and just happens to be Nolte's mistress from the past. A black and white film is found with her and the head of the A.E.C., General Timms (John Malkovich). I can assure you that Connelly looks as good in black and white as she does in color.Treat Williams is the bad guy here as he tries to protect the general and the secret they share in the desert.Good stuff. "},{"Title":"Pale shadow of L.A. Confidential","Date":"29 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Wanna be L.A. Confidential was surprisingly released the year before but everything that that film got right this one gets wrong. The sets and costumes are pristine, not a single crease or smudge, that's the problem with them, everything looks new-not lived in. The actors some like Nolte and Madsen who would seem to be ideal for the period are as at sea as the miscast actors like Andrew McCarthy, who gives a fussy unconvincing turn, all are stiff and give no sense of actually living in the time period, everything feels very staged. The main fault lies with the director who doesn't seem to have a real feeling for the material and just wants to create pretty pictures. Adequate but nothing more. "},{"Title":"What a Surprise!","Date":"8 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" An amazing morality tale! An elite squad or cops, with a license to kill, instructed to keep the city cleaned up, encounters a federal agencies, acting as if they had a license to kill.Watching the period costumes actually gave me a nostalgia for the time. I think we've lost something of style and class since men don't wear coats, ties, and hats everywhere. Watching the characterizations made me nostalgic for the one-dimensional police we used to see in TV and movies.But wait! What if the hero has feet of clay? What if he has slept around on his wife and there is movie footage of it? What if his ex-girlfriend turns up dead?Most important, who is the good guy in this movie? What if there isn't one? What if they're ALL bad guys? What if some of the bad guys just arouse more of our sympathy than others? I'm amazed there weren't a few award nominations for this movie. Not the greatest, but powerful, thought-provoking, well thought out, well written, well done! "},{"Title":"A flawed masterpiece","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I just happened to rent this movie because I was impressed by the cast. The plot was interesting but at times vague. I wish this movie was about an half hour longer, maybe then we see more characterization and plot nuances.The production design and costumes are excellent. I'm a fan of Nolte, Madsen, Palminteri, and Penn, so it's great to see them in a movie together. But I wish we could see more of these characters. They all display a charisma that is appealing.So if you're interested in a modern film with a classic look, Mulholland Falls isn't perfect but it's almost there. It's well worth your time. "},{"Title":"Almost a masterpiece","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Mulholland Falls is a crime-movie in the kind of Chinatown and would have had the attention it deserve - one year after L.A. Confidental.Nolte, Palmintieri, Madsen and Chris Penn are the Hat Squad, a cool and violent police-unit.Unfortunately Nick Nolte is too much the center of the film - to the debit of Madsen and Penn.New Zealand´s Director No. 1 Lee Tamahori has made a good-old-stylish movie, at which Haskell Wexler´s  cinematography and Dave Grusin´s excellent score would have deserved some Oscar- Nominations.The story is very interesting and give a look of the USA at the beginning of the 50´s (like L.A. Confidental).However the movie has missed the chance to a remarkable end.Unfortunately it´s only almost a masterpiece.(Translated by my little sister Antonia) "},{"Title":"Silly City","Date":"29 November 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" With all the names in this film you'd think it would be can't miss material. The setting, in some respect, is challenging MF is going to be compared to CHINATOWN and LA CONFIDENTIAL. Those two classics have nothing to fear. What MF offers is nothing more than ridiculous.The introductory scene has our fabulous four murdering a supposed mobster, though the only evil we know of the victim is sarcasm. Bad move. We are soon instructed to love the characters as altruistic. A significant portion of the film is the fab four riding around in their car wherein we're supposed to be entertained by unfunny and distracting banter. The plot is relatively simple and just gets dumber and dumberer.The casting of Nick Nolte is a mistake We need a less intimidating character. Melanie Griffen and Andrew McCarthy give great performances that are wasted. John Malkovich and Treat Williams go through the motions. The sets and costumes are great, but the film's actual stars are Jennifer Connelly's breasts, variously covered and uncovered.What a waste of time and money. "},{"Title":"Unfortunately disappointing.","Date":"27 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie needed more Jennifer Connelly, and it needed to be in black and white. I'm sorry, but noir never really works for me unless it's steeped in shadows and a colorless world. That's just what I've been conditioned to expect from a good noir movie. If Mulholland Falls would have been set in the modern day, I think that the color wouldn't have bothered me as much, but the combination of the time period and the style makes the colorization just to much for me to tolerate. As for Jennifer, she's the crux of the film, but we don't get to spend very much time at all with her. We don't get a sense of who she is and why she did the things that she did, and that greatly lessens the impact of her death. If you don't care about the core of the story, then it's difficult to have any real investment in the rest of the movie. In all honesty, even if the movie was in black and white and Jennifer Connelly had two times more scenes, this movie would probably still be boring. I just never cared or was interested in what was going on. Michael Madsen was wasted, there wasn't nearly enough of John Malkovich, and Nick Nolte was just smacking people and looking grim. Mulholland Falls gets two stars for Jennifer Connelly's magnificence, but even her wonders barely made it worth watching. "},{"Title":"Style without substance...","Date":"9 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" MULHOLLAND FALLS is a wannabe version of films like CHINATOWN and L.A. CONFIDENTIAL, but neither the script nor the direction has anything approaching either one.NICK NOLTE is a tough police officer leading a squad of men who make their own rules when rounding up the usual suspects. He becomes involved in the mysterious murder of a woman he had an affair with (JENNIFER CONNOLLY) and his marriage to MELANIE GRIFFITH reaches a dead end when she discovers the truth about it on a reel of film he never wanted her to see.***** SPOILER AHEAD ***** The plot is too convoluted to describe here, but it leads to the most interesting highlight, an encounter with military men TREAT WILLIAMS and KYLE CHANDLER aboard an Air Force plane with an open door that Williams explains is for parachute jumpers. But NICK NOLTE and CHAZZ PALMINTERI are suddenly aware of the fate in store for them--the same fate that happened to JENNIFER CONNOLLY when she learned too much about a military plan involving the Atomic Energy Commission and some sick patients in a hospital ward. It's an intriguing scene and is staged for maximum effect.It's the link to the Atomic Energy Commission and JOHN MALKOVICH that really throws the plot into turmoil and seems a weak contrivance of the scriptwriter to give the story importance with this link. Unfortunately, it just scrambles the plot further--a plot already jumbled to the point where it resembles a jigsaw puzzle.Nolte wears his fedora all the time (as do most of the men to remind us this is a period piece), chain smokes, uses his tough guy persona to intimidate everyone in sight, including co-stars JOHN MALKOVICH, KYLE CHANDLER, TREAT WILLIAMS and DANIEL BALDWIN. BRUCE DERN has a forgettable cameo (unbilled) and MELANIE GRIFFITH makes almost no impression as Nolte's disillusioned wife. Director Lee Tambori strives for style and period atmosphere so that the film will bear some resemblance to the much better CHINATOWN and L.A. CONFIDENTIAL, but it doesn't work. Instead, the film is a heavy handed crime melodrama with only one scene that really crackles with tension before the plot is over. Nolte gives a one-note performance in the leading role. "},{"Title":"Intriguing, but lacking focus","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  POSSIBLE SPOILERSThis movie has really struck a chord with me, even though on the whole it's not a great movie. My theory is that Director Lee Tamahori had too many ideas in his head, but refused to narrow his focus to one or two major themes/plots. He starts out the movie with a 16mm black/white film of people we don't know yet, and then we meet the Hat Squad, led by Nick Nolte, brutalizing gangsters in L.A. These first 10 minutes or so definitely sucked me into the movie, wanting to know where the story would go from here. Unfortunately, from here on Tamahori has too many things going on, with little character development or appreciation along the way. I,personally speaking, would have scrapped the whole military and atom bomb part of the story, including John Malkovich's parts on the 16mm film, and maybe the FBI angle too, and worked more on the relationships of the movie- Nolte, Griffith, Connelly, McCarthy, and the Hat Squad actors. The parts of the movie where they do interact are the best moments of the film. I can't finish this review without noting how amazed I was with Jennifer Connelly. She has great screen presence, partly for her beauty, but also because of how little we see of her, except for the brief nudity. This movie had so much potential, but it's still worth a look. See if you agree with my comments.       "}{"Title":"Excellent Film","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film has been unjustly dismissed. I feel its up there with or even better than LA Confidential. Everything from the performances to Dave Grusin's melodic score hits the mark. Please ignore the critics and enjoy this masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Different From What I Expected","Date":"12 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Despite being released a year before LA CONFIDENTIAL this movie instantly reminded me off the acclaimed film noir classic . A bunch of LA cops working just outside the law strut their stuff and break the rules for a higher morality . They don't take any crap especially from crims So far so good . MULHOLLAND FALLS while not being a bad movie in the first half does suffer slightly from a seen it all before feel but pales slightly in comparison to LA CONFIDENTIAL . Sorry to mention that movie again but if you've seen both movies you can't help being reminded of comparisons . Then about half through MULHOLLAND FALLS becomes more and more intriguing and takes on an identity of of its own . Unfortunately it's not all together successful since the setting seems rather anachronistic for conspiracy theories . Imagine if the story had been updated to the 1990s . Wouldn't this have had a better sense of time and place ? There's one or two other problems that people have picked up upon with the most obvious being a wasted cast . Nolte is always good at playing tough streetwise cops and he doesn't disappoint here , but touted rising stars ( as they were at the time ) Chris Penn and Michael Madsen aren't given anything to do while John Malkovich is rather ridiculous as a retired General . If you want a retired US General try Brian Dennehey . There was also something else that has been mentioned and that's the final scene of the Michael Mann series CRIME STORY - I kept expecting a similarly ironic scene to befall some of the main characters , in fact I would have bet my rent money on it happening but it doesn't which left me feeling slightly cheated All in all MULHOLLAND FALLS isn't a classic movie though it certainly had the potential to be one . If only the script had been slightly better it could have been "},{"Title":"This one falls flat","Date":"30 May 2005","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A special unit of four police detectives are dispensing justice in their own unique way in 1950s Los Angeles. Nick Nolte plays Max Hoover, the unit's lead officer and his partners are played by Michael Madsen, Chazz Palminteri and Chris Penn. Also starring are Melanie Griffith, Jennifer Connelly and John Malkovich among others. Quite an impressive list of names. Unfortunately that is the only thing even remotely impressive about this film.Our story begins when young Allison Pond, played by Connelly, turns up dead in a remote area of town currently under development. Our band of four detectives is called in and it is immediately obvious that Nolte's Max Hoover is going to be taking a very personal interest in this case. We will soon find out that Allison, in addition to knowing Hoover quite well, was also involved with some rather important military and government types who may have had reason to want her dead. But who exactly was involved and why exactly would they want this seemingly harmless woman dead? Hoover and crew set out to find out. Sounds like an interesting premise but unfortunately it goes nowhere.Despite the impressive array of names, the acting here leaves much to be desired. Nolte is overacting, Madsen seems incredibly bored, Palminteri and Malkovich come off as caricatures, Penn has hardly anything to do and Griffith is dull as can be. By far the best performance is Connelly's in all too fleeting flashback sequences. The dialogue throughout the film is forced and wooden. The sense of drama you would expect from a mystery of this type is missing altogether. Nothing dramatic really happens. In fact nothing at all seems to happen for the bulk of the picture. Instead we just slog along towards a rather ludicrous and incredibly disappointing climax. When the mystery is solved you may find yourself saying, Oh come on now, is that all there is? But it gets worse as after the mystery is solved we get a completely ridiculous and utterly unbelievable action sequence. And even then we are made to suffer further as another awful, badly acted, completely unnecessary scene is tacked on at the end. And then mercifully it is over. And not a moment too soon. "},{"Title":"Appalling, atrocious, execrable","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I went to see this film at the cinema on the strength of its potentially interesting subject matter, good cast, a director who had previously done the highly-rated Once Were Warriors and my liking for noir-ish films set in L.A. in the Forties and Fifties. I would argue that I am reasonably easy to please in this film category; I appreciate the classics of the genre but I will sit through and enjoy a half-decent if derivative effort as well. However, I found this film completely unbearable.Despite a good situation in which to place the story, nobody seems to do or say anything remotely interesting or entertaining in the whole two-hours plus of this sorry mess. Good actors are wasted in endless scenes of dialogue ranging from banal to embarrassing. The narrative is slack and drags unbearably, and none of the events it depicts is handled well enough to do anything other than bore the audience to death. There is no drama, no atmosphere, no tension, absolutely no entertainment value and by the end I simply didn't care what happened because I did not believe in anything in the film.L.A. Confidential came out a year later and regardless of whether one version of the story is more true-to-life, the latter film deservedly gets all the plaudits for its excellence in every department. Mulholland Falls by contrast fails in every department, a fact made all the more tragic by the amount of talent involved. If they ever show this on a plane I will still walk out. "},{"Title":"Lackluster","Date":"16 March 2005","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I liked another person's comment that this is a poor man's Chinatown, as it really describes this movie. It clearly seems to be an attempt to recreate the sort of drama and themes from Chinatown or, perhaps less closely, L.A.Confidential, but it fails to achieve the greatness of either film.The film has very good production values in terms of settings, costumes, etc. Thus, it does a very good job of recreating a feeling of the period.However, while the basic story is intelligent and has promise, and while on the whole the acting is fairly good, nothing at all shines in this film. It lacks any real, convincing, sense of brutality or evil, a feeling of foreboding, or tension. Rather than being tense or intense, it is simply bland and dull. The characters, the details of the story, the development, etc., all fail to create a true sense of convincing drama or to make one really care about what is going on, care about the characters, or feel strongly about anything. Even the nastiness of some of the baddies fails to convey much. "},{"Title":"Mannequin doll in noir clothes","Date":"1 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I saw this together with Devil in a Blue Dress for a night of surveying how noir - the first modern genre - has evolved as our modern world has. And what a world of difference they make.Both are set in the 40s and minutely try to recreate the era. Both are about women who have disappeared (here she turns up dead), a set of incriminating images and conspiracy that goes all the way up. Both derive from The Big Sleep, this one via Chinatown.But Devil felt alive, it had a measure of real desperation, urgency in the noir, a sense of place that lingered and enveloped. There was a very cogent reason for it to be set in a time of rampant discrimination against black people.This, it's not even noir, merely set in a time of noir movies. They put the same hats that people in film noir movies used to wear, the Buicks they drove, the same shiny recreation of an era as LA Confidential, but it's dead, has no pulse, and to treat noir like a period piece when it was a modern thing in its time (those were just the hats people wore) is to suck all its life away and leave us with a mannequin doll propped up on a stage.You'll know it by looking at the plot of passionate lovemaking that the head cop recalls, which is the defining moment in noir, the narrator succumbing to desire that sucks him into a devious story, captured as in Big Sleep by a hidden camera. Had he not had fallen for her, she would have been just another body when found, he would never have entered the story. But it's like a cardboard box painted like an engine, it just looks the part.No, it's simply a style that is being regurgitated here with no understanding by actors wearing noir clothes. Badly written and a TV-level of imagination to boot, as close to the noir world as all those James Bond spoofs are to the world of spying.Noir Meter 1/4 "},{"Title":"It Nearly Falls.","Date":"30 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Mulholland Falls (1996) Dir Lee Tamahori / Cast Nick Nolte, Melanie Griffith, Jennifer Connelly, Chazz Palminteri, John Malkovich This is a portrait of 1950's crime noir in a place where bodies are discovered and answers are sought. Nick Nolte plays detective Max Hoover who arrives at the bottom of an embankment where the body of a woman is found. Max recognizes her and immediately goes under denial mode as he struggles to find out who murdered her while keeping his relationship with her out of the public. His wife, Katherine is played by Melanie Griffith and she is frustrated with his lack of involvement until the truth surfaces. This leads to a conclusion that seems rather sudden and unresolved. The murder victim is played by the beautiful Jennifer Connelly and she is featured only in black and white flashbacks in all smiles engaging in sexual activity. Chazz Palminteri plays Max's loyal partner whose advice is often ignored but he steps up when his partner is in need of assistance. John Malkovich plays an ill General with a past with Connelly. Michael Madsen and Chris Penn play two of Hoover's men but their contribution is a total waste. Director Lee Tamahori attempts to capture the noir films of the 1940's but cannot rescue the screenplay from its corny delivery. It is a well crafted action caper that doesn't ask much other than to enjoy the view on the way down. Score 6 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"Falls fails","Date":"21 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A thug cop runs up against military thugs as he investigates the mysterious murder of his former mistress.Great potential to this movie, but it's a dud. Brilliant cast, with Nolte doing his thang, and you can see him trying to spark some life into his character in the slap scene. But there's a constant sense of the actors crying out for drama and good lines. And John Malkovish looks bored as hell.The story is good, setting good, and it looks good. But the whole thing feels flat due to bad writing, directing, editing. At one point Nolte gets out of a car - after unbelievably knocking out two soldiers - lights a cigarette, and in the very next shot flips the cigarette away as he enters a doorway. Daft.There is an interesting theme in throwing people away, but not explored.Also the music is constant, hardly any silences, and all a bit gorgonzola.Basically this needed a dose of Tarantino or Lynch - either dynamic violence or weird malevolence. Thankfully we got it soon after in Reservoir, Pulp, and the other Mulholland. "},{"Title":"'Mulholland Falls' isn't a terrible film by any means, but it just isn't great either. It lacks the focus and coherence to make us fully invested, despite the awesome cast.","Date":"11 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Back in 1996, an all-star cast along with odd director Lee Tamahori made a 50's noir gangster film called 'Mulholland Falls', not to be confused with 'Mulholland Drive'. This ambitious project was focused on a real life team of detectives in Los Angeles called the 'Hat Squad' who solved crimes and stopped bad guys by any means necessary, even if it meant getting their hands dirty. This was Tamahori's second feature film to direct, before he went on to make a string of mediocre to downright awful films, including the 'xXx' sequel, Nic Cage in 'Next', and 'Along Came A Spider'.However with 'Mulholland Falls', Tamahori used his detailed creative mind to get the 50s to look perfect, managing and creating each shot perfectly. Every moment of the film looks amazing, but that's about as far as it goes. While Tamahori was focusing on the visual style and framing, the story and script got away from him, which led to a movie with almost zero character development between four detectives. It's almost as we are seeing a sequel film to something we never knew existed. It would have been nice to know these four Los Angeles detectives before we see them in action, which would have us sympathize or relate to them in some form or fashion, but we don't, even though their performances are fairly good.There just isn't a lot of development with their origins or rapport, leaving us cold when something drastic happens. The leader of this detective outfit is Hoover (Nick Nolte, grunts and all), along with Hall (Michael Madsen), Relyea (Chris Penn), and Coolige (Chazz Palminteri). We meet these guys as they throw off a mob boss off a cliff on Mulholland Drive, hence the title of the film. Needless to say, this isn't the way we have come to know how police conduct their business. Soon enough though, their police chief (Bruce Dern) informs them of a dead body (Jennifer Connelly) near a construction site to investigate.The team notices that every single bone is broken in her body. From here, the detectives soon realize that this woman's death might just travel up the political ladder to the very top, as they investigate nuclear test sites and other political offices. Betrayal, sex tapes, and friendships all come to the forefront here in hopes to blackmail one another to prevent the government from looking bad, and it's up to these four detectives to figure out how this poor woman died, before they lose their own lives.With supporting performances from Rob Lowe, John Malkovich, Andrew McCarthy, Treat Williams, Daniel Baldwin and Hoover's wife (Melanie Griffith), the film moves at a quick pace, although some of the side story lines run off in a tangent. I think Tamahori couldn't focus on this huge cast, while trying to create 50's Los Angeles at the same time, and the actor's did the best they could with what they had. Some did better than others, as Melanie Griffith won the infamous Razzie Award for her performance here. It's hard not to compare the recent 'Gangster Squad' film to this, as it's very similar in nature.While it might not have that over-the-top 'Dick Tracy' feel to the movie, it borders on that same line with some overly dramatic dialogue and emotions from time to time. That, and everyone smokes cigarettes in the film from start to finish. 'Mulholland Falls' isn't a terrible film by any means, but it just isn't great either. It lacks the focus and coherence to make us fully invested, despite the awesome cast. "},{"Title":"This is how to do fictionalized history","Date":"19 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I saw and liked this film when it first came out and was very happy to find just recently that it was now out on DVD. It's held up well and is as good as I remember. Since it's apparently a requirement to compare this movie to Chinatown and LA Confidential here's mine I am not overly fond of Chinatown but do like LA Confidential but think Mulholland Falls holds its own against it and is far better than the more recent Gangster Squad. Like Gangster Squad, the film is based on real life LAPD detectives, but unlike Gangster Squad it doesn't claim to be a true story. It takes real people and events and fictionalizes them. The real 'hat squad' operated from 1949 to 1962 so some overlap with the gangster squad. The scene were they drop Flynn from the falls is an LAPD legend, possibly true, worked into the script. The film looks beautiful as well, using many real locations rather than relying on computer generation. Good performances by all, with Jennifer Connolly and Nick Nolte being standouts. I also appreciated the attention to period detail- like the desert bag on the Buick's radiator and the fridge in the hall of Hoover's house (the house dates to the early '20s when kitchens didn't typically have space for a great big fridge) and the costumes (another reviewer mentions Melanie's character wearing 90s shoulder pads- she doesn't, and anyway shoulder pads weren't invented in the 90s, or even the 80s). I felt the film has more weight and substance to it than many that have come out since which tend to rely on style alone and are sloppy with the historical details. "}{"Title":"got all the style but not enough excitement","Date":"10 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" It's 1950s L.A. Lieutenant Maxwell Hoover (Nick Nolte), Coolidge (Chazz Palminteri), Hall (Michael Madsen) and Relyea (Chris Penn) are a squad of rough LAPD detectives who throw bad guys off a hill on Mulholland Drive. They investigate the murder of Allison Pond (Jennifer Connelly) who actually is linked to Hoover. They uncover secretly filmed sex sessions as well as the Nevada Atomic Testing Site. They are threatened by Colonel Fitzgerald (Treat Williams). She also had an affair with General Thomas Timms (John Malkovich), head of Atomic Energy Commission.It's a tightly wound neo-noir. Connelly is a sort-of-femme-fatale on celluloid. Maybe they should have included a sister following the investigation in the present. The flashback aren't as interesting. Nick Nolte is good at being hard but his desperation needs to be heightened. This movie has most of the elements of a hard-boiled film noir but it does lack the sharp dialog. It needs more thrills to go along with the style. "},{"Title":"The Falls of LA","Date":"28 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I couldn't pick a better movie to make you feel warm and cold all over. The youth of LA really captivated me as well as mixed up my emotions from the innocence of the hotel pool parties, to the lustful yet elegant high end dinners. Before the plastic and neon billboards, there was class in la, and this movie portrays that, from what I know about cinema, this film carries itself with an easy to follow plot and high engaged characters. Accompanied by beautiful jazz, these actors are amazing, love, lust, sin and sorrow all mixed almost turns noir into color. From a personal experience, turn the movie on at sunset, fill your glass with wine, maybe scotch, and let the film roll. "},{"Title":"Interesting Premise That Falls Apart During The Second Half","Date":"7 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Muholland Falls (1996) is not a bad film. The performances are more than adequate, the attention to period detail and the cinematography is breathtaking at times. The problem lies with the screenplay, and the editing (it seems that MGM saw fit to trim the original cut of the film down to a more acceptable running time), leaving much to be desired with character development (or lack thereof) and plot holes.The opening sequence is pure noir, or neo-noir as the genre that it falls into. The Hat Squad in which Max Hoover (Nick Nolte) is the leader is both comical and interesting. Unfortunately, the other characters (Chazz Palminteri, and particularly Michael Madsen and Chris Penn) are give little to do by comparison. And although Jennifer Connelly is featured prominently in the trailer and on the DVD cover, she also has very little do but look gorgeous and sexy (which she does very well) in a series of all too brief flashbacks and 8mm footage. Melanie Griffith, as Hoover's wronged wife, makes the most of her limited screen time but again, the film could have benefited from seeing more of her (and I say this as someone who is not particularly a fan, but she is extremely sympathetic and likable here). Andrew McCarthy gets the thankless role as the friend of Allison Pond (Connelly) who knows too much. John Malkovich seems to think he's in another movie, Treat Williams tries hard but never fully convinces as a military man. Blink and you'll miss Rob Lowe in a cameo and William Peterson is uncredited.The main problem with Muholland Falls is that it does feel like two movies slapped together. The military/government angle felt very out of place; what started off as a promising detective story dealing with the murder of a young woman who has connections to both the police force and the corrupt underworld of Los Angeles turns into a bland maze of incoherent and uninteresting plot points.Some may argue that this attempt at neo-noir is unjustly compared to Chinatown (1974) and L.A. Confidential (1997), but it does fall short. As I mentioned before, perhaps the editing is to blame. It would be interesting if a director's cut exists. Perhaps that would make more sense out of the plot.Dave Grusin's score is nice enough, but only briefly evokes the feeling associated with the genre.In conclusion, Muholland Falls is not a waste of time, it was an interesting premise that simply ran out of steam. Still, if you're an admirer of period pieces or films set in Los Angeles, you may want to give it a try. "},{"Title":"LA/Desert/Western B style Neo Noir","Date":"24 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Wild West circa 1950s....This film reminds you not only of all the B LA/Desert based crime Noir films but it also channels a very strong updated Western vibe with its quasi legal vigilante justice story line. Endorsed by the chief a nice cameo by Dern, the un-officially sanctioned Hat Squad, Hoover (Nolte), Coolidge (Palminteri), Hall (Madsen), and Relyea (Penn) are like modern day Earp Brothers riding around the boulevards of broken dreams in the ultimate Western boom town, The City of Angels, tinsel town, LA. Their mission is to keep the vice rackets under local control and their territory/turf runs from the desert ranges of the Cal/Nev border country to the Pacific rim. Their targets are any organized crime mobsters from the Mid West or East Coast who they sort of run out of town by sundown by escorting them to Mulholland Falls, sort of like Niagara Falls without the water.spoilersHoover makes you think of Dashiell Hammett's Continental OP, a big imposing stocky cross between Noir icons Sterling Hayden and Raymond Burr. He wields justice with a sap, again reminiscent of the way Wyatt Earp would coldcock outlaws with his Buntline special, and re-enforcing the films Wild West vibe. His partner Coolidge reminds you of Joseph Calleia's character in Touch of Evil, is a slightly neurotic transplanted Easterner, the squads methods of vigilante justice are effecting his life to the point to where he is seeing a female psychiatrist. The attempts by Coolidge to deal with old school Hoover's wild mood swings and his admonitions to the squad about how they agreed that they weren't going do this or that again are quite humorous. Hall and Relyea are both more laconic, though Hall is the cockier of the two. When the squad about to launch a victim off the falls mobster You can't do this this is America. Hoover This ain't America, this is LA...The catalyst to the decent into Noirsville is when the squad is sent to investigate the body of a woman who is embedded face down into the ground at a housing development in the hills above LA. She looks like she was run over by a steam roller, and when she is pried out and turned over her identity is known to Hoover who is visibly shaken. His reaction is noticed by his squad mates. An autopsy indicates that she fell from a great height, like a cliff, but there are no cliffs at the site. An X-Ray has a curious blank section caused by a radio active piece of glass. Back at headquarters a film canister arrives addressed to Hoover and a screening reveals a stag film spliced with shots of a desert resort, a military instillation, a hospital ward and soldiers at a tactical atomic bomb test.The stag film shows the films equivalent to the femme fatale, Allison Ponds (Connelly) a love goddess, fatal in one way or another to all the men she touches. Connelly is like a brunette Marilyn Monroe and she displays her assets in all their glory. Allison in the film is screwing an unknown man, Hoover's reaction to the film spurs Coolidge to confront him about the girls identity, and Hoover confesses to having a six month affair with Allison, a high priced prostitute. In flashback we see Hoover, during a raid on an after hours club, walk in on Allison bitch slapping a pimp who was about to shoot the teen aged girl laying on a bed behind her with junk. Hoover over doses the pimp dead with his own needle. Allison's best friend and neighbor is Jimmy Fields (McCarthy), a gay photographer, he sent the film footage to Hoover as both evidence of a government cover-up (the reason he thinks that Allison was killed) and for protection from her killers. He confesses to the existence of other films indicating that he also has a film of Hoover with Allison.The radioactive glass and the film sends the squad like a posse, riding across the desert to a Nevada test site in a 49 Buick Roadmaster. This beautifully filmed sequence strongly enforces the contemporary modern setting with the classic Hollywood Western replacing horses with automobiles, while at the same time evoking classic era Western US Noirs.Classic Noir locations used are the Los Angels City Hall, the Pacific Coast at Malibu, Desert Hot Springs, and Mulholland Drive. The film adds to that list a neat googie style apartment with pool and what has to be a unique instantly iconic neo noir location, the Sedan Crater in Nevada, a spooky nuclear bomb test site. The nuclear test angle of the story is a nod to Kiss Me Deadly but I've read that the films original ending was for Hoover and Coolidge, after surviving an emergency landing too near a test site, were to be incinerated by a nuclear blast. Now how utterly noir would that have been?I say I like it better than LA Confidential, and more every time I watch it. The Cinematography by Haskell Wexler (In The Heat Of The Night) is gorgeous.It got the hats right, it has a nice rendition of Harbour Lights by Aaron Neville, you gotta love that Buick Roadmaster convertible tooling across the gorgeous desert landscapes and also Jennifer Connelly's boobs. I guess you gotta find out these things for yourself rather than go by critics, it's the reason I never checked it out. WTF were they thinking? Is it because almost nobody wears fedoras anymore or drive dinosaur gas guzzlers?, or was it because the cast was all adults and smoking is frowned upon, who knows. It reminds you of all the LA based crime Noirs. The only small fault is Nolte's mumbling, it's hard to understand him at times. Nice enough score by Dave Grusin 9/10 "},{"Title":"This is L.A.","Date":"21 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I think I liked this one more the 2nd or 3rd time around than the first,, it's a cavalcade of all stars,, Nick Nolte, Chris Penn , Chazz Palmienteri, Treat Williams, John Malcovich, Melanie Griffith , and Michael Madsen,, and a cast of others as well ,, based on the 1950's Hat Squad in L.A. a special task force within the L.A. police department designed to keep mobsters from moving into L.A. at the time. A girl is killed for reasons unknown to the police at the time,, a video is recovered and apparently the girl got around with more than one man,, the tape is discovered, but she is seen at a testing site where they used to do tests for the A-Bomb, now everybody including the military will cover up and kill for the tape . interesting look at the government and the Hat Squad.. pretty darn good action movie. "},{"Title":"Nick Nolte goes after some Feds who think they're above the LA law","Date":"19 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Mulholland Falls is a very good neo-noir, which I'd like to rate 3 out of 4 or 7.5 on a 10-point scale.It has a large number of things going for it. Nick Nolte does a great job as a weathered, wise, and steadfast L.A. detective. It's a secret pleasure to see his special squad of 4 break all the rules if it has to. The setting is nice; they drive around in a 1949 Buick Roadmaster convertible. Chazz Palminteri provides most of the comic relief. The basic plot conflict provides very good tension, as the bad guys turn out to be a military type (mainly Treat Williams) and an Atomic Energy Commission general (John Malkovich). There are a good many sharp and deep lines of dialog in this movie. The cinematography of Haskell Wexler is excellent. There are two main actresses, and each does a good job. Melanie Griffith is Nolte's wife, and he has had a fling with Jennifer Connelly who also went with Malkovich. It's when she turns up dead and a friend of hers mails Nolte some private movie material that his investigation goes into gear. A number of actors provide cameos or speak in scenes, including Bruce Dern, Louise Fletcher, William Petersen, Rob Lowe and Ed Lauter. Some of the action occurs at a desert test ground for atomic bombs, and this has a very realistic and scary feel to it. At one point, the squad looks at a giant hole caused by the bomb. That may not be realistic, but it is certainly an effective scene.Nolte and Griffith do an excellent job at bringing to life the downward turn in their relationship due to Nolte's affair. Not too many movies like this plumb personal relationships this deeply. There are a number of scenes like this that are very well-written and played, like one between Nolte and Conelley when they are breaking up, and another between Nolte and Palminteri near the end. The sharp and unpredictable dialog in these scenes, deceptively simple, hits right human notes.Nolte's character is Max Hoover. He thinks his main quarry is Malkovitch, Genl. Thomas Timms. Timms thinks about the world in terms of space, atoms and energy. When he thinks about people he sacrifices to radiation poisoning, it's in terms of numbers, not people 100 trade for 1,000. But Allison Pond awakens his senses Why would I kill Allison? She showed me pleasures I never dreamed existed. It's all I think about these days. Ironically, death for him is imminent due to cancer from radiation. His universe has changed, however. His affair with Allison brought out his limited view of the universe, which was also a contradictory view. Space and energy do not have the pleasures he had discovered with Allison, after all, so what does?Max Hoover thinks about the world in terms of people, in moral terms, the good guys and the bad. He sees himself as dispensing justice, a limited view of his actions. Yet he does not dispense justice. He doesn't give the criminals their legal due or their day in court. He rationalizes that even a scumbag can get elected D.A., so he discards the system. He uses violence as he sees fit, and that's Mulholland Falls and his downfall. He too has an affair with Allison, and in the process of this immorality he destroys the heart of his marriage. Why would he kill it? He has become more like Timms than he knew. He thought he could make it work both ways. That was his limited view. He could not live such a contradiction.Treat Williams's Colonel is a third flawed man in this story. Timms refers to the death of Allison as a mistake, an error in judgment, an overzealous reaction against a perceived threat to national security. Security is all the colonel can see, just as Hoover can only see his job, duty and getting the bad guys. He rationalizes killing Allison because she was in the way. Limited visions all the way around with no one fully respecting the human person that is each of us.Chazz Palminteri's likable character has an anger problem and he's seeing a shrink. He thinks this will help him, but it doesn't. He too has an illusion. He's buying into her teaching that all problems are solvable if you just break them down into pieces. In the end, he needs his anger even to attempt to stay alive.There are no major rays of light or hope in these characters or in this thoroughly noir story.I've read a good many negative reviews of this film, but I find the movie very enjoyable and above-average. "},{"Title":"A movie about broken relationships - with a bad guys thrown in for good measure","Date":"15 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The name of this movie comes from a place in the movie where the good guys throw the bad guys off of a cliff to let them know that they are not welcome in Los Angeles. This movie is set at about the same time as LA Confidential (in fact probably a little after World War II, considering the plot) and at this time the police rule the city and the criminals are being driven out by simple brute force.This movie is more of a murder mystery than anything else. A dead girl is found in an indent in a quarry and it seems that she has fallen from a great height. The thing that makes this death important is that the girl is a cop's mistress (Hoover - played by Nick Nolte) and he wants to find out why she died. As he searches he comes to find out that the girl's neighbour taped her with her men and has taped something that somebody doesn't like, as he lands up very dead.There isn't anything too deep in this movie. It seems to be that Hoover is trying to come to terms with the death of his mistress, and even though he had dropped her a while back, he still seems to feel responsible for it, so he is determined to get to the bottom of it. The bottom involves the military and some testing of atomic bombs, but it is something that J. Edgar Hoover is supporting. What is going on doesn't seem to be that much of a conspiracy (though if the effects of radiation got out then bad things would happen - but we already know about it now).This movie seems to be more of a character study of Hoover than anything else. This is a guy who loves his wife dearly, but also fell in love with another woman, had an affair with her, and then broke it off when he realised that it was not the right thing to do. Even then he still has strong feelings for her and is torn between his love for her and his loyalty to his wife. He does love his wife, and his wife is what matters, so when the bad guys give the film to his wife as a threat, it is simply a threat that has been carried through meaning that they no longer have any hold over him. The ending also reveals this aspect of the movie as it is not him catching the bad guys (which he does) but rather it is him trying to reconcile with his wife, and the movie leaves us hanging - she walks off. It is not a typical Hollywood ending where he is forgiven and they get back together - she simply walks off leaving him to deal with his betrayal of her.Now I come to think of it, it is the deep characterisation and the struggle that Hoover feels within himself that makes this movie stand out from the rest of Hollywood garbage. It is one that does not have a conclusive ending and also attacks the idealistic feel of the fifties. "},{"Title":"You Never Heard of Mulholland Falls?  You're In For A Tumble!","Date":"23 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I've found that if I somehow leave the room for food or a break, the film probably isn't really very good. Good or better keep me glued. I never left my seat during Mulholland Falls and from the opening sequences with the four LA cops in hats riding up sunny 1950's Hollywood Hills in a big black convertible, I was hooked.Hooked especially by a galvanizing, snappy performance by Nick Nolte as Hoover, head of his squad of four, a man of action before words, a man who simmers and glares and loves with passion it's a performance that somehow should have been given more attention at the time of the film's release, a cops and crime film which somehow didn't match the zeitgeist of its period, lost in the shuffle.Almost every noir mystery past 1949 is a retread of some sort (Chinatown being a major exception),but what makes Mulholland Falls work is not the plot but the heady collection of dedicated supporting actors whether Melanie Griffith as a quietly restrained wife of a cop, or Chazz Palminteri, the wry right hand partner who talks about his psychiatrist without hesitation.The mystery deals with corruption in high places, of course, and John Malkovich and Treat Williams are good supports for Nolte to play against--but it's Nolte's show from start to finish and his intensity nails it! "},{"Title":"A neat cop film with a sense of retro to it","Date":"6 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Although it is not a great film, there is something special about Mullholland Falls. Set sixty years ago, the movie not only looks like 1950's America, but it feels like it was made during that decade. The film is a bit of a throwback to the Hollywood of the mid 20th century. The clichés are few, the music is jazzy, the color scheme is de-saturated (deliberately) and our heroes even have a dose of Humphrey Boggart to them.So who then are the heroes? They are lieutenant Max Hoover and his three buddies. These four dapper L.A. cops go after mobsters and enjoy throwing them over the ridge at Mullholland Dr. Their latest case involves the apparent murder of a young girl who is found on the outskirts of the city with every bone in her body broken. The investigation leads them to uncover a government/military conspiracy involving nuclear testing. As it happens, Max had an affair with the girl (prior to her death) and when he starts to take the case personally, all their lives become endangered.Mullholland Falls presents a exceptional cast, led by Nick Nolte, and including Chazz Palmintari, Michael Madsen, Chris Penn and John Malchovich. Despite all the big names, the film is not one to be noted for its acting, especially with Melanie Griffith playing a role so useless and lame that doesn't even belong in the script. Luckily, she doesn't have much screen time.Mulholland Falls is a little shaky at times and is a bit lacking in credibility, but it is enjoyable nonetheless, and provides something a little different from mainstream Hollywood. "},{"Title":"Hat's show-business","Date":"10 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The problem here is not the story, the story has legs, no wonder it managed to attract an impressive, eclectic cast of talent. The problem isn't the cast, all roles filled to perfection (with exception to Melanie Griffith who is miscast as the dour, victimised wife). The problem is the flat, unambitious direction and editing.The Hat Squad are introduced spectacularly, Nolte was obviously born to play this role. One of America's finest and under-appreciated character actors over the past 35 years, Nolte's performance deserves a better film. Chazz is also fine as the passive-aggressive Ellery. Madsen & Penn do well with little (but I wish they had more impact on the story, and given more dialogue).The movie deserved flair, consistent editing (there must've been loads of scenes lost to the cutting room floor) and some strange ADR work. File this one under missed opportunity, a casual watch that passes without any truly memorable scenes, when it could've been a rival to L.A. Confidential had a different director been appointed. "}{"Title":"Alright, but not the best.","Date":"15 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I was really looking forward to seeing this movie because of the all-star cast and the fact that they were playing cool, hip detectives in the fifties. But I was actually rather disappointed. It was slow-moving, and the plot was never that deep or thrilling. I like all the actors in the movie, but I got very tired of Nick Nolte's I'm hard and I have no feelings attitude. It got very old very quick. I was also annoyed with the flashbacks of him Jennifer Conelly every five minutes. Plus, none of the other actors (Chris Penn, Michael Madsen, Chaz Palmenterri) ever really were involved in the plot. I wanted to see a lot more of them. Basically, I felt this movie could be better, but it was still fun seeing these actors play tough guy cops, back when you could just beat up bad guys for no reason ha ha. "},{"Title":"Somewhat like L.A. Confidental","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Nick Nolte play Detective Lieutenant Max Hoover of the LAPD. Him and his squad are called to investigate a murder. This movie has the undertones of L.A. Confidential, it is set in the same period and it is the same kind of thing, they are assigned to do different things, they use violence instead of talking to get their point across. It is a very good movie in the end, done very well. The plot twists are just weird, the other thing is you can connect with the characters when there is a major plot development, they don't come off as inhuman or anything like that. Overall the movie was good, but it was slow in some parts, it didn't have as much action as it should have but if you like playing Detective I would have to recommend it. 7-7.5 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"","Date":"1 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  If this is film noir, then noir must be French for glacially slow.  Take a cast of completely unlikeable characters, give them nothing to say, punctuate the whole thing with gratuitous ultra-violence, and you've got the formula for an aggravated Dash.  Could be subtitled Sleazy Hollywood types attempt to make money from Chinatown rip-off.  Bruce Dern's one minute part is orders of magnitude better than anything else in this flick. By the way, I didn't like the film. "},{"Title":"Gruelling attempt at film noir","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  If you decide to watch this lumpen, slow-moving attempt at recreating fifties noir, you'd better have a great deal of patience and make sure the batteries in your TV's remote control are up to strength. Why? Because the male cast are the most annoying bunch of consistently inaudible mumble-grumblers I've ever heard. Make that *tried* to hear! You'll be turning the volume up and down so many times, you may well end up with repetitive strain injury in your finger. The plot is lumpy, over-complicated and downright dull. There are a few exciting moments, but getting to them is a chore. The film looks really good, but then so do a lot of movies that are otherwise bland. (Yes, I am thinking of Nolte's other stinkbomb, THE PRINCE OF TIDES here!) I notice almost every review here has mentioned the beautiful and voluptuous Jennifer Connelly. Well, this is the deal. She's a talented actress who commands great audience affection and sympathy. So it's a bit of a downer to discover that she has a handful of scenes with dialogue, gets groped by Nolte and Malkovich, and spends the rest of the film as a corpse. Blah. Who says women no longer get a rough deal in Hollywood?! "},{"Title":"Underrated and Overlooked.. But why??????????????????","Date":"2 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I've never understood why this movie was so underrated and overlooked. Perhaps because I live in Los Angeles, I found the settings compelling. Parts of town, like the Los Feliz Hills where Nick and Melanie lived aren't that changed. A word here about Melanie Griffith - this is possibly the best thing she ever did - amazing - did NOT deserve the Razzie - that was just mean-spirited! Nolte is stunning, Palmantieri is great, Connolly was so lovely and heart-breaking - this was early on - many of us had not yet heard of her! Louise Fletcher is only in a couple of tiny scenes - but has what is perhaps the best line in the movie. And of course, the whole atomic testing thing was so far-seeing. I have had to watch it more than once - the first time was almost too much to take in. Now I get it. And personally, I felt the movie ended the way it had to. "},{"Title":"By the numbers but engaging thriller with an eye on noir of old, Mulholland Falls is a sporadically interesting film about a man facing his past and confronting the present.","Date":"2 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I quite like films like Mulholland Falls; films about shady, down-beat and supposedly emotionless American detectives searching for something dear as they do their best to hide the fact that it means that much to them. Films that are daft enough but enjoyable enough to have their leads be able to spot vital clues linked to the overall success of their goal whilst being in a state of near intoxication by way of hard alcohol. Nick Nolte's character does this towards the end of Mulholland Falls when watching a short, silent piece of moving image footage, but there you go. The film itself is a dank and involving noir inspired thriller from 1996 about corruption and murder amidst the higher-ups of the nation and one man's quest to uncover it; only, he doesn't know it at the time. The beauty of these stories is that they establish a hard-as-nails male lead whom keeps within his little pool of dishing out pain and retribution, effectively, before broadening them out into a wider scope of scum and dispute; the catch being that the negative characteristics on these outside of the pool are tougher to spot they're still there, but they hide amidst this sea of expensive furniture, clothing and generally plush mise-en-scene.The film begins with two 8MM pieces of film footage that we feel we have no right to observe some blast footage of an atomic weapon being tested and therefore detonated, exemplified when we sporadically cut to another film and an army official pushing the camera operator, ie; the audience, away from the general area; as well as another film in which a mounted camera is pointing at two people about to engage in sexual activity. Such is the tone the film will take, and such is the battle the lead has on him that in order to succeed in his mission, he'll need to break on through and confront things that certain others would rather you wouldn't see or realise were there. Corruption is a rife and pleasurable theme for classical film noir, or more contemporary noirs that pay homage; corruption usually equating to cheating, lying or deception and when the general ingredients are on the money; the piece ends up worth seeing.The film would have you think it's about four guys, police officers in 1950s Los Angeles, taking names and kicking their way around town, bullying those they deem guilty of whatever crime by tossing them down a hill just off Mulholland Drive. At least it might've been about that had it been set several years prior to events here. Here, Nolte's cop named Max Hoover gets in way over his head and finds himself on a road to all things dangerous when he and his crew come across a woman firmly embedded within the ground out in the open wilderness nearby a construction site. It looks like she's hit the ground from a great height, but everyone's puzzled as to how it might have happened. Further more, Hoover knows the girl from recent times.Hoover has a wife he struggles to truly connect with over the course of the film, she's young; attractive and enjoys reading Hemingway, but like most films about butch men working together for the greater-good; Mulholland Falls is more interested in a relationship between two males, that of Hoover and Chazz Palminteri's cop Elleroy Coolidge, a guy in that group of four which also consisted of Michael Madsen and Chris Penn &#x96; but loosing both of them would do the film no harm. The death of the young girl, a certain Allison Pond (Connelly), affects Hoover in ways that doesn't see him afraid to admit to, purely because he once upon a time had an affair with her, rendering the investigation somewhat personal rather than just strictly business. What do we come to learn of Palminteri's character? Well, we learn that it's not wise to back chat him just prior to taking a drink out of a glass full of something, but we also come to find of the issues he carries; someone whom it is revealed suffers from personal problems of his own and much to some of the other hard-nosed archetype cop's confusion; his issues and the exploration of them somewhat going against what it is that makes these archetypes in these sorts of films so recognisable.Coolidge's thoughts on the Western film genre, for one, is supposed to signify a broader sense of thinking away from all the hard-nosed work while his linking this to thoughts on the ramifications certain events have on future items display a meek sense of sensory awareness. It is no coincidence then that the two find a degree of solace with one another and it ought not be much of a surprise to see Coolidge connect with Hoover in the way they do; one coming to the other's aid and sharing the burden of the film's denouement together. The film eventually branches out into a feud between those within the world of the 'just', a sort of documentation of the birth of internal affairs, only not making out that that's what it is particularly evident; instead delivering dramatically rather than historically a tight enough narrative to do with corruption and 'the enemy within' linked to the F.B.I. and The U.S. Army. Yes, there are sequences that feel patched on; yes, we know exactly who'll survive and who won't survive certain gunfights half way through and yes, it really could do without two of its four leads of whom the film barely makes any attempt to really get the most out of the performers in question, but Mulholland Falls is a knowing if somewhat flimsy tale of a man's life coming apart as he confronts past mistakes and current ones on the state's behalf. "},{"Title":"Ain't America, 'is LA","Date":"11 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The 50s is probably the most infamous period for LAPD that has put them in the world history as a department you shouldn't ignore, courtesy several Hollywood thrillers. LA Confidential and Mulholland Falls are forerunner in that. Though in performances, in storyline, in direction and, in short, in all departments the former will easily score points over the latter, the thrill that Mulloholand Falls brings is definitely affecting. Corruption, s*x, hardheadedness, breaking law and bones for law - all that LAPD supposedly stood for, everything you would find here, and more. Jennifer Connely. What a stunning beauty she is!Finally, tell me, when I say Mission Impossible, what comes to your mind first? Be honest. Not Tom Cruise, not the suspense, not the thrill - but .....the background score. Isn't it? In my opinion, Mulholland Fall's score has similar effect. "},{"Title":"An Entertaining Slice Of Noir","Date":"29 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Mulholland falls is a solid neo-noir in which a police detective (Nick Nolte) investigates the death of a young woman. The murder takes him to various levels of the social strata, culminating in the revelation that the head of the government's atomic energy division was responsible for the murder. Sound familiar? This is essentially Chinatown with the water conspiracy replaced with A-bombs.Still, the film is fast paced and offers nice noir décor. The women are busty, the fistfights are surprisingly brutal, the music is jazzy, the detectives look good in fedora's and the bad guys, in typical Raymond Chandler fashion, are bedridden and covered in blankets.The film falls apart in its final act and the direction is a bit flat, but at its heart this is a nice morality tale. The film is closer to the dirty B movie noirs of the 50s, then the more classy fare by Lang, Hawks, Wilder and Hitch. Its also refreshing to see noir heroes portrayed in such a violent, brutal and pathetic light.7.5/10 &#x96; This is a minor neo-noir, forgetton due to the release of LA Confidential several months later. But whilst La Confidential prides itself in its classy veneer, Mulholland Falls takes a cue from Kiss me Deadly, another old noir that revolved around atomic energy, and revels in its own pulpy silliness.Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"A nice little thriller...","Date":"18 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" What do you get if you take a James-Ellroy style police thriller, add nuclear paranoia, cover-ups, state murder, a great cast, stir and serve? Mullholland Falls, that's what.Nick Nolte's elite LAPD unit deals with gangsters in the most violent way possible - it takes them to a cliff (Mulholland Falls - geddit?) and pushes them off. If they survive they are then told to leave the city. This is fine until the come across a dead girl on some waste ground who has some unusual injuries. What follows is great - I've always wondered what would happen if you took various members of the establishment in the '50s and ran them up against each other. Nolte's arrogant city cop clashes brilliantly with Malkovicth's nerdy, ailing nuclear general and his scary adjutant Col. Nathan Fitzgerald, who reminds me an awful lot of Oliver North.The acting isn't great, but the themes and plot structure more than make up for it - especially the feeling that it's all vaguely reality-based. There really was a Hat Squad in LA in that period and there really have been weird and horrible experiments done on US soldiers and civilians alike - such as the infamous tuskegee experiment and the atomic veterans - soldiers who were literally used as human test dummies, ordered to march through clouds of fallout, stand close to nuclear explosions and so on.I'd probably have given it an even higher rating if it wasn't for the acting, which on occaision was a bit stilted. "},{"Title":"Mildly entertaining noir","Date":"20 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" It's the fifties. The streets of L.A. are run by a hard-nosed elite squad of the LAPD who kick around the undesirables with the approval of their hierarchy and little, if any, regard for the law. Max Hoover (Nick Nolte), the leader of the pack, is a Jack Gittes type with violent mood swings but, would you have guessed, a tender core. When a gorgeous brunette (Jennifer Connelly, yelp) is found dead, Hoover is faced with his secret love life. In order to solve the case, he will have to come clean... Mulholland Falls is an expensive-looking go at a well-rehearsed genre that started with Chandler and had its heyday with Polanski's never equalled Chinatown (1974). The sets in this modern retro noir are lavish, with a special mention for the countless exteriors, helping to create a more or less credible atmosphere. The acting and dialogues are, well, appropriate though characteristically over the edge, which is likely to turn off some viewers but is a seemingly inevitable corollary to the species. So where's the hitch? Of all things, the plot stinks. When, in Chinatown, Robert Towne's screenplay skillfully interweaves its back story (a real estate scam) with the main intrigue (murder case), solidly anchoring the film in real-life history, Mulholland Falls clumsily attempts to construct a link with 1950s nuclear bomb testing in the Californian desert and fails miserably in doing so. The result is more of a hoax than a story, which has the wild bunch cross swords with the Atomic Energy Commission and half the US Army, culminating in a frighteningly moronic ending and a no less far-fetched resolve. Mulholland Falls (cryptically named after a minor incident in the film) is all surface and no depth, which is a shame considering the budget and cast at its disposal. "}{"Title":"Plot weaknesses kept this from being great SPOILERS","Date":"6 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" First and foremost, the B&W film that aired in its entirety at least twice, is the linchpin and inciting incident that launches the investigation of Alison's (Jennifer Connelly) death.The weakness is that the movie camera had to change hands - Jimmy the sort-of-gay voyeur has been filming Alison with various men, and yet Jimmy drags this camera along on an outing with Alison and The General.. and in one hasty line on the beach, Jimmy tells the Nick Nolte 'Max' character that he 'got it back' from her.. that Alison just happened to borrow Jimmy's camera on a private tour of a military base, and just happened to film outside and inside a cancer ward filled with unwitting soldiers, probably downwind of one of the A-bomb tests.Max sees the building and one patient on the film, and puts it together.I found this handing-back-and-forth of the camera-Alison-doesn't-know about to be the worst kind of plot assemblage. They kept the story moving along so well that the hole regarding that busy little camera might have escaped notice.Other than that, terrific period piece, good acting.. Malkovich might have been a bit miscast or misdirected.. although he would have done as a CIVILIAN scientist, he didn't pass muster as a general. And I thought Melanie Griffith did very well with an unflattering role, and didn't deserve the Razzie she received in 1997 for it.This was the last real Nick Nolte starring role, not counting that abortion, The Hulk. Unfortunately his acting consisted of putting on and taking off a hat, whispering intensely, and smoking a lot. A LOT. "},{"Title":"Fans of Jennifer Connelly don't overlook this one","Date":"15 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The first 10 minutes of this movie are a must see!!!! Jennifer Connelly is positively stupefying!! She out-stupefies Stupefying Jones in the Little Abner musical (played by Julie Newmar) Jennifer makes you feel like you are there with her. I think her character is much like the Lost Girl Child character that was popularized in The Big Sleep so she plays it true to form. Sadly I think JC had some work done similar to Teri Hatcher shortly after this film or Rocketeer so she is more voluptuous then in her recent stuff - If you like Jennifer here - find Phenomena and enjoy it too - this is the longer version of Creepers - Now on to the other characters - I liked what Nick Nolte did playing the gruff cop - overall a good film for those of us who enjoy the 1930's to 1940's film noir stuff. Thank God this was in color and not black and white. "},{"Title":"crater, schmater","Date":"2 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Poster jackjack-2 says that his/her father was the head of the Nevada Test Site and yet this poster insists that there was never such a crater as was shown in the movie. Well there is at least one crater at the NTS- a BIG crater and it was created by the Sedan underground test in, I believe, 1962. So maybe the poster meant that there wasn't such a crater during the time period of the movie? I've been to the Sedan crater a couple of times- it looks to me like they may even have shot the scene at that actual site. But I doubt it- to this day they're pretty picky about the security and taking of pictures at the Test Site. Oh yeah- the movie pretty much blows. Get it? I thought you would. "},{"Title":"A respectable gangster movie with great actors.","Date":"24 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is absolutely a gangster movie with good characters and actors. It has a style that's absolutely missing in todays average movies of this type. Nick Nolte and Melanie Griffith is 100% delightful in this edifying conventional story which takes us back to the 50's in L.A. This movie can definitely be enjoyed by the average movie viewer with a good taste for an exciting energetic plot. Recommended.whiplash "},{"Title":"Wise movie","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  To defeat the evil take a good man, give him the total power and free him from anybody's control. The movie shows why this is impossible even the strongest man can be controlled - as long as he has a heart.  "},{"Title":"This film is one of the most underrated movies on this site......","Date":"13 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film is one of the most underrated movies on this site. When I watch this movie, I see a great cast involved in an interesting period story in which the sets, costumes, and cinematography are all very visually stimulating. Heck, Jennifer Connelly's luscious beauty and Nick Nolte's unbridled rage are reasons enough to greatly enjoy this movie by themselves. Add in a slightly disturbing performance from John Malkovich and solid work from other big names such as Melanie Griffith, Chazz Palminteri, Michael Madsen, Chris Penn, and Treat Williams (the guy from Everwood! Remember Everwood?) and overall this turns into one of those diamonds in the rough. Apparently not many people like this movie, but it's a mystery to me. "},{"Title":"Mulholland Falls is no LA Confidential ...","Date":"17 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Mulholland Falls is a decent film -- some good performances, good props, but with a weak script that really didn't know what kind of story it wanted to tell (police corruption, federal gov coverups, Hollywood meat grinder, 50's noir, 50's innocence, etc etc etc). But make no mistake, it is NO L.A. Confidential. Not now, not ever. Not on any level. Nolte is no Russell Crowe, Treat Williams is no James Cromwell, Chaz Palminteri is no Kevin Spacey, and whoever wrote this script is no James Ellroy. Nor was its soundtrack on the same level -- noirish, but repetitive and without the period references like the haunting Chet Baker trumpet that punctuated Jerry Golsmith's LA Confidential score. Nor did it have the period songs that added that extra layer of period feel Simply put, Hanson's work was genius. Lee Tamahori did a fine, but ultimately paint-by-numbers workmanlike job. "},{"Title":"Petersen brilliant for uncredited 5 min exposure","Date":"2 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" William Petersen (that C.S.I guy) has a small uncredited role but it's the best part of the movie. His character comes across smart ass and tough, and it's a fun surprise to see him in this. He has a range that allows him to play just about anything. After his 5 minutes, it goes from looking cool to just nothing much. It leaves you hoping that his character will reappear in the movie but after 20 minutes you give up hope. The movie itself is pretty poor. Worth a watch on TMN or a pick up at the library but not much more. Too much of it reminds you of L.A Confidential except that where that movie starts to get complicated upon itself, this one is so loose, it steers everywhere but where it should. 2 out of 5 stars "},{"Title":"So bad it's funny","Date":"1 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Paint-by-Numbers film noirCigarettes - check. Hats - check. Cigarettes - check. Corruption -check. Gorgeous California Scenery - check (but a little too sunny). More Cigarettes - check. Edgy detective w/drinking problem - check. Murdered innocent girl - check. Who is actually pretty slutty - OK, that may be a new one.The cast in this film is excellent. Top notch. Which only adds to the tragedy of how bad and funny this movie is. Nolte is leader of a police group called the Hat Squad. It quickly becomes clear that their success is due to one thing - beating the crap out of almost everybody. They will do it in a restaurant, on an out of control plane (happily, the pilotless plane waits until they're done before it starts to dive), and even in a car in the middle of a busy army base. It remains to be seen why Nolte needs any help since he's able to overpower 3 federal agents all by himself. Of course, they're stupid and one is Adam Baldwin, so I'll spot him that one. So what i think they're saying is - these guys are tough.The cigarettes I saw this with a friend and his girlfriend in the theater when this came out and by the second half we were laughing and suggesting drinking games every time they lit up. It's not so much the smoking. We all know it was commonplace back then. It's the constant lighting up, and the sudden, subsequent flicking away that's so hysterical. There must be 100 cigs in the movie and I don't think one is finished. There's also a scene right after a funeral where 30 seconds or so is spent on nothing but watching the hat squad break out the smokes, light up, light another guy up, pass the lighter, take a drag...Now, the hats. We also know that people wore hats in the 50's. But not this much. These cops wear them all the time. In restaurants, in basements, in planes. The 4 of them wear them even riding in the car. Did I mention the car is a convertible? Near the end, Nolte puts his hat on his buddy's casket out of respect. But hey - no big deal - he picks another up that's conveniently waiting for him nearby! Kind of takes the weight out of the gesture, doesn't it Nick?I'm well aware of the prominence of cigarettes and hats back in those days, yet I can't remember a movie of this ilk which made such a point of reminding me. You don't have to show constant smoking or lighting of cigarettes any more than you have to show when characters take their bathroom breaks. We understand it. It's a given once you've established it in the film. So a handful of scenes with cigarettes is sufficient. A couple of bizarre scenes After Nolte discovers a government cover-up, goes to kill the man he thinks killed his mistress, finds out that's not the case, fights and kills the real killer in the soon-to-be-diving plane, survives a crash-landing, and he and Chazz Palminteri stumble out of the plane. What do they do? They giggle. And - you guessed it - they light up.Finally, at the funeral, after the ponderous smoking/lighting up scene and everyone else has moved toward the road to get in their cars, Nolte has a heavy meeting with his estranged wife in the middle of the cemetery. She says her last words, communicates to him that she's leaving him, and walks away. From the road. Into the graveyard. In heels. Stupid economy parking.Chinatown and LA Confidential did it better. "},{"Title":"Not to be mistaken for Mulholland Drive.","Date":"22 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" David Lynch's abysmal art film Mulholland Drive doesn't compare with this throwback to 1940s tough cop flicks. I wonder how long it took to shoot this film. They must have had constant breaks waiting for a baked Nick Nolte to get himself together.This film is made awesome by the cast, with the exception of overrated drug factory Nolte. Michael Madsen(the coolest dude alive) and Chazz give stellar performances as usual, but there was one giant miscast. That being John Malkovich as a military officer, he just wasn't convincing.The film centers around a dead prostitute(Hollywood's most sexiest woman Jennifer Connelly) who has a past with Nolte and Malkovich's characters. Nolte, shaken up about seeing Jennifer's plane-tossed corpse, goes about finding her murderer, and stumbles across a government cover-up.The majority of the bit characters did well, especially Andrew McCarthy as a squeamish homo, but Jennifer Connelly is the saving grace here. Her juicy archived scenes of pleasing costumers was great entertainment. She is a living goddess! "}{"Title":"Fantastic cast, lousy script. 'Chinatown' it ain't!","Date":"7 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  'Mulholland Falls' is an incredibly frustrating movie. It begins well, and looks like it's going to be a dark slice of revisionist Noir ala James Ellroy, but it continually loses its way, with potentially interesting characters disappearing from the plot with no reason given, and other situations either so obvious or so unbelievable that you'll just breathe a sigh of relief when it's all over. This movie has one of the best casts assembled in recent memory, but most of them (especially Michael Madsen and Chris Penn) are given NOTHING to do, and so the film quickly degenerates into a series of blink-and-you'll-miss-'em cameos... Oh look, there's William Peterson... there's Ed Lauter... Rob Lowe... Louise Fletcher... Bruce Dern, etc.etc. Nick Nolte tries his best with a lousy script, Malkovich and Melanie Griffith are wasted in underwritten roles, and Jennifer Connelly, well she looks absolutely stunning, but that's about it. Chazz Palminteri and Treat Williams probably do the best out of the supporting cast, but really, this could have and SHOULD have been so much better! 'Chinatown' it ain't. I can't recommend this one unless you want to perve on the delectable Ms. Connelly. That's just about the only reason to sit through it. "},{"Title":"Mulholland what?","Date":"7 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"   I say to the committe, we're probably not going to enjoy this - it's some arty thing by David Lynch, with questionable plot, lots of 'atmosphere' and no direction. Mulholland Falls starts, and it's set in the Fifties (now, I really don't like the Fifties, bad fashion, hats and ugly cars), but wow, this is so authentic, well, points for that! Suddenly guy gets thrown over a cliff, guy gets wacked with a phone, and there's Jennifer Connelly. I'm thinking, well, this could be OK. A little while later, I realise I've anticipated the wrong movie (duh), but stay for the ride. On reflection we're left to figure out a bit too much in some areas, but others are made a bit too obvious and this detracts from the flow of the plot. One small thing - I haven't crashed in a DC 3 but suspect you'd be a bit shaken up without wearing a seat belt? Overall, Believable acting (maybe not the three stooges), authentic style, but some plotline conclusions need a giant leap of faith. "},{"Title":"Good looking but clichéd","Date":"21 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie is a genuinely good looking film. It's even better looking than either 'Bugsy' or 'L.A. Confidential'. I'm a sucker for films set in L.A. after WW2 and before Rock and Roll. The story and the casting is clichéd and predictable. Here's a synopsis An L.A. squad of detectives, who beats up and bullies organized crime figure to keep them out of town, investigates the murder of a beautiful girl (Jennifer Connelly). Do I need to say she's having an affair with the leader? Turns out her neighbor is filming her sexcapades and films are missing. They find a piece of radioactive glass embedded in her foot. They consult the army, who was testing atomic bombs at the time. Treat Williams as a Colonel, any doubt that he ain't a good guy? Cut to the chase, turns out Williams threw Jennifer Connelly out of the plane and planned to do the same to Nick Nolte and Chazz Parmentieri, a buck to the person who figures out who gets thrown out. My 3 main complaints; I've always had problem with Nick Nolte as hero, he seems too impressed with himself and he knows that he'll win, he doesn't have the urgency that Harrison Ford projects, and I'm not an H F fan. The squad's trying to keep the gangsters out of L.A. (that might have been a better story), any of them ever heard of Lucky Luciano and Bugsy Siegel? 2 L.A. based gangster of that era. Finally, military secrets being protected by dangerous zealots is such a tired cliché. I have a lot more complaints but this movie isn't worth the effort. "},{"Title":"Jennifer, Jennifer","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  No great film critic here.  I take a picture for what is and nothing more. No in depth comparisons between this film and that one.  Nolte looked fat. Madsen as wooden as ever. Palminteri as funny as ever. Treat did great job. Malkovich as weird as ever.  But Jennifer...oh my Jennifer. Felt real bad for Melanie. I enjoyed this film. It kept me entertained.  But Jennifer...oh my Jennifer. "},{"Title":"A Pale Chinese Copy","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  William Mulholland was the Irish-born chief engineer of the Los Angeles City Water Department who in 1904 proposed that the small city of 250,000 spend $25 million to build an aqueduct through the Mojave Desert from the eastern side of the Sierra Nevada range. The work, completed in 1913, produced a supply adequate for 2,000,000 people and Los Angeles grew accordingly. Mulholland is also said to have a participant in the real-life scam involving real estate and water rights in the San Fernando Valley, now part of metropolitan LA, which inspired Roman Polanski's `Chinatown.' No matter, for Mulholland is remembered as a founding father in LA, and has the winding hilltop Mulholland Drive named after him, as well as a huge water reservoir.What has this movie got to do with Mulholland and `Chinatown'? Well, Mulholland Falls refers to Max Hoover's hat brigade's method of dealing with out-of&#150;town gangsters who are foolish enough to think of moving in, and `Chinatown' seems to be the movie the producers would like most to have made. But this is a very pale tribute indeed. The most memorable thing about it is Jennifer Connelly's breasts. (I'm happy to say this sequence is repeated). Oh, and I liked the Buick convertible as well.It is almost impossible to relate to Nick Nolte's Max Hoover &#150; he looks the part but he's just too stupid.  You wonder why even Melanie Griffiths would stay married to him. His mates on the squad are cartoon characters. The chief suspect General Timms, played by John Malkovic, is absurd. This is not to criticise the performance, which is nicely menacing, but the notion that the US army would ever make anybody like Timms a general, nor give him unfettered power over nuclear weapon development. His Ollie North-type security sidekick (well played by Treat Williams) is amusing, if pretty obvious. Bruce Dern is wasted in a walk-on part as LA police commissioner. Actually, he is not credited &#150; he probably took one look at the finished film and demanded his name be taken off the credits. The idea that an LA policeman would seriously beat up an FBI agent and get away with it is also absurd, even if he does happen to have the same surname as the then Director of the FBI. While we know that in the 1950s military authorities were cavalier about exposing troops to radiation, the activities depicted here are pure fiction.Well of course this is fiction, but is uninvolving, unoriginal and at times downright boring. The script attempts to capture the film noir idiom but fails dismally. The décor and the period clothes are there but that ain't enough. The director, more's the pity (I very much liked his `Once Were Warriors'), has no idea what film noir is all about either. Rent `Chinatown' instead.  "},{"Title":"Poor Man's Chinatown","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The problem with Mulholland Falls is it tries to capture the qualities of Chinatown without any interesting characters except  Jennifer Connelly as the murdered starlet.  The costumes and set designs are good, but unfortunately everything else is not so good as it lacks the aura of corruption and evil that made Chinatown(1974) a powerful motion picture.  It attempts to dupicate the Cold War Paranola of Kiss Me Deadly(1954) also fails as it lacks that film's quick flashes of brutality.  The movie tries to make the general in the film a sympathic person when he should have been shown as an evil and powerful man.  The top performance of Mulholland Falls goes to Jennifer Connelly who provides a good balance between Femme Fatal and tragic heroine.  It was too bad there wasn't enough of her as she's one of the few reasons to watch this movie(Jennifer Connelly is the most beautiful woman not to be a leading Actress in Hollywood). "},{"Title":"Quite disappointing","Date":"27 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Someday, there may be a good movie made about the so-called Hat Squad(the quartet of L.A. detectives who kept crime out of the city by any means necessary), unless there's one I'm not aware of, but this isn't it. There's a lot of talent here, but the story is pedestrian, the mood isn't right, only the costumes look appropriate, and the acting is mostly sub-par. Admittedly, I get turned off easily for some reason by actors who are really self-conscious about acting world-weary, and with a few exceptions(Treat Williams just plain overacts, Chazz Palminteri belongs in a different movie entirely, and Jennifer Connelly and John Malkovich are good at world-weary without making any bones about it), that's the case with the cast here. Too bad, cause this could have been good. "},{"Title":"So what are the facts, Ma'm?","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Dragnet, Mulholland Falls and L.A. Confidential	I've done some reading over the years about Dragnet. Jack Webb was making a movie called He Walked by Night in 1948 when the technical advisor, LAPD detective Marty Wynn, expressed exasperation that Hollywood never depicted police work as it actually was. the cops were always hard boiled tough guys, crooked or buffoons. Webb, after thinking about it, asked to accompany Wynn and his partner, Vance Brasher on their nightly rounds and became fascinated by police procedure and the way the real policemen talked. He suggested the radio series that became Dragnet. The LAPD was enthusiastic because they found the way they were constantly being depicted as distasteful. Webb's police went by the book, spoke like doctors would to patients. He also eschewed violence except in rare instances, usually showing it after it had taken place and depicting it as the human tragedy it actually was. Webb closely co-operated with the LAPD, using their files for stories and filling his shows with praise for Chief William Parker, who had been hired in 1950 to clean up and give a new image to the department. 	The Watts riots were the first chink in this image. Many analysts blamed them on Parker and his department, which was said to enforce racist unofficial rules about which part of town blacks could be in. In recent years, two films have been released which seem to further undercut the image of the LAPD that Webb created, Mulholland Falls, (1996) and L.A. Confidential, (1997). Mulholland Falls introduces us to the Hat Squad, which is said to be non-fictional. Nick Nolte and his gang report directly to Chief Parker, (who is played briefly but perfectly by Bruce Dern, judging from newsreel clips I saw on his biography). He hired them to rid the city of mobsters and other criminals and to stay above politics. Nobody, but nobody is allowed to operate in L.A., not even the FBI, without going through Parker. The Hat Squad makes their own rules to do their job, including throwing a would-be mobster, (played by CSIs William Peterson), off a cliff on Mulholland Drive they have given the title name.	In L.A. Confidential, the Hat Squad and Chief Parker do not make an appearance, although I wonder if James Cromwell's Capt. Smith is somehow supposed to represent him. We are introduced here to Jack Vincennes, who is a technical advisor on a show obviously intended to represent Dragnet, the star of which is a total phony. Russell Crowe's Bud White would look good in a hat and Guy Pearce's Ed Exley seems to have watched too many episodes of Dragnet. 	These two films suggest that Dragnet was a phony, too, a public relations gimmick to make the seedy LAPD look good. Recent events have also not helped the image of the department, suggesting that planting evidence to help along prosecution and prejudice against African Americans is a long-standing condition. Maybe those melodramas of the 40's had it right about the LAPD.	But books about Jack Webb tell about him doing such extensive research into not only the methods of the department but also the details of a cop's life. I suspect that even Chief Parker could not have protected the Hat Squad once they attacked and brutally beat up an FBI agent, as Nick Nolte does. And are we to believe that Mickey Cohen was brought to justice so the LAPD could take over his rackets? Was there ever an Alamo-like shoot out between good cops and bad cops? Was it that bad? Or is Hollywood simply reclaiming the territory won by Jack Webb in Dragnet?  	There are people who know. But I am not one of them.               "},{"Title":"I only gave this a 1 out of 10 because there was no 0.","Date":"22 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I only gave this a 1 out of 10 because there was no 0.Mullholland Falls was a poorly directed, scored and cast noir tragic that started bad, finished worst and cost me 2 hrs of my life that i will never get back, not including the 5 minutes writing this comment.Maybe I need to rethink my commitment to Hollywood films.Perhaps i was just angry because i thought it was Mullholland Drive we were renting out.Anyways It was like i got robbed in my own lounge room, and they took my evening away from me.I feel so ashamed. "},{"Title":"Aaaaarrrrrrgggggghhhhhh!","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  There's an underlying theme to this movie, whether we like it or not What happens when the good guys are indistinguishable from the bad guys? It's a worthwhile question, and Mulholland Falls might be commended more highly for raising it . . .  had not novelist James Ellroy posed it much more effectively years earlier in what became known as his L.A. trilogy series, which included (along with L.A. Confidential) The Black Dahlia, to which this film owes more than a slight nod for its inspiration.As a matter of fact, it was Ellroy who first made common coinage of the term, Hat Squad, a moniker (and even more often an epithet) used by L.A. cops to describe what has been known at various times over the past sixty-plus years as the stakeout squad, Metro, Administrative Intelligence, etc.  (Their habit of placing a hat or two up against the rear window of their unmarked cars to warn other officers that they were on a stakeout is still common police practice in a number of departments today. . . although those hats are now usually baseball caps.)The movie itself, frankly, doesn't work.  It creaks.  Nolte is Nolte, and that's fine if your main reason for catching a flick is to watch Nick Nolte.  Michael Madsen, who rarely gets so good a chance to display his acting chops as in Reservoir Dogs, turns in his usual yeomanlike performance and ends up largely wasted.  Treat Williams comes to a deserved bad end.  Jennifer Connelly shows a lot of flesh, and yes, it's very nice flesh, but what of her talent?  And Melanie Griffith gets to show short flashes of what she's capable of when she doesn't decide to sleepwalk through a role.See Mulholland Falls on a slow Saturday night . . .  if your only option is to sit up with a sick goldfish.  And only if you can get someone else to pay the video rental.  "}{"Title":"A horrible waste of time.","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  On the back of the video, a few notable critics gave this movie outstanding reviews. But I felt betrayed. Through out the entire movie, I was desperately waiting to care about the chacters or anything they were doing. These horrible people meander through their misadventures and the viewer is forced to endure. But what a cast! What are they doing in with such horrible lines. Such lousy parts! The outstanding ensemble cast only highlights the dreadfulness of the movie. I resent the producers of this movie.  I want my money back. I want the few hours of my life back!!! "},{"Title":"Why should I kill her? She showed me pleasures that I never knew existed!","Date":"6 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" (Some Spoilers) Police drama set in 1953 L.A that goes far beyond the routine murder cases that the LAPD is used to handling. Finding beautiful party girl Allison Pond, Jennifer Connelly, dead at a construction site in an L.A suburb with not only most of her bones broken but having been exposed to large doses of nuclear radiation has LAPD Let. Max Hoover, Nick Nolte, and his Elite Team put on the case. Hoover recognizes Allison right away as a woman he had a six month fling with behind the back of his wife Katherine, Melanie Griffith. Later in Hoover's mail at the police precinct he gets a roll of film that has Allison having an affair with US Army General and top honcho of the Atomic Energy Commission Thomas Timms, John Malkovich. Thing really get spicy when Katherine gets at her home another roll of film but this time it's with Allison having a romp in bed with her husband Max in the same hotel room that she had her sexual tryst with Gen. Timms. By sending Max's wife the incriminating film of his infidelity with Allsion it thus totally destroyed the blackmail element that could have been used against him. It also has Max go full-tilt to solve Allison's murder that leads straight to the US Military.Max meets the person who sent him the film Jimmy Fields, Andrew McCarthy, at his beach house and is told by Jimmy that his life is in danger for knowing about the affair between Allison and Gen. Timms. The General is in charge of a top secret military base outside L.A in the California Desert that tests atomic bombs. It was on Gen Timms' orders, Jimmy tells Max, that Allison was murdered to keep her quite and not to embarrass the US military and the Atomic Energy Commision. The police in the Mulholland Falls come across far worse then the criminals in the movie. Led by Let. Max Hoover and his band of fellow cops Ellory Coolidge Eddie Hall & Arthur Relyea, Chazz Palminteri Michael Medsen & Chris Penn. The cops in the movie look as if their physically connected to each other like Siemese quintuplets. They for some strange reason never as much as change positions in most of the scenes that their in! We first see these lawmen in action as they swagger into a swank L.A restaurant and after brutalizing a number of diners, including the head waiter, they grab Chicago gangster Jack Flynn ,William L Petersen, who was just found innocent in a court of law and who's minding his own business having dinner with friends. Beating up Flynn and his party and then after practically kidnapping him, in front of something like a hundred witnesses including Flynn's lawyer, the policemen take Flynn to Mulholland Falls. It's there that they drop him some 200 feet leaving him for dead at the bottom of the falls. Hoover then smugly and arrogantly tells the dying Flynn that Theres no Organized Crime in L.A; Only the organized and sanctioned crime of the LAPD. Even fellow law enforcers warn't exempt from Hoover and his men in brutalizing them. With Hoover brutally beating up, to the point of him being hospitalized, FBI Agent MaCafferty, Daniel Baldwin, for doing his job. And later we have Hoover & Co. assaulting a number of US military M.P's at an army base, where Hoover as a L.A policeman has no jurisdiction at all, for just doing their jobs as well. No one seems to be able to control the out-of-control Let. Hoover and his merry men not the LAPD not the FBI not even the US Military no one at all? Just with Hoover's brutal attack on FBI Agent MacAfferty, a US government law enforcement agent, that in itself should have put him behind bars for something like 20 years in a Federal Pen. We instead see Hoover in the next scene calmly talking with his obviously whacked out police boss, played by Bruce Dern, who's also in complete agreement with his actions. In his friendly conversation with Boss Dearn, describing how he and his fellow cops work people over, it seems as if the brutal and sadistic LA cop Max Hoover doesn't seem to have a single care or worry in the world!Later the overbearing and obnoxious Hoover forces himself into Gen. Timms house, right in the center of a US military base which Gen. Timms commands, and brutally brow beats the poor sick old man, who dying of cancer, to the point where he almost gets a nervous breakdown or heart-attack or both! It's then that we find out why Allison Pond was murdered and it was on the orders of those under Gen. Timms, not the general himself, in order to shut her up about the sexual exploits she was having with him. Totally unbelievable story with Hoover his crazy boss and his men doing more damage to the security of the United States then Osama Bin-Laden. "},{"Title":"Overblown spectacle that stinks to high heaven.","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  How could an A-list cast, a talented director and a big budget with a neat period as a backdrop be reduced to such a third-rate film?  What ever the reason, watching this doesn't do ANYBODY any favors.  Everyone involved should be ashamed.  Even the parts with the most dramatic elements come off looking phoney.  The only good part (aside from any scenes with Jennifer Connelly) is the ending, mainly because you can finally shut this garbage off. "},{"Title":"Don't listen to the critics on this one","Date":"9 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A few days ago, i was browsing the web to buy the DVD for this movie, and i noticed it was selling new for around $30 and up. Apparently, the US version from Kino Video had gone out of print and been discontinued so everyone was charging an arm and a leg for it. After a bit of searching I finally found a website that sold it for a normal price and ordered it. I was hoping maybe the version I ordered would offer an improvement over the old version I downloaded. Boy was I surprised. From what I've seen it is a vast improvement in video quality. Its sharper, more colorful, shows much more screen area, and just generally looks a lot better. So now I am uploading it untouched to share with you.If you haven't seen the movie before, and you're looking for a twisted bloodbath of a movie, you'll probably be disappointed. Its not that kind of movie at all and the advertisements are somewhat misleading. Its actually a mystery type movie where a scruffy Nick Nolte tries tracking down an anonymous gun wielding vigilante called Four Eyes who is causing the community to live in fear. The movie is a little weird but is ultimately really sweet and focuses more on crazy teenage hijinx. Melanie Griffith plays the main character and is absolutely adorable in this movie. Daniel Baldwin has a cameo role as a gangster. "},{"Title":"Nick Nolte a weak lead in this throwback cop flick","Date":"27 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The four LA cops in fedoras driving around in a big black convertible look faintly absurd, and even more ridiculous when it turns out that Nick Nolte, the dumbest-looking of the lot, is in charge. The writer never manages to create a spirit of camaraderie among the squad members, and the director fails to wring articulacy out of the man-mountain Nolte. Foprget questioning anyone. Nolte's character lights a cigaret, gets mad, and beats interviewees to a pulp. His methods get him nowhere, until at one point in the action he is wandering from tossed residence to tossed residence with his mouth open and his brain shut. He smashes up an FBI squad, and throws two military officers out of a plane in flight, with only a vague report of anger at HQ and no punishment at all. At the end of the film he is as gormless and muscle-bound as he was at the outset. How he managed to get a beautiful whore to fall deeply in love with him is a mystery, as is the eternal devotion and tragic sense of betrayal expressed by his jobless wife. Two interesting shots in the picture one, of an atomic explosion, the other of a gigantic crater, ostensibly caused by a Bomb. It's almost as wrecked and puffy as Nolte's face. "},{"Title":"Great Scenery  (including Palminteri!)","Date":"27 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The 1950's feel of this film is excellent. I'm not a particular fan of Melanie Griffith or Nick Nolte but they are married in this. Madsen does'nt have much to do or say & neither does the other guy. I think there should have been just 2 men on this special squad - Nolte & Palminteri. (But WHY do they always have to have their hats on? I know - The Hat Squad. It was always bad manners in the '50's to NOT remove your hat when you go inside.) Bruce Dern does a good turn as the squad's boss. Treat Wms was anything BUT a treat but that's his role - the tough army guy w/out a conscience. Malkovitch is the cancerous genius. The kid from Weekend at Bernies w/the blue eyes - his name is Jimmy in this - played a convincing role. (See the edited version so the sexual scenes are cut.) "},{"Title":"not impressed","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I rented this movie, because I noticed the cover in the video rental store. I saw Nolte, Connely, Madsen, 40's time setting, and thought hmm, can't be too bad.  Unfortunately, after watching it, my impression was not too good.Its kind of a Chinatown ripoff, but the worst part is that other than Nolte, the other members of the squad didn't get enough screen time.  But its a decent movie to see once I guess.  And Melanie's role was small enough that she wasn't given a chance to be a nuisance. "},{"Title":"Nolte is good. Treat Williams is Treat Williams","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  By far the main reason I rented this movie was to see Jennifer Connelly naked, and she definitely gets naked, in grainy black and white, during the opening credits.The rest of the movie is OK. Nolte does his usual, underappreciated job. Treat Williams plays the same evil villain he plays in The Shadow, and is both strange, unbelievable, and boring. He reminds me of a annoying actor in a small town theatre. Melanie Griffith is better than usual, but that's not saying much. The rest of the supporting cast, Chaz Palmienwhatshisname, Michael Madsen, and Chris Penn, are all very good. I wish the movie was about them, and I wish Jennifer Connelly had more nude scenes, because WOW, what an amazing body, and I wish they were in color. "},{"Title":"Great cast, great acting... what a waste","Date":"22 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  For such an impressive cast, it's weird to see that such a boring and tame movie came out of it. The plot is decent, but it's pretty dull and predictable. It also has a bad pace; I was bored throughout most of the film. The acting is great, but this is probably the only positive thing that can be said about it. The great actors all give good performances; I didn't find one single of the main characters to be badly acted. The supporting characters often left a lot to be desired, though. Nick Nolte, Melanie Griffith, Chazz Palminteri, Michael Madsen, Chris Penn, Treat Williams and Jennifer Connelly, all give great performances. The film has a good enough idea, it just doesn't manage to keep your interest, or even surprise you. The level of predictability and lack of interest in the film ruins any potential it might have had. I had figured out pretty much all of the twists a very short period into the film. It just never really manages to grab you, and you wind up just sitting there, waiting for the film to end. The cinematography is nothing memorable. The various scenes of violence and/or intensity are mostly just dull and uninteresting. The film had relatively little character development, but the little that there is is decent enough, I guess. All in all, not really a particularly interesting film. It has good performances from the main cast, but that's about it. I recommend it exclusively to very big fans of one or more of the actors. 6/10 "},{"Title":"If you didn't enjoy this movie, you must be quite stupid...","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  What can I say? I enjoyed this movie from start to finish, Jennifer Connelly alone is worth the rental. It is intense and well paced, with some very amusing and clever direction. The cast is top quality and seemed to enjoy their work (especially John Malkovich) A nice twist on good cop/bad cop and and unpredicatble plot twist ensure satisfaction. Watch it and tell me I'm wrong! Its a good'un "}{"Title":"hmmmmm","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Well, the best parts are those little 8mm black and whites of Jennifer Connelly of course, now That is a beautiful woman, and a fine actress ta boot. The rest? Marlboro musta spend megabucks on this one, because the one thing I remember, besides the A-Team level finale in the crashing plane, was all that Smoke covering Everything in sight.Not a good film, not up to the potential of either the plot or the cast.I thought it was kinda dumb, over-all, what a waste.** outta ****, the ** for Jenny C. "},{"Title":"flawed, but enjoyable","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  overall, i enjoyed this movie though the pacing was awkward and got in the way of the narrative flow at times. it's kind of like a 50's version of chinatown with it's tongue just slightly in it's cheeks. nick nolte is the head of the Hat Squad, a group of 4 gruff middle aged guys, who do the dirty work for the LAPD which involves them throwing gangsters/crooks off of cliffs. they are called to the scene of a brutal murder of a starlet/hooker (the beautiful and talented Jennifer Connelly) who has apparently been steamrolled into the ground(!) nick nolte had an affair with her for 6 months and was deeply in love with her but decided that he loved his wife more. i won't divulge anymore here about the plot here since it's really well done. p.s. just a complaint, why if jennifer connelly (who is a great actress and has probably the best body and face) always delegated to supporting roles instead of being a featured player. as time goes on i keep seeing her in less and less movies and whenever she is in one it's only for 15 to 20 minutes (i.e. inventing the abbotts) and that's it. i agree with roger ebert who mentioned that she is sexy in the way that marilyn monroe was sexy-like she is aware of it but can't quite help it. hopefully i'm not in the minority on this issue. "},{"Title":"Nick Nolte Gave A Great Performance !","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"                  If you are a fan of Nick Nolte and enjoy the easy way in which he acts and portrays really himself in most of his roles, this is the film for you.  Max Hoover(Nick Nolte) plays a great hard drinking and rough, tough detective who has a warm heart for great looking ladies(Melanie Griffith), Katherine Hoover, his wife. In one scene Katherine tells Max to stop drooling all over her while he was in a drunken stupor and falling all over the place.  John Malkovich, General Thomas Timms, plays a very sick role and makes you grow to hate and despise him.   Max gets kissed on the cheek by a gay person and goes ballistic, he just hated being filmed in bed with his hot mistress.  Nolte films cannot be put under a microscope,  just plain sit back and enjoy a great actor who loves playing HIMSELF! "},{"Title":"Big disappointment","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  When I saw the big cast of stars I thought this must we a winner. Gawd, what a loser. I saw this on April Fools Day and boy was I fooled. Having lived in LA at the time the movie is set, it was interesting to see how it was depicted and to a certain degree the movie was close to replicating things. But otherwise the story is completely unreal. Its depiction of the Atomic Proving Grounds in Nevada was really screwed up. My father was in charge of the Nevada test site and I visited several times while I was a nuclear weapons planning and employment officer. At one point the movie shows an atomic bomb crater. There never was such a crater. Not even at Hiroshima or Nagasaki are there craters. Nuclear weapons are designed to be exploded at sufficient altitude to destroy everything on the ground but not create craters. If a crater the size that was shown in the movie really occured the debris would have formed a radioactive cloud that would have wiped out a large part of the U.S. While there were undergroud tests, there never was a crater.But the entire involvement of the Nevada facility in the movie was so grossly unreal including the involvement of the general (John Malkovich). The story was such a fantasy it reminded me of the Raiders of the Lost Ark.This was not a shining moment for Nick Nolte. Did he suffer from laryngitis or not. Melanie Griffith, who never could hold a candle to her mother as an actress, as usual doesn't shine in this movie either. It shows that beauty is only skin deep. Bruce Dern does shine for once in his miniscule role as Chief Parker, and resembles him quite closely. "},{"Title":"Worst 40s cop drama ever!","Date":"24 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I saw this movie on the shelf at Blockbuster and thought it looked cool. The DVD case touted so many great actors and I wondered to myself, Why have I never heard of this movie? Then I turned over the case and saw the director, Lee Tamahori, and thus the answer began to explain itself. First of all I want to defeat the idea that a great cast equals a great movie, but more importantly, I think I should explain why this movie is so terrible. Okay, the script is awful and full of one dimensional characters. This is the worst role I've ever seen Chazz Palminteri play and I'm surprised he would do something this ridiculous. However, under-appreciated yet talented actors must earn their money. Palminteri plays a one dimensional police detective who comes off about as dumb as a C-movie mob henchman. Him, along with the lead detective (the poorly directed Nolte), the great but simple Michael Madsen, and the late Chris Penn (whose role along with Madsen's was completely thrown away) make up an elite squad of LA detectives tasked to rid the city of mobsters sometime in the late 30s or 40s. The movie introduces this squad as cops who will break every law to make sure those who think they're above the law don't operate in their city. At the beginning of the film the cops rough up a local restaurant, grab an alleged mobster (William Peterson) and take him to a place they call the Mulholland Falls. They toss him off one of the cliffs on Mullholland Drive and this is supposed to demonstrate how serious these guys are about ridding the city of crime. Whatever. This was nothing more than a cheap excuse to use a crappy title that's designed to make you think of LA and its famous sites. Somewhere later on they find the dead body of Jennifer Connelly and the plot begins. On to the direction which was nothing short of amateur and WEAK! Aside from the fact that the characters were B-movie quality, the overacting by those such as Treat Williams, the guy who plays the chief of police, and the awful Daniel Baldwin are just a few highlights that made this movie seem like it was Lee Tamhori's first film. There's not one good performance in the movie aside from maybe Melanie Griffith, who some might argue was the worst in the movie (she won a Razzie for this film). In the end, it was her character that was not that great and she really didn't have much to work with. As with any bad movie, it all begins with the writing, and this script was no gem. Plot is formulated simply on the basis of setting up the next scene and never takes into consideration characters' motivations. The way the characters behaved was unbelievable. Cops taking the law into their own hands is believable within the right circumstances (see LA CONFIDENTIAL) but in this case it looked like these guys could get away with anything, including murder, and never bat an eye about cleaning anything up. I guess we as an audience are just supposed to assume that no one saw anything and that people won't ask questions. Everything about the story is predictable and is spoon fed so well that we understand everything that's going to happen a good while before the characters do. However, it doesn't make us feel smart, but rather makes us angry at how stupid the hero is, despite the fact that there aren't any heroes in this movie. In the end, the best component of the movie was the great score by David Grusin. From the beginning, it invoked a since of CHINATOWN, which quickly faded when I realized how unbelievable just about everything in the film was. It didn't surprise me to learn that it made a whopping eleven million in the box office. What I will say is that this film is worth watching for a few laughs. Nick Nolte's acting is like an unsuccessfully domesticated junkyard dog and I laughed every time he tried to be serious. I also nearly fell on the floor at each of the slow motion shots used in the film (I think there are three with one during a key fight scene). When you have to use slow motion in the heat of a dramatic moment, you clearly have some problems. So, even with my negative criticism, I will recommend this movie solely for the purpose of enticing laughter, that is, if you appreciate the good movies like LA CONFIDENTIAL. "},{"Title":"Unveiling","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was about four detectives, who try to solve a murder.  While on this case, regarding the murder of a woman, certain people's past are revealed about their relationships with that woman.   The men would also stop at nothing to find out who murdered the woman.  In conclusion this movie is worth watching. "},{"Title":"The Epitome of Poor Physically Painful to Watch","Date":"26 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Initially i've given it a 3/10 due to the all star cast; mediocre performances in light of an excruciatingly weak plot/script. However it would be perfectly acceptable for someone to believe this is a further flaw. I.e. The actors actually signed up to this TV movie, having read the script.Although having a relatively short run time, the plot seemed to go nowhere...slowly. The character development was so minimal to the extent, that when the graveyard scene did arrive, it was the highlight-knowing the credits would soon be in sight.As one commentator has suggested both this film and LA confidential will go down in history. I agree. It would be a great feat for subsequent movies in the genre to be better or worse. Such films set the benchmark for each goal.If you think the contrary to this review i suggest you rent The Last Castle with Robert Redford- I'm sure you'll have another whale of a time. Especially if you didn't appreciate Robert Redford classic's like Brubaker. "},{"Title":"No surprises","Date":"11 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  So, I'm an idiot, what can I say? I Tivo'ed looking for Mulholland, on the off-chance that I'd snag David Lynch's film. Hey, it found a match! I watched it OK, it's set in L.A., the opening credits are tantalizing, this is looking good. Then it becomes a standard detective movie. Ah, my bad, Mulholland Falls is no Mulholland Drive (which I'll have to break down and get from the video store).Expecting Lynch and getting this predictable fare definitely was not the best way to see this movie. There's a somewhat interesting mystery, I guess, though it seems to me fairly predictable and tries to build off well-known history. It also takes a while to get going. The film hits most f the standard elements of a detective movie maverick detective, beautiful dame, mysterious death, other allegedly good people getting in the way of the truth, our hero has a dark secret, but there's a cover-up he wants to expose and a killer to find no matter what the cost. Gosh. The movie does a serviceable enough job, but your time is better spent by, say, watching a Hitchcock film, any Hitchcock film.There are also some nasty plot holes. I'll avoid spoilers, but if you see this film, ask yourself how the McGuffin device that everyone's after could really have been made by the person who created it (and ask yourself if it would make for a sexy date). And after our hero beats the snot out of so-and-so, how are there no consequences? And why... oh, never mind. Anyway, this film isn't horrible, but simply mediocre and forgettable. "},{"Title":"Pretty standard with an A list cast.","Date":"9 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  You know the drill It's the 1950's.  Body turns up in the desert.  The victim has a past connection to the detective investigating the case.My two cents worth The look of this movie was perfect, kind of a dreamy, washed out sepia tone.  The cast is perfect, and does the best job it can with what it has to do.  The script is functional and moves the plot along.  The problem is you've seen this kind of movie before.  It's a pleasant enough way to pass the time, you certainly won't be sorry you watched it, but it's not the best of its kind, nor is it the worst.  It just is.Recommendations Most people here seem to prefer Chinatown or L.A. Confidential to this movie.  I'd recommend checking out some 1940's film noir as well, maybe something like Double Indemnity. "},{"Title":"I just called to hit you over the head with this phone base a couple of times.","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Any movie that starts off with someone getting tossed down the side of a really steep hill in the middle of the night is going to get at least two and a half stars from me, regardless of what the rest of the movie is like. And if it has Chazz Palmienteri bashing someone over the head with a phone base like he was playing out the tune to A Night in Tunisia as played by Art Blakey, I'll have to give it an extra half star. So, now we're at three. Jennifer Connelly in the buff? Extra star, four total. Lackluster flick? Yeah, kinda. I can only give this two and a half stars, that way I can live with myself. It's not a great movie but you don't find a lot of movies that start with people getting thrown down hills in the dead of night. Or that have people getting phoned across the head really hard. Rating **1/2 out of ***** for my own personal tastes.  "}{"Title":"Highly Interesting","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Possible Spoilers This could have been an averge cops vs bad guys but the great cast makes all the difference its set in the 1950's Nick Nolte is a detective who makes his own rules for example he throws a gangster off a cliff that is his way of cleaning up the streets this goes own for quite some time until they find the body of a young woman who was blackmailing a highranking general wonderfuly played by John Malkovich  even if he is only in the movie for about ten minutes there are many twists and turns some predictable some not go watch it 6\10  RATED R FOR VIOLENCE AND SOME LANGAUGE "},{"Title":"A fine movie","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I think that this movie is a very good one. The plot is interesting and all the actors are doing their job. The one sad thing about it is that Ed Lauter - who starred in the classic western-movie Breakheart Pass - is only given about 10 seconds in this one. "},{"Title":"Repugnant","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a particularly vile movie in which virtually all the characters are in that vast hole beneath contempt. It is as though director Lee Tamahori wanted to make the noir-est of film noirs and came up with this degeneracy. Yet, I watched the whole thing, which is something I never do with movies I would rate this low. If it's that bad, why watch it?Well, perhaps Jennifer Connelly had something to do with it. She did, of course, since she has enough sexuality to tempt Gandhi; but I think what really kept me interested was a strong desire to see Nick Nolte's character with his swagger and his billy club and his sharp pointed leather shoes and his fedora and the endless cigarette dangling out of his mouth get his just deserts. I also was intrigued at the sheer depravity of Tamahori's depiction of the L.A. police department circa 1950 and their women who seemed to get off especially well when their men recalled the violence of their day. Note that Jennifer Connelly's character becomes arouses after seeing Nolte beat up her sickie boyfriend and inject a needle into his neck.Indeed, in an early scene Melanie Griffith becomes quite tender with her big strong man as he tells her of some violent deed he had pulled off that day. By the way, Bruce Dern's (uncredited) take on the police commissioner reminds me distinctly of a real life past LA Police Chief whose name temporarily escapes me.It is also possible I wanted to see John Malkovich's interpretation of a mad nuclear scientist/general, a rendering which doesn't kick in until later in the film. (We do get a peephole view of his technique with Connelly very early on, and he seems quite taken with his work.) I would evaluate Malkovich's cynical, ironic performance as good if this were the first time I had ever seen him. However, while he was slimy and despicable enough to actually make Nolte's character look good in comparison, I was a little disappointed since he seemed more mannerism than substance; and indeed I've seen those mannerisms before. I think the edgy Malkovich style always works better when it is combined with something redeeming as it was in, for example, Valmont (1989) and The Ogre (1996).While the LAPD are depicted as thugs, amazingly enough by the end of the film they don't look so bad when compared with the US Military who are out in the desert playing with their atomic toys while using young recruits as radiation guinea pigs, led by a reincarnation of Dr. Strangelove. Incidentally, Tamahori, anxious to get the audience into the hospital ward with all those victims of radiation sickness, doesn't even bother with a reasonable plot device. He just has Nolte and his sidekick spot the unmarked building, demand to know what's inside, and when the military guys say it's off limits, bust heads, go inside, gawk and read a chart. The effect of this scene was to put the head-busting, face-kicking and other brutalities of L.A.'s finest into perspective. What's a little roughhousing with the citizenry compared to inducing radiation disease on army privates?I had the sense as I stayed with this monstrosity that perhaps future generations will watch this and say, that was how it was in mid century America. Too bad the LAPD and the US Army can't sue Tamahori for the misrepresentation. Oh, you think I forgot the FBI and how easily they were worked over by the locals...? Considering some recent fine competence by that esteemed branch of government, I will only say maybe Tamahori got something right.Bottom line avoid.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "}]