[{"Title":"One of Jean Claudes better films","Date":"25 September 2006","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This is Jean Claude Van Dammes coming of age film, where he proves he is actually an actor as well as a martial artist.His character and portrayal of the character were very convincing, none of the stupid smiling and gurning of previous roles he's played.Ignore the twins storyline aspect of the film, this is not a retread of Double Impact, and the films could not be more different.Problem for JCVD is that his many martial arts fans might find this film a bit too intelligent, and the usual cinema goer simply won't see it because its got JCVD in it, which is a shame really, as its not a bad film at all.There are no real downers, the villains are suitably villainous, the direction is good, JCVD is good, the story is OK, and just as importantly, JCVD's acting is good.I caught this film again for the first time in an age, and I have to say, I liked it. "},{"Title":"If you see only one Van Damme film...","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  If you see only one Van Damme film...see Maximum Risk.  It is a decent thriller, not just a martial arts flick.  Unfortunately, after seeing how good Van Damme can be (yes, he can act - something we've yet to see from Stephen Seagal who he's usually compared to) it makes you sad to see how many bad films he's really made. "},{"Title":"Van Damme's Best.","Date":"14 December 1999","Score":"22 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Maximum Risk is not just a good Van Damme movie, but it's also probably one of the better action movies in the last few years. The story is well written (for an action movie), and is fast paced. Director Ringo Lam (City on Fire) impresses the viewer with excellent action sequences. This is definitely Van Damme's best turn as an actor. Natasha Henstridge does a rather decent turn as the damsel in distress, and creates good chemistry between herself and Van Damme. I don't see why this was a huge flop in theaters; it's surely Van Damme's best and at heart an exciting action flick.  "},{"Title":"Good & Bad Of 'Maximum Risk'","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"25 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This Jean-Claude Van Damme action vehicle gets good marks for sound, low profanity, some very good action scenes and some interesting characters that keep your attention. It loses marks for excessive violence, too much Rambo mentality (good guys don't get hit despite a barrage of bullets) and, yet, another modern-day film in which the FBI is corrupt. This is also another of these action films that has TOO much action. It would be better with some more lulls. It almost gets ridiculous in spots. Nevertheless, some of the scenes such as car chases, fires and explosions are so well-done you have to admire the great stunt work in here. Man, those stunt men earn their money!You would be hard-pressed to find two leads in any film with the bodies of Van Damme and Natasha Henstridge and neither are shy about showing them off, so you have the usual gratuitous sex scenes, but they are brief, as is the profanity. This is a loud film. If you have good speakers, be ready to have the room shake with lots of bass.Overall, it's about 100 minutes of mindless but entertaining diversion. "},{"Title":"one of the best action movies","Date":"25 September 2010","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This movie stars Van Damme who has been in many B-movies and is known as a b-movie action star.I believe thats why this movie gets this low rating. This movie is an a-movie and one of the best action movies and one of my favorites.The rating is simply ridiculous.Van Damme may not be a first rate actor but can he hold his own in this kind of material.Everything else in this movie is first rate.The plot is interesting,there are all kinds of chases and action scenes,All the action scenes are terrific and there's plenty of them.The bad guy is one impressive dude,makes for some really awesome wrestling scenes with Van Damme. The girl is the gorgeous Natasha Henstridge.In my book this is one fine action movie. "},{"Title":"Parents always lie to their children, to prepare them for the way they'll be treated later by the government.","Date":"6 December 2008","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This has to be the best Jean-Claude Van Damme action movie he has made. It has it all, and it has it in spades. This movie is 100 minutes, and 95 of those are pure action.You have great car chases through the streets of Nice and New York.You have a whole lot of people the Government is not going to have to arrest and try because they will not be around.You have three, count them three outstanding fights between Jean-Claude Van Damme and the biggest, baddest dude you can imagine.And, you have Natasha Henstridge in the bathroom making love and giving us a view we will long remember.What more can you ask for? "},{"Title":"Decent US Debut for Ringo Lam.","Date":"24 February 2006","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" French Cop,Alain(Jean Claude Van-Damme)one day finds out he had a twin Brother,travels to America to find answers about who he was,and who murdered him.Running afoul of the Russian Mob,a Brian Bosworth Looking Hit-man,and crooked FBI agents along the way in New York.He also finds himself Protecting/falling in love with the dead bro's squeeze played by Natasha Henstridge.All leading up to a big shoot out in an abandoned Wherehouse...Sorta.This is not your usual Van Damme movie.Matured Van Damme?Yep.For starters Maximum risk is helmed by Asian-action-man,Ringo Lam.He gives the movie a lot of atmosphere and style.The fight scenes are realistic,gritty,and for the most part brutal.Notice Van Damme goes for the Jugular here.Breaking bones as well as high flying kicks. The gunfights are staged well.Some good chases.And a nice scene involving a chainsaw.The scenery is worth it too.We start out in warm,beautiful,summertime France to Dead of winter, smelly, New York city.I think its a nice contrast arc on the story.Lam gets one of the very best acting gigs outta Van Damme Yet.He is at his darkest and most volatile here.Natasha Henstridge is kinda wasted to anything but eye candy.Zach Grenier and Paul Ben Victor are just okay as the bad guys calling the shots.Trouble is they are not really a physical threat for Van Damme.Stefanos Miltsakais as Redface fits this bill very well.His 3 confrontations with Alain are worthwhile.although its get to be a little tedious bordering on parody.This would probably be the best Van Damme movie if it were not for the slow pace and excessive dialog,which does serve a purpose.Its just we get some flashy action.Then 15 minutes go by leaving us wanting more.Then it starts up again.Brake.Gas.Brake.Gas.The gunfights are good,but It seems Ringo was holding back a little from his usual trademark stuff to pacify the suits behind the scenes.If your looking for the usual from JC,then go watch the Quest.This is a much more complex,adult-themed movie. "},{"Title":"A Decent Action Adventure.","Date":"3 November 2011","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" As a Van Damme fan when i saw this film i was instantly blown away.The only thing i didn't like was the brother storyline again.How many brothers has this guy got.But seriously this is an action movie from start to finish.There is car chases, fights, and of course a beautiful woman.What more could you ask for?.Well nothing really,this movie has it all and to think it was from the start of Van Damme's drug taking days.He must have been on drugs to make Double Team which is'nt bad film ,just bad actors (Dennis Rodman).Any way Maximum Risk is a movie that will have you on the edge of your seat from start to finish.The fight scenes are great and well directed.And it has Natasha Henstridge who acts well and puts on a decent performance.She is also easy on the eye in more ways than one. "},{"Title":"Top action delivered by Van Damme and Lam","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Maximum Risk is the second Van Damme-movie to be directed by a HongKong-director(the first was Hard Target by John Woo), Ringo Lam delivers stylish action as always, but this isn`t the same as Full Contact, but this is very good after American standards.  Van Damme delivers his usual stuff. Maximum Risk is great! 9/10 "},{"Title":"Over-plotted.","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"15 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This Van Damme vehicle is plotty, yet the plot is mostly uninteresting, and ultimately cliched. The car chases are spectacular but repetitive, and that repetition quickly grows tiresome. Fight sequences are mostly impressive, but when Van Damme faced the same (great)  opponent for the THIRD time, the thing started resembling a parody. Best reason to see the film is, as the first reviewer points out, the presence of the smashingly  beautiful and athletic Henstridge. Van Damme's performance is OK, as always. "}{"Title":"some good action but story too messy","Date":"14 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" In the south of France, Mikhail Suverov (Jean-Claude Van Damme) dies after a car chase. His doppelganger Alain Moreau is a policeman from Nice. It turns out that his mother had given up Mikhail to be adopted. He traces Mikhail back to NYC tracking down Alex Bohemia. People mistakes him for Mikhail. Alex (Natasha Henstridge) at the nightclub Bohemia is Mikhail's girlfriend. Mikhail had been trying to leave the Rusian mob run by Dmitri with lieutenant Ivan Dzasokhov. Corrupt FBI agents are also after evidence of their involvement with the mob hidden in a Nice bank.The story is messy. It's too complicated. A little bit of simplification would allow the movie to concentrate on the action. It should have fewer bad guys and I don't know why he doesn't get help from his french police friends. A long distance call to his partner would have really helped. Van Damme and Henstridge are not necessarily great actors but they give their best effort. There is plenty of action. There are fight action, gun action, stunts and car chases. One of the problems of a complicated story is the need for exposition. It slows down the movie when it's not done well. The movie slows down in many spots. "},{"Title":"Best underrated Van Damme action solid flick!","Date":"31 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Disclaimer If you are a viewer that mainly prefers art-house-type movies, then you might as well ignore this review. In addition, if you're not able to take an Van Damme classic underrated action thriller, ignore this review, as well. We'll both be better off.Maximum Risk (1996) is honestly one of my favorite Van Damme movies. I used to own this movie on VHS was the first Van Damme movie I had on VHS. Until I throw it in the trash last year. So I bought this movie on Blu-ray. Van Damme plays completely different character than we know and It is pretty good. Natasha Henstridge is completely unknown actress in this movie and I like her a lot. I love this movie to death! It was one of the movies with Van Damme, I have grown up. I think Jean-Claude Van Damme is a great underrated actor and a great martial artists action star. Maximum Risk (1996)was the movie that my mom bought me on VHS tape when I was a child. I bagged her for this movie, she fulfilled my wish and I got the tape. I kept watching it and I love this action movie. In my opinion it is a huge improvement over Sudden Death. This was Van Damme's serious role I have ever saw. His character Alain Moreau is serious. He is a French cop who was in a military.Jean-Claude Van Damme is in his seriously double role again as Mikhail Suverov and Alain Moreau. In the opening scene we see Van Damme been chased by these guys, one of them is Paul Ben-Victor, the two guys and nice foot chase Van Damme's character jumps from the building on the balcony that is hanged in front another building and hangs him self on the fence, tries to move him self up but the balcony breaks down and Van Damme falls down. Than he runs steals some motorcycle and crashes and falls in to another car's windshield, his character is dead. But than we see again Van Damme, Alain is at a funeral that is being held for a fellow cop, when Alain's partner Sebastien (Jean-Hugues Anglade) shows up, and requests for his presence at a crime scene. When they arrive, Sebastien shows Alain a dead body of someone that looks exactly like him. They discover that his name was Mikhail Suvorov, who was born on exactly the same day Alain was. As it turns out, Mikhail is the twin brother Alain never knew he had.So now Alain traces his brother's steps back to New York City, Alain travels to New York City to find more about his brother and he discovers that Mikhail was a member of the Russian Mafia, who was chased down and killed when he attempted to get out. Of course, now Alain is mistaken for Mikhail, who was also mixed up in a series of affairs concerning the FBI and the Russian mafia. With his only real ally being Mikhail's fiancé Alex Bartlett (Natasha Henstridge), Alain sets out to avenge his brother's death, which is complicated not only by the Mafia, but by two corrupt FBI agents. You have nice martial arts in here, great action sequences. Realistic gun shots fire, like Van Damme pulls his gun on the van and fire at the assailant, killing the man with one shot. The van explodes while Van Damme saves his partner's life and the bad guy Ivan Dzasokhov (Zach Grenier) get's killed. I liked the ending scene where Van Damme fight's off the henchman rogue FBI agent Paul Ben-Victor who try's to kill him with a chainsaw. That scene was a bad ass.Ringo Lam did made a great job directing Maximum Risk with Van Damme, it was their first movie working together. In the future they worked together in Replicant (2001) another Van Damme twins movie in which a retired FBI Agent is chasing a serial killer (Van Damme) with the help of his clone. I always liked that movie, but I love this one so much better! And In Hell (2003) another different prison movie with Van Damme in it. I think they both did a solid job directing and filming this martial arts action flick! Natasha Henstridge was really a beautiful girl as Mikael's girlfriend, I been a fan of here. I absolutely loved her in Species and Ghosts of Mars. I always watched Species the original movie, but I have never watched the sequels. Natasha Henstridge is very gorgeous sexy and beautiful in this movie.Maximum Risk is the 1996 action film starring Jean-Claude Van Damme as Alain Moreau, a cop working in Nice, France, who discovers that a body at murder scene is the twin brother he never knew he had. Upon further investigation, Alain finds out that his twin was part of the Russian mafia and had a fiancée (Natasha Henstridge) and then finds himself on the run from the mobsters when he's mistaken for his brother. The film was helmed by Hong Kong director Ringo Lam, who would later collaborate with Van Damme for 2001's Replicant and 2003's In Hell. That is the basic plot. I am giving this movie a 10, of one of my all time favorite Jean-Claude Van Damme movie.Maximum Risk is a 1996 American action thriller film directed by Hong Kong director Ringo Lam in his American directorial debut, and starring Jean-Claude Van Damme and Natasha Henstridge.10/10 Grade Bad Ass Seal Of Approval Studio Columbia Pictures Corporation, Roger Birnbaum Productions, Moshe Diamant Production Starring Jean-Claude Van Damme, Natasha Henstridge, Jean-Hugues Anglade, Zach Grenier, Paul Ben-Victor, Frank Senger, Stefanos Miltsakakis, Stéphane Audran Director Ringo Lam Producer Moshe Diamant Screenplay Larry Ferguson Rated R Running Time 1 Hr. 41 Mins. Budget $25.000.000 Box Office $51,702,483 "},{"Title":"Maximum Bore.","Date":"5 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Maximum Risk (1996) Dir Ringo Lam / Cast Jean-Claude Van Damme, Natasha Henstridge, Jean Hugues Anglade, Zach Grenier, Paul Ben- Victor Numbingly stupid action film about the depths a person will go to obtain information. Jean-Claude Van Damme plays twins for which one dies and the other searches for answers. He learns that his birth mother had to sell one of them in order to survive. He receives help from Natasha Henstridge and they are pursued by bad guys at every turn. Lousy setup with blam blam action to solve problems. Director Ringo Lam handles the action better than the screenwriter but either way neither one can create a Van Damme film that would be worth the time and effort. Van Damme plays two roles to prove that he can suck twice as bad. He even went so far as to direct The Quest the same year, which proves that two roles within one film, directing a film, and having two films out in distribution within one year is not improving his talent. Henstridge is here to remove her cloths and have sex, which is what she did the previous year in that stupid alien film, Species. She is beautiful but attention needs to go to talent as oppose to being a sex object. Supporting roles exist to be shot or bludgeoned with hard objects. Perhaps it is their punishment for agreeing to such a film. It seems that the filmmakers take a maximum risk in boring the audience. Score 3 / 10 "},{"Title":"Parents always lie to their children, to prepare them for the way they'll be treated later by the government.","Date":"1 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This has to be the best Jean-Claude Van Damme action movie he has made. It has it all, and it has it in spades. This movie is 100 minutes, and 95 of those are pure action.You have great car chases through the streets of Nice and New York.You have a whole lot of people the Government is not going to have to arrest and try because they will not be around.You have three, count them three outstanding fights between Jean-Claude Van Damme and the biggest, baddest dude you can imagine.And, you have Natasha Henstridge in the bathroom making love and giving us a view we will long remember.What more can you ask for? "},{"Title":"It's classic Van Damme 90's fun!","Date":"15 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Alain Moreau (Van Damme) is a French cop who just discovered he has a twin brother. His name was Mikhail Suverov and he worked for the Russian mob. To get to the truth about his life, he travels to New York City, specifically the Little Odessa area. While there he must fight gangsters, as well as double-dealing FBI agents. But just about everyone thinks he's Mikhail. Luckily his brother's girlfriend Alex (Henstridge) is along for the ride. Now Alain has to make it back to France in one piece, but not before causing some major Van Damage in the big apple! Maximum Risk is from the good old days when Van Damme movies went to the theater. Thus, it has a high-quality look and feel, and seems to have a decent budget behind it. It's nice to see the high production values used well by the great Ringo Lam, who would later team up with Van Damme again for Replicant and In Hell (2003).It must be in Van Damme's contract to be in movies where he plays two roles. Most actors never get this chance, but Van Damme has. FIVE times. The movies being Double Impact (1991), Maximum Risk, Replicant (2001), Timecop (1994) and The Order (2001). Just why he feels there aren't enough Van Dammes currently on earth, outside of ego, has yet to be explained. To further emphasize his double life, here, in Maximum Risk, Van Damme seeing his reflection is a theme throughout the movie. Glasses, windows, picture frames, and of course mirrors are all employed for psychological purposes. But really this movie is an entertaining thriller that is palatable for general audiences. You don't have to be a Van Damme or martial arts freak to enjoy Maximum Risk.Say what you will about him, but Van Damme has more emotion than Chuck Norris. Or Don The Dragon Wilson. Speaking of Wilson, just as his Bloodfist movies are all 80 minutes, it seems another contract demand of Van Damme is that his movies be at least 100 minutes. Maximum Risk is no exception, so naturally there's some filler, but not much. And a classic cliché is on display the wacky taxi driver is on show once again, but at least this time he has a more substantial part to play than usual.Following another JCVD rule, there has to be a scene where he gets nude or semi-nude. Why, we don't know. Here it's the time-honored bathhouse fight, also seen in such movies as Red Heat (1988) and Showdown in Little Tokyo (1991). But at least there's some Natasha Henstridge nudity as well to right the ship. Henstridge, in only her second-ever movie role (after Species, 1995), looks great, and it's sad to see her end up in Scott Wiper crud like A Better Way to Die (2000), but hey, you gotta make a living.Maximum Risk is solid, undemanding entertainment seemingly made to make the careers of Van Damme and Ringo Lam go over well with larger audiences. Watching it today, it's classic 90's fun that's easy to like.For more insanity, please visit comeuppancereviews.com "},{"Title":"Excellent fight scenes and action","Date":"21 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Now i thought Steven Seagal had the best fight scenes in his movies but Jean Claude is way better!!!!.This movie is very solid and entertaining and in my opinion Jean Claude's best movie. The fight scenes are very well done and the brutal bone snapping fights show what Van Damme can really do in a situation with stupid french punks. Maximum Risk is a very underrated movie like The Last Boyscout and deserves way more credit that what it gets nowadays and the fight in the elevator at the end when Van Damme kills the Russian guy by lodging a knife in his boot was ingenious and suspenseful. Overall Maximum Risk is a very entertaining action movie with great fights and i recommend you get the blu ray!! "},{"Title":"Ringo Lam is a director for hire in this J.C.V.D. film.","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Maximum Risk (1996) could have been a great film if it wasn't for post-production tampering and an unmotivated performance from Jean-Claude Van Damme. Ringo Lam was frustrated with this big budgeted production. Being his first Hollywood movie he didn't quite grasp the idea of focus groups and pre-screening movies. This dealt a blow to Mr. Lam and he didn't come back to the west for five more years. He made a quasi-remake of this film (with better results).Jean-Claude Van Damme stars in two roles (but they don't share any screen time together). One brother (who was raised by a Russian family) is a shady individual who is killed during the opening of the film. His other brother learns about his twin's identity from his birth mother. The more he learns about his brother the more deeply involved he is with finding out who murdered him and why. During his travels he meets Natasha Henstridge and two feds who mistake him for his deceased brother. With the Russian Mob on his trail and two agents constantly bothering him what else kind of trouble will J.C.V.D. get into?Who knows what the original cut of this film looked like. We'll never know. But the final product is nothing more than a J.C.V.D. starring vehicle with flashes of brilliance. A lot better than people give it credit for. A shame because it could have been better.Midly recommended. Check out Replicant or In Hell. Ringo Lam and J.C.V.D. make a great team when the director is given more creative control. "},{"Title":"(Slightly) above average action flick","Date":"30 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  The plot is reasonably engaging and complex for a Van Damme film, with some fast-moving action sequences.I agree with previous post, that Van Damme's acting does seem better in this film, although he still would not win any oscars!In the end, the climax is unfortunately uninspiring, predictable, and true to form of any other action film.He is beginning to look old, but still has a great physique, which I am sure why the demographic votes for this film show it most popular with the over 45 ladies!! ;-)If you are a Van Damme fan, this is worth a look. "},{"Title":"A surprising quality departure from Van Damme's usual formula movie","Date":"21 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I've been a Van Damme fan since Blood sport, but sadly most of his movies I find are *really* bad and steadily decline. (exceptions=Kickboxer, Lionheart - formula movies but good nonetheless).  I'm not sure what the background of this movie is, but it has a much higher degree of production quality and suprisingly realistic feeling stunt and action sequences.  The fight scenes are great, you can sense a sincerity in the punches and blows, and the stunts are Jackie Chan quality.  My favorite stunt is when the antagonist hit man throws him through the window of a building and he is barely hanging on - very well done.  Plus it boasts a European car chase scene that goes through the streets of South France.  Its no Ronin, but it holds its own.Unfortunately, the action sequences are interspersed with long slow dragging parts, but they at least create a serious tone that makes the movie feel more credible.All in all, a surpising blip on the Van Damme radar that sets it apart from his usual formula junk. "},{"Title":"Van Damme's maximum best besides Double Team","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This Movie is surely Van Damme's MAXIMUM best besides Double Team.  It has a good story, cool music, and some pretty interesting and exciting action sequences.  I am a fan of Van Damme's acting and martial arts skills but I haven't liked many of his movies.  Not because of Van Damme himself, but because of cheap plots and bad action sequences. But this Van Damme movie hits the bullseye and it's worth watching.Van Damme stars as a policeman in France who finds out that he had a twin brother that he never knew who had been murdered.  Wanting to dive more into the mystery of his brother's death he travels to New York and takes his brothers place in hope of some answers.  But he gets a lot more than he hoped for because thugs are trying to kill him left and right, so he delivers extreme action, and gives them something to think about(that is if there not all dead yet!).  So see this movie if you haven't yet or see it again if you have.  If you like Van Damme I'd also recommend Double Team. "}{"Title":"A good movie that could have been great","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  If Van Damm would have made some changes and a few finishing touches, this movie could have been great. Still entertaining though. Tipical Van Damm movie. The part which is STUPID and almost laughable is when Van Damm is listening to his brothers voice on the tape recorder. His brothers voice seems that of a bored, tired person and he says When I saw your picture it gave me hope but I didn't want to contact you because everything I touched I poisoned. Now how stupid is that. A guy sees his own picture and it changes his life? And he didn't want to contact Van Damm because he would ruin his life? If everything he touched got poisoned than why is it that that gorgeous girl was JUUUST FINE? Well it's not that bad but it just left me wondering where that came from. Basically it just needed a little more effort. It's a good film for 4 months of work and a low budget but not that great. "},{"Title":"I wanna be Van Damme!","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Holy crap, Van Damme is a lucky guy.  Having the Species girl, Natasha Henstridge, press her naked breasts against your chest is nothing to complain about.Great movie, though, even without the girl.  Van Damme has got to be my favorite action star.  Well, Arnold comes pretty close...hard decision. Oh well. Watch this movie for the fight scenes, if you are in it for the action.  They are more realistic than usual, because nobody takes fifty spinning kicks in the face and a hundred punches to the the ribs before falling down, then gets up after ten seconds, like normal action-movie fights go.  Kinda sucks to have someone stab you through the toe of your shoe, too. "},{"Title":"Great remake of movie genius, 'Deadly Games'","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Van Damme, once again comes into his own with less acting, and more action. This film proves comparable to the martial arts film 'Deadly Games' starring Jason Riley and Bruce Lynch. The only thing this excellent film misses, is the crudentials and ingenious fighting choreography of Jedidiah Smith and Chad Turner (Deadly Games).After being mistaken for his twin brother, who was murdered in France by a group of crooked FBI Agents, Alain Moreau (Jean Claude Van  Damme) hooks up with his brothers girlfriend(Natasha Henstridge)and learns about his unknown past, and ends up in a battle for his life against both the Russian Mob, whom his brother was involved in, and a crooked group of FBI agents, who want the evidence of there involvement with the Russian Mob destroyed.Again, Van Damme shows he can still kick and excite action movie audiences. Maximum Risk is a must see for any Van Damme fan, and a worth while experience for action film fans. "},{"Title":"Actually Quite Well Made","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Ringo Lam has put together a wicked film, that has to be viewed in the state of mind that it is virtually a Hong Kong film. Ringo Lam is a well rounded director, giving his films a unique visual style. This one is no exception. You may say Van Damme acts like a plank of wood, but Maximum Risk wouldn't work without him. Give this film a chance. "},{"Title":"An all around Great Movie","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of Jean-Claude Van Damme's Best movies yet, and in addition They have Natasha Henstridge Playing the Girlfriend, and I don't need to tell anybody That SHE IS ONE HOT GIRL. The action is great the story is realistic and It an all around great movie, i would give it a 8 out of 10 stars, I highly recommend watching this movie. "},{"Title":"An okay action movie with a good looking lead couple.","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Though predictable and contrived, not a bad movie.  It entertains, which is all Van Damme hopes to do.  The omnipresent twin device is again used (as in a large number of Van Damme's movies) but it is not bothersome except to long time fans.  Natasha is gorgeous and worth watching.  Action is decent, nothing spectacular for Van Damme but exciting.  I can recommend to Van Damme fans and even to those who aren't but don't mind an action film with a good looking lead couple.  The Russian Mob is a nice concept and topical for the day.  Clearly, not his best film but by no means his worst. "},{"Title":"not bad, not bad....","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  WELL...here we are, another Van Damme I think this time, he did pretty good...he is not a bad actor, but that depends on the script, producer, director, etc. Anyway, if you don`t like Van Damme, then no matter what movie he`s going to play in, it just won`t make it. So, I think, this story is pretty good. Van Damme find out that he has(sorry, HAD)a twin brother. Unfortunately, that only happens after his brother was murdered. Now this sets up a whole lot a action, since Van Damme becames curious about his brother. So, he flies to New York to find out more about his brother, not knowing that the Russian mob is after him. You see, the Russian mob has no idea that he is not who they think he is (his twin brother). Meanwhile, some bad boys from the FBI are after him as well, assuming that he will provide them with some list that will put everybody in jail, mob and FBI, if it would get out in the open. Basically, this is the story, but I would suggest you rather watch it, because it's got a lot a unpredictible scenarios. I am not such a Van Damme fan, but I would give this movie a 7 out 10.  "},{"Title":"One of his best movies","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Admittedly, I'm a Van Damme fan (say that ten times fast) but I really liked this movie. It had awesome action. Not awesome over the top (like The Quest) but awesome in it's 'realism' No one was superhumanly tough. Van Damme did not take a thousand hits to prove how tough he was. He got hit in the head in the beginning of the movie, and had a bruise and bandage on it for the rest of the movie. The main bad buy (who was AWESOME) was at one point taken out by two swift kicks (which for most of us, is one more than we would take). The plot was refreshingly original. Sure, it had a lot of required elements, but the way it went about them was original (in my opinion at least). The odyssey  of discovering his brothers identity was very compelling. Natasha Henstridge, briefly topless (also a good reason to watch this movie) was very good and I continue to enjoy her roles. Probably the worst thing about this movie was Van Damme's acting ability, which seems to have gone down since his best acted flicks, 'Lionheart' and 'Double Impact' but from what I have heard, he was a major cokehead while making this. Not really an excuse, but what can you do. "},{"Title":"Jean Claude Van Damme, violence by numbers","Date":"15 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  In a remarkably transparent plotline, Van Damme finds he has a twin brother, put up for adoption during their earlier years by their destitute mother.What follows is all the things you expect to see - high kicks, glib one liners, and a female lead. Entertaining for those that like Van Damme, but for those of us who don't get so excited about the man from Brussels, just another Van Damme film. "},{"Title":"Watch for Henstridge","Date":"13 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is actually not that bad by Van Damme standards. It's one of his more entertaining films. He continues on with his bizarre twin fascination (is he really SUCH an ego-maniac that he always has to play TWO characters?) but Natasha Henstridge steals the show.  She is such a gorgeous creature that one can become transfixed watching her on the screen.  She is truly a beauty and this movie is worth watching just to see her on screen.  You can fast forward through the parts she's not in.  "}{"Title":" How can one be so different from a brother on the opposite side of the law ?  ","Date":"19 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" It was once said, every single person has a twin living on the planet at the same time. In this movie our hero, Jean-Claude Van Damme plays Alain Moreau a police officer who learns he bears a striking resemblance to a gangster who has just been killed. A french officer called Sebastien, (Jean-Hugues Anglade) informs him of the dead man, whom Alain discovers is Mikhail, his actual brother. Deciding he want to learn more, he pretends to take his place. What he doesn't know is that his brother was a notorious, hunted gangster, with a girlfriend and is being chased by the Russian mafia, rouge F.B.I. agents and a whole slue of vicious men who want him dead. One of the worse is a man called 'Red Face' (Stefanos Miltsakakis) who has been contracted to kill him and will not stop until he does. The movie is jam-pack with dramatic, exciting physical action, car chases and harrowing bullet ripping confrontations. This film is perhaps the best of the Jean Claude series and will stand on its own against others in the genre. Easilly recommended. **** "},{"Title":"a nonsensical cop goes undercover to meet nonsensical characters in a nonsensical plot.","Date":"27 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This appears to have been Ringo Lam's experiment to see if he could an American-style B-movie. In one interview, Lam said he had wanted to explore the theme of double identity a little deeper, but it just didn't get done. In the New York sequence, we do get a hint that Alain has become a voyeur watching his own brother's life, but it doesn't really amount to much.So the film remains a B-movie; and unfortunately, AS a B-movie, it has some uncomfortable flaws. I don't mean the stereotypes or the formulaic action scenes, those are what B-movies are all about; I mean a plot that, while laid out for us in explicit expository dialog (too much so, really) yet it still feels confusing. I think this is primarily due to a complete absence of any narrative push or pull. One instance for a cop to go undercover with the Russian mob, with no back-up, no plan, no exit strategy, just because he feels a little weird about finding a dead twin brother he never knew he had - makes absolutely no sense at all.In fact, none of the supporting characters, including the lead female, do anything that makes much sense; so a nonsensical cop goes undercover to meet nonsensical characters, of course they're going to develop a nonsensical plot.It must be noted that this film evidences absolutely NO research into the workings of the Police, the FBI or the Russian mob. This film has less such research behind it than The Boondock Saints, which never pretends to be other than pure fantasy. But director Lam certainly knows better than this! Wild Search, City on Fire, the Prison on Fire films - all his Chinese language films are rich with details of the workings of Hong Kong's criminal justice system.I suppose Lam simply wanted to show that he could make an American B-movie; but this isn't enough to make audiences want to see the film.The positives are that is is very well performed by all the actors; the action scenes are fast and brutally realistic; and Van Damme, in one of his better, more restrained performances, does manage to generate empathy for his character. So it is certainly watchable - as a B-movie.But I wish Lam had been allowed to make the film he originally intended, one with an engaging theme that would have driven the plot to make it feel compelling.As it is, we have some interesting action set-pieces - but that's all. "},{"Title":"Maximum risk, minimum pay off....","Date":"1 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  When you've got Ringo Lam at the helm, you know the movie will look good.  Places such as New York (technically Toronto) and Nice portray realism in their appearance.......realism being the key word since Ringo Lam also wants this from his actors down to the fight scenes.....the funny thing though is that however realistic this movie may be, apparently everyday people in France speak English to one another just as life long members of the Russian mob do. Very real on that one.This movie doesnt work because of the lack of proper character development (in everyone) and because the story is extremely plain, lazy....the writers here lacking major creative input......whoever wrote this one probably did so while waiting at his/her doctor's office or maybe while using the restroom, seems like it took just a few minutes to complete anyway.Another major flaw is the 0 humor, Van Damme may not do comedies, but his films always come with its fair share of comedic moments, intentional or not, but this one is dead serious.  Then of course, the main course, what we watch JCVD for, are his impressive moves, but here, the combats are non-inspirational and unskillful, they may be real like but if everything else in the movie has to be terrible, the fights are the only thing that can make it worthwhile.......and they dont.If you want to see Jean Claude and Ringo get it right, then Replicant is what you are looking for, not this. "},{"Title":"Maximum risk, but it's okay, this is France.","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  We plunge straight into a ferocious chase sequence in which Van Damme gets off to a cracking start by demolishing a balcony in the south of France. He then grabs one of those horrible French delivery scooters replete with oodles of that bountiful fruit you always see in France which then flies everywhere. A chase ensues in which many French people run screaming in terror. Various tables and chairs from French cafes take a tumble. More French citizens dash this way and that in a state of blind panic. A little later a French apartment block goes up in flames. Van Damme sees a women trapped in a burning room. Is it Juliet Binoche? Sadly no, and Van Damme saves her anyway. There is smoke everywhere. More French people run howling in a horrible state of distress. My God, is this the best film ever made? No, that's 'Fight Club'. This is the second best film ever made. AND Natasha Henstridge is in it. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable action film.  One of Van Damme's best.","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  My Age 13A French policeman, played by Jean-Claude Van Damme, finds that he has a twin brother, but he has just been murdered.  Soon all of his brother's problems come to trouble him, as everyone believes that he is his brother, including his brother's girlfriend, Alex, played by Natasha Henstridge.  Together they go on the run from the Russian Mafia and the FBI.Maximum Risk is much more fun and entertaining that most of Van Damme's mostly tedious films.  Van Damme puts in his usual average performance, and Natasha Henstridge adds some much needed sizzle and romance.  There are plenty of fights, explosions and violence as there always are in Van Damme films.  It has more plot than most of his films, too.Australian Classification M 15+ Medium Level Violence, Low Level Sex Scenes, Low Level Coarse LanguageRating 70 out of 100 "},{"Title":"Van Damme's best movie yet!","Date":"18 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Van Damme hits hard in this top notch action/thriller! Though he may have a string of klunkers, Van Damme scores as the story and action is incredible in this flick. This has got to be my favorite Van Damme flick, next to Bloodsport and Double Team. But this is his best. I give it a 10. "},{"Title":"I knew it would be good!","Date":"26 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Jean-Claude Van-Damme is cool! I still think he's cool! Maximium Risk is awesome. I'm a fan of Hong Kong directors, and when I heard Ringo Lam, I knew this would be good. Van-Damme is not a bad actor. Working with a Hong Kong director would give you pointers on acting, and I think Van-Damme got them. Van-Damme did a good job in this movie. I liked the fight scenes for one thing. Van-Damme does that classic moves where he foot sweeps a guy who's standing on a car. Natasha Henstridge is so beautiful. She and Van-Damme made a great pair. I would like to see her in future movies. The story was good too. Sometimes we need movies that don't have very complicated stories. Not that that's bad, but I like my brain.  "},{"Title":"Van Damme the ULTIMATE 80's / B-movie actor","Date":"12 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Damme, Jean Claude made it to the big screen with this film. Co-starring the sexy Natasha Henstridge (she even looked good when she was pregga's). There is decent sexual innuendo, but nothing ever progresses to what made me rent this film, as i'm sure thousands of other viewers were hoping after watchign Species. I mean, it should have been guaranteed with a B actor like Van Damme, and a Hollywood tart like Henstridge, it sounded like an unbeatable combo. Nevertheless, there is decent fighting, and i will cut JCVD a break as he is old despite looking like a 30 year old. Worth a watch as it has good perve ratings and action. The formula that Hollywood as thrived on for decades. Keep up the good work guys! "},{"Title":"Movie that changed my life !!!","Date":"19 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" sometimes there is a movie that is so moving that one leaves the theater in a stunned silence unable to speak lest the emotions get the better of you and the tears flow, such is this movie. As a boy in Holland i used to frolic in the fields and dream that i as the magnificent Van Damme avenging evil in this world. when my father caught me imitating Van Damme he would beat me with a wet towel until i cried like a little schoolgirl. As such I have dreamed since then that i could see a movie that finally let Van Damme unleash his fury on the evil things in this world. The villains in this picture are the very manifestations of my childhood visions of evil incarnate. Van Dammes vanquishing of them was like revenge for all the times that my father beat me, I can die a happy man now that I have seen this masterpiece and Van damme has avenged the sins of my father. if you don't like this movie i will hunt you down and kill you for your ignorance of the art of cinema and your fascist belief in parental brutality. "},{"Title":"Well, its not THAT bad...","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" After watching 'Legionnaire' and 'Death Warrant', I finally get back to a movie in which Van Damme gets to do a lot of what he does best kick lots of random people in the head. I always knew I was easily amused, but 'Maximum Risk' really demonstrates that fact.Van Damme plays Alain Moreau, a French cop who discovers he has a twin brother, Mikhail. Trouble is, Mikhail is suffering from a slight case of death. To find out why Mikhail was murdered, Alain must simply travel to New York (which in the tradition of 'Rumble in the Bronx', is actually Toronto), assume Mikhail's identity, and beat up as many Russian mafia goons as he can in 90 minutes. Simple, no? Awesome, no?OK, maybe I'm talking 'Maximum Risk' up a bit. Sure, it lacks any development in story and characters, and any attempt is minimal (all are good things whenever I'm concerned), but even with Ringo Lam at the helm, this is nowhere near Van Damme's best effort. The action scenes are good, but nothing special.'Maximum Risk' is really only for Van Damme fans. Van Damme fans who haven't seen it should check it out, but if you're looking for a more solid action movie, he has a fair few better movies around - 5/10 "}{"Title":"Maximum Risk - A Review","Date":"15 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Maximum Risk would have been a good picture, except that there were so many fight scenes and shoot outs, so much vandalism, and so many explosions that they almost crowded out the film's human characters. And this is the main flaw of Maximum Risk it should have been about its human characters. The story of Alain Moreau's (Jean Claude Van Damme) search for the people who killed his brother Mikhail Suvurov had the makings of a good film and maybe even a great film, as British director Mike Hodges proved when he directed Michael Caine in Get Carter (1974). Moreover, this film also makes it clear that Alain did not know he had a brother, until he learnt of Mikhail's premature and violent death -- and this was another opening that the filmmakers of Maximum Risk should have exploited more fully by writing better dialogue and better scenes for the actors and cutting back on the explosions and vandalism. Yet all of these opportunities were squandered because the filmmakers decided to dumb down this picture. Jean Claude Van Damme, for example, gets even fewer lines than the ones delivered by Natasha Henstridge (who plays Alain's love interest, Alex Minetti), even though he is supposed to be the protagonist in this picture.Now this film is not all bad. The set-up for this picture was good and I also liked the small twist two-thirds into the film, where we see a rare thing in a JCVD movie Jean Claude Van Damme successfully making a cogent argument involving some sophisticated analysis. But the main strength of this picture has to be Natasha Henstridge's performance as the JCVD love interest, Alex Minetti. Henstridge may not have the best dialogue to work with, but she is able to imbue her lines with enough emotion and intensity to make her character seem plausible. She is probably the most interesting thing in this picture. Jean Claude Van Damme, by contrast, can do little more than reprise his bad boy (who always gets into fights and gets his face bruised) role from films like Death Warrant, Double Impact, and Nowhere to Run. He is not doing anything new in this picture that he did not do far better in previous films and, what is more, we do not even see him do much of his choreographed karate either. Overall a disappointing film.5.4/10 "},{"Title":"No...this is NOT Van Damme's best","Date":"8 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" But it is entertaining. Maximum Risk is a fun ride with a clichéd plot and a problem with pacing. But it does feature some good fights, decent acting, and a nice budget. Van Damme matures with each film he makes, so you get a well acted Van Damme performance to go along with the usual martial arts wizardry. It kind of a shame that as he got better as an actor his box office success got worse. This is a good action flick to pop in and zone out on. It's not Van Damme's best like other say...but it is one of his better films. Natasha Henstridge whips out the awesome jugs and has a pretty hot scene with J.C. but she's pretty much useless besides that. "},{"Title":"Operation Twin Brother","Date":"12 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" **SPOILERS** It's when Niece France policeman Alain Moreau, Jean Claude Van-Damme, was summoned to the city morgue to check out a stiff who was killed by going head-first through a moving car's windshield that he realized that he wasn't born alone in the world! His twin brother Mikhail Suverov, came into the world together, within the space of five minutes, with him!Going to see his mom, Stephane Avdran, a shocked Alain learned from her that his brother we given up at birth for adoption since she, being single and with no means of support, couldn't take care of him much less Alain. Determined to find out just what the mysterious Mikhail was doing all these years Alain, finding out that he lived in New York City, took over his identity in order to clear up that mystery! And what a mystery it was! Mikhail was a top member of the Russian Mob in Brighton Beach, or littler Oddesa as it's know, Brooklyn! It was Mikhail who was playing double-agent for the Russian Mob in getting the goods on members of the NYPD and FBI Agents who were secretly working for it!It doesn't take long for Alain, impersonating his brother Mikhail, to go into action having it out with top Russian Mob hit-man Red-Face, Stefanos Mitsakakis, sent by the Russian Mob, in mistaking him for his dead brother Mikhail, first in Niece then in Brooklyn and then back in Niece before he, with the help of a bowie knife, finally put him away for good. Alain also got to know his late brother's girlfriend Alex Minetti, Natasha Henstridge, who worked as a bar maid in a Brighton Beach Russian Mob run nightclub, the Bohemian, who then ended up falling in love with him. Even though Alain put her life in mortal danger by Alex just knowing him.There's also the two dirty FBI Agents Pellman & Loomis, Paul Bn-Victor & Frank Senger, who were responsible for Mikhail death back in Niece who together with the Russain Mob wanted Alain to get his hands on a secret little black book, together with audio tapes and photos, that was locked away in a Niece bank safe deposit box. The contents of that book can can implicated them in dealing with the mob and send the two , as well as dozens of other FBI Agents and NYPD policemen, up the river for the rest of their lives!**SPOILER** The big final in the movie after Alain had almost single handed wrecked half of Brighton Beach, together with the Russian mobsters who live there, takes place back in Niece France where the film first began. It's there where Alain finishes the job that he at first started there by putting an end to what was still left of the Russian Mob together with its partners in crime FBI Agents Pellman & Loomis. Alain achieved all that in a wild bank shoot out together with a number of multi car explosions as well as a climatic bone chilling battle, in a massive walk-in freezer, with a crazed and out of control Loomis, using a chainsaw, and profusely sweating, in spite of the freezing cold, Pellman at a Niece meat packing factory! "},{"Title":"It was good, but definitely not the number 1 movie of the year","Date":"16 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Back in 95-96 Van Damme was still a big deal where his mere appearance was enough for movie goers to come out and see his movies, well this was one of those where the story lines may be dumb, dialogue may be laughable but the Van Damme name was enough to make this movie number 1 at one point. Also having Natasha Henstridge (who had just come off a monumental role in Species) helped matters as back then she was hot enough to sell tickets herself.In this movie Van Damme does what he does best, play a double role....for about 5 minutes. The film rushes right out of the gate with a chase scene so the director probably figured forget the plot line and just get to what the fans wanted to see. Then inexplicably they kill Van Damme after the chase scene....or so we thought.The plot to this one is Van Damme plays a french cop who's mistaken for a dead Russian which happens to be his long lost identical twin brother. His brother was in the Russian mob and had gotten wind of an alliance between American CIA agents and the mob so he was marked for death. Van Damme spends the whole movie trying to figure out what happened to his brother and to bring the mobsters and rogue agents down.For whatever reason, even after Van Damme identifies himself as not Mikhail (the dead mobster) but as Alain (the french cop), Natasha Henstridge still falls in love with him. To anyone reading this that has a twin brother, if he dropped dead would his g/f suddenly come on to you? Not very logical but hey, seeing Natasha get her groove on is always a welcome sight.This was probably the downfall of Jean's career as he was battling drug problems and his movies appeared to make less and less sense, not to mention the ol revenge plot went out in the 80's and early 90's.What I'm trying to say is, its a good movie...just had no business being number 1 in the theaters and wasn't his best role by any means.6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"One of Van Dammes best efforts!!","Date":"23 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This is yet another of Jean Claude Van Damme's movies where he teams up with a Hong Kong director and once again it proves to be one of his best. The script is nothing special, although is compared to Van Dammes others. It also gives him a chance to stretch his acting muscles more so than usual. Between the top notch action and Kung-Fu carnage Van Damme is given good support from the stunning Natasha Henstridge who is a better actress than she will get credited for because of her pretty face. Ringo Lam directs with assurance and flair and this turns out entertaining despite moments of ridiculousness. The pacing of the film is decent enough and there is plenty of action while the cinematography is nicely glossy. To be fair as well Van Damme gives a better than usual performance with a character that has marginally more dpeth than his other movies. *** "},{"Title":"* OUT OF FIVE","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Jean-Claude Van Damme stars as Alain a French cop who finds out he has a twin brother and his attempts to find out who rubbed him out in this disjointed and deadly dull affair. The action scenes while stylish provide no real thrills and the whole movie just drags when the movie is supposed to be exciting.  "},{"Title":"One awesome movie!","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of Van Dam's best movies.  The fights scenes are amazing with the Russian Assassin.  One of the greatest fight scenes I have seen was the steam room brawl.  The part where the russian godfather gets popped in the head and chest is great.  Also the close quarters fight scene in the elevator is amazing.  The dude gets stabbed in the foot, now thats what i call original.  If for nothing else, watch this movie for the great sex scene with Natasha whats her name...ahh who cares, she looks great nude. Well, I think this movie is definitly worth your time.  Great Plot, Great Action   9/10. "},{"Title":"It was an okay flick !","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I saw it last night.I felt it wasn't excellent,but you can enjoy it after a day work. Van Demme was okay.The movie just shows his kungfu & fights bad guys.I don't really like Van Demme & his movies.But I can tell you that Suddenly Death is good. This movie lacks of good story & stupid. I've seen lots of action movies in Hong Kong. They have the same problem to this ! "},{"Title":"A deeply absorbing and merciless thriller.","Date":"12 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  A deeply absorbing and merciless thriller as a somber and possibly very melancholy French detective (Jean-Claude Van Damme) who comes to New York City's Little Odessa suburb under his dead twin brother's identity and not only gets his brother's girlfriend (Natasha Henstridge).  He also becomes involved in a sticky situation with some nasty Russian mobsters which includes his brother's ruthless and bitter rival (Zach Grenier) and a pair of crooked FBI agents.What makes Maximum Risk so great and highly entertaining is that director Ringo Lam, who is a veteran of the Hong Kong action films like John Woo, never lets the characters become predictable.  Also notable are the stunts and some of the car chases aren't only wild, it's clever, too.  It's nice to see that Van Damme doesn't have to carry the film by himself and has a reliable international cast to back up.  Van Damme gives, without a single doubt, his best performance here and that's not an understatement.  It's the truth.  "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie !!!!","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I am one of Van damme's biggest fans. So, i say that this movie is his best movie. I like this director, Ringo Lam. He is the coolest director I've ever met. Van damme is acting !!!! Enjoying acting !!!! I like his hairstyle in the film. I'd like them to make sequel to it.Best Regards. "}{"Title":"a decent film","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I think that VD & Henstridge make a good couple. But the movie could've been better. There was 2 Van Damme's (like Double Impact & Timecop). 1 dies though. VD takes his dead bro's identity & then meets the beautiful N. Henstridge. Wow, she is 1 hot woman. Um, back 2 the movie. Yes, they make love, u just saw it coming-lol. The ending was odd & could've been better but its like a love story in the end, I think. Its alright, does have some cool action scenes. Its worth seeing but u all know me. I'm a Van Damme fan, so Its in my collection, especially those 2 movies where he was the bad guy.  "},{"Title":"Neither to my worst enemy!!!","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Maximum risk was a completely bad movie. It had a very simple in the same time confusing screenplay and a bad directing in the usual style of American action. I found this movie boring and totally uninteresting. As far as the performances are concerned they were all damnable and bad. Jean-Claude Van Damme played very expressionless. So the other actors did. In a few words I really don't recommend this movie to anybody. Neither to my worst enemy! As a matter of fact I regretted watching it.      "},{"Title":"Lam, Van Damme, and blam, blam, blam!","Date":"7 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" For his US directorial debut, top HK film-maker Ringo Lam follows in the footsteps of fellow countryman John Woo by working with Belgian martial arts star Jean Claude Van Damme. A typically preposterous 90s Hollywood actioner, Lam's Maximum Risk adequately showcases the director's not inconsiderable talent when it comes to breath-taking stunts and brutal violence and certainly puts Van Damme through his paces, but the film is hampered by an overly complex plot and talkative script that tends to get in the way of the fun.Still, it's definitely worth persevering with the film's weaker parts (even the pointless sub-plot about a crazy wannabe novelist/taxi-driver) just to get to the good bits, which include several well choreographed punch-ups between the star and a muscle-bound Russian goon, a great scene that sees Van Damme narrowly avoiding a speeding train, a few decent car chases, Jean Claude versus a chainsaw wielding baddie, and the gorgeous Natasha Henstridge getting her top off for a spot of hanky panky. "},{"Title":"Not Bad","Date":"19 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  The movie is not that bad, Ringo Lam sucks. I hate when Van Damme has love in his movies, van Damme is good only when he doesn't have love in his movies. "},{"Title":"Maximum FaliureRingo Lams Hollywood Debut Goes Wrong","Date":"29 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This is a sad thing seriously i love Van Damme but this was Ringo Lam's Hollywood debut film & it goes horribly wrong the guy is a good director but not like john woo still his Chinese films are better then this any day the script & screenplay is faulty even action scenes could not save this project alone.Few of the things are repeated many times like this double role story line of Jcvd looking for who persons responsible for killing his brother,Jcvd did similar roles in early 90s,& even after this a film came The Replicant which was also directed by Ringo Lam.The action here is weird too in the start Van Damme is on the bike & gets killed in a hilarious manner after a long chase sequence the final climax is filled with unnecessary fire balls,massive shootout,explosions & smoke the viewer gets confused the camera even shakes a little too.The Plota cop finds out about his unknown twin brother is killed by some bad guys now he also has to take Alex his brothers girlfriend along with him to hunt the bad guys involving FBI & Russian mafia.The CastJean Claude Van Damme looks uninterested but highlight is Natasha Henstridge she looks stunning.This this is boring & it never excites the fans of the genre this is where Hard Target 1993 surpasses even new films it is one of Jcvd's best that film made me a action & hardcore Van Damme fan.The editors were sleeping they forgot to to trim some of the useless stuff,the pace is the slowest ever yet here out of most Van Damme films & that taxi driver was nuts.Overall Maximum Risk 1996 fails to deliver everything a action lover looks for in a film Ringo Lam should have made some movies with Steven Seagal too but this combination with Van Damme never works main reason is Jcvd is a high octane super mode action type guy my rating is 3/10. "},{"Title":"Strictly formulaic","Date":"4 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The Story Alain, a French policeman, is shocked to discover that he had a twin brother when his body is found in Nice. Investigating the murder, he finds out that he was in possession of a list that details the deeds of the Russian Mafia. Helped by his brother's girlfriend, Alain dodges Russian gangsters & corrupt FBI agents while trying to find the list.Maximum Risk is another one of the long list of action films that feature Jean-Claude Van Damme. As far as things go, it is strictly formulaic. The script sticks to the clichés & the acting is mediocre. There are some nicely done action sequences, with an inventive car chase, a fight in a burning building, an escape through rooftops, a brutal fight in an elevator & JCVD fleeing his enemies over an elevated train line. Director Ringo Lam keeps everything going at a reasonable pace. "},{"Title":"Who gives a van Damme?","Date":"26 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Jean Claude Van Damme is clearly one of the most limited actors working today. His pronunciation is awkward, his emoting lacks conviction and any subtle twitches that he manages to convey are usually purely coincidental. But that's not much of a problem, since he belongs in the Stallone/Schwarzenegger category of actor a big guy with a big gun and a penchant for fast justice. However, what amazes me about Jean Claude is that he has this extraordinary tendency to go for scripts where he is required to play dual roles. First, in Double Impact he played his own identical twin; in Time Cop he shared time zone revisits to, er, himself; and in Maximum Risk he once again assumes the role of .... his twin brother! Why does such a limited performer feel the need to hog the screen so much?This one is familiar action stuff. Van Damme's brother (Van Damme!) is murdered at the start, so his twin comes to New York looking for the culprit. Why he gives a damn is hard to ascertain, since the pair haven't seen each other in ages. However, care he does, and before you know, French cop (Van Damme again) is shooting up half the city as he investigates the killing, leading him into deep water with the Russian Mafia.The film is energetic enough, and there's a decent nude scene featuring the lovely Natasha Henstridge. However, the good points end there. The pacing, scripting, editting and acting are rather clumsy. The violence is excessive. During the quiet moments there is little to occupy the viewer's mind. There's too much macho posturing during the action sequences, just so we get a long, good glimpse of how chunky and macho our hero really is. In all honesty, Van Damme has done too many of these brainless action flicks and they now bear signs of weariness. Time for a new action hero, I feel. "},{"Title":"Ho-Hum","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This is not a good film.I can usually sit through a Van Damme movie if I have to, as they are usually a bit of a laugh and don't require much thought. This one has no redeeming features. It has a distinct lack of plot, humour, acting, direction etc etc. A real stinker on all levels. I have never walked out of a cinema during a movie, although I came damme close here. Avoid at all costs. "},{"Title":"If you know what Van Damme Movies are like - you'll know what this is like","Date":"12 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I guess the advertisement summed up this film elegantly. It has fighting and an attractive girl. If that is what makes a movie, then I am no longer interested, because even though this movie had fighting and a girl, everything else about it was dull. The bad guys were annoying and the acting was bad, but that is what one expects when one comes to a Van Damme film. Why he keeps on making film is beyond me - he should go back to dancing, because there you don't have to speak. It is not surprising that he plays some French guy because he can't even get rid of that accent - and it isn't even pleasing.Basically this movie is long, boring, and quite pointless. The surprising thing is that it was directed by a Hong Kong director. I cannot recall any Ringo Lam films off of the top of my head, but I am sure they are more entertaining than this one. Van Damme may appear to be a good martial artist (which he is not - he is a dancer) but everything else about his movies are bad. In my personal opinion, give this film a miss. "},{"Title":"Well, maximum SOMETHING, anyway&#133;","Date":"5 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Maximum Risk was released in 1996, the year after Species was released and was, if I remember correctly, a huge hit. I was in high school at the time, and I know it was highly popular with my peers, who are clearly the same target audience that director Ringo Lam was shooting for with Maximum Risk. Van Damme lends his cult star power along with Natasha Henstridge (which the IMDb claims is sometimes credited as The Chick From Species) under the direction of Hong Kong action director Lam and the result is a remarkably bad, by-the-numbers revenge drama.The movie opens with a routine high speed chase that is interesting only because it takes places through tiny alleys in the south of France and ends in a wild jump into oncoming traffic by the man being chased, who is played by Van Damme and who dies before we even see the title of the movie. The last movie that I watched before this one was Universal Soldier, another movie in which Van Damme's character is killing within the first few minutes of the movie, so I was surprised to see it happen again given that this is obviously a very different movie. But if nothing else, the opening chase definitely gets your attention, if only to make you wonder what would make him so desperate to escape from the men chasing him, who turned out to be government agents.But an early death is not the only familiar thing we'll see. Van Damme also plays a double role and spends most of the movie trying to avenge his brother, You see, it seems that there is a French cop who bears an astonishing resemblance to the man killed in the chase, and after some investigation it's revealed that he is a long lost brother. The mother tearfully admits that she had to give up her other son when he was an infant because she couldn't support two children, and never told her other son Alain (the French police officer) that he ever had a brother.That's basically the set-up, and Alain drops everything and sets off on a personal quest to find out who his brother was and who killed him and why. This is what leads him to Alex, his dead brother's girlfriend, played by Natasha Henstridge, who surely would never have taken such a ridiculous role had she not been brand new in the movies. This is her second film, and I am at a loss to explain why she would accept such a ludicrous role other than her inexperience in film.Alex is an ex-stripper who is now a waitress for questionable characters (less money but more respectable), who doesn't blink when Alain shows up at her work, other than to rush him out because he's not exactly welcome there. He tends to be stone silent when he approaches people who think that he is his brother, but in most cases ultimately he comes right out and tells them, and when he tells Alex, she joins him in his mission.Sadly, there is nothing interesting or original about the movie. Every character is a cliché, good guys or bad. All that's left is Alain's quest to learn about his brother's life and bring his killers to justice, which is honorable but all he can do is spout cheesy lines about how he's not going to rest until his brother's killers are brought to justice. I have said before that Van Damme gets a lot of bad press about his movies, and I think that because of that people often forget that his characters are almost always motivated by very honorable ideas and values. He delivers a good message in a way that very few other action stars do, and unfortunately in Maximum Risk the problem is that it's too obvious and there's not really anything else in the movie to entertain us along the way.James Berardinelli, for example, claims in his review that Van Damme's acting ability can charitably be described as 'limited,' so clearly there can be no satisfactory emotional content in the movie. He's right that Van Damme's acting is often wooden and unconvincing, but dead wrong that he can't do it. Sadly, it wasn't until eight years later, in Wake of Death (which Berardinelli didn't see) that Van Damme showed without question that he can definitely convey emotions. WOW.There is the issue that there is no chemistry whatsoever between Van Damme and Henstridge, but a more pressing concern is that she was a man's lover and then, after he was killed, she honored his memory by becoming his twin brother's lover. Is it just me or does something about that just not come off right? Sort of throws a wet towel over the already boring and routine obligatory ending.Unfortunately, Lam is not the first Hong Kong action director to enter the American market with a Van Damme disaster. John Woo, an occasionally lucky director, also came to America and brought us Hard Target, another of Van Damme's few thorough disappointments. Van Damme is a major action star with genuine talent and appeal, but sadly this movie was worth the time of effort of anyone involved&#133; "}{"Title":"Just more of the same","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Maximum Risk is a step sideways for Van Damme and just more of the uninspired B-movie action stuff we've come to expect from films featuring the macho Belgian martial artist. The flick has gaping plots holes, goofs galore, a messy conglomerated plot, and a gorgeous Henstridge who spends most of her time looking like she's waiting for a cue. Maximum Risk doesn't distinguish itself in any way and will likely not have much appeal beyond the usual young male audiences. (C-) "},{"Title":"All the weaknesses and strengths of a Van Damme film but still quite good fun","Date":"7 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Alain Moreau is a cop in France who cannot believe his eyes when a murder victim is the spitting image of him. He confronts his mother and learns that she had had twins but had to give one of them up. Wanting to solve the murder of his estranged twin, Alain follows a trail that leads him to a New York that is cold and full of snow and finds himself sucked into his brother's world where he finds himself with his brother's beautiful girlfriend all over him. However Alain also inherits his brother's problems some of which include Russian gangsters who want to kill him.This film wastes no time in getting the plot established and flying Alain into his first fight as quickly as possible and I can understand why this was the case. The plot is thin to say the least and it is best not to apply too much logic to any of it because the whole thing is an excuse for Van Damme to just do the things in this film that he does in all his films. This includes speaking in a strange accent, being naked with a beautiful female co-star and kicking people in lots of exciting ways. All these boxes are ticked here and as such it does what you would expect from a Van Damme film and it will depend on the individual viewer whether or not that gets you interested or sees you running the opposite direction. For me it is somewhere in the middle because I accept the bad and in return veg out in front of a dumb action movie. The plot gets no better and every time it needs to add story to create more action you can almost see it straining with the effort.The action is mostly pretty good although it was a bit disappointing to see how Ringo Lam had toned down the style for his first American film; only here and there did the film get close to the mayhem in the action that he is known for. Van Damme is quite good though, for course he is a clunky actor and here he seems to have had his charisma filtered out but in the action sequences he is a marvel &#150; very athletic and impressive and his physical presence helps a lot. Henstridge takes care of the co-star who will get her t1ts out requirement of the film but other than that she could have been anyone. The Wire's Ben Victor is so-so and yet I found it ironic that he had his last big scene in a cooler full of dead pigs because he had spent so much of the rest of the film surrounded by big hams too &#150; Grenier in particular comes to mind.Overall then this is a solid Van Damme film with all the plusses and minuses that one would expect. The plot is poor and the acting leaves a lot to desire but the action is fun even if I was hoping for more from Lam. "},{"Title":"VanDamme´s best (what doesn´t mean too much)","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Maximum risk is quite surprising to a person that has seen more then on of his movies. Director Ringo Lam made an average action-movie, that can be compared with most of the other mid-quality action movies, what is a special predicate to a `Muscles from Brussels`movie. It has a quite classy style, an interesting atmosphere and, last but not least, the beautyful Natasha Henstridge. Even VanDamme doesn´t make you crying by his acting, he does a relatively good job. Of course you may not compare Maximum Risk (oh, what a creative title!) to `Ronin`, but after watching `Knock off` it´s the hell of a good movie... in special standards, of course.  "},{"Title":"Strictly average JCVD action thriller.","Date":"10 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Maximum Risk starts in the South of France where ex-Russian mobster Mikhail Suverov (Jean-Claude Van Damme) is killed in an accident while trying to escape from two FBI agents chasing him. The police become involved & detective Sebastien (Jean-Hugues Anglade) recognises Mikhail as his close friend & fellow cop Alain Moreau (Jean-Claude Van Damme), it quickly turns out that Mikhail & Alain were identical twins separated at birth. Wanting to know about his brother & why he was killed Alain follows a trail back to New York where he discovers his brother Mikhail was involved with Russian mobsters & a beautiful waitress named Alex Minetti (Natasha Henstridge), Alain also discovers the Russian mobsters want him dead not to mention the FBI who also want a piece of him...Making his American action film debut this run of the mill JCVD action film was directed by Ringo Lam & was the second time a famed Asian action film director made his American feature film debut with JCVD after John Woo made probably JCVD's best film Hard Target (1993) & JCVD would also star in Hark Tsui's first American film as well with the terrible Double Team (1997). Anyway, here the almost humourless script by Larry Ferguson feels like a collection of action film clichés loosely strung together with little regard for a plot, the narrative or the audience. There's the JCVD character who is not only a cop but also an ex-soldier just so he can really handle himself, there's evil mobsters who can't shoot straight, there's a pretty blonde woman who is entirely surplus to the plot & is included solely for her looks, there's various fights & chases, there's a 'big' tough bad guy who JCVD has to have a climatic showdown with towards the end, there's crooked FBI agents & not much of a plot to speak of. Most of Maximum Risk just feels like JCVD going from one fight to another on the basic pretence that they are after his twin brother & it just gets old very quickly & the whole plot is uninspiring, it's predictable, it's silly & it's throughly routine. I suppose it's watchable, there's nothing spectacularly wrong with it & it moves along at a decent pace but I just can't muster up much enthusiasm for it at all & I consider myself a JCVD fan. Maximum Risk was the second time JCVD played dual roles in a film the first being Double Impact (1991) where, like in Maximum Risk, he played identical twins & then he went on to play two roles in both Replicant (2001) & The Order (2001). Having said that his twin dies in the opening sequence so there are never two JCVD's on screen at once in Maximum Risk.I have to say that I didn't like the way Maximum Risk was shot at all, the fact I saw a pan and scan version rather than a full 2351 widescreen edition didn't help but the camera angles are weird & they just don't capture the action that well, the length of shot is very short & the editing is just very bad & annoying as it makes it difficult so get a grip of what is going on & finally there's that horrible shaky camera syndrome which just adds to the general irritation. The action feels routine, the fights are alright but nothing special while the chases are ruined by being poorly shot & aren't much to begin with anyway. Also what does Lam have against plastic garden furniture? The amount of scenes in which he crashes cars into plastic chairs & tables outside cafés seems to be too numerous to be a coincidence.With a supposed budget of about $25,000,000 Maximum Risk really should have been better than this, I think it's a throughly routine & badly shot action flick that apart from one or two car chases & some expensive location work looks like it was a made-for-telly effort. The locations sound impressive having been shot in Paris, Canada & New York. The acting is poor, I think JCVD is terrible in this while all the Russian accents are unconvincing although at least Hanstridge is easy on the eyes & she goes topless briefly in one scene.Maximum Risk is one of JCVD's more routine efforts, I found it a really disappointing film that was badly shot & written. Having said that it passes the time & is nowhere near his worst although at the same time it's nowhere near his best. After several big hits like Universal Soldier (1992), Hard Target, Timecop (1994) & Sudden Death (1995) you can trace the demise of JCVD pretty much back to Maximum Risk. "},{"Title":"The same Damme thing","Date":"10 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" First of all, I'd like to apologize for the very bad pun I put in the one line summary, but it's late, and I swear, it sounded much better in my head. However, it is fairly accurate; the film is exactly like every other movie Van Damme has done. The lame one-liners, the cliché dialog, the stereotype characters, the decent-at-best action... I was honestly barely paying attention to this film, partly because I had seen it before, once, and couldn't remember if it was good or not(believe me, had I remembered it, I never would have watched it), but mainly because every time I did pay attention I almost instantly wound up mocking and laughing at what went on on-screen. It's just so typical and by-the-numbers that it's ridiculous. Every single action scene involved stuff that we've seen before(and more than enough of), every line of dialog tried to be clever but wound up being embarrassing, each of the cool villains were just too damn stereotypical and the whole thing was so preposterous and predictable that it was laughable rather than anything else. The plot is predictable and poorly paced. It's about... uh, Van Damme #1 gets killed, Van Damme #2 finds out #1 existed, some tame unrealistic fighting ensues, Van Damme breaks bones with the ease that only he and Steven Seagal can manage... eh, something else happens... like I said, I wasn't really paying very much attention to it. The one good thing I can say about this, and a lot of people will probably crucify me for saying this, but I have to say it; Natasha Henstridge looks hot as hell in this film, and if you are ever forced to watch this for whatever reason, or you find yourself being half bored by the film, stay awake for the sole reason of seeing her getting her freak on... the one bad thing about is that Damme is there too, but that is tolerable to see Natasha like that. If you're having trouble sitting through it, think of Natasha, look forward to the scene, or, even better, do what I did; laugh. Laugh at every single cliché-like and stereotypical thing that happens in the movie. That'll take you through it. What else is there to say... cinematography is uninspired, dialog is badly written, action is tiresome and not particularly well-choreographed, acting is decent, characters are cliché-like and stereotypical with not one shred of personality or development. What can I say; a decent at best typical Van Damme movie. I recommend it to fans of Jean-Claude Van Damme and anyone who are willing to sit through about 100 minutes of bad action flick to see Natasha Henstridge naked. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Another shootem up","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Well another shootem up.  Typical run around film with guns, revenge, and violence.  Not much of a story.  In fact I forgot most of what this film is about. Don't rent this one.  I think the exercise infomertial would be more entertaining during late night. "},{"Title":"Seen It All Before","Date":"24 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Jean Claude Van Damme's movie career seems to have gone to hell in a handcart so how ironic to see him playing a character who meets the same fate in a literal manner at the very start of the movie ! It's also interesting to note how very , very similar the plots of his movies play out regardless of who the producer , director or screenwriter are . Van Damme usually plays a character who is living in France then due to a set of circumstances finds himself in another part of the globe where he has a brother who dies and it's up to Van Damme to get revenge helped by a character he's just met . Look at AWOL or LEGOINAIRRE or many other films that feature the headline  Starring Jean Claude Van Damme  and they all feature nearly the same type of story structure . This doesn't mean they're identical of course , just very similar and if you've seen one Van Damme movie you've basically seen them all . It's the same with MAXIMUM RISK "}]