[{"Title":"I'm impressed by the comments here.","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"52 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a lovely, funny and well done romantic comedy. I have to admit I am impressed by the folks who continue to say they felt JG was too pretty to be Abby and that it just didn't ring true to them because of that fact. Well I'm here to tell you folks that this movie is closer to the truth than you realize. One of the things that DOES make this film soo good is that Abby is truly a lovely woman but is surrounded by main stream media and what it says beauty is, namely, Noelle, played admirably by Uma Thurman. Yes Abby is a beautiful woman, but as a woman who looks nothing like all the adds on TV or magazines like JG it is easy to see why she would think she isn't. And honestly I know way too many men who would pass her by in favor of the Noelles of this world. I have a beautiful friend who is very similar to JG and she has had the same problems Abby has in this movie because of perceived images of beauty. THAT is the message this film is trying to make that Abby is beautiful and the media has put too much emphasis on stereotypes. No I don't think they should have hired an UGLIER actress that is simply ridiculous, the film was not about an ugly woman but a beautiful woman who has fallen into the trap of THINKING she is unattractive! Watch the movie again folks, you'll see what I mean.  "},{"Title":"Charming and moving","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"28 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Without a doubt, my favorite play ever written is CYRANO DE BERGERAC, by Edmund Rostand.  People can tell me it's sentimental and mawkish, but I don't care; I absolutely love it.  I've seen, I think, most, if not every, movie which has been inspired by it, from the 1950 version by Jose Ferrer(the movie is stagy and changes the play, but he's wonderful), to ROXANNE in 1987, Steve Martin's wonderful re-working of the play as romantic comedy, and best of all, the 1990 version starring Gerard Depardieu(how appropriate France's greatest actor should appear in it giving his best performance).  Now comes this movie, which is inspired by it(as I understand it, writer Audrey Wells is a big fan as well) rather than being an outright remake of it, but it's still quite good.Admittedly, it all hangs on a rather thin premise; that Brian(Ben Chaplin) is unable to tell the voices of Abby(Janeane Garofalo) and Noelle(Uma Thurman) apart.  But romantic comedies have had more outrageous concepts before, and no one complained about how realistic they were(like RUNAWAY BRIDE; does anyone believe that one?).  And by switching genders, it's able to talk about how women are forced to conform to an impossible ideal of beauty.  And yet, at the same time, the message comes through comedy, so you're not being hit over the head.Also, the performers are quite engaging.  It goes without saying Janeane Garofalo is terrific in her first lead role.  She's funny, as could be expected, but as she's had to fight the impossible ideal of beauty much of her career, you can sense something personal for her, and she brings that out without getting mawkish.  Uma Thurman sends up the dumb blonde role without condescending to her.  Plus, we like Noelle for the same reason we like Christian in the original; she's actually smarter about love than Abby is(when she says of Brian, Plus, he's got this one, tiny little fault.  He loves you.).  Chaplin of course has the object of desire role, which is tough to play, but he brings humor and intelligence to it.  And, of course, the dog is great. "},{"Title":"Truth Must Be Told I like this romantic comedy that echoes Syrano de Bergerac.","Date":"23 August 2005","Score":"22 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Janeane Garofalo stars as Abby, a veterinarian who has her own radio show. She is a cultured, educated woman, who is smart, has a good sense of humor and makes a great living. The problem is that her self-esteem is low because she does not find herself attractive being 5'1 brunette who once upon a time while in college had gained 40 pounds. Well, she looked like she lost all of them and she was charming if you ask me (perhaps, it is solidarity of another 5'0 brunette ) but when she developed a relationship over the phone with one of the callers, she tells him that she is 5'10 statuesque blonde who is hard to miss. The blonde (Uma Thurman) happened to be her next-door neighbor, the aspiring model/actress who agrees to go on the date instead of Abby... It may sound like clich√©, and the film has several holes in the plot but is very enjoyable thanks to wonderful performance by Janeane and to these words You know how someone's appearance can change the longer you know them? How a really attractive person, if you don't like them, can become more and more ugly; whereas someone you might not have even have noticed... that you wouldn't look at more than once, if you love them, can become the most beautiful thing you've ever seen. All you want to do is be near them. 7/10 "},{"Title":"You can love your pets -- you just can't 'love' your pets.","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film is an absolute gem, showcasing the incredible talents of   Janeane Garofalo and highlighting the physical beauty of Uma Thurman   (and Ben Chaplin).    It is an incredibly well crafted and well-written film due to the   efforts of director Michael Lehmann and author Audrey Wells.    If there were ever any doubts as to the acting ability of Ms Garofalo   this film will put them to rest. There are scenes in which she is   positively luminescent as the 'voice on the radio' ñ Dr Abby Barnes.    This film was to be a star vehicle for Uma Thurman she has top billing   both in the opening title sequence and in the closing credits. She also   has the personal assistant, personal makeup and hair and even a   personal acting coach! But she has worked on just 12 films since 'Cats   and Dogs' was released and Ms Garofalo has completed 39!    Janeane steals the show (again)!    The story is derivative Basically it is the Cyrano story; however, it   is given new life and freshness by the appealing characters and plot   twists.    I must admit that I am a bit tired of Janeane Garofalo playing the   'ugly' girl roles. She is far from ugly and really should be playing   the romantic characters more often.    This really is an outstanding film ñ the scenes with 'Hank' steal the   show and the late-night telephone conversation between Abby and Brian   should not to be missed. "},{"Title":"Playfully clever Cyrano adaptation","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A modern retelling of the Cyrano de Bergerac tale, except the genders are reversed. Janeane Garafalo is a veterinarian on a radio talk show who gives on-air advice to pet owners. However, she has a poor self-image about her looks, and cocoons herself away from possible relationships, in an effort to shield herself from inevitable disappointment and hurt.If the movie has one weakness, it's the fact that Garafalo is cast as an ugly duckling. No way, folks; this woman is beautiful. Depending on whether one prefers petite brunettes or tall blondes, you may think she's even cuter than co-star Uma Thurman.Both Garafalo and Thurman are splendid, and play off each other well in their awkward friendship/romantic rivalry situation. Thurman's ditsy wanna-be actress is very sympathetic; Garafalo's intellectual but emotionally guarded Dr. Abby at times is heartbreaking. Ben Chaplin as Brian, the object of their affections, turns in a good performance of his own. One scene where two of these actors interact with eyes only--no dialogue for at least 30 sec.--is extremely powerful.Funny bits pop up at strategic moments. The banter between Abby and Brian is like a one-liner ping-pong match; their spontaneous wit is fun to ride along with (almost like a Neil Simon play). Brian's dog is one of the best animals in a flick that I've seen in a while, he did comedy as well as his human counterparts.A good movie worth spending an evening on, especially as a date flick. "},{"Title":"Unpleasant truths exposed!","Date":"26 March 1999","Score":"22 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The Truth About Cats and Dogs may be a charming and (rare these days) profanity free comedy, but it reveals some unpleasant truths about Hollywood and maybe American society as a whole.  Janeane Garofolo plays a veterinarian who dispenses advice about pets on a radio talk show.  One male caller is so taken with her voice and personality that he asks her for a physical description and a meeting.  Insecure about her looks, the petite brunette describes herself as a tall blonde, and when her admirer appears at the radio station, he is introduced to Uma Thurman, a tall blonde, who agrees to trade places with Garofolo.  The message of this film is that the beauty within is more important than physical attractiveness, but the other unintended message is that physical beauty is not in the eye of the beholder but determined by how closely one resembles the seemingly bulimic fashion models plastered on magazine covers.  Uma Thurman is a perfect match which is the same as saying she is, in Hollywood's eyes, perfect.  I couldn't disagree more.  Thurman is a bag of bones and, to my eyes, not at all attractive.  Garofolo, who at one point in the film is called ugly, is, in fact, the woman with the most appeal, physically and in terms of personality.  She makes this movie worth remembering. "},{"Title":"The Truth About This Movie","Date":"8 February 2008","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I tend to dislike most of the serious romantic movies like 'Titanic' etc. They're just not my kind to be honest. Love many of the classics like 'Sabrina'. I would have enjoyed 'The Truth About Cats & Dogs' a lot more if there was a little more comedy to it. It's an okay (and forgettable) movie with some decent performances and a few good moments but at some point it seems to drag. Perhaps a little editing would have helped. On the one hand I can understand why Jeanine Garofalo is cast as the 'ugly' girl (she looks far from ugly) but, in my humble opinion, she's not portrayed as an 'ugly' girl but rather as a woman who thinks of herself as unattractive. Yet, I thought that the Lehman really went a little too far, at times, by focusing on her 'ugliness' e.g. by showing people on the street calling ugly at her character. In contrast, Uma Thurman looks a lot less attractive than usual and she's portrayed as the 'hot' one. To an extent 'Lehman' does succeed in showing the stereotypical beauty that's created by the media (Thurman's character) and what would be considered as less attractive (Garofalo's character). Garofalo is very likable. Her on screen personality here does not differ much from her other roles but she succeeds in what she set out to do. Thurman is a little over the top at times but otherwise makes a great comparison to her female co-star. The two actresses share a very warm chemistry. Ben Chaplin is quite alright and fortunately he doesn't do the American accent. In a nutshell, it's a average film that could have been better. "},{"Title":"My favorite","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The truth about Cats and Dogs is one of my all time favorite movies. It is surly life-relating. This comedy/romance has caught my eye and as well as my heart. This movie demonstrates the great joys of friendship and love. It is very well constructed together, this movie touches me each and every time I watch. My favorite scene in the movie is where Brian has made the list that Abby Nowell has asked for and goes to Donna's Abby's apartment to read it to her. I too have low self esteem like many do when it comes to men, but Brian just loved Abby for her. The scene makes me cry every time,  you didn't say I love her because she is so beautiful, that is not why I love her, I mean yes she is beautiful. AHHHHH I just love this movie so much... I wish more people knew how wonderful it really is... "},{"Title":"It would never happen- but sweet","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film is really sweet, even more so if you are an animal lover. The three leads are all perfectly cast, with Janeane Garofalo doing an absolutely excellent job as the radio show vet whose self-conscious about her image. This film really does stretch credibility, but then most romantic comedies tend to due to their very nature. The dog has to be one of the cutest I have seen in a film- probably because he is a real dog rather than the little dogs that many comedies seem to favor. A very pleasant way to spend 90 minutes. "},{"Title":"It's called irony","Date":"1 April 2003","Score":"21 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I see a lot of comments on here that say how Janeane Garofalo is actually more attractive in this movie than Uma Thurman.  The way I see it, this is deliberate (which should be evident by the fact that this is the only movie where Uma is not what I would call attractive, and her attractiveness in this movie is a big deal).  By making the ugly girl beautiful, and the hot chick unattractive, it creates an irony which forces the audience to look at how they view women in the real world.  Because in the real world, women who look like Janeane Garofalo ARE considered less attractive than tall, skinny blondes.  Or maybe it's just because you're not allowed to be a movie star if you're ugly, so they couldn't find anyone else.  Either way, this is one of my favorite romantic comedies, if not my all-time favorite.  10/10 "}{"Title":"Yawn","Date":"29 July 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I found out about this film because Jewish Ben Chaplin from Game On was in it. Game On is a funny British sitcom and apparently he left because he wanted to break into Hollywood and star in this film. He failed thank God.The film is a very simple romantic comedy with Janeane Garofalo playing an ugly woman who uses her neighbour Uma Thurman to date Ben Chaplin because she thinks Ben Chaplin won't like her because she's ugly. The film is just bad for so many reasons. The plot is unbelievably predictable from the overtly slapstick bits to the serious mushy bits ugh just that montage where all three of them are having fun and then the photograph bit. Those two scenes made me cringe! Janeane's character is sickeningly arrogant (and guessing from her role as stand-up comedienne and arch-feminist is in real life too). She claims that the film is anti-feminist when in fact it's just realistic. Men more often than not go for looks over personality. It's interesting to note her hypocrisy too. She'd been a feminist and comedienne for years before taking this role and then suddenly decides afterwards that the film was bad. I imagine she hated the idea and script of this film before it was released but she made sure she kept that quiet so she could get paid for this travesty of a film. I mean come on! She acted in it for Heaven's sake! What this film was really was anti-men if anything. It portrays men as stupid animals whose brains are in their groins with the men doing stupid things to attract the attention of Uma Thurman's character Noelle.There are other bad things about this film too like Ben Chaplin's character being the British man every American girl finds cute and Jamie Foxx being the token black best friend of Chaplin and of course Foxx had to try and mimic his accent a few times for good measure. Is that the best the script writers could come up with? Blimey they've never done that before except with every Hugh Grant and Dudley Moore film ever made. There's also a truly awful phone sex scene which is just grotesque and proves how cheap the film is. The other comments on here all say how Janeane Garofalo isn't ugly but is actually beautiful. Erm was I watching the same film as they were? She's certainly no looker and the only good thing about this film was that she was rightly cast as the ugly one. Although having said that, I fail to see the appeal of Uma Thurman as well she's lanky and gaunt looking.I guarantee three things about this film if you've never watched itYou will know what the ending will be;You will find the phone sex scene painfully embarrassing and;You will be bored after ten minutes.Watch at your own peril. "},{"Title":"An okay movie but nothing brilliant","Date":"25 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" As far as Hollywood romantic comedies go, there is little to differentiate them from one another. The girl and the guy get together in the end after forgiving each other for the deceit that they have pulled (or they simply get together after spending an hour and a half of film time chasing or being chased by the other). You might be gasping in shock and saying you gave away the end, but think about it, how else does a Hollywood romance end. The only Hollywood movie that I can think of at the moment where the main characters do not get together at the end is Edward Scissorhands (and no, Romeo and Juliet does not count, because that is not a romantic comedy, but then again, neither is Edward Scissorhands).Abby is a vet who hosts a radio show called the Truth about Cats and Dogs where she helps people who have problems with their pets. Noah (Uma Thurman) is a model whose boyfriend is also her agent and lives down the hall from Abbey. Abbey is short with brown hair and Noah is a six foot tall blonde. Abbey is intelligent, Noah is not. One day Abbey helps a young English photographer tame a dog over the phone and the photographer wants to thank her, but Abbey, who is very conscious about her appearance, describes herself as Noah. Thus a deceit begins where this man's perfect woman is in fact two.Overall this movie was entertaining. The phone sex scene, in my opinion, was disgusting and I will not justify it. Even my friend, who has a rather warped sense of humour, thought it was disgusting. I guess the whole concept of love is when two people are together, and not separated by a telephone. I hate telephones as there is a huge gap between us and one that a true personal relationship cannot cross.The movie was funny, and thus it seems that the Americans are getting a better sense of humour, but in general, it was typically Hollywood. Still, when one thinks about it, a romantic comedy should have a happy ending. All of Shakespeare's comedies had happy endings where as the tragedies, like Edward Scissorhands, did not. I enjoyed it, but wouldn't label it as brilliant. "},{"Title":"2 things wrong with this film","Date":"1 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  1)Uma Thurman doesn't really look any better than Jeanine Garofalo. She doesn't look more glamorous--too gawky and spindly legs. 2)Did NOT need the telephone scene--ruined a perfectly funny, entertaining filmBen Chaplin, on the other hand....he's a cutie! "},{"Title":"This movie is a must see.","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Cats and Dogs has a central theme of how women are judged on their looks and this movie is made much better then a movie like say Shallow Hal although the issue there was more oriented toward weight. Still, there is a similarity. I found this movie to be very enjoyable, very well made and very thought provoking while still humorous. I also thought the acting by all involved was very well done.I found a comment on here by another IMDb user who mentioned they thought garofolo's character being cast as the ugly one while actually being so much prettier then Thurman's was intentional. I had never thought of that but if that was the case it was certainly interesting. I also think whether it was intentional or unintentional it certainly makes a statement about just what the standards are in society and what happens to women who don't think they fit these standards. As mentioned before this was a very thought provoking movie.This movie in a way is very true to life in a number of ways. I have known beautiful women who were so hooked into a certain stereotype of what they thought they were supposed to be, that they honestly had no idea how beautiful they were(like Garafaoelo's character). I have seen many women like Thurman's Noelle, beautiful, but judged so exclusively on their looks, because they do fit the stereotype, they never stop getting attention and become dependent on it. Then of coarse there are the very very skinny women who are still convinced they are seriously in need of weight loss when they aren't. The characters in Cats and Dogs were really believable and the story unfortunately only to real.I think all young girls(and maybe all females in general) need to see this movie, it maybe billed as a comedy but it's really introspective and very well done. Although it IS a comedy to some extent the movie also carries a quiet but important message that most, if not all females could relate to.That a woman like Garofolo could be considered unattractive or could consider herself that way is truly sad. Beauty comes in all shapes and sizes and the movie makes that point very eloquently.It also does have some very comedic moments. I think Uma Thurman was hilarious, I've mostly seen her in dramas and have to say she does comedy VERY well, I'd love to see her in more comedic oriented roles, she's just a great actress!And this is an excellent movie-see it if you haven't. "},{"Title":"Coming in as a little more than mere kitty litter, but rather far from being top dog; Lehmann's film about male perception of women is a wavering effort.","Date":"3 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The politics of The Truth About Cats & Dogs is likely to be the last place with which people will find fault with the film; the idea of two women, one of whom is identified within as more photogenic than the other, switching identities for sake of observing which it is an ignorant to the situation young man will go for, is importantly played out honestly and correctly. It is the getting there within which the problems lie, those to whom the film is pitched will have to suffer the sitting through of misplaced phone sex sequences and some needlessly colourful language, while the rest of us, for whom the adult content will just sail past, will have to sit through a message-movie that'll already have been mapped out in most of the audience's minds if the natural conclusion point to which the film arrives hasn't already been prefigured before in their lives. Ultimately, The Truth About Cats & Dogs happens for absolutely no reason at all; other than to perhaps shuffle onto screens a meek message-movie about looks, rational thinking, male presumption and so-forth which are all items that happen to have been dealt with before and in more engaging fashions. The truth about The Truth About Cats & Dogs is that it's just not up to an awful lot.The film eventually comes to cover three predominant characters, the one with whom we start being a local disc-jockey in a warm; welcoming movie version of Los Angeles named Abby Barnes (Garofalo), a disc-jockey whose show specialises in veterinarian problems and animal issues. Seemingly lonely, living by herself in an apartment with her pet cat, and sexless for three years, she excels at her job more often than not made easier by the subdued level of callers whom ring in with the slightest of problems that she's usually capable of fixing without breaking a sweat. Abby's neighbour at her apartment complex is the ditzy, flimsy Noelle (Thurman); essentially a bit of a write-off of a human being, a model with some serious marital issues of her own in that she appears able to have most men without possessing the ability to maintain any kind of lasting bond with them. A woman, who upon hearing Abby has abstained from sexual encounters for all of three years, appears somewhat disturbed at such a happening.Enter Brian (Chaplin), a young English photographer working in L.A. whose call to Abby's show spawns all manner of events; a man in love with Abby's demeanour and intelligence but with Noelle's looks when he comes on down to the studio; the lab rat around which the study of male perception of the opposite gender, or how a woman's looks can blind a man to some seemingly obvious truths, plays out. For the most part, Chaplin essentially does the Hugh Grant act the dozy but charming British male, who's a bit bleary eyed, but we don't mind 'cause that's all part of his charm, as he fumbles through these exchanges with women, usually foreign, in a happy and jolly manner in a desirable enough locale. Curiously, with Brian arrives an air of misogyny; distorting sequences with an African American supporting character who's a work colleague of his carrying with them notions of ill-thinking and nastiness, so much so that we question as to whether Brian would even work with a man of an African American ilk given his rather raging narrow mindedness. The item of persona swapping which later plays out between the women appears in contrast to that of Brian's own in-presence/not-in-presence attitudes in regards to the female characters when he certainly acts in a less appealing way.Young Brian is put through the proverbial wringer when Noelle and Abby decide to enforce that switch idiotic and po-faced, but strikingly beautiful, Noelle now the expert veterinarian with Abby relegated to that of, well, a nobody living next door with her cat. The concept of this comedy outlined, that Chaplin loves Noelle's exterior but Abby's interior, and that everybody's pretending Noelle has both, kicks off all manner of both 'hilarious' hijinks and shenanigans, such is how the pitch would have gone in the producer's office. The film has fun with Abby's own liberation from her supposedly repressed confines linked to that of both exposure to the male gender and (lack of) sexual episodes, when she is granted access to Brian &#x96; access, of which, is only ever over the phone, in a manner often nothing more than moderately smirk-inducing but is rarely anything worse than slightly uninteresting. The lead is granted an escape from the celebrificated voice-over role as the radio vet, but is only allowed to do so under the guise of being a stunningly attractive blonde model whose face is fit for billboards; a notion supposedly highlighting that of the shallow nature of both contemporary men and, for the most, part contemporary culture.Where, you might say, screwball comedies of old centred around degrees of gender swap or gender transfusion, The Truth About Cats & Dogs, like a young moggy with its ball of string, loosely toys with this idea via the guise of a personality switch; the piece ultimately a middling effort which falls short of the line but isn't without premeditated charm which comes about purely because it throws its politics up into the air and all of it neatly falls back down again. If we're all brutally honest, the premise begins as a joke but comes to near enough render the film itself a joke; a film which spends its time toying with its gimmick via an array of goofy scenes before seeing things out into its final third with melancholic character content and an obligatory reveal. It isn't without that indifferent charm, but it certainly isn't with an awful lot more. "},{"Title":"Less Than Extreme Makeover","Date":"11 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" If it doesn't irk you when a plot hinges on inexplicable errors made by supposedly intelligent characters, then you may not be annoyed by 'The Truth About Cats and Dogs,' a romantic comedy starring Janeane Garofalo as Abby, a supposedly intelligent, supposedly insightful, and supposedly unattractive veterinarian who hosts a radio call-in show.A shy photographer (Brian or Eric or something) calls in to the show having trouble with a large dog he's mounted on roller skates for a shoot. Oh, he's so cuuuute!!! Our heroine is in a tizzy. They make a date, but too insecure to face him herself, Abby sends her neighbor, Uma Thurman. How this plan is supposed to work to Abby's advantage, I can't say. Time after time Abby and Uma pass up opportunities to straighten out the confusion. It's a good thing too, because that gives them time to learn a valuable lesson about looks and love, which is Nice guys don't care about looks. Uh huh.But audiences do, saith the producers. Thus we have the famously fabulous Thurman cast against girl-next-door Garofalo, who is no slouch in the looks department. So, as Abby, she is frumped up from the start in dowdy, fat-girl clothes and flat hair. It's the oldest trick in pictures. As the credits slowly approach, Abby magically acquires better clothes, a more flattering hairstyle, and a makeup job that gives her lush lips and discernible cheekbones. I guess looks still count for something. "},{"Title":"Not too good","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Janeane plays Abby, who is a doctor of some sort who also has a radio talk show for pet lovers.   One day Brian calls her and needs help getting his dog out of the rollerskates on his paws.  How the skates got on is never addressed.  Abby successfully gets the skates off Hank (the dogs eventual name) over the phone and Brian is quite impressed and asks Abby out.  She says she is 5'10 and blonde because she's painfully insecure about her looks.  Luckily, a 5'10 blonde lives down the hall from Abby.  Her name is Noelle and she is in a bad relationship.  One night when Abby confronts this bad relationship in the hall, he is rude to her so Noelle is nice enough to apologize and shows up at the radio station Abby works at, even though these women don't even know each other, much less where the other works.  More improbabilities are forthcoming, as Brian shows up at the radio station at that exact moment and Noelle has to pose as Abby, or we would have less of a movie than we already do. The three of them hang out together one night.  Brian is more and more attracted to Noelle (who is now Abby) and the real Abby (who is now Donna) is disappointed, of course.  But Brian and (ha, ha) 'Donna' have a lengthy phone conversation one night (the movies way of excusing the glaring difference in the characters voices is ridiculous) and really connect, which makes Brian's inevitable love for (ha, ha) 'Abby' all the more hurtful for Donna.  To the movie's credit, 'Abby' is a good friend to 'Donna' and tries to repair the rift between them constantly, but her phone calls are all ignored.  The women are at least sensible enough not to fight over the guy, at least in a Jerry Springer kind of way.  Naturally it all ends well for the lovers, but the character of Noelle is not treated with tons of respect.  Its almost as though she exists so that the lovers will have something to overcome, an obstacle more than an actual person.  You never find out what happens to Noelle, who was nice enough to respect her friend by not sleeping with the man she knew she was in love with.  I understand the movie was not about her in the first place, but she still deserves better than the movie is willing to give her.I don't like movies where a silly, immature misunderstanding is the only thing holding the plot (such as it is) together.  Its nice to see Janeane play a character, but she's treated like an ogre, and that's not just when its in comparison to Uma Thurman.  Ben Chaplin is charming, but not overwhelmingly so.  Okay to see once, will not hold up to multiple viewings.  5/10.  "},{"Title":"Hmm","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Good. If not just for Janeane Garofalo's performance in the film. Drags on in most parts, and it's a little sappy and contrived. A little too things do end up right in the end for me. Would have preferred it if the ending was a little more realistic. Still, it's a comedy... Enjoyable nonetheless. "},{"Title":"A typical example of Hollywood's hypocrisy","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The message of this movie is personality is more important than beauty. Jeanine Garofalo is supposed to be the ugly duckling, but the funny thing is that she's not at all ugly (actually she's a lot more attractive than Uma Thurman, the friend who looks like a model).Now, would this movie work if the ugly duckling was really unattractive? When will Hollywood stop with this hypocrisy?In my opinion, despite the message that it wants to convey, this movie is simply ridiculous. "},{"Title":"Implausible comedy strains to be believable but has a certain charm...","Date":"24 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" There's a lot to like in THE TRUTH ABOUT CATS AND DOGS but I find the basic premise completely unbelievable. BEN CHAPLIN is a handsome man who is fooled into thinking that the radio personality he's impressed by is really her blonde neighbor (UMA THURMAN), enough so that he falls in love with Thurman until he finds out the two women have been playing a deceptive trick on him.He broods about it for awhile before deciding that he really loves the plain Jane for her brains and whatever pearls of wisdom she expressed when they first met. It's really a stretch to think that Chaplin would settle for the unattractive gal after smooching it up with Thurman at every opportunity.Despite the weak premise, it's played with style and wit and emerges, overall, as a pleasant escapist kind of comedy. Unfortunately, it's not convincing enough in sending the message it tries to make.Most charming aspect of the film is the performance of BEN CHAPLIN as the bewitched and befuddled guy. "}{"Title":"Didn't appeal to me...","Date":"21 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I found this movie quite awful, I find it spends most of the time, concentrating on Janeane Garofalo's character then equally letting on Uma Thurman's character as well. I thought it wasn't fair to leave her out since she is part of the movie too! I just find the whole storyline didn't give on its actors, I would've rather if they involved every lead role in together, not at the same time, but together. I think it's fair to give this one nomination because if this got any big award like an Oscar or Golden Globe, this would be absolutely wrong in the world of Film. Well they have brains this time, I'll give em credit for that one!I would avoid this at all costs, keep away from this, folks! "},{"Title":"Not really a riff on Cyrano de Bergerac","Date":"22 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" One of the previous reviewers wrote It's Cyrano de Bergerac on the surface but more of a sitcom in its substance, and even that's a stretch.Cyrano is ugly, big-time ugly. So ugly that his own mother had no love for him, and no woman has been willing to love him.The female host of the radio show that gives this movie its name, The Truth about Cats and Dogs, Abbey, is not ugly in any way. She may not be a striking beauty, but then, neither is Uma Thurman/Noelle, the neighbor she passes off as herself to the caller who wants to meet her. One is short, the other tall. One is brunette, the other blonde. One a little on the plump side - but only a little; the other skinny. Abbey is not ugly while Noelle is strikingly beautiful. Abbey has one kind of beauty, Noelle another.Cyrano de Bergerac is about a truly ugly man who wins the heart of Roxanne by the extraordinary beauty of his language, a non-physical type of beauty. He very definitely does not have just another kind of physical beauty. He very definitely has NO physical attractiveness whatsoever.Abbey, on the other hand, has bought into a socially-conditioned idea of what men find attractive - tall, thin, blonde - but it's really all in her mind, since her friend Noelle isn't all that attractive, and Abbey herself is certainly not unattractive. We don't really get a chance to see if Brian really started by buying into the same social convention, since he was told by Abbey over the phone that she was tall, blonde, thin, etc. We never see him attracted to tall, blonde, thin dumbbells whom he knows to be dumbbells.When Brian tries to explain what he finds attractive in the woman he has spoken to over the phone, he basically says She's nice. Abbey gives no indications of a remarkable, poetic command of language either on her radio show or over the phone. Noelle on occasion - but only on occasion, and not very convincingly - comes off as dumb. Brian says that he likes intelligence, but he gives no indication of being intelligent himself, nor of having been attracted to anyone else for her intelligence. So we never really understand why he becomes attracted to Abbey. She's pleasant, but then so is Noelle.The three leads are all pleasant, but the movie doesn't really seem to know what point it wants to make. If it's a handsome guy can fall in love with a woman even if she isn't beautiful, as long as she has a striking character, this movie doesn't make that point clearly or convincingly. Abbey just isn't sufficiently not-beautiful, or sufficiently striking in terms of her character, for us to buy that argument. Nor, unlike Roxanne in Cyrano de Bergerac, is Brian ever presented as really interested in qualities other than physical beauty, so that his final attraction to Abbey comes off as convincing. "},{"Title":"The Great Dane And The Not So Great Garofalo","Date":"5 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film is simply a reverse female version of CYRANO DE BERGERAC, except his nose was too big, and she is too short, oops height challenged (Have to be Politically Correct when discussing Liberals like Janeane Garofalo (Abby)). Spoilers Abby is a radio talk show host/dog expert who is completely unfamiliar with the opposite sex (I am in total shock, what guy would not want to go out with a woman who is a cross between Woody Allen and a Housewife From New Jersey?). She meets this guy Ben Chaplin (Brian), who needs help with his Great Dane, and she falls for him, and send nice messages, but makes it look like it her friend Noelle (Uma Thurman)is the one doing it. Abby is the one with the personality, while Noelle is the flat one (Like her chest), and Brian falls in love with her, because he thinks she is perfect, until he finds out the truth and is disgusted by it all (Neither one appealed to me). In the end, he sends the dog to her radio station to have her put on roller skates, and has the dog (Via a silent whistle) fetch her to him in the park. They end up happily ever after. Is this the worst film that Garafalo ever did? No that is Reality Bites. But it still sucks, and I have no idea why I saw it but I did. I give it a generous one star for the dog, and because it should not get the same grade as Reality Bites. "},{"Title":"Wow...this movie is dumb.","Date":"26 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film is one of the biggest pieces of crap I have ever seen. Both the leading ladies are fugly, especially Uma Thurman but she is supposed to be beautiful. I also love how they try to portray smoking as cool, as if this movie was made in the 1940's.The premise is thin and completely moronic. I can't believe someone was paid to write this garbage. It's not even good mindless fun and entertainment.Honestly, I really found nothing good in this film and I just want to warn others to avoid it at all costs.This is clearly a film aimed at very stupid women. "},{"Title":"Soppy","Date":"24 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I liked it but then I think I might have been ironing at the same time. This reworking of Cyrano de Bergerac/Roxanne is an utterly undemanding, formulaic romcom rescued from straight-to-video ignominy on its release by the sharp turn of Janeane Garofalo. Playing the Frasier of Pets, she finds herself caught in a love trap when insecurity leads her to pass her best friend (Uma Thurman) off as herself when a caller comes a-courtin'.This is an interesting film in the fascinating career of Ben Chaplin. An average British actor, he gave the Hollywood treadmill a shot with this film. He is unremarkable and his anonymity in studio productions is unsurprising on the basis of it, although he has appeared in substantial cameos in both the later Terence Malick films. Uma Thurman does a ditzy turn on autopilot and Michael Lehmann packages it all together competently. Icky phone sex though. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Another example of contrived Hollywood romance....","Date":"25 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Janeane Garofalo has been very public in her displeasure about this film, calling it, among other things, anti-feminist. She has also said on her radio show she hates making romantic comedies because she doesn't believe in them. I wholeheartedly agree with Janeane here. This film is a trifle at best. She does her best, but overall, it was just another boring, unbelievable romantic comedy that has no basis in the real world. Whereas there will be some who will say suspend your disbelief, one grows tired of having to suspend it nearly every time you get a romantic film from Hollywood. Janeane's character, for some reason, is usually filmed in shadows and darkness, which makes her look unattractive, while Uma's character is filmed in lighter tones (which probably displeased Janeane and is probably one of the reasons she detests this film). That really hurts the film if we are to buy the premise that Janeane is supposed to be the better looking of the two. As many have said here and on other comment threads, Janeane is not ugly, but in fact, quite beautiful. I haven't read one review where someone said Uma was better looking. Having said that though, I believe that Ben Chaplin's character would more than likely stay with Uma, not Janeane. Many men don't like really intelligent women (and many women don't like really intelligent men), and sadly, Ben probably would have stayed with Uma. And despite the director's attempt to make Janeane unattractive, it doesn't work. Her natural beauty comes through anyway.I think a lot of Janeane's male fans who are obsessed with her like this film because they like to think of themselves in the Ben Chaplin character, and actually scoring with Janeane. Janeane is a lot more complicated than the character she plays here (real life is always much more complex than Hollywood can imagine), so take a cold shower gentlemen. This is the role that Janeane is best known for, and that's a shame, as this really isn't that good of a film. "},{"Title":"good romantic comedy","Date":"18 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Read a rather tepid review of this film before I saw it.The Truth About Cats and Dogs is a delightful romantic comedy.Janeane Garofalo is Abby Barnes, a sort of female version of 'Frasier' for owners and their pets. Brian(Ben Chaplin)is a photographer having a problem with Hank the great dane during a shoot -- he rings the station -- Abby solves the problem and he becomes attracted to her voice.Add to this mix Abby's seemingly superficial and kooky neighbour Noelle(Uma Thurman)and you have a comedy of misunderstandings heavily inspired by 'Cyrano De Bergerac'. Audrey Wells's screenplay is warm, funny and perceptive.Michael Lehmann's direction is stylish and is enhanced by a fun,feelgood score from Howard Shore.Ben Chaplin gives a confident and likable performance as the comically bewildered Brian.Uma Thurman has some good lines to say as seemingly superficial Noelle ( personally liked the perceptive comments about 'when you look at a face').Janeane Garofalo as Abby is an actress of star quality being at once funny, vulnerable and beautiful. "},{"Title":"Nauseating comedy where everybody lies to each other, causing major problems for all involved.","Date":"19 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Listener (Ben Chaplin) falls in love with the host of a radio show about cats and dogs (Jeanne Garofalo); she is self-conscious about her looks, and hits upon the don't try this at home, kids kind of idea to get pal Uma Thurman to pose as her. Problem Uma has a different-sounding voice, and is a total moron. Jeanne must feed Uma lines so hubby Chaplin won't realize she's minus a brain.I always use this movie as an example of what not to do in comedies.The kind of comedy where everybody lies to each other constantly.Its the epitome of obnoxiousness.I find nothing of value in a character that either gets someone else to pose as her, or would be prepared to pose as someone else. And the guy's some kind of idiot if he couldn't tell that Uma Thurman (whose character is not portrayed as a good actress at all) knew nothing about cats or dogs.2/10.  "},{"Title":"the truth about this movie","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This would have been a good film with much to say about appearances, had the two lead actresses actually looked as their characters were supposed to look.Thurman was supposed to be a gorgeous supermodel, yet she looked awful and almost ugly in almost every scene, which is strange because Uma is  beautiful, while all Garofalo had to do to become pretty was wash her hair.It is a shame because this film had a lot going for it, but the believability factor was shot because of the way both stars appeared.   "},{"Title":"All too unbelievable","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have watched this film twice, on video, and I still have the same issues with it as the first time. It is not believable. Abby (Garofalo) is a successful woman; she is a veterinarian with her own radio show, she is witty, smart, funny and good-looking. Noelle (Thurman) is a model whose only attraction is that she is nice; she is not pretty, she is not very smart, she is not learned, she is not very funny, and she is way too thin. She is a doormat to her boyfriend. Brian (Chaplin) is a photographer who seems to have a solid British education; lots of literature, politics which he likes to discuss.So Brian talks to Abby on the phone and falls in love with her mind, but meets Noelle instead and falls in love with her flesh thinking she is Abby. There are numerous times where Noelle slips and does not know what Brian and the real Abby has discussed on the phone and fails to react to him in the expected way. There are numerous times when Brian notices this. He is supposed to be a smart guy but he just does not get it. They could have made the movie a lot more plausible if they had centered in on him for a while, and his struggling with the Abby/Noelle split personality issues.But since they did not, I can only give this movie 3/5.  "}{"Title":"Charm and finesse","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This has to be one of my preferred romantic comedies, oozing with charm and finesse and honorable intentions. All three protagonists are delectable, each in their different ways, and they are so downright sweet, poignant and funny. The way you would love for your best friends to be like, not to mention what you might hope for yourself. The script is witty and not overly cutesy, and the actors have amazing presence and comedic timing. Warmly recommended. "},{"Title":"If Cyrano Were a Girl....","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have two opinions of this movie.The first one is that it's an excellent movie; an excellent retelling of my favorite story, Cyrano de Bergerac.  Janeane and Uma do an amazing job of being (respectively) Cyrano and Christian, the brains and the body.The second opinion is rather less flattering to the movie.  While it's true that just about anyone would be overshadowed by Uma Thurman, the idea of Janeane G. being 'dumpy' or 'unattractive' is... Hollywood fantasy.Those of us who really are unattractive would love to look as good as she does, and it's mildly ironic that a movie which talks about the beauty myth at the same time plays into it.See the movie... but think about it. "},{"Title":"embarrassingly bad","Date":"28 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Yes, I winced. I kept waiting for the guy to let on that he knew what was going on; that would have been slightly more believable, and may have elevated this to the status of charming romantic comedy that so many have found it. As stands, there is not an ounce of truth, or intelligence, about this film. Oh, cut it with the sledgehammer of a message, that doesn't even work here. The Garofolo character is supposed to impress as a woman of substance, but really, she is so undeveloped as a person such that the substance falls by the wayside. This ain't about her shape or size or face. If these people were in their teen years it may have been more convincing. If Garofolo's character had showed more vulnerability, real vulnerability in a mature skin, it may have won me over. The only character that kept me watching here was Ben Chaplin's--now there is a person of substance, with enormous charisma and a beautiful presence. There's the fantasy dream in this movie. The Garolo character is pathetic, but not for the reasons purported here... "},{"Title":"Never seen a romantic comedy like this","Date":"16 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I guess the worst feeling i had after watching the movie was - why didn't i see it before. I just came to know that its inspired by the play - CYRANO DE BERGERAC. I haven't watched the original play so i can't compare with it but the basic thing that works for the movie is the real people with real emotions that exists in this world. The emotion of low self esteem is wide spread in this world. Without thinking anyone can say that Janeane's acting was stood out in the movie. The basic requirement of a rom-com is to be realistic and display emotions that pertain to individuals thought process. No doubt in saying that this movie excels in that aspect.Definitely not a movie to be missed. "},{"Title":"Watch Animal Planet to Discover the Truth.","Date":"5 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The Truth About Cats and Dogs (1996) Dir Michael Lehmann / Cast Janeane Garofalo, Uma Thurman, Ben Chaplin, Jamie Foxx, James McCaffrey Amusing romantic comedy about gender differences. Janeane Garofalo plays a radio personality who gives advice about pet care. She is insecure but when a male caller is given successful advice he asks her to lunch. Afraid of being brushed off she has the fetching Uma Thurman pose as her. Charming setup follows predictable formula made bearable through its leads. Director Michael Lehmann is given fine chemistry between Garofalo and Thurman who play off the antics effectively. Garofalo brings a fresh energy with her job and self esteem. Thurman plays someone who is dealing with a bad relationship but hopes to succeed in music. We know the outcome but they at least entertain with their back and forth role reversal with regards to voice. Ben Chaplin as the male caller is a predictable prop. He is basically there to be lied too then forgive and forget so that this can be wrapped up without glitches. Jamie Foxx is even less broad and basically renders to the formula. Had the film placed more emphasis on the radio advice it might have been more interesting but as it is it should appeal to fans of chick flicks. It regards genders and personalities and exploits other truths about cats and dogs&#x85;and the odd turtle too. Score 7 / 10 "},{"Title":"a superficial unrealistic storyline","Date":"1 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" When I was a teen I loved this film because it was a happy love story. Like a modern cyrno de bergerac or roxannee from a womens perspective. Unlike Roxanne or cyrno, where the romantic interest was initially interested in the one she was more physically attracted too, in this film, the romantic interest did not know what she looked like so you don't really know if he wouldve been attracted to her had he seen the real her from the beginning. Many women and many romantic at hearts would probably want to believe he would have liked her had he been given the chance to see what she looked like. Cynics would say the opposite maybe. As an adult seeing the movie again, I didn't like him much. He seemed shallow. What those girls did was wrong but he never let her explain. Also when she was pretending to be her friend and said she made cheese for a living (why she made that up I don't know) He kind of looked at her like she was crazy, like it should matter what she does. What did he do, made no money taking photos and worked a menial job? Uma Thurman was suppose to be the attractive one but neither of them were unattractive or gorgeous, both were adorable and pretty though.At the end he calls the friend dumb and attractive and her smart, but doesn't say anything about her looks, I guess implying he didn't think she was bad looking but maybe she just did not stand out to him, I don't know. She mentions she gained a lot of weight for collegebut she was not obese. I garofolo said she didn't like the film but I csn understand why. I think she would prefer an ending where maybe they were still friends and hugged and made up but she decided he was not for her but learned to love herself. I would be fine with her winding up with somebody at tge end but not somebody who didn't find her beautiful. "},{"Title":"A romantic comedy that should have made its star a star","Date":"18 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A romantic comedy that got by quite a few moviegoers during its original release, The Truth About Cats and Dogs is a 1996 comedy which could be considered a distaff re-thinking of Cyrano de Bergerac, not up to the quality of Steve Martin's Roxanne, but a fun and smart film that should have made a genuine movie star out of its leading lady.The film stars stand-up comedienne Janeane Garafalo as Abby, the host of the radio call-in show of the title, who almost simultaneously connects with a handsome dog owner named Brian (Ben Chaplin) who calls her show and a beautiful neighbor named Noelle (Uma Thurman) who has just escaped an abusive relationship. When Brian shows up at the radio station to thank Abby for the advice he gave her on the air, a frightfully insecure Abby asks Noelle to pretend to be Abby, but immediately regrets it when she realizes that Brian is sincerely smitten with Noelle's personality, which is really Abby's but Abby is scared that she will scare Brian off when he finds out she doesn't look like Noelle.This comedy sucks us in right from the beginning because the character of Abby is immensely likable and, as an observer to the goings-on, we don't understand Abby's insecurity about herself and we're certain she and Brian would be instant soul mates. However, the story aggravates as we realize that as much as he loves Abby's personality, he is also smitten by the package wrapped around it in Noelle. Even Noelle, not the brightest bulb in the row, realizes it is Abby that Brian wants but can't convince Abby to come clean.Audrey Well's screenplay is clever and serves its cast well. Garafalo is an absolute revelation in the role of Abby, her first leading screen role...sort of a Streisand for the 90's, the gal who may not be a raving beauty, but has enough brains and wit to make her looks seems not so important. Garafalo's performance here should have made her an instant movie star, but mysteriously, it didn't. Uma Thurman brings a substance to the role of the empty-headed Noelle that really isn't in the screenplay and Ben Chaplin is a very sexy leading man, a guy who thinks he's torn between two women, but really isn't. The scene where Garafalo and Chaplin have an all-night phone conversation is wonderful but further aggravates us as we wonder why Brian seems oblivious to the fact that the voice of radio Abby is different than the voice of Noelle/Abby and the fact that he accepts Abby's explanation that she uses a radio voice is kind of hard to swallow, but I digress. The film is funny and smart and kept me interested until the final reel because, refreshing for a contemporary film comedy, the ending isn't really foreshadowed. A romantic comedy with a one-of-a-kind lead character that will charm and endear her to you. "},{"Title":"Surprise Story","Date":"15 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The Truth about Cats and Dogs is a Surprise Story in that it appears at first glance to be a typical Romantic Comedy with a stock ending, but it i much more than that. After seeking various clips of the film at different time a viewing of the full feature was a very pleasant surprise, with what I believe are outstanding performances by the players, all of whom seemed to fit their role and exude a comfortable expression of the characters. For a film almost 20 years old it hold up well in a market filled with a need for Blockbusters or Bust. I emphatically recommend this film as a nice departure from the stock Love Story yet filled with the tried and true formula. I would highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"cute sitcom","Date":"21 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Dr. Abby Barnes (Janeane Garofalo) hosts the Truth About Cats and Dogs radio show. Caller Brian (Ben Chaplin) wants to meet Abby. She gives him a description of her hot neighbor Noelle (Uma Thurman). She comes to the rescue standing up to Noelle's brutish manager-boyfriend. Brian comes to the station to find Abby but mistakes Noelle as Abby. Abby becomes the fake best friend Donna. He falls for Abby's voice and Noelle's body. Ed (Jamie Foxx) is Brian's best friend.It's Cyrano de Bergerac on the surface but more of a sitcom in its substance. These are two dimensional characters. Smart mouthed Garofalo is adorable. Uma Thurman is playing it a little too dumb. At least they have some fun together. The mistaken identity is cute and silly but not really that deep. It's definitely sitcomy with Noelle sticking her finger up a turtle's butt. The best part of the movie is the girls' friendship. The romance isn't quite so compelling and very melodramatic. "},{"Title":"Better Than Expected","Date":"16 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A trite concept, admittedly, though the gender roles are reversed. A plain woman (Abby) wants to date a handsome man whom she assumes would reject him due to her appearance, so she has a pretty friend (Noelle) take her place, and the story resolves as expected.So how does this movie stand out? Abby is a radio host with a show about dealing with pets, and Noelle is an actress neighbor she meets by chance who has an abusive boyfriend. The man has fallen in love with Abby's radio voice and personality, but Abby is too afraid to meet him in person, though they are fine as long as they are only talking without him actually being able to see Abby. When the man meets Noelle, assuming she's Abby, he gets suspicious, but Abby is too afraid to reveal herself, and there are the expected complications from that.Animals are used in the story, but fortunately not overused so that they drown out the human story. The three main characters interact convincingly, and the story doesn't fall into the trap of screwball farce when it easily could have. Also, profanity and sexuality are kept to a minimum. Recommended. "}{"Title":"Thoroughly predictable but I did enjoy it","Date":"4 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A radio DJ named Abby Barnes (Janeane Garofalo) conducts a live online show advising people about their pets. One day Brian (Ben Chaplin) calls for help. He gets it...but falls in love with her voice. He plans to meet her but she has low self-esteem so she gets her beautiful model neighbor (Uma Thurman) to pose as HER! Predictable complications follow and it leads to an insultingly stupid happy ending.I should hate this movie a LOT! The plot is stupid--these people are total idiots! Thurman or Garofalo's characters could have said something and stopped it immediately...but then there would be no movie. The complications that come up preventing them get dumber and dumber. Also the ending would NEVER happen in real life. So why am I giving it 7 stars? The three leads. They're great! They're attractive, give good performances and seem totally at ease with it. Also the script (basic plot aside) is funny full of great one-liners that the cast goes into with ease (only Chaplin seems a little unsure). There's also a steamy phone sex scene that was pretty risqu√© for a PG-13 movie (but it leads to a great punch line at the end). So the movie is stupid and predictable but I did like it. I give it a 7. "},{"Title":"structurally flawed but fun movie","Date":"12 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" What I really like about this movie is actually a sideline. It's a friendship between two women. How many movies can you name which have, centre-stage, a straightforward friendship between two women? Yet real life is full of such friendships. This one is particularly well-done, thanks to the acting talents of Uma Thurman and Janeanne Garofalo. Personally I don't see Uma Thurman as a dumb blonde. I keep getting flashbacks from Kill Bill and Pulp fiction. She is such an intelligent and accomplished actress; but let's face it, she's not stunningly physically attractive - like, say, Scarlett Johannson. Ben Chaplin's somewhat subdued role doesn't do justice to his considerable acting talents, either (catch him in the British sitcom Game on, you will see what I mean - incidentally Samantha Janus in the same sitcom would have been terrific in the Uma Thurman role). The main reason for giving it 8 is the performance of Janeane Garofalo, which is outstanding. And the dog, and the cat.An enjoyable movie, with some flaws in the structure. "},{"Title":"As funny and romantic as a good romcom should be","Date":"19 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I saw it about a decade ago and thought it was nice but not outstanding. Last night I was rewatching it at my friends' and couldn't help thinking it was unusually good! I guess it's all those 2000s romcoms with their WC humour and cartoon-like characters showed me the true depths of profanity ) This movie, quite competent in itself, now stands out more in comparison. The plot is rather unrealistic as common in this type of films (the premise aside it's hard to believe that Brian couldn't identify the real Abby by her voice - the very feature he'd initially fallen for!) but the characters are not one-dimensional and one can relate to each of the three. Both Abby and Noelle are sweet and warm in their different ways, and Brian the lover is ardent and romantic yet not completely idiotic in his strange situation ) I agree with many reviewers that the phone sex scene is a bit off, but the following scene with the snicker throwing (and his putting it to his heart) makes up for it. It's just priceless. And I think it makes sense that Abby finds it even more difficult to tell him the truth after. The emotional development is delivered pretty well, I enjoyed seeing Brian start to really like Abby (the photographing and, to a degree, the sunset scenes) while still being dazed by combined Abby/Noelle perfect woman's image, and also Abby/Noelle interaction involving friendship, jealousy, competition... it really ringed true to me. The sunset scene was a bit off character I mean Brian is far beyond friendly in it and there's undeniable attraction, so one naturally thinks he'd either realize Donna' was the one for him and not Abby, or be considered flirting with his love's best friend in her absence. We actually don't see the former nor want to see the later! Abby's face expression is very touching in it, though. The movie hits its best in the part when Brian figures it all out and later the cafe scene. It gets to your heart to see how people can lose a chance of finding true love (or another good relationship, for that matter) due to their fear of rejection and lies. If the film stopped at this point it would be far more thought-provoking actually, but that would be another genre (and the movie would be Russian or French )).But some of the script deficiency is compensated by acting (esp. Garofalo's). And of course the dog is just dearie. The end lines cracked me up again! "},{"Title":"Smart Brains versus Beauty Movie","Date":"13 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A great chick flick that focuses on the realistically of a friendship more than a romance. This story follows two gals one a sweet movie and another that has a face for radio. I have a few contentions with that&#x85; but first let's go over the movie. Our main character is a hosts a radio talk show about Animals. During which one of her callers asks her out.Freaked out and very insecure about her appearance she gets her neighbor the model (played by Uma Thurman) to pretend to be her during the meet. Obviously the movie turns into a series of tests of whether our Romeo loves the brains or the beauty.In this movie they emphasize how atrocious Janeane Garofalo looks, which is simply not the case. Other than being far shorter than Uma Thurman, Janeane is quite cute. So I didn't really take that as a legitimate plot issue. However, the movie had a sincerity to it that you just do not see now a days, therefore making it a good watch. "},{"Title":"Fun, entertaining and thought provoking","Date":"20 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film is about a man falling in love with a vet on the radio. However, the woman is not who he really thinks she is.The Truth About Cats & Dogs is a great romantic comedy with a refreshing plot. Though the merry mishap in the beginning cascade into an uncontrollable mess sounds like the typical romantic comedy, the fact that it involves two leading women is a surprising twist. Abby is the vet with a charming personality but average looks, while Noelle is extraordinarily beautiful. It examines how men might choose their partners, and how women think men choose their partners. It sends a positive message that a deeper level of attractiveness and beauty is what create the sparks. It is thought provoking, and entertaining at the same time. "},{"Title":"A guilty pleasure","Date":"12 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The title claims The Truth about Cats & Dogs, a little misleading, considering the movie has little to do with either, perhaps it is a metaphor for The Truth about Women & Men, or as the case may be Two Women & One Man, who thinks Two women are One. Confused? You will beThe plot is ludicrous at best, and expect a heavy coating of cheese, but what the movie lacks in realism it makes up for in charm, as we ride out the difficult journey for unconfident Abbey as she gets her man. If there were one flaw in the movie, that niggled me, it was that the more we get to know Abbey, the flakier and at times, downright rude she becomes, in the end i secretly found myself rooting for the silly but uncomplicated Noelle, whom we are meant to oppose. The male lead however is spot on, the female audience will find even themselves falling for sensitive Brian, and the equally charming Hank (the dog)Overall, a feel-good film, and a pleasure to watch if you can overlook the initial cheese and character inconsistencies "},{"Title":"The truth about this romcom is that it is fun, daring, and insightful, a good choice for the genre's fans","Date":"2 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Dr. Abby Barnes (Janeane Garofalo) is on the radio every day, giving advice on pet care with humor and smarts. But, in real life, she has a problem with her self-image, believing herself to be a bit too short and a bit too plump to attract men. One day, she rescues her beautiful neighbor, Noelle (Uma Thurman) from a verbal beating by her manager/boyfriend. Noelle is grateful and decides to drop in on Abby at the radio station, to thank her again. Meanwhile, a gentleman named Brian (Ben Chaplin), who recently called Abby's program to seek immediate help with a canine, is also coming to the broadcasting booth to extend HIS thanks. In truth, Brian is intrigued by Abby's wit and humor and wants to check her out. But, because Abby is so certain Brian will reject her as a woman, she hastily persuades Noelle to pretend that she is the on-air doctor. Naturally, Brian likes what he sees in the lovely Noelle and asks her out, much to Abby's discomfort. But, over the course of the next few weeks, Brian becomes thoroughly confused. Every time he talks with Abby on the phone, he is charmed by her personality but when he sees Abby/Noelle in person, he is struck by the fact that she appears to be somewhat empty-headed and intellectually challenged. How can this be, he wonders? Well, just wait until the secrets come out, dear Brian! This is a wonderful romantic comedy, one full of fun, insightfulness and daring. It asks the proverbial question, what is most important in the love between two people, their physical appearances or their minds? As Abby, Garofalo gives a great turn, for her mighty wit and intelligence comes through in every scene. Chaplin makes a very attractive love object while Thurman does a nice job, too, as the beautiful, desirable model who, nevertheless, has a dim bulb in the attic. The California setting is totally gorgeous while the costumes, especially Thurman's, are very well chosen. As for the script, it is zestfully and blissfully challenging and fun. The truth about this film, therefore, is most romcom lovers will adore it. Do make plans to see it soon. "},{"Title":"Charming to watch - give it about 15 minutes to grow on you.","Date":"27 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a charming little movie. Although the story is an old and well-known one, the character performances and script were very good and made this movie interesting to watch. If you don't get interested immediately, give it about 15 minutes - that's what it took me to start really liking it.The movie is a classic Cyrano de Bergerac story about a radio talk show host who enlists the help of an attractive neighbor (played by Uma Thurman) to deal with an interested listener to her show.The first time I ventured watching this movie, I quit after about 10 minutes. However, I kept reading good things about it so I went a little further the second time and was hooked to the end.The main character (played by Janeane Garofalo) is brilliantly fun to hear. She is self-doubting, cynical and intelligently witty. Her character, along with a decent script and a few clever bits of wisdom along the way make the movie worthwhile watching. It's not quite laugh-out funny, but it's cute. "},{"Title":"Suspension of disbelief","Date":"16 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A Romantic Comedy requires suspension of disbelief like a romantic relationship itself, which won't happen unless you venture into the fantastic and unknown that the apple of your desire promises. But you have to walk a fine line to stay on the rosy side and not see the absurd behind the pink colored sunglasses you put on. We enjoyed this film because the characters were almost believable and we kept on our rosy sunglasses. Uma was so much more wonderful than in the Kill Bill films. Garofalo was totally new to us non-TV people. It was hard to make her look unattractive even in subdued light. But it's not a family film unnecessary phone sex scene and language. If the absurd doesn't get to you then you will enjoy it. "},{"Title":"This work holds much charm, some great performances, and not a small amount of charisma.","Date":"21 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is another rom/com based on the Cyrano Hercule Savinien de Bergerac premise. Like Roxanne, this work holds much charm, some great performances, and not a small amount of charisma. I do find it amusing that many male reviewers of this work find it disgusting, and deceitful, where the women in the movie are the antagonists, yet men did not find Roxanne (where the men were the antagonists) anything but entertaining.Noelle is a model/would be news caster. Abby has her own radio show about pets and how to care for them. Abby chose radio because she is intelligent, yet by standards set in today's society, she finds herself unattractive. Noelle is her polar opposite. She is beautiful and thin, yet can barely hold her own against a fifth grader, conversationally and intellectually.You know? Between the two of us, we make the perfect woman! Uma Thurman as Noelle With the comparison to Cyrano de Bergerac in my opening statement, I'm sure you can deduce what happens when a handsome photographer is introduced into their lives.This is not exactly sweet, as are most rom/coms. But it is enigmatic and holds a strong draw to see how it finishes out. It was fun, even if it did create an ethical stretch mark on the rom/com sub genre.It rates a 6.5/10 from...the Fiend . "}{"Title":"An absolutely *wonderful* film.","Date":"19 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is not only one of the best movies I've ever seen, I bought *three* copies. One each for other members of my family. Sure, it's somewhat like Syrano-Bergerac, but not like Roxanne (w/Steve Martin & Darryl Hannah), which is an exact copy.This (Truth About Cats & Dogs) is a film that is well acted by Janeane Garofalo AND Uma Thurman. It has a great story, great cinematography and is great for the whole family. Maybe with the exception of the phone/bed scene, which may be considered a not yet for kids under 13.Rent this movie, and enjoy! My favorite scene was the stunt bicyclist - you simply *must* see that scene! "},{"Title":"My truth about Cats & Dogs","Date":"6 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is funny, romantic, and sexy. It does not drag. I love it! I even bought it and I do not buy movies! So you guys out there ... listen ... rent out this movie to watch with your girl or wife. I am sure she will like it or love it like me. It will make you laugh and it will even grab your heart when Abby watches her friend Noelle sleep (?) with her manWhat can Abby, a sharp but insecure radio talk show host, and Noelle, a beautiful and eager-to-please model, possible have in common? The two unlikely friends ...are about to find out when Abby finds herself strongly attracted to a charming photographer, and asks Noelle to assume her identity when he unexpectedly comes calling to meet the person behind the beguiling radio personality. A series of romantic and comic misadventures follows, finally giving way to true love and friendship. "},{"Title":"Heart-warming romantic comedy","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Is it possible for romantic rivals to keep a good friendship and to be true companions? This movie discovers the truth about two women, Abby and Noelle so clearly.Dr. Abby Barnes, played by Janeane Garofalo, is a radio show personality who talks about the The Truth about Cats and Dogs on her program. She is smart, but negative about men because she is a type of Time Magazine's woman of the Year On the contrary, Noelle, played by Uma Thurman, is a professional model and positive about men because she is a type of Playboy's Playmate of the Year. One day, Brian, played by Ben Chaplin, who is a listener of Abby's show has a problem with his dog and calls her. Attracted by Abby's voice, Brian visits the radio station to meet her. Brian meets a beautiful woman with blonde hair who Brian believes Abby, but the truth is&#133;..Though the plot is predictable and unrealistic, viewers can enjoy the movie because it is a story about a true friendship between romantic rivals. Some might call this movie a chick flick, still, this warmhearted; quick-witted movie is fabulous and greatly entertaining. "},{"Title":"Fairly Entertaining","Date":"2 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" THE TRUTH ABOUT CATS & DOGS ***1/2 In Jeneane Garofalo's starring debut, she plays a smart-talking radio show host who helps callers with problems concerning their pets. When she attracts local listener Ben Chaplin with her voice and quick wit, and he wants to set a meeting time with her, she sends statuesque Uma Thurman in her place because of self-esteem issues. Several complications ensue from here, including the occurrences of both ladies falling for the nice guy. I find the film fairly entertaining until the climax is reached, when I want to stop the characters from mellowing about in their deceptions so they can send out the punchline already. "},{"Title":"Just funny!","Date":"19 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I had always knew why when four years ago I first watched this on a projector at the school hall of my alma mater then with other peers are part of our school's post-exam activities - movie-watching, almost many laughed.I mean really, it's not many a times that cats and dogs do steal some of the spotlight other than humans, i.e., a veterinarian & radio show host. Just to watch those animals on screen doing their antics, it's enough to almost sent me rolling in stitches at that time.Definitely one of those favourite comedies of mine. "},{"Title":"I always knew animals were man's best friends","Date":"26 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The Truth Aboout Cats and Dogs I found a touching film. This Radio Talk Show Vet (played by Janeane Garofalo) gives advice over the airwaves to the general public, whilst keeping herself very much to herself. She has the wrong persona about herself; and when a male listener falls for the voice he hears on the radio, she misleads him into thinking that she is someone she's not by asking a friend (played by Uma Thurman) to deputise for her on a date. This is a recipe for comedy, and a good deal of problems for our demure vet.The film, which last something over 90 minutes places, in my mind, the wrong person as Leading Lady on the credits; not giving the top billing she deserves to Janeane Garofalo as the Radio Vet.A touching Comedy Romance, with great work from Janeane Garofalo and Uma Thurman.Well worth seeing if you haven't already; and well worth seeing over and over again if you have.RPQ. "},{"Title":"A Cyrano de Bergerac for a modern audience...","Date":"1 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" ...which, unlike Roxanne, a more direct adaptation, is in no way farcical. It has a distinct message and is perhaps the most pleasant romantic comedy to have been produced perhaps ever, at least since It Happened One Night. The characters are nearly all sympathetic and never exchange cruel jabs at each other or swear profusely. This is a remarkable achievement.The acting is terrific and the movie as a whole is a joy to watch, if a little slow-paced now and then.I would recommend this movie to anyone willing to accept a few plot holes whose patch-jobs are somewhat ineffective. "},{"Title":"Not funny but good story","Date":"8 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie wasn't really a comedy it was more of a love story. I don't think I laughed once, but I still enjoyed it. It was kind of predictable though, but still it is still a good time waster. The acting was great and the plot was great. It was a bit boring though, well I thought it was but this isn't really my kind of movie. If you like a descent romance movie that I recommend it to you. If you aren't a romance type of person then forget about it not for you. If the movie was more funny it would probably be a top movie, but no jokes, it is hard to sit through. Especially after you watch it the first time, it will be hard to watch it again, because you know what happens and it's not really funny. If I had to rate this movie I would probably give it a 5.5 on 10.-Mickey88- "},{"Title":"Garofalo shines in sold romantic comedy","Date":"16 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Synopsis Janeane plays Abby, the host of a radio talk show on pets and pet care.  One day Brian calls in with a problem with a dog.  Brian is cute and charming, Abby helps him out of his jam.  Brian calls to thank her, invites her to meet him.  Abby says yes then gets self-conscious about her appearance and stands him up.  Abby's magazine-model neighbor, Noelle (Thurman) visits her at the station just as Brian drops by.  Abby convinces Noelle to stand in for her while Abby plays Noelle's assistant.  Romantic comedy, of the mistaken-identity variety, ensues.The only problem I've got with this movie is the obvious suspension of disbelief required to accept Abby's ridiculous behavior in the beginning of the movie.  Asking Noelle to sit in might have been acceptable, but once she met Brian and decided she liked him, it's just ridiculous that she didn't tell him the truth.  Sure, the movie contrives a series of circumstances to get in the way of her telling him until she's in too deep to get out easily (and thus, has to propagate the lie), but I didn't find them entirely believable.  Whatever--the movie as a whole was worth overlooking this small fault.It's fun to watch the relationship develop between Brian, Abby, and Noelle. Garofalo, Thurman, and whoever that guy is who plays Brian all put in a good performance.  There are several funny or cute moments (Abby (crying) Guys don't have to go through this appearance stuff.  If I were a guy, I'd be so perfect.  I've got a job, I'm smart.  Noelle I'd f**k you, honey.). Good date movie, but I'm the kind of sap who puts it in when he's home alone just for fun -) "},{"Title":"Beauty","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have seen this movie several times (it's now enjoying a run on CINEMAX) and I can definitely empathize with Abby, because I feel the way about myself that she does - bland, boring, nondescript, not-worth-a-second-glance, etc...but what I don't get is that, to me anyway, Abby is a LOT prettier than Noelle! True, Noelle is tall and blonde, but appears pale and washed out. Abby has vibrant coloring and beautiful eyes, especially when she smiles. Also, I've noticed that the so-called beautiful people tend to be shallow and self-centered and the ugly ducklings tend to be kind and sympathetic, as if to somehow prove that they ARE worth something! "}{"Title":"Funny and enjoyable but....","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I agree with several other reviews that Abby was miscast...in fact, I know it's a matter of personal preference, but I think Jeanine Garofalo is the better looking of the two (particularily during the photo session scene)....Ben Chaplin was terrific....Overall I thought the movie was  a bit unrealistic as pointed out by others (but hey, it's a MOVIE) but very entertaining (that IS why I watch movies) nonetheless.... "},{"Title":"unpretentious...","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I might be a little suspicious when talking about this movie cause Abby Barnes happens to be my alter-ego. I just loved it. It's more of an unpretentious movie, very sweet, nice ironic jokes (from Janeane Garofalo's character, surely), nice performances. Nothing outstanding or very special, though. 'The truth about cats and dogs' is that kind of movie that makes you feel exactly like one of the characters in the big screen. And doesn't it always feel just good? "},{"Title":"SLIGHTLY BETTER THAN AVERAGE ROMANTIC COMEDY","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  *possible spoilers ahead* THE TRUTH ABOUT CATS AND DOGS is, quite frankly, that it attempts to suspend belief far too long. This film centers on a nouveau twist of the CYRANO de BERGERAC play, by Edmond Rostand. This formula has been around the block a time or two, with varying degrees of success. From CYRANO de BERGERAC (1950) which brought Jose Ferrer an Oscar, Depardieu's film of the same title (1990), to Steve Martin's ROXANNE (1987), to the so-so teen flick WHATEVER IT TAKES (2000), to the mind numbingly bad, TOO MUCH (1996).Now, THE TRUTH ABOUT CATS AND DOGS, brings its twist. We learn to like the characters, appreciate their motives, yet just can't hold the audience indulgence for so long. Brian (Ben Chaplin), the object of affection for Abby, who has Noelle front for her, as it were, might be fooled initially. As the film wears on around this complication, it becomes tread worn, leaving Brian looking, as well as feeling, like a bit of a twit.Another problem, is both female leads (Janeane Garofalo & Uma Thurman)are quite attractive, intelligent and pleasant. This side of the plot floats from bizarre to severely unrealistic waters, as well. This tends to get unintentionally silly. However, the movie really tries and you can't help but like those involved (due to good performances).The ending really hurts, with its typical H-wood quickie last minute resolution. Pretty trite.  Overall, this film is slightly better than everyday rom/com fare, and makes it over the hump to be recommended.   "},{"Title":"Positive I promise","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  In this film we get a good dose of comedy and romance. A few things don't ring quite true; perhaps the film producers could have swallowed the idea of making Abby less good looking, although the chosen actress is good in her part, I'm sure the viewers could have sacrificed one pretty face for more realism. Whilst I enjoyed watching it, I must admit the most realistic character is Hank, the large lovable dog. This film has taught me the importance of....well, not much admittedly, but it's more for fun than spiritual growth anyway! "},{"Title":"Fabulous Film!! For all Romantics with a sense of Humor!!","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Wonderful and creative--the film's main character, Abby Barnes is played by the delightfully talented Janeane Garofalo.  Abby Barnes is a radio talk show host for The Truth about Cats and Dogs...where she answers questions about animal behavior.  By chance, she meets charming Brian--played by Ben Chaplin--who needs help with his dog.  She gives him advice, and wanting to meet her face to face, Brian leaves Abby frantic. She lies to him, and describes herself as being her next door neighbor--model Noelle Slusarsky (radiant Uma Thurman).  And so, there begins a strange bond between the three friends...with humorous results.  Fabulous spin of Cyrano de Bergerac, Abby being the face behind the poetry that draws Brian to her heart.  Warm and delightful, a must for all romantics with a sense of humour.  "},{"Title":"Tough to watch (mild spoilers)","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As many other people have noted, the most obvious flaw with Cats & Dogs is that it relies upon the assumption that Janeane Garofalo is not attractive (or at least, less attractive than Uma Thurman).  Not only do I disagree strongly with this assumption the movie makes, it de-claws the point that the movie is trying to make (mild spoilers ahead)  The whole point is that love stems from the personality and not the appearance of the people involved.  I can see why the insecurity of Abby (JG's character) struck a nerve with a lot of viewers -- just about everybody feels inadequately attractive at different times, myself included.  I think the movie could have been ten times better if Abby was played by a character who really was unattractive by society's standards, and yet was still funny and smart and likeable.  Unfortunately Hollywood is not nearly bold enough to put an unattractive woman in the center of a romantic comedy.  For even taking the unusual step of portraying a woman's insecurity they had to cast the cute-but-not-model-thin Garofalo and then compare her to the Amazonian Uma Thurman.  I appreciate the statement they're trying to make, but I was repelled by the execution of it.I also disliked the drawn-out mistaken-identity plot-line.  It was painful to watch the silly, paper-thin story progress.  I thought it was done better in Roxanne and the other Cyrano de Bergerac-style flicks.  The characters are all likeable and the dog does sterling work in an underwritten role, but I can't recommend the movie.  I only watched it to see Garofalo. "},{"Title":"See this now!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Some films barely last in the memory for 2 seconds, some for hours, and some become those films you never forget. This is one of them, largely as it is, quite simply, the greatest film ever made! Okay, so the plot is not complex and particularly original, but it works, filled with some funny lines. The film never outstays its welcome in any scenes, all directed well, with some nice backdrops thrown in for good measure. However, it is the quality of the acting which truly stands out. All 3 leads are outstanding, as is the wonderful dog, (how did they get the rollerskates on him?!?!?), and make sure that the script is exploited to the full. It made me laugh and cry, and I was applauding by the end. Forget 4 hour epics, and Oscars, the real gem is here. Truly incredible. 11/10!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Nitemare Hippy Girl","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The whole premise of this movie falls apart though because Janeane Garofalo here is nowhere near as unattractive as the story would have her be.  I guess she is when compared to Uma Thurman, who really is quite stunning. That might explain it.  Nonetheless, the film is harmless enough, relatively amusing, and a fairly decent romantic comedy (though far from one of the best). "},{"Title":"almost, but not quite there","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  there are some nice moments in this film, but the plot requires one to believe that Garofalo is sophisticated, witty, and really homely; Thurman is drop dead gorgeous with the personality and intelligence of a rock; and that Chaplin could confuse two such individuals for each other. None of this is plausibly true about these individual performers, and none of them manages to sustain such an impression over the course of this film. Garofalo is way too attractive, Thurman is too interesting and likable, and Chaplin nowhere near clueless enough. Garofalo and Thurman work at it, but both are badly mis-cast. Chaplin is not given the material to pull it off. "},{"Title":"I am glad I saw this movie","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As everyone else who reviewed this movie said, its not going to be considered as a great example of movie making and I don't know why that is but it is just a beautiful movie that is going to touch you and make you believe in love. My original interest was to see Jeneane Gerafalo and she did not disappoint but Uma Thurman was just marvelous. I think this is her best performance ever and the character she portrayed is so beautiful and innocent that you can not help falling in love with her. See this movie and understand why all twenty one reviewers on IMDB for this movie liked it and mine will be twenty second. When all agree unanimously it says something about the movie. Just a completely funny and beautiful movie. "}{"Title":"Why do I Like this movie so much??","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The Truth About Cats and Dogs has a hackneyed plot, very little that is original, some bad acting and I really really like it.  Another strange thing is that the only actor I like in it is Janeane Garofalo who was spectacular.  I thought Uma Thurman was strange for the role because she's not as drop dead gorgeous as they make her out to be.  One reason I like it is that I'm much more intellectual than beautiful.  So I guess I connected with Abby.  I also liked that Abby didn't have some kind of makeover or something so the audience could realise her beauty.  The other reason is that this is one of the movies both me and my girlfriend really liked early on in our relationship.  I saw it when it came out and liked it then, and I saw it recently again on tv and still liked it.  So, even though I really can't say why, I'm giving it a 7/10 (when normally stuff like this gets a 3-5). "},{"Title":"A smart and witty Garofalo and a dumb and beautiful Thurman get caught up in a love triangle with the sweet and sensitve Ben Chaplin.","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is so cleverly put together.  Janeane Garofalo shines like a star and you can't help but fall in love with cutie Ben Chaplin.  It is a classic love story for all time.  It makes love seem so much more beautiful than the sappy Romance movies that are made nowadays.  Please go out and rent it tonight.   "},{"Title":"Janeane Garofalo Showcase","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a comedy gem; one of the best of the last decade. I rarely find a modern comedy that allows belly laughs to such a degree.This is undoubtedly Janeane Garofalo`s showcase. One of the most under-rated comic actors of all time (seriously!), she shines in a sympathetic role as the neurotically shy Abby.The bright,breezy story allows her to show the full gamut of emotions and display her marvellous timing. Uma Thurmans contribution should not be forgeotten,however. Her naif is a perfect foil to Abby`s caustic,cynical charm. Ben Chaplin provides something a weak link, but mainly becuase the writing doesn`t give him enough to do.Overall, a sparkling,witty fim, which updates romcoms for Generation X "},{"Title":"one of the few good romantic comedies there are!","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  being a huge fan of janeane garofalo might make this review slightly biased, but i loved this film! although romantic comedies aren't my thing at all, this one showed more originality and depth. (for a romantic comedy of course).i also found it quite sad throughout the film as abby being classed as 'ugly' and 'fat', and while watching the film i admit a tear did come to my eye. the ending was really funny and i loved the dog! janeane garofalo's brilliant one-liners throughout the film were hilarious (along with uma thurman, who is a great actress). ben chaplin rocked, even though it is a bit unrealistic how he didn't figure their identities sooner!although mainstream movies aren't really suited to janeane garofalo's style, i thought this film was really good for its story, humor and emotion. 7 out of ten.  "},{"Title":"In the Eye of the Beholder","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" If I were Ben Chaplin, and I had to choose between Janeane Garafalo and Uma Thurman it would be Janeane all the way. In fact, if I saw the two of them together the first time there would be no doubt.While Uma Thurman was supposed to be the beautiful one in this film I don't think that the wardrobe and make-up people quite got that. I think that if I had trouble believing anyone's performance it was Ben Chaplin's in that he could find her character so much more appealing than Janeane's.This film is extremely entertaining though with plenty of wonderful lines peppered throughout, and the performances given by the actors are quite good. The animal actors in this show are good too and the dog Hank is a scene stealer. The message here basically is trying to say that in the end personality is important. I think that one should also consider that beauty is in the eye of the beholder, and I think that many people beheld Janeane as being the beauty. "},{"Title":"pet vet frets","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A peaceful tale in that oft-called-upon cinema scenario the love life of the talk-radio vet.As is often the case in romantic comedies, the ending is never in doubt, only the means of getting there.  Here, there are quite enough episodes to make for pleasing viewing, and the whole thing is rather touching (the, er, touching aspects of the phone scene excepted) especially with Garafaro's very classy performance (as ever).  She must feel a bit typecast though - I wonder whether she will ever be cast as anything other than a bit of a clever-clogs.I was quite lulled.By the way, look out for the coffee shop scene towards the end, where there is a very bold, static single shot of Garafaro and Chaplin lasting 26 seconds without any dialogue or movement whatsoever.  Perfect! "},{"Title":"An Entertaining movie","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Some IMDB reviewers have taken this movie to task because the attractive Janeane Garofalo plays a character who is unhappy about the way she looks.    But they're missing the point. Uma Thurman who plays a character who is dumb, but also loyal, and warm hearted, speaks the most important line when she tells Garofalo that she suffers from low self esteem. She's hit the nail right on the head.   But what I really liked about the movie was the relationship between the two women. The intelligent character Garofalo plays never condescends to Thurman's dumb broad even when the latter is being particularly air headed.    Both female leads give nicely shaded performances, and Ben Chaplin is an engaging actor.   All in all an entertaining movie with three attractive leads, and I mean that in both senses of the word  "},{"Title":"Delightful romantic comedy!","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  For anyone who is a fan of Janeane Garofalo (in my opinion one of the most talented performers today), this movie is a must-see.  Her trademark sardonic wit is at its finest when she delivers her lines.  Uma Thurman was a pleasant surprise as well, taking a comic turn and showing she's more than just a pretty face.It may not be the most believable story one has ever seen, but this is a good movie to rent and stay at home for the evening.Anyone who has pets will be able to relate to this movie.  Listen carefully when Abby (Janeane Garofalo) is giving advice to her callers.  There is a lot of reality in those scenes!If you're a sucker for a good romantic comedy, this is the movie for you. "},{"Title":"Just a tad far-fetched","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was basically a one-joke gag that was beaten relentlessly into the viewer with all the subtlety of a sledgehammer.  Too many sophomoric sight gags (yes, we're supposed to buy the fact that Janeane Garofalo speaking in a higher-pitched voice sounds just like Uma, thus--once again--fooling the male lead), and never mind what was absolutely the dumbest love scene I have ever had the misfortune to see.  Nothing like a little mutual phone sex to warm the heart--I was truly flabbergasted to see the filmmakers actually try to pass off this exercise in, um ..., self-pleasure as a stepping stone toward building the relationship between the two leads.  Please pass this one by.  You'll regret every minute of the time you spend with it.   "},{"Title":"Janeane as the ugly duckling?? WHY??","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  OK, as much as I love Janeane (and I do OWN this movie), it is way flawed. First of all, the fact that JG is cast as the ugly duckling chick is completely nuts. I love Abby, I don't care what she looks like... oh THANK you for overlooking her hideousness! I mean, Abby is so DOWN on herself. OK, sarcasm aside, JG was of course charming and gorgeous in this movie, and Uma was mediocre. It was predictable and totally unbelieveable (He couldn't TELL it was JG on the phone for 6 hours and not Uma? Please.) but OK for a rental I guess. JG is the only reason I even wanted to see it (same with The Matchmaker). Please let Janeane make more edgy indie films and not these mainstream Hollywood pieces of crud. She's amazing, and needs to be cast in cooler stuff than this.  "}{"Title":"Brilliantly crafted heart-warmer","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Unlike Steve Martin's 'Roxanne', which is a modern day adaptation of 'Cyrano de Bergerac', this movie borrows only its basic premise from that classic French novel. Dr. Abby Barnes (Janeane Garofalo) is a veterinarian radio talk show host who falls in love with a dog-loving photographer (Ben Chaplin), but is so insecure about her physical appearance, she makes her friend Noelle (Uma Thurman) double for her.I loved this film so much that after I'd seen it on tape I rewound and watched it one more time right away. The most important statement I wish to make about it is that if you're a guy and, watching this movie, don't fall hopelessly, helplessly, head-over-heels in love with Garofalo's character, that means you have emotional problems and should get professional help.The dialogue is peppered with witty conversation and funny lines. Janeane Garofalo is a well-known comedian, but Uma Thurman is very funny too (who knew?). The scene where Noelle recites a tragic news story that she's going to read at a newscaster audition, but is too excited to keep from smiling, is a gem. Abby's comment `That was good. That was really good, but you might want to make the carnage a little less upbeat.'   "},{"Title":"Slightly far fetched, but very good.","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Okay, so microphones can do interesting things to your voice, but the plot of this movie is just a little far fetched. Don`t get me wrong though, it's a great movie. It's a nice romantic comedy. Definite date movie. "},{"Title":"Amazing, incredible, must see movie!","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It's just amazing! I wanted to see this movie in theatres when it came out, but unfortunately I didn't have time because of my exams. When I saw it a few days ago on TV I was completely baffled. The movie is really fun and I laughed the whole way through it. If you're feeling kind of depressed or down, I really advise you to see it. You'll love it! ) "},{"Title":"A 'hairs rise on the back of the neck' film!","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a beautifully crafted, perfectly paced, splendidly acted film. Ms.Garofalo is breathtaking and the majority of us who are  in the 'non-perfect human beings' drawer will thrill at this  wonderful film. The only reason the film is a '9' not a '10'is that Ms.Garofalo fails to quite convince me she is in any way flawed! "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie","Date":"15 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I have seen this movie on DVD and it was excellent. I bet Uma Thurman as Noelle is cute. Janeane Garofalo as Abby was wonderful telling about pets on to the microphone. Ben Chaplin as Brian was brilliant. That is Hilarius that Hank the dog rides on those skates when Brian was on the phone with Abby and then Abby tells Brian to do. Whats funny that Abby rides on those skates when he went to see Brian. This story happens in L.A California was Abby that did some talking in the microphone about dogs or cats. This movie is wonderful you will like this movie you will like Uma Thurmans look, the characters, and Hank the dog but except some nonsense in this movie. "},{"Title":"No Truth in Cats and Dogs","Date":"19 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Re-telling of the age-old Cyrano tale with Janeane Garofalo as The Nose and Uma Thurman as The Bod.Janeane is as alluring as she's ever been on screen &#150; which is about as alluring as Gerard Depardieu in a leotard. (But &#150; funnily enough &#150; I really *was* attracted to Janeane at about the time of this movie's release, for &#150; and this sounds corny &#150; her brain. She was never going to subsume wild fantasies of Jennifer Aniston or those blond MILF newswomen who smile coyly as they tell of mass death, but Janeane definitely orbited as a fantasy contender.) Written by first-timer Audrey Wells and directed by Michael Lehmann (*Airheads* 1994, *Hudson Hawk* 1991&#150; now *there's* a powerful pedigree) *The Truth About Cats and Dogs* shares the same contradictions as *Shallow Hal*; pretending a pretty girl is unattractive until she needs to be portrayed as attractive, at which point suddenly the lighting will be numinous and the filter will be soft-focus. At which point I rip the arms off a droid like a Wookiee.Ben Chaplin is the British love interest who autonomously falls in lust with Thurman, until he is brought round to realizing that he can intellectually fall in *love* with Janeane. Yes, after 4 billion years, let's subvert evolution in one afternoon.Jamie Foxx provides two good laughs &#150; or maybe one - and there are pets and other annoying organisms taking up valuable breathing space on screen. "},{"Title":"A predictable but enjoyable romantic comedy","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" While I felt that Jeanine was not ugly enough to play Abby, I mean come on, she is cute, this is a well made and fun little comedy. Uma and Jeanine were just adorable together and fit right as best friends. Together they created the perfect woman. I also think that I enjoyed the film because it hit close to home on my opinion of what people are finding attractive. I watch dating shows sometimes or just listening to my friends and all they want is a smart, funny, intelligent, BUT GOOD LOOKING person. Riiiight. I always thought that there should be some way to show how we act towards what people found attractive, this is a good example of a movie for our behavior. It's a cute movie and I would recommend it for a watch.6/10 "},{"Title":"Unappealing Coarse Movie","Date":"27 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you don't find Garofalo's character appealing, the movie is unlikely to satisfy. I didn't. Both of the female characters are insecure - about different things - but Garofalo is made sarcastic, manipulative, lying and caustic by her insecurity - the sweet Thurman remains candid, sincere, straightforward  by hers. I'd always have chosen Thurman's character over Garofalo's. **** SPOILERS ****Time and time again, I am put off by things the Garofalo character does - from pinning someone with her bow when she hears him insulting Thurman (at that point, a relative stranger to Garofalo), lying about the way she looks to someone whom she doesn't know who asks her for coffee, standing the person up (he waits hours), insisting that Thurman continue to lie about her identity to the man, engaging in phone sex (and a very long masturbatory scene with someone who thinks she's another). There's not much that's appealing about her. **** END SPOILERS****Sure, everyone has insecurities - but those of most do NOT cause them to manipulate those around them, etc. I found her personality ugly - and the movie thus failed. Were I Ben Chaplin, I'd never have spoken to her again. "},{"Title":"Stacks the deck","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As several have said, this movie really pulls its punches.  The beauty's only skin deep theme is perfectly good for a modern romantic comedy, but if the filmmakers really wanted to make the point, they should've cast an unattractive actress to play Abby.  I agree with those who have said that Janeane Garofalo is actually more appealing than Uma Thurman.  I've never really seen the physical appeal in Thurman.  She has a nice personality onscreen, but she's thin, oddly colored, and has bug-eyes.  All political considerations aside, this makes a pleasant diversion.  The setting is beautiful, the people are all nice, and the ending is happy (as if this kind of film would ever have a sad ending).  Both Garofalo and Chaplin show real charisma and generate a palpable chemistry.  The script, besides that central flaw, is intelligently written; the logical shortcuts inherent in this kind of misunderstanding-driven plot are handled about as well as they can be.  It all adds up to a nice romantic comedy, but not the landmark film it could have been if the producers had had more courage. "},{"Title":"One to view only when it's raining cats and dogs","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Reasonably enjoyable on first viewing, I found this tedious second time round. The main problem is that the deception by radio vet Abby (Janeane Garofalo) and fashion model Noelle (Uma Thurman) goes on for far too long,  and it becomes increasingly difficult to accept that  Brian (Ben Chaplin) can think  he's in love with Noelle, when he has every opportunity to switch his affections to  Abby if he finds her more desirable.  Perhaps, at the end of the day,  all he's in love with is Abby's radio persona and her advice on his dog. Surely, for the movie to really make its point - that brains should take precedence over beauty - Brian  should exchange Noelle for Abby far earlier than he does, ideally before he finds out that Abby is the real radio vet. (Incidentally, I say brains rather than personality because both women are oozing with the latter; Abby simply has the higher IQ.) But the real dummy here is Brian, who not only cannot recognise Abby's charms, but who after several conversations with Noelle can't tell that she's unlikely to appreciate a present of Simone de Beauvoir's letters to Sartre.  (Incidentally, OK, Noelle tells Brian that she puts on a voice for her radio program; but he's so stupid that he cannot recognise that the voice on the radio is Abby's even after a night of telephone sex with her.)It's inevitable that this movie will be seen as a take on the Cyrano story; but really even had Cats and Dogs succeeded in all its aims it  would have been very thin gruel when compared to the original masterpiece (or to Steve Martin's wonderful Roxanne) lacking any poetry or panache.    "}{"Title":"A Criminally Wasted Opportunity","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Be warned spoilers ahead! Read no further if you wish to view the film with an innocent and unprejudiced eye.The most hateworthy film is not the worst film, but the one with the elements to make a much better one. And, not for the first time, one reason why 'The Truth' is less than the sum of its parts is the obsession with concept. Once chosen, the Cyrano plotline had to be followed through. Regardless of the fact that the actor chosen to play 'Roxane' left whatever charm he had on his side of the screen.Shorn of this useless baggage, one has a film. Firstly, in the stunning form of Janeane Garofalo, who is unattractive only to those from a galaxy far, far away. (And Hollywood casting directors.) And whose screen-crossing warmth - cuddlesomeness, indeed - is cut, like a good Alsace Riesling, with an acidic realism barely short of cynicism, essential for adult viewing.And Thurman, Hollywood-thin, her too-wide, lips-look-like-they've-been done Julia Roberts mouth and sub-Durante nose plain to see, is appealingly vulnerable. (Though there is no entertainment value in seeing her brutalised by her Neanderthal boyfriend as unnecessary as the excesses that spoilt 'Born Yesterday', of which the film is reminiscent.)So, the ingredients are there for the much talked-of female buddy movie - 'Thelma and Louise' without the gun play. Something like thisGarofalo - whose business is caring for dumb animals - sees getting Thurman her break on local TV as an extension of business as usual. (She is naturally nowhere near as stupid as the truly 'dumb blonde' she appears to be. That simply would not be credible.) And Thurman, even in the film itself, clearly has a college freshman crush on Garofalo (as witness the - genuinely touching - scene when she gives Garofalo a violin bow to replace the one her boyfriend broke). She reciprocates in giving her fashion, make-up and similar advice on getting a man. (Any man but the √ºberlumpen Chaplin.) She fails, of course. (Though, through the miracle of American montage, she need take only 90 seconds to do so!)But the final scene writes itself - the two girls, plus cat, snuggle on the sofa in their novelty jammies sharing a box of Kleenex over 'Now, Voyager' or 'Casablanca'. A real 90s happy ending - not settling, exactly, but finding contentment wherever one can.Which brings up the other reason why the Chaplin thing was followed to the bitterly boring end. Hollywood is happy to roll out the liberal barrel but only when more tightly controlled than security around the US president.So when it comes to female friendship, for instance, a metaphorical three-foot rule applies. Hugging, kissing, holding hands - all that sort of girly stuff must be held tightly in check. Physical contact only when there is sufficient misery to negative any lurking eroticism. Lower down the cast list, fine. A little Sapphic colour to goose up the ratings never goes amiss. But, for leading actresses in happy times, PDAs - any DAs - must be sneaked in (as Thurman does, holding hands with Garofalo in the department store for a luxurious 15 seconds....)I don't know where Thurman's crush on Garofalo would have led. There's no earthly reason why the film needed to be explicit on the point. (Though something might usefully have replaced the opposite-of-erotic phone sex sequence in the movie.)Just leaving the matter open would have left viewers with a bit of a lift, instead of the suet-dumpling resting heavy on the stomach that the film actually manages.This was supposed to be Garofalo's breakthrough movie. Instead, her film career seems more or less to have hit the buffers. This film shows just what a talent the paying public have been deprived of. Thanks to some craven and unimaginative suits. "},{"Title":"Worthwhile","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The Truth about Cats and Dogs stands out as one of the best romantic comedies of the decade for a number of reasons.Firstly, it's actually funny, and remains funny throughout the whole film. It's amazing, but this type of film often seems to forget that it's supposed to be a comedy.  The comedy comes in varied styles too, from razor sharp dialogue to full-blown slapstick.Secondly, the film is tremendously romantic.  When Abby finally gets her man, it's wonderfully satisfying.  I think the main reason for this is because Abby is a person that most people can relate to.  She's not the Julia Roberts/Michelle Pfeiffer/Sandra Bullock mega babe that could get any man she wanted.  She's a normal woman, with normal fears and insecurities just looking for a normal relationship.The third reason this film stands out is its wonderful leading ladies. Abby must have been written with Janeane Garafalo in mind.  She is superb, a natural comedian with biting wit and surprisingly effective at the emotional moments in the film.  Uma Thurman is the perfect foil as dim witted Noelle. It would have been easy for Thurman to play the stereo-typical 'dumb blonde' (ala Romy and Michelle) but she plays Noelle with complete sincerity, comfortably ditching her cool, sophisticated reputation.  The relationship and growing friendship between Abby and Noelle is perhaps the most pleasing element of the movie.The last reason this film stands out is it's message.  This film would have been a joy without a point, but it has one anyway.  It's not a new idea and it's not particuly subtle in the way it's presented, but there's no harm in being reminded of it in such a pleasing way.If the film has its weak points, it's only in comparison with its strong ones.  Ben Chaplin doesn't really create a strong enough impression opposite Garafalo and Thurman, but there is nothing inherently wrong with his performance, he's just outshined. The film also stretches credibility to breaking point if you stop and think about it, so it's best not to do that.You'll laugh, you'll cry, and you'll go away happy.  This is a film I wholeheartedly recommend. "},{"Title":"Varying the themes of Cyrano de Bergerac and Pillow Talk","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A very pleasant romantic comedy, varying the themes of Cyrano de Bergerac and Pillow Talk. The quality of the dialogue is superb, and the acting (especially by lead Janeane Garofalo) is excellent too, not to mention the excellent job done by the dog and its trainer.  However, the plot has one gigantic hole the male lead (Ben Chaplin) is supposedly unable to distinguish the voices of the two female leads; giving this character some kind of a hearing impairment would have saved the plot, but the writers did not dare.Apart from that (admittedly major) flaw the only other problem with the film is typical for the genre the story focuses too much on the leads, it does not give the minor characters enough room to develop an identity. "},{"Title":"A funny comedy/romance film! If you haven't seen it, you should!","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The truth about this film is that it is VERY good. Uma Thurman, and Janeane Garfolo are great in this film. This is a wonderful comedy and romace film! If you haven't seen this film, you completely MUST SEE THIS! I give it a 10 out of 10 ) !!! "},{"Title":"Sweet, charming, and hilarious romantic comedy about being yourself","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" THE TRUTH ABOUT CATS & DOGS, in my opinion, is a sweet, charming, and hilarious romantic comedy about being yourself. Roy (James McCaffrey) was an absolute jerk! Brian (Ben Chaplin) was the better guy. This was because he yelled at Noelle (Uma Thurman) and broke Abby's (Janeane Garofalo) violin bow. When I think about it, the dog on roller skates was really funny. I wonder how long it took for him to get the hang of it. Anyway, everyone involved in this film did an absolutely outstanding job. Now, in conclusion, I highly recommend this sweet, charming, and hilarious romantic comedy about being yourself to any Uma Thurman, Janeane Garofalo, or Ben Chaplin fan who hasn't seen it. You're in for lots of laughter, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it. "},{"Title":"Uma and Dogs","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  How many plots are there supposed to be? 3? 10? Anyway, here's one of them in a basic form, the old surrogate lover ploy.Predictable, almost boring. What's interesting is Uma Thurman. I've seen her be really bad, really ineffective. And a couple times, just perfect (here and in `Beautiful Girls'). She's a soulmate of Gwyneth Paltrow who suffers from the same inconsistency (`Emma' and `Shakespeare in Love' as high points). Both are basically unattractive if you look at their features. Both are celebrated as beauties because of how they work the camera when they connect.What chemistry makes this happen? What's behind sex? Why and how do movies create the images behind modern sex? I dunno, but I can see it working here.Garofalo isn't great here. She's much better in `Mystery Men.' "},{"Title":"imago movens cattum et canem sustinet (English translation the movie holds up a cat and a dog)","Date":"30 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" In a role somewhat predicting her roles in Mystery Men, Dogma and Steal this Movie, Janeane Garofalo plays an unglamorous radio talk show host who hires glamorous Uma Thurman to play her for a fan (Ben Chaplin); needless to say, things proliferate. Maybe at the bare minimum, this movie is looking at our obsessions with our bodies, but it certainly comes out as more than that. I always expect a lot from Janeane Garofalo, and she doesn't disappoint here. Not a great movie, but worth seeing. Also starring Jamie Foxx.Oh, and that Latin? I just thought that it sounded neat and wanted to use it. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable lightweight romantic comedy","Date":"29 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Abby is a vet with her own radio talk show who answers call-in questions related to animals. When Brian (Ben Chaplin) rings with a query about his dog, they both begin to flirt. Soon after the radio broadcast he calls her private line and asks what she looks like. She claims she's a tall six-foot blonde beauty (basically) and soon he wants to meet her.Abby gets her friend Noelle (Uma Thurman) to pose as herself so that Brian won't be disappointed. She continues to communicate with Brian via the telephone but every time he wants to see her, she has to have Noelle go out with him.This may sound like a rather silly plot, but it's well-executed. As a friendly, simple romantic comedy, it delivers exactly what it is meant to. The performances are fine - Chaplin is okay, Garofalo is annoying as always but suits the character, and Thurman plays the ditz with a heart of gold. Clich√©s? Yeah. But they work.The only scene I really had a problem with in this film was a sequence in which Abby and Brian participate in phone sex. It's kind of a clever idea but seemed, to me, rather awkward and out of place in such an otherwise family-friendly, sweet-natured comedy. Having sudden innuendos and hands reaching into pants wasn't what I expected, and I imagine it might present an awkward situation for families viewing the film with their children. I'm not a prude but I do think this was unnecessary given the film's general content and target audience.Otherwise it's an inoffensive and gentile comedy. "},{"Title":"Is that it's quite good","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Not great - just a 6.5/10 I think.  The casting is all wrong - (despite the claims by other viewers of intentional ambiguity etc.)  The male lead is two dimensional, and frankly just not interesting enough for either of them to fall for.  But.... !There's a fair amount of wit and sharp humour and Janeane Garofalos has gorgeous, confident eyes that don't blink much.  (She reminds me of another delicious janine - janine Turner from Northern Exposure...).  JG is a very good timer of both verbal and physical humour and does it all in a deliciously understated way.Worth a watch - but no repeats.      "},{"Title":"Quirky romantic comedy; Garofalo shines","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" THE TRUTH ABOUT CATS AND DOGS (1996) *** Janeane Garofalo, Uma Thurman, Ben Chaplin, Jamie Foxx. Very funny and warm-hearted romantic comedy a la Cyrano De Bergerac with Garofalo as a radio talk show veternarian who pretends to be ditsy but sweet model Thurman to win call-in Chaplin who falls for both women with some unusual results. Garofalo (in a star making role) is perfectly self-deprecating and Thurman is a delight but it is Hank the Great Dane who steals the show; he's great fun as is the film as a whole. **Garofalo I believe is my soul mate; i.e.Self-Deprecating Gold Medal Olympian. "}{"Title":"The dog should have received top billing!","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" And no, I don't mean Garofalo! Although I wouldn't object to her sniffing my crotch any day! But that dog, he's brilliant. He steals every scene he's in. You could say that he literally 'chews' the scenery. This would have been just another blah romantic comedy along the lines of You Got Mail and While I Was Snoozing, but the animales bring this one up a notch! Congrats to them, our furry lovably companions. "},{"Title":"Absolutely divine romance","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I loved this film; it's one of those movies that almost convinced me that great romances are a thing of the real world and not just good film. Nice chatty picture, fun all the way; a tad off center due to the looks of the ugly girl, but well worth a view. "},{"Title":"The truth is, this film is brilliant.","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The truth about cats and dogs is a wonderful comedy which is absolutely brilliant. The whole story is great and Janeane Garofalo, (Abby.) Uma Thurman,(Noelle.)  and Ben Chaplin (Brian.) are perfect for their roles. The truth about cats and dogs is a great film and if you haven't seen it, you must. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Contrived, in a bad way, but fun.","Date":"3 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Typical Hollywood appropriation of strong heroine into conformist plot, this film is riddled with contrivance, implausibility and humiliaiton verging on the distasteful.  The treatment of both women is arguably misogynistic, while the hero is an unbearably stiff mixture of cipher and caricature. And yet the whole thing is made enjoyable by one brave performance one extraordinary rich, believable, why-hasn't-she-gone-on-to-greater-things performance (the clearly gorgeous Garofalo), funny dialogue and adorable animals. "},{"Title":"a delightful romantic comedy that's just a bit too long (Plus it's got UMA in it!!)","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  due to my infatuation with the goddess Uma Thurman, i must start off my comments regarding her appearance in this nice romantic comedy. while i feel she was most striking in A month by the lake, she displays an even more quirky comedic charm in this and is stunning in how beautiful she is in every one of her scenes. she is still the most beautiful actress in hollywood in my opinion.there, now that i got that out of the way, onto the actual movie.this is one of the better romantic comedies that i've seen in a while. Janeane Garofalo (who is very cute in her own way) delivers her usual comedic perfection and a depth of acting that the role thankfully provides. Uma Thurman is a model that Janeane models and even envies to a point. the interplay between her and Uma is well done.surprisingly, the actor who steals this film is actually the dog. i haven't seen an animal this talented in ages and it's performance is the most engaging in the film! the movie goes on a bit too long and gets a little silly near the end, but is delivered in a great package.a solid film.rating8 "},{"Title":"Truth is - tedious!","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Oh dear - so disappointed by this film.Hate to appear sexist, but this seems to be a Chick Flick.  Truly corny scenario - token young English guy in America, females drooling over him, seems poor (how does he pay his rent?  Work Visa?!)  Hand me the vomit bucket.The opening dog on roller-skates scene was pathetic.  No explanation why poor mut was doing photo-shoot, and even worse -it seemed the dog had no owners.  Where did it come from in the first place?!Fearing going into a coma, I had to abort said video, about 3/4 of an hour into it.  What a waste of time.  Toothsome radio vet however.  Again - unbelievable - a vet with no real surgery?? "},{"Title":"A Disgusting Lie Of A Movie","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"9 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The Truth? No, truth takes a back seat in this family' film.Wow, is this movie sickening or what? It clearly demonstrates how family films had gone down the dumper by 1996. Here, the whole story is a lie a plain woman lying her way to having a romance. The most memorable line is Uma Thurman's character casually telling her plain friend (Janeane Garafolo), Oh, I'd f--k ya! To the reviewers who said this movie was profanity-free, umm, I think the f-word is considered profanity.Even family-friendly critic Michael Medved descirbed this as good family entertainment.  Sorry, Mike, but you messed up on this one. The truth is that the film was an insult to anyone's intelligence. "}]